05-03-2021||First Edit||Marrying the rape victim: A wrong message||Such statements by judges even in passing only reinforces the view that the judiciary needs to be sensitised on gender issues. Some time ago, the Delhi High Court had in a bizarre order overturned a rape conviction against a film director ruling that a “feeble no” by the victim can actually signal consent. In another instance, the Madhya Pradesh High Court had granted bail to an accused on the condition that he would get a rakhi tied by the woman he had molested. Such orders trivialise the trauma of women, further victimising them. Cases of rapists marrying their victims to escape punishment have come light. The woman often has little choice in the matter as she is made to believe that her honour is at stake. Unless an end is put to this pernicious practice, there will be a time when men will come to believe that the easiest way to marry an unwilling girl would be to violate her. The Supreme Court is held in such high regard that even casual observations made by the court or queries and questions as posed in this case are taken seriously not only by those who approach it but by everybody. So, it should not send a wrong message, especially about issues that concern the rights of women. The court has in the past rejected compromises in such cases and upheld the rights and honour of women and girls. In the instant case, the survivor’s rights are protected under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. Although the court effectively uses compromise as a means to settle disputes in civil cases and petty offences, the same yardstick cannot be applied for heinous crimes like rape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/marrying-the-rape-victim-a-wrong-message-958217.html
05-03-2021||In Perspective||Why bad bank is a good idea||The RBI in the financial stability report (FSR) released in January 2021 highlighted that though the growth in bank credit was subdued, the gross non-performing asset (GNPA) ratio of commercial banks had declined to 7.5% from 8.4% during the quarter ended September 2020. However, it cautioned that macro stress tests incorporating the estimates of GDP for 2020-21 indicated that the GNPA ratio of commercial banks may increase to 13.5% by September 2021 under the baseline scenario and may escalate to 14.8% under a severe stress scenario. If you take in to account the total advances of Rs 104 lakh crore of commercial banks, a quick back of the envelope calculation tells you the extent of gross NPAs in the system. The FSR further emphasised the need for proactive building up of adequate capital by banks to withstand possible asset quality deterioration. So, it is in this context that a setting up of a bad bank as mooted by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during the Budget speech will be a good idea. She was suggesting a mechanism which would help banks to transfer their toxic assets to a separate entity. This idea of bad bank had also been suggested by Union Minister Piyush Goyal in 2018, when he unveiled ‘Project Sashakt’, which had a five-pronged strategy for resolution of bad loans in public sector banks. Though he did not mention anything about setting up of a bad bank, he had hinted at the guiding principles of an Asset Management Company (AMC) resolution approach, under which an independent AMC would be set up to focus on asset turnaround, job creation and protection. He had also said that the functions of this new company would be aligned with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) process and IBC laws. What is a bad bank? A bad bank, as proposed in the budget speech, is not really a bank and hence does not accept deposits and lend money like any commercial bank does. It will be an Asset Reconstruction Company that takes over the bad loans of Public Sector Banks (PSBs), manages them through restructuring, explore turnaround options and resolves them by finding potential buyers. These buyers could be alternate investment funds or vulture investors. The idea is to clean up the balance sheet of PSBs and free them from the burden of NPAs so that they can focus on lending fresh loans. Of course, the PSBs may have to take huge haircuts as it involves selling of bad loans below the book value. This should not worry them so much as most of the PSBs have already provided for these loans. The Indian Banks Association (IBA) has already started the process by writing to banks instructing them to identify and submit a list of all such NPAs of over Rs 500 crore. The government has said that it will only provide guarantee for the bank. The initial capital which is likely to the tune Rs 15,000 crore will be provided by the lenders themselves. New entity RBI governor Shaktikanta Das said recently that the new entity will be set up by PSBs themselves and that this ARC will in no way jeopardise the functioning of existing ARCs which have been functioning for nearly two decades now. The Asset Reconstruction Company India (Arcil), promoted by State Bank of India, IDBI Bank, ICICI Bank and Punjab National Bank, is the oldest ARC in India. Phoenix ARC promoted by Kotak Mahindra Bank is also well capitalised to go for big ticket buys of NPAs. The bad bank idea is not new and has been tried in other countries. Mellon Bank was the first bank in the US to use the concept of a bad bank because of the problems it faced in its commercial real-estate portfolio. It set up the Grant Street National Bank in 1988. The Republic of Ireland formed a bad bank, the National Asset Management Agency, in 2009 in response to the country’s financial crisis. The idea has been applied elsewhere in past banking crises in Sweden, France and Germany. There is a flip side to the setting up of a bad bank. The opponents of bad banks claim that selling bad loans encourages banks to take undue risks by adopting a lackadaisical attitude knowing fully well that any wrong decision will not attract punitive measures. There are complexities surrounding asset valuation too. K V Subramaniam, the chief economic adviser, had said last year that setting up of a bad bank may not be a potent idea as there are many ARCs in the country. Let us at least hope that setting up of a bad bank is an idea whose time has finally come; it could be a gamechanger for PSBs and can restore investors’ faith in them. (The writer is a CFA and a former banker and currently teaches at Manipal Academy of Banking, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-bad-bank-is-a-good-idea-958218.html
05-03-2021||Kalaburagi||15 students of Kalaburagi school test Covid-19 positive||A government high school in Kalagi town of the district declared a 7-day holiday on Friday after 15 of its students tested positive for Covid-19. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Rajashekhar Maali told DH that throat swabs of about 20 students were collected randomly on March 1 and 15 of them returned positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. All the students are asymptomatic and the health staff is closely monitoring them. Most of the students are from nearby areas.  Throat swabs of about 174 people, including students, teachers and cooks, were collected on Friday and their reports are expected to arrive on Saturday evening, he said. The DHO said that some Mumbai returnees were the source of the infection. A few migrant workers had returned from Mumbai on February 18 for a wedding party before checkpoints were set up along the border with Maharashtra. They attended the party on February 26 at Bedasur tanda. One or two returnees who could have been infected may have infected the students who attended the wedding along with their parents, he added. Officials have been directed to cancel baazar day on Monday over the resurging Covid-19 cases and policemen have been told to impose fines on those not wearing masks in buses. "The public should also maintain social distancing as Covid is still haunting us," the DHO appealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/15-students-of-kalaburagi-school-test-covid-19-positive-958558.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ramesh Jarkiholi's supporter attempts self immolation at Gokak||A supporter of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi attempted to self immolate demanding justice for their leader in the alleged sleaze videos during a protest at Basaweshwar Circle in Gokak town on Friday. Supporters of Ramesh Jarkiholi had organised a rally from Konnur town in Gokak taluk to Gokak to express support for their leader and demanding inquiry into the conspiracy against him. During their congregation, they had set tyres on fire at Basaweshwar Circle and were raising slogans in support of their demands. In the melee, one of the supporters identified as Ganapati jumped in the burning tyre stating that their leader has been meted injustice. Police and others present immediately pulled him out and shifted him to Government Hospital for treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ramesh-jarkiholis-supporter-attempts-self-immolation-at-gokak-958390.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Arrest those who are blackmailing in the name of CDs: Kumaraswamy on Jarkiholi case||Without taking the name of BJP minister Ramesh Jarkiholi who is allegedly involved in the sex scandal case, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said that persons in possession of the obscene CDs and using them to blackmail should be arrested first. Kumaraswamy was speaking to reporters on Friday. Kumaraswamy said that there was a deal of Rs 5 crore in connection with the case, with many bigwigs involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/arrest-those-who-are-blackmailing-in-the-name-of-cds-kumaraswamy-on-jarkiholi-case-958457.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Converted tribes need no reservation: Pratap Simha||MP Pratap Simha on Friday defended his statement on cancellation of benefits meant for Scheduled Tribes (ST) to tribal people who converted to Christianity and Islam. Speaking to reporters here, the MP said that tribal people worship the god of the forest and stay away from the civil society. “The tribal communities have their own culture, tradition and celebration. The tribes who accept Jesus as god need no reservation. The benefits under ST quota must be stopped to protect the uniqueness of the tribals,” he said. The MP said, “Caste system exists only in Hinduism. Thus, reservation is given to Scheduled Caste (SC) and ST communities. A section of SC and ST people, who have converted to Christianity, are demanding an identify as ‘Dalit Christians’ and reservation. Christians and Muslims claim that there is no caste system.” It has to be recalled that the MP had directed the officials in a meeting, to stop benefits as per ST quota for tribal people who have converted to Christianity. ‘Provide land’ The MP said that he has urged the state government to acquire lands for the 87 km Mysuru-Kushalanagar railway line, Satellite Railway terminal at Naganahalli, extension of runway at Mysuru airport and for the proposed underpass near the airport. The MP said that he has emerged on top in utilising MP Local Area Development fund. “I have done my work, of serving the people, by utilising the funds. I was on top last year too. I have utilised 100% funds,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/converted-tribes-need-no-reservation-pratap-simha-958587.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Special team seeks permission for trial blast at KRS||The CSIR-CIMFR (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research - Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research), team has identified three places for the trial blast and has sought permission for the same. The team has returned assuring of visiting the place after a month and has suggested the authorities not to give permission for quarrying activities in the region, till then. Deputy Commissioner S Ashwathi said, “The team was of the opinion that there was a need for a trial blast. A letter would be written to the government seeking permission. Trial blasts would be conducted only if permission is granted.” However, the farmers’ organisations have opposed the same and warned of protests if trial blasts are permitted. There are also allegations that the mine owners are hatching a conspiracy to limit the banned area from 20 km to 10 km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/special-team-seeks-permission-for-trial-blast-at-krs-958588.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Preparation, proper guidance vital to crack competitive exams: Experts||The free workshop organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani, in association with Navodaya Foundation, helped to clear the doubts and fear and, provided guidance to hundreds of aspirants of competitive examinations from Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts in Hassan on Friday. There was an overwhelming response for the workshop, conducted for UPSC and KPSC aspirants, at Hasanamba Kalabhavan. The aspirants, who were being trained online, due to Covid, were provided guidance by resource persons. IAS, IPS and KAS officers participated and shared their experience, to instil confidence among the aspirants. The resource persons stressed that the aspirants can fulfill their dreams, only if they tread the right path and give importance to time management. Deputy Commissioner R Girish shared his experience on appearing for the competitive exams, around three decades ago. "Proper guidance is required for any person for a successful future. When I got an engineering degree, 30 years ago, there was a confusion on whether to join IIT or aspire for services. We had no resource persons to guide us, then. Around 20 years ago, only those from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh were successful in cracking UPSC exams. Only a few from Karnataka were able to clear it. Now, there are several officers from our state, serving as IAS and IPS officers. Working for the government gives an opportunity to serve the people. But, one should not be lured by money," he advised. "Around 10 lakh people appear for competitive exams every year. Preparation and hard work will lead one to success. Face the UPSC interview with confidence. Be bold in telling them what you know," he said. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda said, "No one in our family was in the government. Up to engineering final year, I did not know what to do about my future. Suitable guidance and preparation is important. Group studies may also help," he opined. UPSC master trainers Sandeep Mahajan and S R Ravi, columnist Mohammed Rafiq Pasha, and personality development coach Parashivamurthy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/preparation-proper-guidance-vital-to-crack-competitive-exams-experts-958589.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||DC Ravi assures measures for Soligas’ welfare||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi assured that the district administration will extend all help to Soligas in Biligiri Rangana Betta (BR Hills), Chamarajanagar district, to market their produce like coffee and black pepper. Speaking at a meeting with Coffee Board Officer K G Jagadish and other officials, he said, "There will be total cooperation from the district administration to develop the Biligiri Soligara Producers Company, comprising 492 farmers, growing coffee and pepper, on B R Hills." Jagadish requested allocation of land to establish a soil testing centre, training centre, processing unit and to set up stalls for marketing the produce grown by Soligas on BR Hills and MM Hills. The DC assured to take immediate measures to set up stalls at MM Hills to market their produce and also to allot land for a training centre. Additional DC S Katyayini and SC/ST welfare officer Honnegowda were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dc-ravi-assures-measures-for-soligas-welfare-958590.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||KSOU’s decision to construct building on Samskrit University campus opposed||The decision of Mysuru-based Karnataka State Open University (KSOU) to construct a building worth Rs 25 crore on the campus of Karnataka Samskrit University (KSU), is being opposed by a few activists. The activists have urged Governor Vajubhai Rudabhai Vala and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to direct KSOU Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar to withdraw the decision to construct the building of Sanskrit Research Centre on KSU campus at Thippasandra, Magadi taluk, Ramanagar district. Shivaramu, also president of Karnataka State Backward Classes Awareness Forum, has urged the Governor, also Chancellor of State universities, to check the misuse of funds that belong to the students of KSOU. It can be noted that the cash-starved KSU was alloted 100 acres of land at Thippasandra a decade ago. Earlier, Justice K Bhaktavathsala Committee, constituted to probe the irregularities of KSOU, had observed: “The expenditure related to five Regional Centres at a cost of Rs 52.55 crore and the appointment of Regional Directors is not in the interest of KSOU. All steps should be taken to close the Regional Centres and action should be initiated against the persons, who have abused powers to take such decisions.” Shivaramu said that the Governor, on September 24, 2019, issued an order to KSOU, to take action on the basis of Bhaktavathsala Committee report. “Already, buildings, constructed at a cost of Rs 225 crore, between 2010-15, are lying vacant on Mukthagangotri campus and at Mandakalli in Mysuru. Besides, many more huge buildings of other universities of government departments were used only as Covid Care Centres. As KSOU does not get government funds, it has to be managed only with the fees collected from the students. Diversion of KSOU funds, to create assets for other universities, is not justified,” he said. The agenda for BoM meeting, on the issue, on January 2, mentioned that Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, in a letter dated August 31, 2020, had directed to take steps to construct the building for KSU for the implementation of National Education Policy 2020 and also for research and development of Sanskrit. Shivaramu said that Dr C N Ashwath Narayan was BoM member of KSOU for two terms, from 2009 to 2017, and knows about its irregularities and also the state of affairs. “It is surprising that the minister has mounted such a burden on KSOU, which is already facing hardships, due to low enrolment. If the KSOU wants to build an own regional centre in Bengaluru, it already has a civic amenity (CA) site, alloted by Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). Why should KSOU invest such a huge amount on the site of a different university, that too in a purely rural area of Thippasandra, where footfall will be less?” he asked. KSOU VC S Vidyashankar said, “A major portion of the CA site, alloted by BDA, is lost to buffer zone and thus, we are surrendering it. Besides, our present Regional Centres are functioning from rented premises. Thus, we plan to construct the building on the campus of KSU, which will be mainly our Regional Centre.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ksou-s-decision-to-construct-building-on-samskrit-university-campus-opposed-958591.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cyber Security Centre of Excellence in Mysuru soon||Omkar Rai, Director General, Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), announced that the Cyber Security Centre of Excellence (COE) would be setup at STPI new facility in Mysuru shortly. During the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) Mysuru annual IT conference, online here, recently, he said, “The COE will work as a potential accelerator and key driver in ground-breaking product development, by fostering start-ups and young innovators.” Delivering the keynote address, U B Pravin Rao, chief operating officer (COO) of Infosys, said, "Since the Covid pandemic set in, there is a huge surge in cyber attacks, making work from home vulnerable to hacking, as most of the work-from-home systems will not have the required protection from cyber attacks." “There was more than 300% increase in cyber attacks since the pandemic. By 2025, the spending on cyber services will touch $100 billion. By 2030, the cyber products market will reach $35 billion, from $4 billion now,” he said. Yaduveer Krishnadatta Chamaraja Wadiyar, member of the erstwhile royal family, said, "Mysuru has been spearheading changes for India, by bringing-up great institutions of everlasting value. The COE, supported by STPI and CII, will be significant for the country.” Amit Kumar, chairman CII-Mysuru, said, "CII is happy to be associated with like-minded institutions and organisations, to promote Mysuru as a pioneer in the cyber security field. Mysuru has the potential to become a cyber security hub.” Pavan Ranga, vice-chairman of CII-Mysuru, said, “Most of our business activities are held online. Such activities generate data, which is available online, thus vulnerable to cyber attacks. The Defence sector is going to be more of cyber war than a physical one.” Praveen Rao Pejaver, convener of CII-Mysuru IT/ITES Panel, said, "The new norm, during and after the pandemic, is and will be more dependant on a secure and reliable cyberspace. S Sadagopan, Director, IIITB, spoke on Personal Data Protection law (PDPA 2020) and Data Security. Bikash Barai, co-founder, Cigital, Sandip Kumar Panda, P Rajshekar, Director, ISAC, Sanjeev Kumar Gupta, MD and CEO of Lahari - the ESDM Cluster in Mysuru, and Bharat Raigangar, general manager, Cybersecurity and Risk Services, Wipro Limited, were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cyber-security-centre-of-excellence-in-mysuru-soon-958592.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru Police bust baby-selling racket; 5-month old baby rescued, one arrested||Mangaluru police busted a baby-selling racket and arrested the 30-year-old seller. A five-month-old baby girl sold to a woman in Karkala was rescued in the joint operation launched with the Mysuru-based Odanadi Seva Samsthe and Childline-1098 Dakshina Kannada. The accused Ryan alias Riona (30), a resident of Mulki, was running a poultry while being involved in the sale of babies. "He was arrested under section 370 (human trafficking) of IPC," Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told media persons on Friday. Preliminary investigation by police revealed that baby boys (infant) were sold for Rs 6 lakh and baby girls were sold for an approximate Rs 4 lakh. The accused had reportedly claimed to have purchased the baby for Rs 3 lakh from her parents in Hassan and had sold it to Kavitha from Karkala for about Rs 4.5 lakh. Siddhanth P of Odanadi Seva Samsthe said they had received a call a few days ago about newborn babies being available for sale in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. "I succeeded in securing a contact number of Ryan. Later, I contacted him and pretending to be a customer placed a request for a baby. Baby girls were sold at Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh and baby boys were sold for Rs 5.5 to Rs 6 lakh. A token of Rs 1.5 lakh needs to be paid based on the tentative date of birth of baby. We suspect the involvement of doctors and officials as well. The arrested had promised to arrange a birth certificate, Thayi card and other documents also," Siddhanth said.  “During my conversation with the racketeers, I was told about doctors from Hassan or Shivamogga who facilitate sale of babies. The children could be born out of wedlock or unwanted pregnancies. Initially, I was told that a child from Hassan or Shivamogga would be sold to me. But on Thursday the accused had told me that a baby from Bengaluru or Tirupathi would be given to me.” A team involving Mangaluru South Police Station sub-inspector Sheetal, Center Coordinator, Childline Deekshith Achrappady, and Siddhanth was formed to crack the case. They met the accused at a hotel near Kadri Park around 2.30 pm -3 pm on Thursday and arrested him immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-police-bust-baby-selling-racket-5-month-old-baby-rescued-one-arrested-958665.html
05-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Covid vaccinations for Indians must be at zero cost: Siddaramaiah to PM Modi||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reconsider the decision to allow private hospitals to charge Rs 250 for administering coronavirus vaccine, saying it will act as a deterrent in the fight against the pandemic. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the Congress stalwart batted for a free vaccination. "The decision of the Central government to allow private healthcare centres to charge Rs 250 for administering the vaccine will adversely impact the efforts to ensure immunity to everyone and to contain the spread (of coronavirus)," Siddaramaiah wrote in his letter. "I strongly urge the Prime Minister of India to reconsider the decision and ensure that every Indian is vaccinated for Covid-19 at zero cost," he added. The former Chief Minister said that the vaccination drive is slow as only 0.5 per cent of people have been vaccinated in India so far whereas other countries have been making huge strides to increase the immunity among their people. According to him, Israel has vaccinated 36 per cent of the population, the USA six per cent, and the UK four per cent. Siddaramaiah underlined that India can progress only when the vaccines are widely available at zero cost to the population. "Many countries, across the world, including Brazil, Canada, the United States of America and the United Kingdom have made Covid vaccines available free of cost and it is the right approach to ensure speedy administration to everyone," Siddaramaiah said in his letter. Backing the decision to collaborate with private institutions in the vaccination drive, he advised that both the central and state governments should take the burden to reimburse. Speaking about the PM CARES fund, Siddaramaiah said one of the narratives built during the collection of funds through PM CARES was that funds should be used to vaccinate everyone free of cost. "The office of Prime Minister has failed to release the accounts of the PM CARES fund and failed to provide vaccination at zero cost as well," Siddaramaiah charged||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/covid-vaccinations-for-indians-must-be-at-zero-cost-siddaramaiah-to-pm-modi-958387.html
05-03-2021||Main Article||Top court can take lead||Reforms are basically meant to address the draw backs in the existing situation and also to keep up with the changing needs in the country. Reforms also challenge the status quoists and disturb the existing power structure as well as institutional arrangements, even if they may be holding us back and could be infested with corruption and exploitation. They adversely affect the existing beneficiaries who have considerable influence and control over a considerable number of people. It, therefore, requires enormous political will and courage to call out such forces and introduce some of the most difficult reforms. It is surprising that no government has ever talked about the need for reforms in the political parties (mother of all reforms), which are the very bedrock of our parliamentary democracy. India is a secular and democratic republic and the sole objective of all the political parties is to contest elections and form governments at the Centre and states, which are required to be run on secular and democratic principles. It is equally surprising that they do not find any mention in our constitution and there are no regulations in place to ensure that these parties observe secular and democratic principles in their own functioning. And when the Central Information Commission and the Election Commission say that they are public institutions, they claim that they cannot be regulated by the government as they are private ones. Let me examine the basic contention of these parties that they are private bodies and not public institutions. These parties, when in power, want other institutions, like the national federations of various sports etc, to have restrictions on the tenure of their elected offices as they perform some of the functions of government. Is it not strange or illogical to contend that these parties, which run the affairs of the country and the states, are not performing the functions of the governments and they are only private bodies? They are the law makers and have benefitted themselves with various concessions at public expense. Obviously, they do not want themselves to be brought under any kind of regulations as they will lose the freedom to run their private fiefdoms. Now let us have a look at the state of affairs in these political parties. The main malady about political parties has been their proliferation based on considerations of caste, community, religion or the personal ambitions of certain individuals seeking shortcuts to power. Today, over 2,300 political parties are registered with the ECI. Most political parties are run as private entities, wholly owned and managed by a leader or a family. Leadership is hereditary. Most of these parties use money and even muscle power during the elections. They give tickets even to those who are involved in serious criminal offences. Their sole objective is to, somehow, win as many seats as possible. The time has come to call their bluff. They are public bodies and like all other public bodies their functioning needs to be regulated. At present, the ECI has only the function of registering and recognising them as national and state level parties. It has no power to de-register them or regulate their functioning. It is absolutely necessary that political parties should be allowed to contest elections and be part of any secular and democratic government only if these are run on secular and democratic principles. There is an urgent need to reform the political system in the country. Here are some of the key reforms which should be implemented to ensure that we have a more responsible, transparent, secular and democratic political system, which is accountable to the public. Political parties should find a mention in the Constitution and their registration, regulation and de-registration should be entrusted to the ECI. Stringent conditions The ECI should lay down stringent conditions for their registration and recognition - periodic elections to be held under the supervision of ECI, their audit of accounts including special audit by Comptroller and Auditor General of India, if considered necessary by the ECI, limiting the tenure of elected offices in the party, ban on switching sides after the elections and any other appropriate conditions to ensure that these parties run on secular and democratic principles. The ECI should not register and recognise any party whose very name may betray its caste, community or religious identity. They should be required to publish their annual reports which should include audited statement of accounts. The Commission should also have the authority to suspend registration as well as to de-register the party if it violates any of the conditions of registration. The appeal against the decision of ECI should lie only with the Supreme Court. People want good governance and they know that the current crop of political parties cannot provide that as most of them are divided on caste, community, religion and regional basis and their leaders cannot look beyond their narrow interests. The youth of India is highly mobile and nationalistic and they will welcome these reforms. We all want a truly secular, democratic and developed nation and these reforms will help us in achieving this goal. I am sure that no political party would support such reforms. But I can only say that there will be no public outcry against such reforms. I think the only way to introduce such reforms is through the intervention of the Supreme Court. I urge some of the senior lawyers of Supreme Court, who have no political affiliations/biases, to move the SC and request it to direct the government to implement these reforms. Alternatively, the SC should, suo motu, direct the political parties to submit their response to this proposal and, after hearing them, pass appropriate orders in this regard. This mother of all reforms will transform the political culture of India and will also encourage good people to enter politics. (The writer is a retired IAS officer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/top-court-can-take-lead-958219.html
05-03-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic impacted health, psychosocial well-being of children in India: UNICEF||The outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic had a profound impact on the health and psychosocial well-being of the children in India, UNICEF said on Thursday. Closure of schools prevented children from gaining access to learning and limited interaction with their peers. The pandemic also brought stress on parents and caregivers posing challenges to their capacity of providing care and engaging with their children, it said in a statement. According to the world body, an estimated 50 million of children in India suffered from mental health issues even before the pandemic. It explains the Covid-19 disease, how it can be prevented and helps in managing stress, fear and anxiety due to the pandemic situation. "Mental health and well-being of children is of serious concern, especially in the context of the pandemic-induced stress they have been experiencing. Psycho-social support from teachers, parents and caregivers is a priority. Supportive structures and actions which help children and care givers manage stress, fear and anxiety need to be strengthened. "Over the past year, we have seen increased risk of violence faced by children. We need to join forces to build a caring structure for girls and boys to help in their psychological well being as much as their physical safety,” said UNICEF India Representative Yasmin Ali Haque, . During the pandemic, UNICEF has trained over 8,000 functionaries from Childline, civil society networks, district child protection units, child care institutions and one-stop centre functionaries to provide psychosocial first aid. Approximately 4,46,180 children, adolescents and their parents/caregivers were reached in 17 states with mental health and psychosocial support. Working with state governments and CSO partners, UNICEF supported over 7,00,000 migrant workers and their families in accessing government benefits and social protection schemes. Other areas covered, include risk communication and community engagement on Covid-19, gender-based violence, child labour and child marriage, the statement said. According to WHO, the Covid-19 pandemic has disrupted or halted critical mental health services in 93 per cent of countries worldwide, while the demand for mental health support is increasing, the statement said. "If we did not fully appreciate the urgency prior to the Covid-19 pandemic, surely we do now," said UNICEF Executive Director Henrietta Fore.  "Countries must dramatically invest in expanded mental health services and support for young people and their caregivers in communities and schools. We also need scaled-up parenting programmes to ensure that children from vulnerable families get the support and protection they need at home," Fore added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-impacted-health-psychosocial-well-being-of-children-in-india-unicef-958231.html
05-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'How much are the international conspirators paying you, in dollars?'||India has slipped from being a "free" country to a "partly free" country, the 'Freedom in the World 2021' report by a US-based private political and civil rights watchdog said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-how-much-are-the-international-conspirators-paying-you-in-dollars-958288.html
05-03-2021||National||BJP will win more than 200 seats in West Bengal: Tejasvi Surya||"Mamata Banerjee's days as a chief minister are numbered. On the third of May, West Bengal will have a BJP chief minister," Surya said. "This is the legacy of the communists which Mamata Banerjee has carried forward but there will be no more bloodshed and political murder politics in West Bengal because BJP will have its chief minister," Surya said.  West Bengal goes to polls in eight phases starting March 27. The results for the state will be announced on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-will-win-more-than-200-seats-in-west-bengal-tejasvi-surya-958289.html
05-03-2021||National||Content on Demand service in trains to be launched this month: Official||The much-awaited Content on Demand (CoD) service in trains will be launched this month, a senior official of Railway PSU RailTel said on Thursday. The service involves infotainment in moving trains by providing preloaded multilingual content which will include movies, news, music videos, and general entertainment. To ensure buffer-free services, media servers will be placed inside coaches, RailTel CMD Puneet Chawla said in a press briefing. Passengers will be able to enjoy high-quality buffer-free streaming across personal devices and the content will be periodically refreshed. The service will be rolled out onboard 8,731 trains including 5,723 suburban trains and more than 5,952 wi-fi-enabled railway stations. Pilot implementation in a Rajdhani and an AC suburban rake over Western Railway is in the final stage of completion and testing. The revenue share of Railway and RailTel is 50:50 with the PSU expecting an annual revenue of at least Rs 60 crore from the initiative. RailTel has roped in Margo Networks, a subsidiary of Zee Entertainment, to provide the CoD service in trains and railway stations. The project will be implemented in two years and the content will be made available both in paid and unpaid formats for a contract period of 10 years which includes the first two years of implementation. With an aim to generate more non-fare revenue, the Railway Board has entrusted RailTel with providing the CoD service to passengers in trains. "Content on Demand will be available from this month and it will not only improve passenger experience but also increase non-fare revenue through multiple monetisation models," Chawla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/content-on-demand-service-in-trains-to-be-launched-this-month-official-958302.html
05-03-2021||National||PM Modi to receive environment leadership award today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will receive the CERAWeek Global Energy and Environment Leadership Award on Friday. Prime Minister will be delivering a keynote address at the CERAWeek 2021 webinar at around 7 pm. Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan, Indian Oil Corp. Director (Research & Development) SSV Ramakumar will also be present at the CERAWeek 2021 webinar. CERAWeek was founded in 1983 by Dr Daniel Yergin. It has been organised in Houston in March every year since 1983 and is considered the world’s premier annual energy platform.  CERAWeek 2021 is being convened virtually from March 1 to March 5, 2021. According to a release, CERAWeek Global Energy and Environment Leadership Award was instituted in 2016 and it "recognises the commitment of leadership on the future of global energy & environment and for offering solutions and policies for energy access, affordability & environmental stewardship."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-receive-environment-leadership-award-today-958306.html
05-03-2021||National||India's Covid-19 surge continues with over 16,000 new cases, 113 single-day deaths||India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,11,73,761 with 16,838 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of patients who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,08,39,894, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,548 in the country with 113 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active Covid-19 cases has increased to 1,76,319, accounting for 1.58 per cent of the total caseload, according to the data. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,39,894, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 97.01 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,99,40,742 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 7,61,834 on Thursday. The 113 new fatalities include 60 from Maharashtra, 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,548 Covid-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for 52,340, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,508), Karnataka (12,350), Delhi (10,915), West Bengal (10,273), Uttar Pradesh (8,729) and Andhra Pradesh (7,171). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-surge-continues-with-over-16000-new-cases-113-single-day-deaths-958308.html
05-03-2021||National||Sword-wielding Sikh warriors guard protesting farmers||In an electric-blue robe, foot-high turban and wielding an antiquated sword and a walkie-talkie, Amar Singh patrols a maze of tents and tractors on a blocked highway leading into New Delhi. Singh is among hundreds of armed men from the Sikh warrior order of Nihang, the self-appointed first line of defence in a showdown between farmers and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government. Tens of thousands of farmers -- mostly from the Sikh-dominated Punjab state -- have camped at three protest sites on the capital's outskirts since November 26, when police blocked their entry into Delhi following clashes. The protesters say they will not budge until the government repeals the three farm laws deregulating their sector, which they believe will destroy their livelihoods. The farmers' protests have been one of the biggest challenges Modi has faced since coming to power in 2014. Singh, 32-year-old 'Major' in the 'army' of the Khalsa -- followers of Sikhism who have undergone a sacred ceremony -- oversees safety and security at the Singhu protest site. "This fight is for a just cause and anyone trying to harm the protesters will have to deal with us first," Singh, flanked by two spear-wielding men, told AFP. "We are here to defend our brothers and ready to die or kill. This fight is for peace, justice and dignity and we never compromise on these principles." Following a tractor rally-turned-rampage in Delhi on January 26, authorities built a wall with huge blocks of cement, steel and barbed wire on the border of the Singhu protest site. On one side of this wall, are thousands of armed police and paramilitary forces, and on the other, dozens of barefoot Nihangs, armed to the teeth. At the protest camp, Nihangs tend to horses they rode from their Punjab homes hundreds of miles away, practise the Sikh martial art of "Gatka" and make a cannabis-laced sacramental drink. Most Sikhs carry daggers as religious symbols and wear turbans, but Nihangs stand out with their robes and weaponry, including knives, swords and spears. Nihangs have been revered by Sikhs for their piety and bravery since their order was founded in the 17th century by the last Sikh Guru to defend the religion, which began around 1500. They played an important role in Punjab for over a century, including defeating Mughals and Afghan kings. British colonialists dissolved the Sikh empire in the mid-19th century and the Nihangs were reduced to ceremonial roles. In recent weeks, they have been in the spotlight, after pictures and videos emerged of them brandishing swords and spears at policemen at Delhi's historic Red Fort during the January confrontation. In surreal scenes around the fort, Nihangs on horseback joined farmers on tractors and hoisted Sikh religious flags atop the rampart. Days later, AFP witnessed a policeman wounded in a scuffle after he grabbed a Nihang's sword, as hundreds of people with alleged links to the government attacked farmers at the Singhu protest site. Nihangs were criticised for openly brandishing and using their weapons, which they are allowed to carry under the constitution as part of religious tradition. The warriors say they are simply fulfilling their obligations. "Whenever there is oppression, the army of Khalsa will stand firm against the oppressors," Nihang leader Raja Raj Singh told AFP. "Modi's government has turned against our farmers and labourers," he said. "If someone tries to attack us, we will defend ourselves."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sword-wielding-sikh-warriors-guard-protesting-farmers-958318.html
05-03-2021||National||OPEC output cut decision will impact consumer-led recovery: Dharmendra Pradhan||A decision by OPEC+ to continue with an output cut would undermine a consumption-led recovery and hurt consumers in oil buying nations, Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan said on Friday. The world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, India had been urging major producers to ease output cuts and help global economic recovery from the coronavirus pandemic as well as rein in prices. "As one of the largest crude-consuming countries, India is concerned that such actions by producing countries have the potential to undermine consumption-led recovery and more so hurt consumers, especially in our price-sensitive market," Pradhan told Reuters. OPEC and its allies agreed on Thursday to extend most oil output cuts into April, offering small exemptions to Russia and Kazakhstan, after deciding that the demand recovery from the coronavirus pandemic was still fragile despite a recent oil price rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opec-output-cut-decision-will-impact-consumer-led-recovery-dharmendra-pradhan-958333.html
05-03-2021||National||Mumbai Karachi Bakery shut; MNS leader claims credit||After Karachi Bakery shut shop in Mumbai, Haji Saif Shaikh, a local leader of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) has claimed credit for it. "After a massive protest on Karachi Bakery for its name #Karachi, led by Vice President of MNS, the bakery finally closes its only shop in Mumbai. (sic)," MNS party leader Haji Saif Shaikh, who had sparked a controversy over the name of the bakery in 2020, said. Earlier, in November 2020, Shaikh had sent a legal notice to the owner of the bakery, saying that the word 'Karachi' hurts the sentiments of ordinary Indians and the Indian Army because it is a Pakistani city. He had demanded the bakery be renamed and the signboard should be in Marathi. In its response, the bakery owner had said it was established by a Sindhi-Hindu family who migrated from Pakistan. They did not use the name Karachi to hurt the feelings of Indians. In fact, bakery founder Khanchand Ramani had experienced violence by pro-Pakistan elements during Partition, the statement had said. Earlier, a Shiv Sena worker had taken objection to the name of a shop, 'Karachi Sweets', located in Bandra. The Shiv Sena had later said it was not the party's stand. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-karachi-bakery-shut-mns-leader-claims-credit-958336.html
05-03-2021||National||Vice President Venkaiah Naidu offers prayers at Lord Balaji shrine||Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday offered prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala near here. After participating in the 6th Institute day celebrations of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) here on Thursday, Naidu arrived on the hills with his family members in the evening and stayed at the heavily guarded Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) guest house. Upon his arrival at the shrine at the crack of dawn, Venkaiah Naidu, an ardent devotee, was accorded a warm reception and was conducted to the sanctum sanctorum by TTD Executive Officer KS Jawahar Reddy and other top officials, a temple official told P T I. Before leaving the shrine, Venkaiah Naidu was presented with a sacred silk cloth and a memento besides laddu, the temple official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-venkaiah-naidu-offers-prayers-at-lord-balaji-shrine-958343.html
05-03-2021||National||Bombay High Court says not to give unnecessary publicity to Pune woman's death||The Bombay High Court has asked the media not to give unnecessary publicity to an incident where a woman allegedly died by suicide in Pune and her suspected illicit relations with a man, according to an order made available on Friday. A division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale gave the directive on Thursday while hearing a petition filed by the woman's father against news articles on his daughter, her death and her alleged relationship. Senior counsel Shirish Gupte, appearing for the woman's father, told the court the petitioner had learnt that his daughter fell from the balcony of her flat in Pune on February 8 and was declared dead at the hospital. Soon after the incident, various news reports in print and electronic media emerged alleging the 23-year-old woman was in an illicit relationship with a man, Gupte said, dubbing the reports as defamatory and derogatory. Around 12 audio clips of alleged conversations of the petitioner's daughter with some unknown person were circulated by political parties and the media, Gupte argued. Gupte referred to a high court judgment delivered on a petition against media trial in the death case of actor Sushant Singh Rajput that laid down guidelines to be followed by the media while reporting on sensitive cases. The 23-year-old woman had died after falling from a building in Hadapsar area of Pune on February 8. Some social media posts and the opposition BJP have alleged that Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Rathod was linked to her death. The court posted the matter for further hearing on March 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-high-court-says-not-to-give-unnecessary-publicity-to-pune-womans-death-958358.html
05-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL against ban on transgenders from donating blood||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a PIL challenging the constitutional validity 2017 guidelines, prohibiting transgender people from donating blood. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union government, after hearing senior advocate Jayna Kothari, appearing for petitioner, Manipur-based, Thangjam Santa Singh.  The petitioner sought a stay on the Guidelines for Blood Donor Selection and Blood Donor Referral 2017 as it prohibited transgender persons and men from having sex with men and female sex workers from being a donor. She contended that guidelines were violative of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The court, however, refused to stay the guidelines, saying, "These are medical matters. We don't understand these issues. We will see the replies by the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-against-ban-on-transgenders-from-donating-blood-958363.html
05-03-2021||National||Cong, BJP spar over 'fake' image of Assam's tea gardens||With the Assam assembly elections nearing and political parties actively campaigning across multiple platforms, a new row brews over the  Congress party's support for the workers in the state's tea gardens.      "People of Assam were cheated by a party (BJP) five years ago that promised them 25 lakh jobs but gave them CAA instead. Our party isn't making empty promises but undertaking five guarantees. This election is about trust, it is a fight to save the identity of the state and its people," Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said. Following this, Congress posted on its campaign handle 'Assam Bachao' two images of engaged tea gardens and stating them to be 'Assam tea gardens' and that the party was 'Team Garden workers'.  Flagging the matter, Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted, "Official Congress campaign page is using photo of tea garden from Taiwan to say 'Assam Bachao'," along with a screenshot from online image checking platform 'Fotosearch' that said it was a photo from the Nantou Tea garden in Taiwan. The first image is of the Bagua tea garden, the second one is of the Bihu tea garden both in Taiwan, the report claimed. "Congress leaders can't even recognise Assam? This is an insult of Assam and Tea Garden workers of our state. #CongressInsultsAssam," the Sarma said on the micro-blogging site. Official Congress campaign page is using photo of tea garden from Taiwan to say "Assam Bachao". Congress leaders can't even recognise Assam? Reacting to the minister's allegation, Congress said on its 'Assam Bachao' Twitter handle, "This is a fake screenshot. We never published any such image anywhere. Having failed to keep its promise of raising tea workers’ wages to Rs 350, BJP is rattled by Congress’ guarantee of Rs 365 per day within 30 days of coming to power." Earlier, on March 2, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had announced five guarantees of the grand alliance - one of which is  hikingthe minimum daily wages of tea garden workers to Rs 365. "People of Assam were cheated by a party (BJP) five years ago that promised them 25 lakh jobs but gave them CAA instead. Our party isn't making empty promises but undertaking five guarantees. This election is about trust, it is a fight to save the identity of the state and its people," the Congress leader, who sported the traditional 'gamocha' around her neck which had the letters 'CAA' crossed out on it, said. Assam has 126 assembly constituencies where elections will be held in three phases, on March 27, April 1 and April 6. In the first of the three phases, 47 constituencies will go for polls. In the second phase, polling will be held in 39 constituencies and in the third phase, 40 constituencies. The last date for filing of nomination for the first phase is March 9, for the second phase it is March 12 and for the third phase, the last date of submitting nomination papers is March 19. Assam Assembly Election Result 2016||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-bjp-spar-over-fake-image-of-assams-tea-gardens-958368.html
05-03-2021||National||Plea to open Nizamuddin Markaz: Delhi HC grants time to Centre, AAP govt to respond||The Delhi High Court Friday granted time to the Centre, AAP government and the police to respond to a plea seeking reopening of the Nizamuddin Markaz which has been locked since March 31 last year after several people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation there contracted Covid-19. Justice Mukta Gupta said the status report be filed by the authorities within 10 days and listed the matter for further hearing on March 24. The high court had on February 24 issued notices and sought replies of the Ministry of Home Affairs, Delhi Government and Delhi Police on the petition filed by the Delhi Waqf Board. The Delhi government standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing the state and Delhi Police, sought time to file the status report. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, also prayed for some more time to file the response. The Board has sought directions to the authorities to reassess the necessity of keeping the Waqf premises available for operation as a religious place. The Board, represented through senior advocate Ramesh Gupta, has contended that even after unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up. It has further contended that even if the premises was part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it "under lock as an out of bound area" was a "primitive method" of enquiry process. An FIR has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-to-open-nizamuddin-markaz-delhi-hc-grants-time-to-centre-aap-govt-to-respond-958374.html
05-03-2021||National||PLI scheme likely to boost India's manufacturing output by $520 billion in 5 years: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said the production linked incentive (PLI) scheme, which is aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing and exports, is expected to increase the country's production by $520 billion in the next five years. Addressing a webinar on the PLI scheme, organised by the Department of Industry and International Trade (DPIIT) and NITI Aayog, through video conference, Modi said the government is continuously carrying out reforms to boost domestic manufacturing. In this year's Budget, about Rs 2 lakh crore was earmarked for the PLI scheme for the next five years and "there is an expectation that the scheme would result in increasing the production by about $520 billion in the next five years", he said. He added that there is also an expectation that the current workforce in the sectors, which will avail the benefits of the PLI scheme, will be doubled and job creation will also increase. The Prime Minister said the government is working to reduce compliance burden, further improve ease of doing business and cut down logistics costs for the industry. "An average of 5 per cent of production is given as incentive. This means that PLI schemes will lead to production worth $520 billion in India in the next five years," he said. Modi said that over the past 6-7 years, several successful efforts have been made to encourage 'Make in India' at different levels. He stressed on the need to take a big leap, as well as increase the speed and scale to boost manufacturing as it would increase employment generation in the country. The Prime Minister said the government is working at every level to promote the industry through measures like ease of doing business, reducing the compliance burden, creating multi-modal infrastructure to reduce logistics costs, and constructing district-level export hubs. "Our effort is to reduce over 6,000 compliance burden (for industry)," he said. The government, he said, believes that its interference in everything creates more problems than solutions and "therefore, self-regulation, self-attesting, self-certification are being emphasised". "We have to attract cutting-edge technology and maximum investment in the sectors related to our core competency," he added. Underlining the difference between the earlier schemes and those of the current government, the Prime Minister said that earlier industrial incentives used to be open ended input-based subsidies, now they have been made targeted and performance based through a competitive process.     About PLI benefits, he said 13 sectors have been brought under the ambit of the scheme and it would benefit the entire ecosystem associated with these sectors. "With PLI in auto and pharma, there will be very less foreign dependence related to auto parts, medical equipment and raw materials of medicines. The energy sector will be modernised in the country with the help of advanced cell batteries, solar PV modules and specialty steel," he said adding the PLI for the textile and food processing sector will benefit the entire agriculture sector. Modi added that recently approved PLI scheme in IT hardware and telecom equipment manufacturing will lead to tremendous increase in production and domestic value addition. "IT hardware is estimated to achieve Rs 3 lakh crore worth production in four years and domestic value addition is expected to rise from current 5-10 per cent to 20-25 per cent in 5 years," he said adding similarly telecom equipment manufacturing will witness an increase of about  Rs 2.5 lakh crore in five years. "We should be in a position to export worth Rs 2 lakh crore from this," the Prime Minister said. In the pharma sector, he said, there is an expectation of more than Rs 15,000 crore investment in the next 5-6 years under PLI, which will lead to Rs 3 lakh crore in pharma sale and export increase of worth Rs 2 lakh crore. Further, he said trust has increased in Indian medicines, medical professionals and equipment across the world and to honour this trust, the pharma sector should work on chalking out a long-term strategy to take advantage of this. Even during the pandemic, mobile phones and electronic components sector saw a fresh investment of about Rs 1,300 crore and created thousands of new jobs, he added. The Prime Minister also stated that the United Nations has declared 2023 as the International Year of Millets and more than 70 countries came to support India's proposal and unanimously accepted it in the UN General Assembly. "This is also a big opportunity for our farmers," he said and urged the industry to start a worldwide campaign in 2023 on the nutritional potential of millets or coarse grains to protect people from getting sick. The demand for millets at the domestic market and abroad will increase rapidly with this announcement and this will greatly benefit Indian farmers. He also urged the agriculture and food processing sector to take full advantage of this opportunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pli-scheme-likely-to-boost-indias-manufacturing-output-by-520-billion-in-5-years-pm-modi-958377.html
05-03-2021||National||Asia’s largest Tulip Garden set to welcome tourists in Kashmir soon||Nestled on the foothills of Zabarwan range, Asia’s largest Tulip Garden here would be a riot of colour as by the end of this month more than a million tulips of 62-varieties are expected to bloom in the Garden. Last season, 1.3 million tulips at the Garden withered without catching an eye due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, opening of the Garden this season is expected to give impetus to the ailing tourism sector of Kashmir which has been badly hit by the two consecutive bad seasons. The garden spread over 120 acres was ranked fourth-biggest tulip garden among the world’s biggest tulip gardens by the World Tulip Society in 2017.  It was also touted among the top 5 tulip destinations in the world at the Tulip Summit in Canada in 2017. Tulips in Kashmir remain in bloom for 15-20 days from the last week of March to mid April depending upon the temperature. Director Floriculture, Farooq Rather said they expect the early opening of the Tulip Garden this season due to a slight temperature rise. The work in the Garden is in full swing, with the department introducing new verities and designs to attract tourists to enjoy the spring bloom. Around 100-gardeners who have been employed to take care of the flower beds said that they are working hard to make it more beautiful. “Last year we missed the admirers of our work as none visited the garden due to Covid-19. We are hopeful that the Garden will attract more tourists as we have worked very hard on it,” Mohammad Shafi, a gardener said. Tulip Garden has become one of the major tourist attractions of the valley since it was inaugurated in 2007. Till then (2008), the tourism season in Kashmir used to begin from May every year. However, the Tulip Garden has advanced the tourism season of Kashmir by over a month. Situated at an altitude of 5,600 feet, the Tulip Garden, curated by then Chief Minister of J&K Ghulam Nabi Azad at the foothills of Zabarwan in Srinagar, came as a shot in the arm for the Tourism Department in 2007. While Tulips are normally associated with the Turks and Dutch, Kashmir is fast catching up with this craze to somehow squeeze itself into the exclusive zone of Tulip-growing regions of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/asia-s-largest-tulip-garden-set-to-welcome-tourists-in-kashmir-soon-958389.html
05-03-2021||National||Farooq Abdullah challenges ED’s jurisdiction in property attachment case||More than two months after Enforcement Directorate (ED) attached his assets in J&K Cricket Association (JKCA) money laundering probe, regional National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah has challenged the jurisdiction of the probe agency in Jammu and Kashmir High Court. In December 19, 2020, the ED had attached three houses and a commercial building belonging to octogenarian Abdullah in Srinagar, Baramulla and Jammu under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Besides, houses and a commercial building, land belonging to the NC leader, had also been attached at four places in J&K. While the book value of these attached properties is Rs 11.86 crore, their market value is stated to be about Rs 60-70 crore. The ED action is related to alleged misappropriation of funds in the JKCA when flamboyant Abdullah was heading the association. The NC leader, through his advocate has petitioned to the court that his ancestral and family properties in Jammu and Kashmir have been illegally attached by the ED as “it had no jurisdiction to do the same.” “On the date of the registration of the ECIR (Enforcement Commission Information Report) and the initiation of investigation, the State of Jammu & Kashmir was governed by the Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir, 1956 and had special status in terms of Article 370 of the Constitution of India,” the petition reads. It pleads that on 28.12.2018 the ED registered the ECIR with section 120B RPC in the FIR and failed to appreciate that it had no jurisdiction to register it. Abdullah in his petition has pleaded that the PMLA was not a law which could extend to the jurisdiction of then State of Jammu & Kashmir, “as the Parliament was not having legislative competence to enact the said law in terms of the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954.” The petitioner has also submitted that his attached properties are admittedly unrelated to the alleged criminal activity mentioned in the Final Report/FIR and is a “continuing violation of his fundamental rights.” “All properties attached by the ED are either ancestral or acquired by the petitioner prior to the date of the alleged offences. The attached properties were acquired prior to the alleged commission of the offences, and hence were not involved in any alleged money-laundering or related criminal activity,” the petition added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farooq-abdullah-challenges-ed-s-jurisdiction-in-property-attachment-case-958393.html
05-03-2021||National||Centre's regulations don't have provisions to take action against digital platforms: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday found the recently introduced rules for Over the Top (OTT) platforms as "toothless" for lacking measures to deal with the violators. After going through February 25 notification on the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said that the "rules are more and more in the form of guidelines and have no effective mechanism for either screening or taking appropriate action for those who violates the guidelines." Dealing with an anticipatory bail plea by Amazon Prime's Aparna Purohit, the bench, also comprising Justice R Subhash Reddy, pointed out that one of the issues, which have cropped up in Purohit's case, is regarding the control and regulation of platforms on which web series are released. The court, which granted protection to Purohit, observed that the guidelines for regulating the web series and OTT platforms like Amazon and Netflix have "no teeth, as there is no provision for the prosecution of those who do not abide by these rules". "These rules are only guidelines, there is no mechanism to control (the content on OTT platforms). Without legislation, there cannot be control on it," the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that the government would consider and take appropriate steps for regulation or legislation as may be found fit. He agreed to place before the court the new measures. The guidelines passed on February 25 for OTT platforms like Netflix and Amazon Prime, spelt out self-regulatory systems and grievance redressal mechanisms to uphold creative freedom and journalistic values. Amazon Prime Video India head Purohit challenged the February 25 order of the Allahabad High Court order, which declined to entertain her anticipatory bail in connection with the FIRs lodged against her over the web series 'Tandav'. The court had on Thursday favoured for some "screening" of web series and OTT (Over The Top) platforms, saying in some cases even pornography was being shown over there. During the hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit maintained that hundreds of movies were beamed on Netflix and Amazon Prime and there was no pornography. He said that Purohit was not involved with the production, writing, direction of the web-series and was merely an officer of the Company which owned the platform on which the web series, 'Tandav' was released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-regulations-dont-have-provisions-to-take-action-against-digital-platforms-sc-958399.html
05-03-2021||National||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar condoles death of Sheikh Hasina's adviser HT Imam||External Affairs minister S Jaishankar has condoled the death of HT Imam, the political adviser to Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Imam, 81, died at a military hospital in Dhaka on Thursday. He was undergoing treatment at the Combined Military Hospital in Dhaka, Awami League Office Secretary Biplab Barua said on Thursday in a social media post. Jaishankar, who was on a day-long visit to Bangladesh, on Thursday condoled the death of Imam. "EAM @DrSJaishankar, with HC @VDoraiswami and @ihcdhaka, extended sincere condolences yesterday to the family of Mr. Hossain Toufique Imam, Political Advisor to Hon'ble Prime Minister of #Bangladesh, H.E. Sheikh Hasina," the Indian High Commission in Dhaka tweeted on Friday. Jaishankar visited Bangladesh on Thursday to prepare the ground for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the country later this month to participate in the celebrations of 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s Independence and 50 years of Bangladesh-India diplomatic relations. Imam, who was the cabinet secretary to the 1971 wartime government, was hospitalised with various age-related problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-condoles-death-of-sheikh-hasinas-adviser-ht-imam-958404.html
05-03-2021||National||Did you know? Each person in India wastes 50 kg of food per year, says UN report||An estimated 931 million tonnes of food was wasted globally in 2019, enough to circle the Earth seven times, according to a UN report which said that household food waste in India is about 68.7 million tonnes a year. The Food Waste Index Report 2021, from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and partner organisation WRAP, said that around 931 million tonnes of food waste was generated in 2019, sixty-one per cent of which came from households, 26 per cent from foodservice and 13 per cent from retail. “This suggests that 17 per cent of total global food production may be wasted,” it said. “The weight roughly equals that of 23 million fully-loaded 40-tonne trucks — bumper-to-bumper, enough to circle the Earth seven times,” the UN agency said. In India, the household food waste estimate is 50 kg per capita per year, or 68,760,163 tonnes a year. The household food waste estimate in the US is 59 kg per capita per year, or 19,359,951 tonnes a year, while for China these estimates are 64 kg per capita per year or 91,646,213 tonnes a year. The report looks at food waste that occurs in retail outlets, restaurants and homes – counting both food and inedible parts like bones and shells and presents the most comprehensive food waste data collection, analysis and modelling to date. It finds that in nearly every country that has measured food waste, it was substantial, regardless of income level. It shows that most of this waste comes from households, which discard 11 per cent of the total food available at the consumption stage of the supply chain. Food services and retail outlets waste 5 per cent and 2 per cent respectively. On a global per capita-level, 121 kgs of consumer-level food is wasted each year, with 74 kgs of this happening in households, the UNEP said in a statement. “If we want to get serious about tackling climate change, nature and biodiversity loss, and pollution and waste, businesses, governments and citizens around the world have to do their part to reduce food waste,” Executive Director of the UNEP Inger Andersen said. The report said that food waste has substantial environmental, social and economic impacts. At a time when climate action is still lagging, 8-10 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions are associated with food that is not consumed, when losses before consumer level are taken into account. “Reducing food waste would cut greenhouse gas emissions, slow the destruction of nature through land conversion and pollution, enhance the availability of food and thus reduce hunger and save money at a time of global recession,” Andersen said. The report noted that with 690 million people affected by hunger in 2019, an estimate that is expected to rise sharply due to the Covid-19 pandemic, and three billion people unable to afford a healthy diet, consumers need help to reduce food waste at home. It said countries can raise climate ambition by including food waste in Nationally Determined Contributions to the Paris Agreement while strengthening food security and cutting costs to households. This makes food waste prevention also a primary area for inclusion in Covid-19 recovery strategies. “For a long time, it was assumed that food waste in the home was a significant problem only in developed countries,” said Marcus Gover, CEO of WRAP. “With the publication of the Food Waste Index report, we see that things are not so clear cut. With only nine years to go, we will not achieve SDG 12 Target 3 if we do not significantly increase investment in tackling food waste in the home globally. This must be a priority for governments, international organisations, businesses and philanthropic foundations,” Gover said. Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) target 12.3 aims at halving per-capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reducing food losses along production and supply chains. One of the two indicators for the target is the Food Waste Index. Andersen said that there is growing evidence of success in reducing food waste – though not at the scale needed to achieve the target. “Much more can be done. We need, for example, to address the role of consumer behaviour, in all cultural contexts, in achieving the target. Let us all shop carefully, cook creatively and make wasting food anywhere socially unacceptable while we strive to provide healthy, sustainable diets to all,” Andersen added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/did-you-know-each-person-in-india-wastes-50-kg-of-food-per-year-says-un-report-958405.html
05-03-2021||National||PM Modi's updated 'Exam Warriors' to hit stands soon||The new and updated edition of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Exam Warrior", including mantras for parents, awareness on crucial topics like mental health, role of technology and time management, will hit the stands this month, announced Penguin Random House India on Friday. Touted to be a wholesome and inspirational guide for anyone who considers life an endless learning experience, the latest version also takes into account the effects of the pandemic, the disruptions, the uncertainties, the sudden shift to a 'new normal', read a statement issued by the publishing house. "The pandemic gave me the opportunity to take out some time to add new mantras in the new edition of Exam Warrior. Now it has few mantras for parents, as well as a lot of interesting activities related to the Narendra Modi App, which will help ignite the 'Exam Warrior' in students," said PM Modi while announcing the new edition of the book at his last 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme on February 28. According to the publishers, the new edition proposes a systematic approach to tackling challenges "students face outside and inside classrooms, touching upon diverse themes such as competing with oneself, discovering oneself, time management, technology, gratitude and goal setting". "This edition will also have a special impactful address from the author and our honourable Prime Minister for the educators and teachers, thanking them for their service and sharing some insights that will lead them to give their students an immersive and enriching learning experience," it added. "Exam Warriors", first published in 2018, was written by PM Modi to help young students deal with the stress of exams. Published in 15 languages, its Braille version was launched on World Braille Day (January 4) in 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-updated-exam-warriors-to-hit-stands-soon-958406.html
05-03-2021||National||Over 1.8 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 1.8 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. These include 68,53,083 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were administered the 1st dose, 31,41,371 HCWs who were given the 2nd dose, 60,90,931 frontline workers (FLWs) who were given the 1st dose and 67,297 FLWs (2nd dose), 2,35,901 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 16,16,920 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. Nearly 14 lakh (13,88,170) vaccine doses were given on Thursday, Day-48 of the vaccination drive (March 4). The ministry said 10,56,808 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 16,081 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 3,31,362 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. The 10,56,808 beneficiaries include 6,15,903 people aged over 60 and 92,109 individuals aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) Six states, Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, MP and Delhi, have reported high daily new cases in a span of  24 hours, the ministry said underlining  84.44 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours (16,838) are from these six states. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 8,998. It is followed by Kerala with 2,616 while Punjab reported 1,071 new cases. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry highlighted. India's total active caseload stands at 1.76 lakh (1,76,319) which comprises 1.58 per cent of India total infections. The ministry said that Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have shown a reduction in the active cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Gujarat display a rise in the active cases during the same time period. Showing the change in number of active cases for states in the last one month, the ministry said Kerala, UP, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu are the top 5 states showing a decline in active cases in the last one month, while Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi are the top 5 states showing a rise in active cases. The ministry said 20 states and UTs have less than 1,000 active cases. Arunachal Pradesh reported only 2 active cases. The Cumulative Positivity Rate of the country shows a continuous decline and stands at 5.08 per cent Eight states display a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average (2.09%). Among them, Maharashtra stands out with a weekly positivity rate of 10.38 per cent. The ministry said 113 deaths were reported in a day. Six states account for 88.5 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (60). Punjab follows with 15 daily deaths. Kerala reported 14 deaths. Eighteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-18-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-958410.html
05-03-2021||National||Stick to professional duties: Rijiju advises badminton coach Mathias Boe for remarks on IT raid||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Friday reacted sharply to foreign badminton coach Mathias Boe's comments on the Income Tax raid at properties of his actor partner Taapsee Pannu, saying the Dane must stick to his professional duties instead of commenting on matters which are not his domain. Boe on Thursday requested Rijiju to help Pannu after the Income Tax department raided properties linked to her over alleged tax evasion. The former Danish shuttler, who is currently with the Indian badminton players in Switzerland for the Swiss Open, took to Twitter to seek Rijiju's help for Pannu and her family. Rijiju responded to it on Friday and asked him to focus on his "professional duties" as the matter is not their domain. "Law of the land is supreme and we must abide by that. The subject matter is beyond your and my domain. We must stick to our professional duties in the best interest of Indian Sports," Rijiju tweeted. Income Tax officials on Wednesday conducted raids at the Mumbai residence of film-maker Anurag Kashyap, Pannu and film producer Vikas Bahl. The raids were conducted in connection with the production and distribution company Phantom Films helmed by Kashyap, director Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Madhu Mantena and Bahl. The company was founded by the quartet in 2011 before it was dissolved in October 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stick-to-professional-duties-rijiju-advises-badminton-coach-mathias-boe-for-remarks-on-it-raid-958422.html
05-03-2021||National||2 held for passing bogus tax credit worth Rs 392 crore to Essel Group cos||GST officers have arrested two persons for passing on bogus input tax credit (ITC) of over Rs 392 crore from non-existent firms to Essel Group companies without actual supply of any goods or services. The officers of the Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) Commissionerate, Delhi (East), unearthed a network of fictitious companies being operated by Naresh Dhoundiyal in connivance with Devender Kumar Goyal, who is a Chartered Accountant by profession. "Both Naresh Dhoundiyal and Devender Kumar Goyal are former employees of Essel Group. Though they are presently not working with the Essel Group officially, however, they are passing on inadmissible ITC to the said group," the finance ministry said in a statement. Investigations indicate that a layer of genuine looking fictitious intermediary companies was created to pass on bogus ITC from non-existent and fake firms to the companies of Essel Group without actual supply of any goods or services. "This was apparently done to enable Essel Group to avail inadmissible Input Tax Credit of GST, book expenses to evade Income Tax and inflate their turnover to push the share prices of their listed companies," the ministry said. While Dhoundiyal incorporated multiple fictitious intermediary companies for Essel Group, Goyal arranged the fake invoices of various other fictitious and non-existent firms for such fictitious intermediary companies. "The total fake Input Tax Credit passed on by such fictitious intermediary companies is quantified to be Rs 92.18 crore whereas, the total fake Input Tax Credit passed on by other fictitious and non-existent firms pertaining to the larger network is quantified to be more than Rs 300 crore. "The syndicate has thus defrauded the Government exchequer of more than Rs 392 crore by issuing bogus invoices of more than Rs 3,000 crore without actual supply of any goods or services," the ministry said. Dhoundiyal and Goyal have been remanded to judicial custody for 14 days till March 18. Further investigation in the case is in process. Since the inception of GST Central Tax, Delhi Zone has made 30 arrests in various cases, involving GST evasion amounting to more than Rs 4,450.86 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-held-for-passing-bogus-tax-credit-worth-rs-392-crore-to-essel-group-cos-958425.html
05-03-2021||National||OPEC ignores India's call; Saudi asks New Delhi to use cheap oil it bought in 2020||International oil prices rose after OPEC and its allies ignored India's plea to ease production control, with Saudi Arabia asking New Delhi to instead use oil it bought at rock bottom rates last year. Brent crude, the most widely used benchmark, on Friday rose nearly 1 per cent to USD 67.44 a barrel after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and its allies, a group known as OPEC+, agreed not to increase supplies in April awaiting more substantial recovery in demand. India's Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had in the run-up to Thursday's OPEC meeting urged the producers' group to ease production curbs to fulfil their promise of stable oil prices. He felt rising international oil prices were hurting economic recovery and demand. Retail petrol and diesel prices, which already are at historic highs, should rise if the oil companies decide to pass on the surge in international oil prices to consumers. Petrol and diesel prices have remained unchanged for the last five days and oil companies have in past not revised prices in the run to crucial assembly elections in 2017 and 2018 ahead of elections in states like Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat. West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Pondicherry and Assam will go to the polls in the next few weeks. Earlier this week, Pradhan had said India, where fuel demand is recovering to pre-pandemic levels, wants reasonable and responsible oil prices. India, the world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, had supported the decision of the oil producers' cartel OPEC and its allies to cut production last year in view of the oil demand collapsing due to the spread of COVID-19. "At that point in time, the producers especially OPEC assured the global market, that by the beginning of the 2021 demand will be coming back and production will be as usual. But I am sorry to say the production is yet to be normal," he said. "If you do not supply properly if there is a gap in demand and supply artificially (created), there is a price rise." The average price of crude oil India imports was less than USD 50 per barrel between April and December 2020 and comparable to 2019-20 average rate of USD 60.47 in months thereafter but petrol and diesel prices are at historic highs now as the government has so far not rolled back the taxes it levied when prices plummeted almost a year back. The record taxes coupled with international rates returning to pre-Covid levels on resurrecting demand have meant that petrol has crossed Rs 100 mark in some places in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Excise duty was raised by Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre on petrol and diesel between March 2020 and May 2020 and now accounts for more than one-third of the Rs 91.17 a litre price of petrol in Delhi and 40 per cent of Rs 81.47 per litre rate of diesel. The basket of crude oil India imported in February averaged USD 61.22 per barrel and USD 54.79 in January this year. It had fallen to USD 19.90 in April last year and was between USD 40 and USD 49 during June and December. India imports about 85 per cent of its oil needs and local retail rates are benchmarked to international prices. OPEC+, which is currently reining in about 7 million barrels per day of production -- about 7 per cent of pre-pandemic supply -- has helped engineer a nearly 80 per cent rise in the Dated Brent benchmark since November. Saudi Arabia has taken a voluntary extra 1 million bpd production cut in February and March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opec-ignores-indias-call-saudi-asks-new-delhi-to-use-cheap-oil-it-bought-in-2020-958428.html
05-03-2021||National||OCI cardholders require special permit if they want to undertake 'Tabligh', media activities: Centre||Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders will have to take special permission from the Centre if they want to be involved in any missionary, research, 'Tabligh' or journalistic activities in the country. A Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) official said these were part of the 'brochure' published in 2019 and were recently consolidated and notified. The OCI card provides multiple lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose except research, missionary, mountaineering, journalism and Tabligh activities. For these activities, OCI cardholders need to take prior permission. For research, missionary, mountaineering and Tabligh activities, an OCI cardholder will have to submit an application with the Indian embassy or Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) concerned. For undertaking journalistic activities, permission should be sought from the External Publicity Division of the Ministry of External Affairs.   Tablighi Jamaat was in the eye of controversy last March when over 2,000 of its followers were found to be residing at its headquarters in the capital despite orders issued against large gatherings of people due to spreading Covid-19. Tablighi Jamaat workers, including foreigners, indulge in preaching tours during which a volunteer travels for 120 days and stay in local mosques where they talk about their activities besides holding special prayers. OCI cardholders will also have to take a special permit to undertake an internship in any foreign diplomatic missions or foreign government organisations in India or to take up employment in any foreign diplomatic missions in India or to visit any place which falls within the protected or restricted or prohibited areas as notified by the central government or competent authority. Registered OCI cardholders will be treated at par with NRIs in the matter of inter-country adoption of Indian children and at par with Indian nationals on tariffs in airfares in domestic sectors in India. The notification also said that OCI cardholders have parity with Indian nationals in the matter of tariffs in airfares in domestic sectors in India, entry fees to be charged for visiting national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, national monuments, historical sites and museums in India. They have also parity in the purchase or sale of immovable properties other than agricultural land or farmhouse or plantation property and pursuing professions like doctors, dentists, nurses and pharmacists in India as per the provisions contained in the applicable relevant statutes or laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oci-cardholders-require-special-permit-if-they-want-to-undertake-tabligh-media-activities-centre-958439.html
05-03-2021||National||Heritage buildings in Jaipur threatened by encroachment||Over 3,130 encroachments and illegal constructions in the walled city of Jaipur have changed the face of heritage buildings, Rajasthan Urban Development and Housing Minister Shanti Dhariwal said on Friday. Replying to a question raised by BJP legislator Jagsiram during Question Hour, Dhariwal informed the House that the encroachments and illegal constructions were identified in a survey conducted manually and through drone in 2019. He said the encroachments have changed the outer shape of buildings. Dhariwal said that people living in walled city areas have been involved in illegal constructions and encroachments from several decades. Since January 2019 to till date, 739 notices have been issued by the municipal corporation.   He said due to the Covid-19 pandemic, action against illegal constructions and encroachments in walled city areas could not be done. However, action has been taken after any such case has come to notice of the municipal corporation. The minister informed the House that from January 2019 to February 2021, 11 construction works were undertaken at the cost of Rs 55.37 crore under Smart City project in walled city area. Works costing Rs 387.90 are under progress. Maintenance and repair work of monuments was done at the cost of Rs 2 crore released by the Amber Development and Management Authority. A total of 126 approved works of Rs 28.46 crore given by the Jaipur Heritage municipal corporation are being done, out of which 95 works have completed and progress on remaining works is on, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heritage-buildings-in-jaipur-threatened-by-encroachment-958466.html
05-03-2021||National||TRP case: Interim relief to Arnab to continue till March 16, Bombay HC says||The Mumbai police on Friday told the Bombay High Court that its assurance of not taking any coercive action against journalist Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media that runs Republic TV channels, in the TRP scam case, shall continue till March 16. Senior counsel Kapil Sibal, appearing for the Mumbai police, told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale that the police's earlier statement of no coercive action against Goswami and other employees shall be extended till March 16. The court was hearing a petition filed by ARG Outlier Media, challenging the FIR and the charge sheet filed by the city police for alleged manipulation of television rating points (TRP). The court accepted Sibal's statement and posted the matter for final hearing on March 16. The bench will hear ARG's main prayers challenging the police's investigation and seeking the transfer of probe to the CBI or any other independent agency, on March 16 via physical hearing. ARG media and Goswami approached the HC last year filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam. They alleged that the whole case was malafide and that they had been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, and the Palghar lynching case, last year. The Mumbai police had in January this year filed two affidavits in the case through the commissioner of police, Param Bir Singh, and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch, saying it had not targeted Republic TV or its employees. The police had said its probe was not a result of any political vendetta and that there was evidence to show that Goswami had connived with senior officials of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to rig the TRP of Republic TV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trp-case-interim-relief-to-arnab-to-continue-till-march-16-bombay-hc-says-958468.html
05-03-2021||National||DRDO conducts successful flight test of Solid Fuel Ducted Ramjet technology||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Friday successfully conducted a flight test of solid fuel ducted ramjet (SFDR) technology from a test range in Odisha, official sources said. During the test all subsystems including the ground booster motor have performed as expected, the DRDO said. The successful demonstration of SFDR technology has provided DRDO the technological advantage which will enable it to develop long range air-to-air missiles. At present only a handful of countries have the technology, it said. The test on Friday was carried out at around 10.30 am from the integrated test range (ITR) launch platform at Chandipur, they said. During the flight test, air launch scenario was simulated using a booster motor. Subsequently, the nozzle-less booster accelerated it to the required Mach number for Ramjet operation, the DRDO said. The performance of the missile was monitored using the data captured by electro optical, radar and telemetry instruments deployed by ITR and confirmed successful demonstration of the mission objectives, it said. The launch was monitored by senior scientists of various DRDO labs, including Defence Research and Development Laboratory, Research Centre Imarat and High Energy Materials Research Laboratory, the sources said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh congratulated the scientists of DRDO, Indian Air Force and the industry on the successful flight test of SFDR. The secretary to the department of defence research and development and DRDO chairman G Satheesh Reddy too congratulated the team which wass involved in the flight test, the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drdo-conducts-successful-flight-test-of-solid-fuel-ducted-ramjet-technology-958469.html
05-03-2021||National||Passion points, current affairs, social change top conversation topic for Indian women on Twitter||Conversations by Indian women on Twitter spanned across a host of topics, right from passion points and interests to current affairs, communities as well as social change, a report by the microblogging platform said on Friday. Twitter India commissioned research, surveying 700 women and analysed 5,22,992 tweets from 7,839 women's accounts between January 2019 and February 2021, and found nine overarching conversation themes across 10 Indian cities. "With a 24.9 per cent share, passion points and interests emerged as the top conversation theme, with women talking most about fashion, books, beauty, entertainment and food on the service," it said. Current affairs (20.8 per cent), Celebratory moments (14.5 per cent), Communities (11.7 per cent) and Social change (8.7 per cent) also featured in the top five conversation themes among women on Twitter, it added. While conversations around everyday chatter and celebratory moments saw the highest engagement in terms of an average number of likes and replies per tweet, passion points and interests, communities and shared challenges were the most retweeted categories, the data showed. Chennai-led conversations around celebratory moments, creative showcase and everyday chatter, while Bengaluru dominated chatter around communities, social change and shared challenges. Guwahati led conversations around passion points and interests and current affairs. "We commissioned this research to build our understanding about women on Twitter and were inspired by the results. These insights show us that Twitter is for every woman. Their communities and conversations highlight the uniqueness and diversity of the service," Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari said. Access to a free and open Internet has made it possible for everyone to express themselves freely without barriers, he added. "As a service, our goal is to build on this foundation, giving people new ways to converse, form communities and control who can interact with them in a conversation," he said. The social media platform said protecting women's voices -- and the voices of all those who use Twitter -- is a top priority and over the past year, it has introduced multiple features to make the experience more positive, safe and healthy. This includes the sender's profile information being available in Direct Messages to indicate how the sender is connected to the receiver (helping identify potentially abusive content), as well as settings that allow people to control who can reply to their tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passion-points-current-affairs-social-change-top-conversation-topic-for-indian-women-on-twitter-958471.html
05-03-2021||National||Hike in platform ticket cost 'temporary', aimed at preventing crowding during pandemic: Indian Railways||Defending a steep hike in the platform ticket price, Indian Railways on Friday said it is a "temporary" measure and is aimed at preventing crowding during the coronavirus pandemic. "The present increase in platform ticket prices at some stations is a temporary measure to prevent the spread of the coronavirus through crowding. This is being done at a limited number of stations which see a heavy rush," the railways said in a statement. The cost of platform tickets was increased by up to Rs 50 in some stations recently. It came close on the heels of the railways increasing ticket cost for short-distance trains. The power to raise platform ticket prices to prevent crowding at stations had been delegated to Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs) since 2015, it said. As a short-term measure to control the crowd at station premises, the railways have been practising it occasionally. "There is nothing new about it," the national transporter said. Earlier, this had been done during festivals and gradually rolled back, it said. "This time it's being implemented due to Covid-19 exigencies and the decision has been taken in the interest of the public only. At many places, it was introduced in March after lockdown," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hike-in-platform-ticket-cost-temporary-aimed-at-preventing-crowding-during-pandemic-indian-railways-958472.html
05-03-2021||National||High petrol, diesel prices burden on consumers; tax cut should be joint call of Centre, states: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday acknowledged that consumers have a case for petrol and diesel prices to be brought down but said a reduction in taxes to make that happen should be a joint call of the central and state governments. As much as 60 per cent of the retail price of petrol, which has shot above Rs 100-mark in some places in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and is at an all-time high elsewhere in the country, is made up of central and state taxes. Taxes make up for about 56 per cent of the record high diesel rates. Sitharaman, who had increased central excise duty on petrol and diesel by a record margin last year to mop up gains arising from international oil prices plunging to a two-decade low, remained non-committal on taking the first step to cut central taxes to give relief to consumers. For consumers, "there is enough case to say that prices should be down, its a burden," she said while interacting with journalists at IWPC. While the burden on the consumers is "understood", the pricing is a vexatious issue, she said. "That's where I use the word 'dharamsankat'," she said. "It is a question which I would like states and the Centre to talk about because it's not just the Centre which has duties on petroleum products, it also has the states charging." Stating that both states and the Centre draw revenue out of taxes levied on petrol and diesel, she said 41 per cent of the tax collections made by the Centre go to the states. "So there is an issue which is layered and as a result that has to be a matter ideally for the Centre and the states to talk about," she added. On the issue of bringing petrol and diesel under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime, which will end the cascading impact of taxes and bring uniformity, the finance minister said the call has to be taken by the GST Council, the apex decision-making body of the indirect tax regime. Currently, the central government levies a fixed rate of excise duty while states levy different rates of VAT. Under the GST, the two would merge and bring uniformity, solving the problem of fuel rates being higher in states with higher VAT. "Whenever the GST Council decides to take up this issue, they are well within their interest to take it up and discuss. It's a call which the Council has to take," she said. Asked if the Centre will take such a proposal to the Council in the next meeting likely this month, she said a call will be taken "closer to the date of the Council meeting." Sitharaman raised excise duty by Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre on petrol and diesel, respectively, between March 2020 and May 2020 and it now accounts for more than one-third of the Rs 91.17 a litre price of petrol in Delhi and 40 per cent of Rs 81.47 per litre rate of diesel. Earlier this week, economists at SBI in a report stated that petrol price can go down to Rs 75 a litre across the country if it is brought under the ambit of GST. Diesel will come at Rs 68 a litre and the revenue loss for the Centre and states will be only Rs 1 lakh crore or 0.4 per cent of GDP, according to the calculation by the economists made under the assumption of global crude prices at $60 a barrel and exchange rate at Rs 73 per dollar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/high-petrol-diesel-prices-burden-on-consumers-tax-cut-should-be-joint-call-of-centre-states-fm-958482.html
05-03-2021||National||They were raided in 2013 as well: FM Nirmala Sitharaman on Taapsee Pannu, Anurag Kashyap facing I-T raids||In comments seen as defending income tax raids on Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu and filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the same persons were raided in 2013 as well, but no issue was made out then as it is being done now. Refusing to comment on individual cases, she said it is in the national interest to know if some evasion is happening. "First of all, I am not commenting on any A or B individual. (But) since the names were taken, (I want to say) the very same names were raided in 2013," she said in an interaction with journalists at IWPC (Indian Women's Press Corps). It "wasn't an issue (in 2013). It's an issue now," she said. She, however, did not talk about the outcome of the 2013 raids and if any follow-up action was taken in the last seven years. The Income Tax Department on March 3 began raids on the homes and offices of Pannu and Kashyap as well as his partners, who launched the now-shuttered production house Phantom Films. The searches, part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, carried out across 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune, also covered Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed. Asked to comment on the raids, Sitharaman spoke of the 2013 raids not being an issue and they suddenly become one now. "Answer it for the hypocrisy or answer it, saying from then this is happening till now, what's the matter (with now)," she said. "In the national interest, do we want to know if there is some evasion happening." Pannu and Kashyap are both known to be outspoken in their views on a range of issues. "I don't know. I am not commenting on a particular case. But if that relates to particular names I want to ask - should we raise questions whether there was a serious omission and commission or should we raise a question about 'oh it's happening now'?" Sitharaman said. "Please look back. It happened in 2013." The tax department in a statement on Thursday stated that search and survey operations were carried out in Mumbai, Pune, Delhi and Hyderabad. "During the search, evidence of huge suppression of income by the leading film production house compared to the actual box office collections has been unearthed," it had said, referring to Kashyap's venture. "The company officials have not been able to explain the discrepancy of around Rs 300 crore." "Evidence related to manipulation and under-valuation of share transactions of the production house amongst the film directors and shareholders, having tax implication of about Rs 350 crore has been found and is being further investigated," it had said, adding "evidence" of cash receipts by the actor amounting to Rs 5 crore had been recovered. Tax department sources said some inter-linked transactions between the entities searched are under the scanner of the department. The raids, they added, are aimed at gathering more evidence to further probe tax evasion allegations against them. Founded in 2011, Phantom Films produced films such as "Lootera", "Queen", "Ugly", "NH 10", "Masaan" and "Udta Punjab". However, it was disbanded seven years later. Kashyap later launched a new production company called Good Bad Films.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/they-were-raided-in-2013-as-well-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-on-taapsee-pannu-anurag-kashyap-facing-i-t-raids-958498.html
05-03-2021||National||Leaders of India, US, Japan and Australia to hold virtual meet to elevate Quad||Leaders of India, Australia, Japan and the United States are likely to hold a virtual meeting soon to elevate the Quad -- a coalition forged by the four nations -- to counter China in the Indo-Pacific region. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, United States President Joe Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison will take part in the virtual meeting which will mark the elevation of the Quad to the level of the Heads of Governments. It was during a news conference in Sydney on Friday that the Australian Prime Minister confirmed that he was “looking forward” to the first virtual meeting of the leaders of the Quad. He also said that the leaders of the four nations would also hold follow-up “face-to-face” meetings later. “And of course we’re looking forward to those discussions and follow-up face-to-face meetings as well. This will become a feature of Indo-Pacific engagement,” Morrison said, adding that he already had a bilateral discussion with Biden, Suga and Modi on the role of Quad in the Indo-Pacific. “But it's not going to be a big bureaucracy with a big secretariat and those sorts of things,” Morrison said. “It will be four leaders, four countries, working together constructively for the peace, prosperity and stability of the Indo-Pacific, which is good for everyone in the Indo-Pacific,” he added. The proposal for a virtual meeting of the leaders of the four nations was mooted by the Biden administration last month. India, Australia, Japan and the US had first launched the Quad in 2007 but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the Quad in Manila in November 2017, ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region.  The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since it was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers with a meeting on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. The second ministerial meeting was held in Tokyo on October 6 last year and the third one was held virtually on February 18, 2021. The one Biden, Morrison, Modi and Suga are likely to hold will be the first-ever meeting at the level of the leaders of the four nations. It is, however, unlikely to transform the Quad to a NATO-like entity for the Indo-Pacific region as the erstwhile US administration led by Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump wanted. The meeting of the Quad Foreign Ministers in Tokyo took place amid China’s growing belligerence, not only along its Line of Actual Control (LAC) with India in eastern Ladakh but also elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region – the disputed waters of the South China Sea and East China Sea as well as in Taiwan Strait being some examples.  Trump’s Secretary of State Mike Pompeo wanted to turn the coalition into a formal organization. However, the Trump Administration’s move to formalize and expand the ‘Quad’ and turn it into a NATO-like bloc for the Indo-Pacific region did not succeed as New Delhi was in favour of moving cautiously and was hesitant to join a security architecture that would appear to be overtly adversarial to China. India was worried about the implication of such a move on its long-standing strategic partnership with Russia which earlier denounced the Quad as a ‘divisive’ and ‘exclusivist’ tool being used by the US to implement its “devious policy” of engaging New Delhi in games against China as well as to undermine Moscow’s close partnership with India. Besides, the Modi government in New Delhi was also apprehensive about the implication of formalizing Quad on its own negotiation with Beijing to resolve the military stand-off along the LAC. Australia and Japan too were not yet ready to go the whole hog and gang up with the US against China. The Biden administration too has been focussing on strengthening the Quad but apparently agreed with New Delhi, Canberra and Tokyo on treading cautiously, instead of moving expeditiously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/leaders-of-india-us-japan-and-australia-to-hold-virtual-meet-to-elevate-quad-958507.html
05-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: NCB names Rhea in charge sheet over Sushant Singh Rajput case; Prime Video India head not to be arrested||In your evening news brief, Narcotics Control Bureau files chargesheet in Sushant Singh Rajput case; Supreme Court grants protection from arrest to Amazon Prime Video's India head China fixes GDP target of over 6% in 2021 and UN report says household food waste in India is about 68.7 million tonnes a year. Hi, you are listening to, From The Newsroom — your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Here is the top news of March 5, 2021: Nearly nine months after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his flat, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed its charge sheet in the case that involves the drug angle behind the mysterious death. Rhea Chakraborty has been named in the charge sheet. Chakraborty, her brother Showik and his friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar, house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant are some of the accused in the case. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre's guidelines on regulating social media do not have any provision for taking appropriate action against digital platforms showing inappropriate content. It also granted protection from arrest to Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit in FIRs lodged over web series Tandav A bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on Purohit's plea for anticipatory bail in FIRs on Tandav series. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- China, which was the first to be hit by the Covid-19 and the earliest to recover from the lockdown effects, on Friday, fixed a GDP target of over six per cent in 2021, optimistic of economic recovery after last year’s 2.3 per cent growth, its weakest in decades. Premier Li Keqiang, in an announcement at the country’s Parliament National People's Congress (NPC), said China, the world's second largest economy, aims to expand its Gross Domestic Product by over six per cent in 2021, with more efforts on reform, innovation and high-quality development. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- An estimated 931 million tonnes of food was wasted globally in 2019, enough to circle the Earth seven times, according to a UN report which said that household food waste in India is about 68.7 million tonnes a year. The Food Waste Index Report 2021, from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and partner organisation WRAP, said that around 931 million tonnes of food waste was generated in 2019, sixty-one per cent of which came from households, 26 per cent from foodservice and 13 per cent from retail. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-ncb-names-rhea-in-charge-sheet-over-sushant-singh-rajput-case-prime-video-india-head-not-to-be-arrested-958518.html
05-03-2021||National||Legal process has to be followed through, can't shortcut that: UK on Vijay Mallya extradition||Noting the urgency and desire on the part of India to extradite people accused of corruption, the UK on Friday said a "legal process" is on in Vijay Mallya's matter and it has to be followed through as there cannot be any shortcut. In May last year, the fugitive businessman lost his appeals in the British Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money laundering and fraud charges. Asked when can Mallya be extradited to India and if some kind of legal issue is still pending in the matter, new British High Commissioner to India, Alex Ellis, without pointing to any particular case, said he recognises the urgency, importance and the desire to get back people who are accused of corruption to India. "Extradition is a mixture of an administrative and a judicial process, and so it goes to the courts. The home secretary has done what needs to be done from the executive's point of view in the case of Vijay Mallya. But it (the matter) is part of a judicial process and our courts work their way through those processes. It is something controlled by the judges," he said. Asked about what kind of issue was holding up Mallya's extradition, the British envoy said, "There is a process going on. I think it is a legal process and has to be followed through, can't short cut that. That is why you have legal processes." India has been pressing the UK to extradite Mallya after he lost his appeals in the British Supreme Court. The UK top court's decision marked a major setback to the 64-year-old businessman as it came weeks after he lost his High Court appeal last April against an extradition order to India. In June last year, India urged the UK not to consider any request for asylum by Mallya as there appeared to be no ground for his persecution in the country. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by the Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The High Court verdict in April upheld the 2018 ruling by Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot at the end of a year-long extradition trial in December 2018 that the former Kingfisher Airlines boss had a "case to answer" in the Indian courts. Significantly, in another extradition case India is fighting in the UK, a UK judge ruled last week that fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi not only has a case to answer in Indian courts but that there is no evidence to suggest he would not receive a fair trial in India. Asked about AgustaWestland VVIP chopper deal case accused British national Christian Michel, Ellis said, "There we do the things you do in a consular case like that. If it's a British national you support the person concerned. You also provide consular assistance to the family. We hope and want a swifter resolution of the case." It is for the Indian judicial process to work out, what happens in the case, it is not the UK's business but obviously "we want things to move as quickly as they can", he said. Ellis' remarks came days after media reports claimed that the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD) found that Michel, who has been held in India since December 2018 after being extradited from the United Arab Emirates, was being "detained arbitrarily". India had rejected the opinion of the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention and said the conclusions drawn by the UN panel are based on limited information, biased allegations and an inaccurate understanding of its criminal justice system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legal-process-has-to-be-followed-through-cant-shortcut-that-uk-on-vijay-mallya-extradition-958538.html
05-03-2021||National||We are going strong: Farmer leaders as protest enters 100th day||As the farmer agitation against the Centre's three farm laws enters its hundredth day on Saturday, union leaders have asserted that their movement is far from over and they are "going strong". The marathon movement has sent out a message of unity, made "farmers visible once again" and brought them back on the political landscape of the country, they said on Friday. For over three months, the three Delhi border points at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur have transformed into townships occupied by thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, mainly Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh. Rakesh Tikait of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) said they are prepared to continue the protest as long as it is required. "We are completely prepared. Unless and until the government listens to us and meets our demands, we will not move from here," Tikait, who is among the leaders at the forefront of the movement, told PTI. Despite several rounds of talks between the government and the farmer unions, the two sides have failed to reach an agreement, and the farmers have refused to budge until the three laws are repealed. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. While a resolution was reached on two of the four demands — rollback of rising in power tariff and penalties for stubble burning — in January, a decision on repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for MSP continues to be stuck in limbo. However, according to the farmer leaders, the movement, which will complete its 100th day on Saturday, has achieved much beyond the immediate scope of the protest. It has evoked nationwide unity among farmers as well as recognised the contribution of women in farming. Talking about how the protest has made the farming community a noteworthy player in the country's political landscape, Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj India said, "The movement has brought the farmers back on the political landscape of this country. It has made farmers visible once again. It has taught every politician a lesson — not to take ‘panga’ with the farmers." "People used to take farmers for granted but this movement has shown that getting into a confrontation with farmers is a costly business,” the activist-political told PTI. The fight against the laws was one cause that seemed to have resonated with a large number of farmers throughout the nation, cutting across religious and caste barriers. "It has united farmers like never before. Haryana and Punjab farmers are united. Despite deep attempts at communal mobilisation in UP, Hindu and Muslim farmers are united in this protest. Gujjars and Meenas are united in Rajasthan,” Yadav said. Kavitha Kuruganti of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) agreed and added that the movement had proven very “constructive” socially as well. "The farmers' movement has to be assisted on multiple levels. There is a very important but limited agenda of securing our four demands, but beyond that is the issue of what the farmers movement has been able to achieve as larger outcomes.  "In Punjab, socially...things like substance abuse, alcoholism and so on have come down because the youth have been constructively engaged in the movement,” she said. She added that the movement had also “reinforced the identity of women farmers”. “Women farmers have been able to assert themselves and make their presence and participation felt in this movement. There has been recognition of women farmers as farmers,” she said. To mark International Women's Day on March 8, the protesting men will hand over charge of managing the protest sites to their female counterparts. “The stage management will be taken care of by women only. Besides, the spokesperson for the farmers' movement for that particular day would all be women,” said Avtar Singh Mehma of the Krantikari Kisan Union. Continuing the movement over such a long period has also not been devoid of any setbacks. One of the major setbacks that the movement faced was the January 26 tractor parade that resulted in clashes with the police. "There's been the setback of January 26, when all farmers were portrayed as violent 'khalistanis' and so on. The image that was there of the protest before the 26th was intentionally maligned by the police and the government,” Kurugranthi said. She added that they have also had to “fend off multiple attacks from the government, including supplies being cut, and locals being provoked against the protestors”. Prepared for the long haul, protesting farmers at all the borders have already started gearing up to beat the Delhi summer, by equipping their trolleys with air conditioners, coolers and farmers. Arrangements for better and steady supply of water are also being made. After protesting against the new agri laws in their respective regions, farmers from Punjab and Haryana pushed towards the national capital with their 'Delhi Chalo' march and camped at Singhu and Tikri on November 26 last year. They were joined a few days later by farmers from UP who set up a camp at the Ghazipur border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-going-strong-farmer-leaders-as-protest-enters-100th-day-958540.html
05-03-2021||National||Indian shot dead by Nepalese police on UP border||An Indian national was allegedly shot dead by the Nepalese police near the international border in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, three Indian nationals who were residents of Raghavpuri area in the district had crossed over to Nepal to attend a fair at Kanchanpur on Thursday. The youths had an argument with the Nepalese police, following which the cops fired at them. One of the youths, identified as Govinda Singh, suffered serious injuries in the firing. He was taken to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries, sources said. It was not clear as to why the police opened fire at the youths. The other two managed to save themselves by returning to Indian territory but sources said one of them was stated to be missing. The body of the deceased Indian national was kept at the Belori health centre in Kanchanpur in Nepal, sources said adding that authorities were trying to get the dead body back to hand it over to the family. Tension prevailed at the border and the Shastra Seema Bal (SSB) was put on alert. ''We are trying to verify the facts....we are in touch with the officials across the border,'' a senior police official said in Pilibhit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-shot-dead-by-nepalese-police-on-up-border-958544.html
05-03-2021||National||CBSE revises Class 10, 12 exam dates for some subjects: Check here||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Friday revised the date sheet for a few subjects, including mathematics, commerce and physics, for classes 10 and 12 exams. For class 10, the science exam, scheduled for May 15, has been deferred to May 21. The mathematics exam, scheduled for May 21, will now be held on June 2, according to the latest date sheet. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said that for the class 12 science stream, the May 13 physics exam will now be held on June 8. Exams of mathematics and applied mathematics, which were earlier scheduled for June 1, will now be conducted on May 31 for class 12 science and commerce streams, it said in the revised date sheet. The board has revised the date for the June 2 geography exam of the arts stream and it will now be held on June 3. The exams for classes 10 and 12 will begin from May 4 and conclude on June 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbse-revises-class-10-12-exam-dates-for-some-subjects-check-here-958545.html
05-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL against ban on transgender persons from donating blood||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Union government on a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of 2017 guidelines prohibiting transgender people from donating blood. A three-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde sought a response from the Union government after hearing senior advocate Jayna Kothari appearing for petitioner Manipur-based Thangjam Santa Singh. The petitioner sought a stay on the Guidelines for Blood Donor Selection and Blood Donor Referral 2017, as it prohibited transgender persons and men having sex with men and female sex workers from being donors. She contended that guidelines, which considered them as a high-risk category for being HIV and AIDS infected, were violative of fundamental rights under Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. However, the court refused to stay the guidelines saying: "These are medical matters. We don't understand these issues. We will see the replies by the government."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-against-ban-on-transgender-persons-from-donating-blood-958550.html
05-03-2021||National||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti on March 15 in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday summoned former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti for questioning on March 15 in a money laundering case, officials said. The 60-year-old PDP leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention, has been served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. The case has been filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, officials said. No more details about the case were available immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-mehbooba-mufti-on-march-15-in-money-laundering-case-958552.html
05-03-2021||National||Greta Thunberg's comments on farmers' protests not bilateral issue between India, Sweden: MEA||Young Swedish climate activist Greta Thunberg's recent comments on the farmers' protests in India do not form a bilateral issue between India and Sweden, and the matter did not come up during an online summit between the prime ministers of the two countries on Friday, the Ministry of External Affairs said. At a special briefing after the summit, Vikas Swarup, Secretary (West) in the ministry, was asked whether the issue of Thunberg's comments on the farmers' protest was taken up by India with Sweden during the meeting. "The answer is no. This is not a bilateral issue between India and Sweden," Swarup said. Last month, Thunberg had taken to Twitter to say, "We stand in solidarity with the #FarmersProtest in India." This was followed by another tweet a day later, in which she shared "a toolkit for those who want to help". While a number of international celebrities, including pop star Rihanna, had also tweeted in support of the farmers' protests, which entered its 100th day on Friday, the 'toolkit' matter became a major issue with the Delhi Police later registering FIRs against several people for allegedly trying to tarnish India's image. The 'toolkit' document, listed various actions, including creating a "Twitter storm" and protesting outside Indian embassies, to support the farmers' protest. In a statement, the MEA had said last month that some "vested interest groups" were trying to enforce their agenda on the protests and that a very small section of farmers in parts of the country has some reservations about the farm reforms which were passed by Parliament after a full debate and discussion. However, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 41 farm unions spearheading the agitation, had welcomed the support extended by international personalities, saying it was a matter of pride that they are showing sensitivity towards the cause of farmers, but it was unfortunate that the government of India is not understanding their pain. Emphasising that the protests must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity, the MEA in its statement had said some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of three farm laws and a legal guarantee on minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured farmers that the MSP would continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/greta-thunbergs-comments-on-farmers-protests-not-bilateral-issue-between-india-sweden-mea-958565.html
05-03-2021||National||Freedom House report 'misleading, incorrect, misplaced': Centre on 'partly free' status||Modi government on Friday dismissed a US-based research institute’s report that downgraded its status as a free country, as “misleading, incorrect and misplaced”. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the views of a group that did not have the wherewithal to understand the sovereign territorial map of India need not be taken seriously. “Get your map straight first,” Sitharaman said, referring to the map on the website of Freedom House that assesses the condition of political rights and civil liberties around the world. “I am concerned about the group which doesn’t get the India map correct. Should its views be serious for me to take,” she said questioning the understanding of the institute about a country as diverse as India. “How do I take you seriously on matters that are so intrinsic in a multi-diverse country where religions of ancient days have lived together for centuries without ‘cleansing’,” Sitharaman said. The government also issued a point-by-point rebuttal of the claims made in the report, including on use of sedition law, discrimination of religious minorities, internet shutdowns and functioning of human rights organisations. “The Freedom House report titled “Democracy Under Siege” in which it has been claimed that India’s status as a free country has declined to “partly free”, is misleading, incorrect and misplaced,” Saurabh Singh, a spokesman for the government, said. The report by the US-based organisation had claimed that the decline in India's status was "due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters.” "The Freedom House report, titled 'Democracy Under Siege', in which it has been claimed that India's status as a free country has declined to 'partly free' is misleading, incorrect and misplaced,” the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said in a statement. "With specific reference to the North East Delhi riots in January 2019, the law enforcement machinery acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner. Proportionate and appropriate actions were taken to control the situation. Necessary legal and preventive actions were taken by the law enforcement machinery on all complaints/calls received, as per law and procedures,” the ministry said. The government also rebutted the allegation in the report that the Covid-19-induced lockdown "left millions of migrant workers in cities without work or basic resources" and "resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers". The government said that the lockdown was announced to control the spread of the coronavirus and the period “allowed the government to ramp up production capacity of masks, ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, etc. and thereby effectively prevent the spread of the pandemic. India has, on per capita basis, registered one of the lowest rates of active Covid-19 cases and Covid-19 related deaths globally.” Denying the report's claims that academics and journalists were intimidated, the government said, “Discussion, debate and dissent are part of Indian democracy. The Government of India attaches the highest importance to the safety and security of all residents of the country, including journalists. The Government of India has issued a special advisory to States and Union Territories on the safety of journalists requesting them to strictly enforce the law to ensure the safety and security of media persons,” it said. The report has claimed that though the private media are vigorous and diverse, and investigations and scrutiny of politicians do occur, but “attacks on press freedom have escalated dramatically under the Modi government, and reporting has become significantly less ambitious in recent years. Authorities have used security, defamation, sedition, and hate speech laws, as well as contempt-of-court charges, to quiet critical voices in the media.” The report has also alleged that a “wide variety of NGOs operate, but some, particularly those involved in the investigation of human rights abuses, continue to face threats, legal harassment, excessive police force, and occasionally lethal violence.” Rebutting this, the government said the Indian Constitution provides for adequate safeguards under various statutes, including the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 for ensuring the protection of human rights. On the report's claim that the authorities used assembly bans, internet blackouts, and live ammunition between December 2019 and March 2020 to quell widespread protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and proposals to roll out a citizens' registration process across the country, the government said, "...the temporary suspension of telecom/internet services is resorted to with the overarching objective of maintaining law and order under strict safeguards." Lastly, the government rebutted the claim that the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) amendment led to the freezing of NGO Amnesty International's assets, and said the NGO had received permission under the FCRA Act only once and that too 20 years ago (December 19, 2000). “Since then Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible to get such approval. However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty U.K. remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by misclassifying the remittance as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI),” the government said. “This malafide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions," it said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/freedom-house-report-misleading-incorrect-misplaced-centre-on-partly-free-status-958569.html
05-03-2021||National||India's resolute response on borders has helped in peaceful resolution of certain key issues: Rajnath Singh||India's resolute response on its borders has helped in positive and peaceful resolution of certain significant issues and the country has nurtured close relations with like-minded nations to further common security interests, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Friday. Last month, India and Pakistan had announced that they have agreed to observe all ceasefire agreements along the Line of Control (LoC). Moreover, India and China last month withdrew their troops from the north and south banks of Pangong lake even as the standoff continues in the other border areas of eastern Ladakh. Our ability to secure India's territorial integrity and sovereignty from external threats and internal challenges have been strengthened in the recent years, he said on Twitter, adding that the Indian armed forces today are proactive and more resolute in their responses. Earlier during the day, Singh addressed Combined Commanders' Conference, a premier brainstorming event of the military officials, at Kevadia in Gujarat. "India's resolute response on the borders has helped in positive and peaceful resolution of certain significant issues. I salute the selfless courage displayed by the soldiers during the recent eastern Ladakh standoff," he mentioned. We are working towards increasing jointness in the armed forces, he stated.  "The optimal utilisation of our resources and rationalisation of manpower holds the key to jointness and better coordination between the forces," he added. India has nurtured close relations and partnerships with like-minded countries to further the common security interests, he stated. "We as a country are looking to strengthen our ability to create secure and stable environment that can facilitate India's economic growth. Our enhanced defence capabilities will allow us to be better prepared for contingencies," Singh noted. "Our national interests are defined by the elements of national integration, sovereignty, sociology-economic development, conservation of our values and peaceful and harmonious region and world. We are committed to protect the territorial integrity and ensure peace in the region," Singh tweeted. India and Pakistan had announced last month that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. Moreover, India and China last month withdrew their troops and weapons from the north and south banks of Pangong lake, even as high-level military talks continue between the two countries to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh. A total of 20 Indian soldiers were killed in action in fierce hand-to-hand combat with the Chinese forces in Galwan Valley in June last year. China last month admitted for the first time that four of its soldiers were also killed in the June 2020 clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-resolute-response-on-borders-has-helped-in-peaceful-resolution-of-certain-key-issues-rajnath-singh-958574.html
05-03-2021||National||Full disengagement of troops along LAC must for progress in relations, India tells China||India on Friday told China that completing mutual withdrawal of troops from the remaining “points of friction” along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) would set the stage for progress in bilateral relations. New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing, Vikram Misri, met China’s Vice Foreign Minister, Luo Zhaohui in Beijing, and stressed that “maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas had always been the basis for development of bilateral relations”. Anurag Srivastava, the spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi, said that India would expect China to work with it to complete the process of disengagement of troops from the remaining face-off points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last month withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May in 2020 and taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past few months. After the two sides completed withdrawal of troops from Pangong Tso areas, the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had a meeting on February 20 last and started discussion on disengagement from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post. The MEA spokesperson in New Delhi referred to the talks between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in the Chinese Government, Wang Yi, over phone on February 25. Jaishankar had pointed out to Wang that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas had been an essential basis for the development of bilateral relations and a prolongation of the existing situation would not be in the interest of either side. “It is therefore our expectation that the Chinese side will work with us, both through the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Coordination and Consultation on India-China border affairs) and Senior Commanders’ meetings, to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest,” Srivastava told journalists in New Delhi. “This would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in Eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress in our bilateral relationship." A statement issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government stated that Luo and Misri had “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on China-India relations and border events”. The two sides agreed that the important consensus of the leaders of the two countries should be adhered to and grasp the correct direction of China-India relations. The two sides agreed to implement the important results reached during the Moscow meeting (between Jaishankar and Wang in September 2020) and the recent phone-call between the two foreign ministers, maintain the momentum of diplomatic and military consultations, realize peace and tranquillity in the border area, and return bilateral relations to normal, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/full-disengagement-of-troops-along-lac-must-for-progress-in-relations-india-tells-china-958575.html
05-03-2021||National||BJP wants to establish communal politics in Tamil Nadu: Thol. Thirumavalavan||One of the most vocal critics of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) chief and prominent Dalit leader in Tamil Nadu, Thol. Thirumavalavan says all constituents of the DMK-led alliance should ensure that “secular votes” do not get split in the April 6 elections. In an interview with Deccan Herald's E T B Sivapriyan, Thirumavalavan, Lok Sabha MP from Chidambaram constituency, spoke about BJP's plans in Tamil Nadu, the “silent wave” against AIADMK government, and his disappointment with the DMK on its “hard stand” in seat-sharing. Excerpts: Q: VCK did not get the number of seats it sought in the DMK alliance but your party went ahead and signed a deal on Thursday. How and why was the compromise arrived at? A: I will not call it a compromise. I was convinced that VCK should stay in the DMK alliance for a slew of reasons. VCK and DMK have been working together for the past four years on a number of issues like NEET. We had been campaigning against the AIADMK and BJP governments by projecting DMK President M K Stalin as our Chief Ministerial face. Our agenda of protecting social justice and the Constitution from the BJP government was accepted by the people. When we sat across the table for negotiations, the only problem was numbers. I was very clear that mere numbers will not decide our alliance. We cannot dump our agenda of four years just because of a few seats. VCK got just six seats and it is a loss only for the party. But our presence in the alliance is a gain to the people of Tamil Nadu and to the society. If there is a split in the alliance, the secular votes will be scattered which would only help the ruling alliance. If VCK had come out of the alliance on the basis of numbers, it would have sent a wrong signal to other constituents of the DMK combine. We are disappointed with the numbers and there is no doubt about it, but we decided to stay with the DMK for the larger good of the state. Q: Why is it important to keep the DMK alliance intact? A: It is very imperative to avoid any split of the secular votes because the ruling alliance is indulging in caste and communal politics. AIADMK, BJP, PMK are on a mission to create social unrest in Tamil Nadu. The way they hurriedly passed a Bill to provide 10.5 percent internal reservation to Vanniyars within the 20 percent reservation for MBCs is a classic example of the dangerous politics they are playing for electoral gains. And for VCK, we firmly believe we are on the winning side for the first time in assembly elections. The six seats that we got in the DMK alliance are not just seats. Since our alliance's victory is assured, all six candidates will be legislators. Q: Will VCK's decision to stay in the alliance despite being disappointed force other parties like Congress to desist from walking out? A: I want the DMK alliance to stay intact and that is my intention. But I cannot tell Congress or the Left parties to just accept what is offered and stay in the alliance just because I did. They can talk to DMK leaders and convince them to accept the numbers that they demand. But my message to all alliance partners is to keep in mind the cause for which the combine has been fighting for the past four years. My friendly advice to them is to prevent any split of secular votes. Q: Is the DMK's hard stand that it will not contest in less than 180 seats justified? A: I acknowledge that the DMK's stand has hurt alliance partners. I was hurt at the number of seats that were offered to me. But if I put myself in DMK's shoes and think, I think the decision is logical. The DMK has had an experience of running a minority government from 2006 to 2011 and it may feel that not being in a majority prevented it from delivering good governance due to too much interference from parties like PMK. So, the DMK feels they need to secure a majority on their own without depending on allies. Secondly, the DMK may want its strength in the assembly to be anywhere above 150 not just to come to power but to ensure its tenure is smooth. It may want to win with a thumping majority. And the reason for this is the BJP, which is unscrupulous in its ways to topple democratically-elected governments by buying legislators. It is the fear of the BJP's undemocratic methods that has forced a party like DMK to take a hard stand with alliance partners. The DMK may have had the same fears that the BJP may topple its government if it has just 130 MLAs as against the magic number of 118. The BJP does not respect any democratic traditions and its actions contradict what is said in the constitution. Q: Why blame the BJP for DMK's decision? A: I am blaming them because the BJP has toppled democratically-elected government using its power. They did it in Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, and established their governments in states where they did not win elections. I have enough reasons to blame the BJP. Q: BJP believes it has grown in Tamil Nadu in the past two years. Your comments? A: I do not agree. The BJP has no base here in Tamil Nadu. It is a known fact that they sense an opportunity to make inroads into Tamil Nadu due to the absence of charismatic leaders like M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. BJP's tactics never found favour in Tamil Nadu when the two were alive, and even now people have not accepted the party. The BJP's aim is not just to finish off the two Dravidian parties but also to establish communal politics in Tamil Nadu, a state which is known for communal harmony. They want to capture power in Tamil Nadu and lay the foundation for their long-term strategy in the April 6 elections. By being in an alliance with AIADMK, they want to gobble up the party. BJP is the only party that poaches people from its own alliance partners. They are not a force in Tamil Nadu as of now, but the Edappadi K Palaniswami government has given them enough space to take roots in Tamil Nadu just to hide its corruption. BJP senses an opportunity to grow in Tamil Nadu just to saffronise the state. Q: The 2019 Lok Sabha elections were won on the anti-BJP and anti-Modi plank. There is an opinion that the sentiments against Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the state are no longer strong. Do you agree? A: Sentiments against the Prime Minister and the BJP are still prevalent in Tamil Nadu. People in the state do not hate Modi or BJP just for their communal stand. Political parties oppose them ideologically but the common man does not believe in the BJP because of its anti-people policies. The common man feels every law is against him, every move of this government like demonetisation affects him. It is not just the BJP's communal ideology but also its inability to govern the country that is making it unacceptable to the people. Q: There is an opinion among people that the anti-incumbency against the AIADMK government is largely missing. Is it true? A: There is a silent wave against the AIADMK government that has ruled the state for 10 years. People may not be averse to EPS as an individual, but they are dead against his being subservient to the BJP. People understand that he has no say in many issues and he just signs on the dotted line drawn by the BJP. The anger against governments is usually invisible, and people display their anger only when they go to polling stations. Q: You oppose BJP's policies vehemently. And you are one of the stringent critics of the BJP. Any special reason? A: It is simple. I am against their ideology. BJP uses spirituality for political gains. They use religion and devotion for political gains. They have neither devotion nor love for Hinduism. They just want to use religion for electoral gains. They are my ideological opponents. I will continue to oppose their policies and communalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-wants-to-establish-communal-politics-in-tamil-nadu-thol-thirumavalavan-958586.html
05-03-2021||National||India's top judge urged to quit for suggesting rape defendant marry victim||The Chief Justice of India SA Bobde is under pressure to resign after asking a man accused of rape whether he would marry the complainant, sparking outrage and concern that his words could legitimise the notion that rapists can make amends by marrying their victims. CJI Bobde posed the question during the bail hearing of a government employee who is accused of stalking, threatening and repeatedly raping a distant schoolgirl relative over a two-year period. Brinda Adige, a women's and children's rights activist, said she was "furious" over Bobde's suggestion, fearing lower courts might now be more willing to consider marriage offers floated by defence lawyers in rape cases. "This idea of marrying the rapist was always whispered in the corridors and not spoken about loudly. Now that it has been said aloud, how it will be used across the judiciary and by (those) accused is a terrifying thought," she said. "People approach courts for justice and not to listen to the petty mindedness of judges." This week's incident has also fueled debate about India's progress on tackling high rates of sexual violence nearly a decade since the gang rape and murder of a student on a bus shocked the nation. Almost 34,000 rapes were reported in 2018, about the same as the previous year, and just over 85 per cent led to charges and 27 per cent to convictions, according to government crime data. In an open letter demanding Bobde's resignation, thousands of people and women's rights organisations said his remark would "lead to the further silencing of girls and women, a process that took decades to break". "Your continued presence as CJI (Chief Justice of India) puts every woman in India in danger. It sends a message to young girls that their dignity and autonomy are of no value," the letter said. Wrong precedent Lawyers said Bobde's comment could threaten a precedent set by the Supreme Court in 2013 when it said "rape is not a matter for the parties to compromise and settle" - seeking to stamp out a notion that persists in many segments of Indian society. "The rule of law is at stake here," said lawyer D Gita, who practises in the Madras High Court. "How will a woman feel that she will get a fair hearing or even justice if the court echoes a sentiment that is often heard within families and society. The remarks have upturned the legal apple cart and sent a terrible signal to the lower judiciary." Suman Chakravarti, another lawyer, has argued in many cases against the "marry your rapist ploy", which defence attorneys representing rape defendants sometimes use in a bid for leniency from judges. In July, a year after Catholic priest Robin Vadakkumchery, 52, was jailed for 20 years for raping a minor, he asked Kerala High Court to grant him bail - saying he wanted to marry the girl and take care of the child she conceived. "The fact that he would make such a suggestion in itself was outrageous," Chakravarti, who was the public prosecutor in the Vadakkumchery case, told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. "This is a shortcut method we often see to escape this serious crime," he added. The court denied Vadakkumchery's application, but Chakravarti said vigilance was necessary to ensure the legal system does not accept the so-called marriage ploy. There have been numerous cases of rape victims forced or pressured to marry their attackers by relatives or members of traditional panchayats, which serve as village courts, said Jacqui Hunt, director of rights group Equality Now's Eurasia Office. "Judges, tasked with upholding constitutional rights and values, are the last people who should champion such marriages," Hunt said in emailed comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-top-judge-urged-to-quit-for-suggesting-rape-defendant-marry-victim-958594.html
05-03-2021||National||Traffic cop suspended for beating up woman pedestrian in Jammu||A traffic policeman was suspended here on Friday for beating a woman pedestrian with a video of the incident going viral on social media, officials said. The video showed selection grade constable Suman Kumar of traffic police beating a woman pedestrian at Bikram Chowk in the city on Friday morning, officials said. Taking swift action, Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP), Traffic, Jammu City, Shiv Kumar Sharma ordered the immediate suspension of the constable and repatriated him to his parent department in the armed police, they said. An order was issued in this direction by the SSP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/traffic-cop-suspended-for-beating-up-woman-pedestrian-in-jammu-958595.html
05-03-2021||National||Indian economy to do better than -8% prediction: FinMin||The Indian economy is likely to do better than the projection of an 8 per cent shrinkage in the current fiscal as economic activity gathers pace with mild stiffening of pandemic curve and the rollout of vaccines, the finance ministry said on Friday. The Department of Economic Affairs in its monthly report said the recovery of global output has slowed following the re-imposition of lockdowns in advanced countries amid renewed Covid-19 waves and its emerging variants. However, economic activity in India has gathered pace with mild stiffening of the Covid-19 curve, failing to deter a steady uptick in consumer sentiment, which has been bolstered by the inoculation drive. "Often overlooked in the spate of Covid-19 vaccine development and ongoing inoculation drive, social distancing poses as a social vaccine that also needs to be continuously administered for health and economy to make a quick recovery in India as well as abroad... The social vaccine is as important as the real vaccine," it said. While India continues to avoid the second wave of the pandemic, there has been a surge in cases in eight states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Haryana -- underscoring once again the inevitability of social distancing in keeping the pandemic at bay until a critical mass of inoculated population builds up immunity to control the growth of infection in the country. "Positive GDP growth in Q3 of FY21 – for the first time since the onset of the pandemic – adds to the positive sentiment as the economy is set to close the year with activity levels higher than measured in the second advance estimates of GDP," the report said. It said the Reserve Bank's industrial outlook survey (IOS) conducted in Q3 of FY21 has also re-affirmed this optimism, with respondents indicating a strengthening of production, order books and employment during the third quarter, driven by easing of lockdowns, re-opening of businesses and improvement in the availability of finance from banks and internal sources. GDP growth is expected to be in positive territory in the second half of 2020-21, the report noted. The second advance estimates of National Income for FY2020-21 recently released by the National Statistics Office (NSO) indicate real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) contraction at 8 per cent, larger than real Gross Value Added (GVA) contraction of 6.5 per cent. GDP is derived by adding taxes and subtracting subsidies to GVA. The Finance Ministry's Economic Survey had in January projected economic contraction this fiscal ending March at 7.7 per cent. "Since GDP growth (or contraction) has been distorted in FY 2020-21 on account of significant growth of subsidies, GVA growth is a more appropriate measure to follow in the current year," the report added. The ministry said that both food and fertiliser subsidy outgo is Rs 3.7 lakh crore more than what was budgeted for 2020-21. "After making adjustments for pre-payment of loans of 2.0 trillion rupees taken for paying subsidy of previous years, the balance 1.7 trillion rupees emerged as the additional subsidy paid in the pandemic year. "This enhancement between budget estimates and revised estimates caused the growth of subsidies to be significantly higher than the growth of indirect taxes," the finance ministry's monthly economic report said. The lockdown imposed to prevent the spread of the Covid pandemic pummelled the economy as demand dried up and non-essential businesses were shuttered. In the April-June quarter, the economy contracted by the steepest ever 24.4 per cent, and 7.3 per cent in the September quarter. However, in October-December it came back in positive territory with 0.4 per cent growth. The report further said large industries credit growth remained in negative territory in February possibly explained by high rating borrowers raising resources from alternative routes like bonds, debentures and other market-based instruments to take advantage of the prevailing low-interest rate regime and also to retire past high-cost debt. Corporate bond issuances at Rs 6.3 lakh crore during April 2021-January 2021 were 21.6 per cent higher than those in the same period of last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-to-do-better-than-8-prediction-finmin-958601.html
05-03-2021||National||To curb dependency on China, India to promote domestic container production||Aimed at curbing Chinese dependency in the Indian container market and promote Indian producers, the Container Corporation of India (CONCOR) had decided to float an open tender inviting domestic manufacturers to supply cargo containers. In the lines with the Centre Make in India policy, the government decided to encourage domestic companies to produce cargo containers. CONCOR, a PSU under the Ministry of Railways is already a leader in the Indian container market. It recently gave a developmental order for 1,000 containers each to Bharat Heavy Electricals (BHEL) and Braithwaite & Co. BHEL, a PSU under the Ministry of Heavy Industries and Braithwaite is a heavy fabrication unit under the Indian Railways. So far CONCOR has been purchasing containers from China as the neighbouring country is a global leader in the sector. In a year, CONCOR procures around 8,000 containers from China, at a total cost of around Rs 200 crore. "Our annual requirement will be around 8,000 containers for the next five years. We are going to float an open tender, inviting domestic manufacturers for this," said V Kalyana Rama, chairman and managing director of CONCOR said. Indian steel players like SAIL, Tata Steel and Jindal Steel confirmed the availability of required better grade steels. On the other hand, Indian Manufacturing companies like Kalyani Cast Tech, Balmer Lawrie, Transafe, DCM Hyundai (Hindustan Vaccum), too, showed their interest, said a statement from CONCOR. Currently, India has no capability to manufacture its own cargo containers. All manufactured by foreign players, mostly  Chinese companies. China is a global leader in cargo containers due to its cheaper price. "To cut down Chinese companies dependency, India now wants to promote domestic manufacturers to begin with producing at public sector undertaking companies. If bulk order is received, then Bharat Heavy Electricals (BHEL) and Braithwaite & Co have agreed to invest to set up production units to produce containers," said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-curb-dependency-on-china-india-to-promote-domestic-container-production-958605.html
05-03-2021||National||Nearly 14 lakh inoculated against Covid-19 on Thursday, highest in a day so far, says official||Nearly 14 lakh people were inoculated against Covid-19 on March 4, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.8 crore, official sources said on Friday. Among the healthcare workers, 68,53,083 have been administered the first dose and 31,41,371 the second dose till now. As for frontline workers, 60,90,931 have received the first and 67,297 the second dose, according to Union Health Ministry data. From March 1, as many as 2,35,901 beneficiaries more than 45 years old with specific comorbidities and 16,16,920 people aged more than 60 years have received anti-coronavirus vaccine dose, it stated. On Thursday, day 48 of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, 13,88,170 people were inoculated. This was the highest number of vaccination recorded in a day so far, an official said. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 1.8 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. It added that on Thursday, 10,56,808 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 16,081 sessions for the first dose and 3,31,362 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose of the vaccine. These 10,56,808 beneficiaries include 6,15,903 people aged over 60 and 92,109 individuals aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities, according to the data shared by the ministry. So far, 16,09,343 people have been vaccihnated in Rajasthan, followed by 15,92,712 in Uttar Pradesh, 14,71,450 in Maharashtra, 14,21,761 in Gujarat and 13,76,553 in West Bengal. According to the health ministry data, six sates -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi -- have reported high daily new cases in a span of 24 hours. It underlined that 84.44 per cent of the 16,838 new cases reported in the country in a day are from these six states. Maharashtra continued to report the highest daily new cases at 8,998, followed by Kerala with 2,616 and Punjab 1,071 fresh instances of the viral infection. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry highlighted. India's total active caseload stands at 1.76 lakh which comprise 1.58 per cent of India total infections. While Kerala, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal have shown a reduction in active cases in a span of 24 hours, Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Delhi and Gujarat display an upward trajectory during the same time period, the health ministry said. It said Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu were the top five states showing a decline in active cases in the last one month, while Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi were the top five with an uptick in active cases. Twenty states and Union Territories have less than 1,000 active cases with Arunachal Pradesh reporting just two active cases. The Cumulative Positivity Rate of the country showed a steady decline and stood at 5.08 per cent. Eight states displayed a weekly positivity rate higher than the national average of 2.09 per cent. Among them, Maharashtra stands out with a weekly positivity rate of 10.38 per cent. The ministry said that Six states accounted for 88.5 per cent of the 113 deaths reported in a day. Maharashtra saw the most 60 fatalities followed by Punjab where 15 people succumbed to the disease in a day. Kerala reported 14 deaths during the same period. Eighteen states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid-19 death in a day. These are the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tripura and Uttarakhand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-14-lakh-inoculated-against-covid-19-on-thursday-highest-in-a-day-so-far-says-official-958612.html
05-03-2021||National||As demand for syringes increases, this Indian company jumps in to make 5,900 per minute||In late November, an urgent email popped up in the inbox of Hindustan Syringes & Medical Devices, one of the world’s largest syringe makers. It was from UNICEF, the United Nations agency for children, and it was desperately seeking syringes. Not just any would do. These syringes must be smaller than usual. They had to break if used a second time, to prevent spreading disease through accidental recycling. Most important, UNICEF needed them in vast quantities. Now. “I thought, ‘No issues,’” said Rajiv Nath, the company’s managing director, who has sunk millions of dollars into preparing his syringe factories for the vaccination onslaught. “We could deliver it possibly faster than anybody else.” As countries jostle to secure enough vaccine doses to put an end to the Covid-19 outbreak, a second scramble is unfolding for syringes. Vaccines aren’t all that useful if health care professionals lack a way to inject them into people. Officials in the United States and the European Union have said they don’t have enough vaccine syringes. In January, Brazil restricted exports of syringes and needles when its vaccination effort fell short. Further complicating the rush, the syringes have to be the right type. Japan revealed last month that it might have to discard millions of doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine if it couldn’t secure enough special syringes that could draw out a sixth dose from its vials. In January, the Food and Drug Administration advised health care providers in the United States that they could extract more doses from the Pfizer vials after hospitals there discovered that some contained enough for a sixth — or even a seventh — person. “A lot of countries were caught flat-footed,” said Ingrid Katz, the associate director of the Harvard Global Health Institute. “It seems like a fundamental irony that countries around the world have not been fully prepared to get these types of syringes.” The world needs between 8 billion and 10 billion syringes for Covid-19 vaccinations alone, experts say. In previous years, only 5% to 10% of the estimated 16 billion syringes used worldwide were meant for vaccination and immunization, said Prashant Yadav, a senior fellow at the Center for Global Development, a think tank in Washington, and an expert on health care supply chains. Wealthier nations like the United States, Britain, France and Germany pumped billions of dollars of taxpayer money into developing the vaccines, but little public investment has gone to expand manufacturing for syringes, Yadav said. “I worry not just about the overall syringe manufacturing capacity but capacity for the specific types of syringes,” he said, “and whether syringes would already be in locations where they are needed.” Not all of the world’s syringes are suited to the task. To maximize the output from a vial of the Pfizer vaccine, for example, a syringe must carry an exact dose of 0.3 milliliters. The syringes also must have low dead space — the infinitesimal distance between the plunger and the needle after the dose is fully injected — to minimize waste. The industry has ramped up to meet demand. Becton Dickinson, which is based in New Jersey and a major syringe manufacturer, said it will spend $1.2 billion over four years to expand capacity in part to deal with pandemics. The United States is the world’s largest syringe supplier by sales, according to Fitch Solutions, a research firm. The United States and China are neck and neck in exports, with combined annual shipments worth $1.7 billion. While India is a small player globally, with only $32 million in exports in 2019, Nath of Hindustan Syringes sees a big opportunity. Each of his syringes sells for only three cents, but his total investment is considerable. He invested nearly $15 million to mass-produce specialty syringes, equal to roughly one-sixth of his annual sales, before purchase orders were even in sight. In May, he ordered new molds from suppliers in Italy, Germany and Japan to make a variety of barrels and plungers for his syringes. Nath added 500 workers to his production lines, which crank out more than 5,900 syringes per minute at factories spread over 11 acres in a dusty industrial district outside New Delhi. With Sundays and public holidays off, the company churns out nearly 2.5 billion a year, though it plans to scale up to 3 billion by July. Hindustan Syringes has a long history of supplying UNICEF immunization programs in some of the poorest countries, where syringe reuse is common and one of the main sources of deadly infections, including HIV and hepatitis. In late December, when the World Health Organization cleared Pfizer’s vaccine for emergency use, Robert Matthews, a UNICEF contract manager in Copenhagen, and his team needed to find a manufacturer that could produce millions of syringes. “We went, ‘Oh, dear!’” said Matthews, as they looked for a syringe that would meet WHO specifications and was compact for shipping. Hindustan Syringes’ product, he said, was the first. The company is set to begin shipping 3.2 million of those syringes soon, UNICEF said, provided they clear another quality check. Nath has sold 15 million syringes to the Japanese government, he said, and over 400 million to India for its Covid-19 inoculation drive, one of the largest in the world. More are in line, including UNICEF, for which he has offered to produce about 240 million more, and Brazil, he said. Inside the company’s Plant No. 6, machines coated in yellow paint hum as they squirt out plastic barrels and plungers. Other machines, from Bergamo, Italy, assemble each component, including needles, monitored by sensors and cameras. Workers in blue protective suits inspect trays full of syringes before unloading them into crates that they hand carry to a packaging area next door. To increase efficiency, Nath relies on a syringe design by Marc Koska, a British inventor of safety injections, and its ability to produce all of the components in-house. Hindustan Syringes makes its needles from stainless steel strips imported from Japan. The strips are curled into cylinders and welded at the seam, then stretched and cut into fine capillary tubes, which machines glue to plastic hubs. To make the jabs less painful, they are dipped in a silicone solution. The syringe business is a “bloodsucker,” Nath said, where upfront costs are astronomical and profits marginal. If demand for his syringes drops by even half in the next few years, he will lose almost all of the $15 million he invested. It’s clearly a frugal operation. The blue carpet in Nath’s office looks just as old as his desk or the glass chandelier by the stairs, fixtures his father put in place in 1984, before he handed over the company to Nath and his family. A family business is exactly how he likes it. No shareholders, no interference, no worries. In 1995, when Nath needed money to increase production and buy lots of new machines, he sought private capital for the first time. Had that been the case today, he said, he wouldn’t be able to follow his gut and produce his syringes at this enormous scale. “You have a good night’s sleep,” Nath said. “It’s better to be a big fish in a small pond.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-demand-for-syringes-increases-this-indian-company-jumps-in-to-make-5900-per-minute-958627.html
05-03-2021||National||81-year-old mother moves SC for return of Captain son from Pakistani jail ||About 24 years after Captain Sanjit Bhattarjee of Gorkha Rifles went missing from the Rann of Kutch in Rajasthan, bordering Pakistan, his 81-year-old mother, Kamla Bhattacharjee has approached the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps for the release of his son.  A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notice to the Centre on her plea and asked her counsel to collect information about other such cases. The last 23 years have been traumatic for Kamla Bhattacharjee. She has been fighting an endless battle to meet her son, an Indian Army officer, who she believed was languishing in a Kot Lakhpat Central Jail in Lahore in Pakistan. The grieving mother said she is fighting a lonely fight, after she lost her husband in November last year. According to the plea, Sanjit was on patrol duty from April 14-19, 1997, along with other members at night on a joint border along the Rann of Kutch, Gujarat and Pakistan. However, on the next day, 20 April, 1997, only 15 of platoon members returned without the petitioner’s son and another platoon member, Lance Naik Ram Bahadur Thapa.  Both the petitioner's son and the other person were said to have gone missing in suspicious circumstances. The petitioner-mother claimed to have got a copy of a radio intercept confirming that her was captured by Pakistan Rangers and thereafter he was handed over to the Pakistan Army. In 2004, the petitioner’s family received a letter from the Ministry of Defence saying her son was presumed to be dead.  However, on one fine day, the petitioner received a vital piece of information stating that her son was held in captivity in Kot Lakhpat Jail also known as Central Jail Lahore, Pakistan. The petitioner immediately requested the Ministry of Defence to extract further information. However, they received a response that no fresh developments were recorded in the matter.   “The respondent appears to have disowned the bravehearts in exile or missing and has demonstrated a high degree of negligence in conducting a result-oriented search. Such act is also prohibited under the Article nine of the United Nations Declaration," the plea filed through advocate Saurabh Mishra stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/81-year-old-mother-moves-sc-for-return-of-captain-son-from-pakistani-jail-958632.html
05-03-2021||National||Govt forms 259-member panel headed by PM to commemorate 75 years of India's independence||The government on Friday set up a 259-member high-level national committee headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commemorate 75 years of India's independence. The members of the panel include former president Pratibha Patil, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, 28 chief ministers, artistes like Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, senior BJP leader L K Advani, almost all Union ministers and several governors. Opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati are also part of the committee. Noted present and former sportspersons like Sunil Gavaskar, Mary Kom, Abhinav Bindra, Pullela Gopichand, Mahendra Singh Dhoni, PT Usha and Prakash Padukone are part of the committee. It also has a long string of spiritual leaders in the list of members including Baba Ramdev, Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, Maulana Wahiduddin Khan among others. Business leaders Ratan Tata, Azim Premji and Nandan Nilekani have found themselves on the list of members. Earlier, a National Implementation Committee under the chairmanship of Union Home Minister Amit Shah had been constituted for the 75 years Independence celebrations. A Committee of Secretaries has also been set up for this purpose. "The government has now constituted a national committee under the chairmanship of the Prime Minister of India with 259 members, for which a gazette notification has been issued today," an official statement said. The panel includes dignitaries and eminent citizens from all walks of life, it added. The committee will provide policy direction and guidelines for the formulation of programmes for the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence, at national and international levels, a statement from the Union Ministry of Culture said. The celebrations are proposed to be launched 75 weeks prior to August 15, 2022, on March 12, 2021, which is the 91st anniversary of the historic Salt Satyagraha led by Mahatma Gandhi. In order to discuss modalities relating to preparatory activities for the celebrations, the high-level committee will hold its first meeting on March 8, according to the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-forms-259-member-panel-headed-by-pm-to-commemorate-75-years-of-indias-independence-958638.html
05-03-2021||National||Muthoot Finance chairman MG George passes away||MG George Muthoot, the chairman of Muthoot Finance which is the largest gold loan NBFC in the country, passed away this evening in his New Delhi home after a fall, according to the family. The 71-year-old Muthoot was for long based in the National Capital, even though his diversified group that runs over 20 businesses from gold loans to securities, realty estate to infrastructure, hospitals to hospitality and education, is headquartered in Kochi making it one of the largest business houses in the state. The company had not issued any statement till the filing of the story and its spokesperson could not be reached for confirmation. Mathai George George Muthoot was born in November 1949 in Kozhencherry in the present day Pathanamthitta district of Kerala as the son of M George Muthoot, who began the finance business and as the grandson of Muthoot Ninan Mathai, the group founder. After graduating from the Manipal Institute of Technology with a degree in mechanical engineering, Muthoot joined the family business as an office assistant and in 1979 he became the managing director and group chairman in February 1993. In the early 1980s, the large family broke up and the family empire was divided between the cousin brothers and this led to the creation of Muthoot Pappachen Group, another diversified group in the state which runs rival gold loan company Muthoot Fincorp. The Muthoot Group's flagship Muthoot Finance had a loan book of close to Rs 56,000 crore in the December 2020 quarter. The group has grown manifold under him - when he took over it had just 31 branches but has over 5,550 branches across the country and outside today and the group. Muthoot leaves behind wife Sara George and two sons. While eldest son George M George is the executive director of the group, the youngest son Alexander George is the director of the group. The second son, Paul Muthoot George, was murdered in 2009. He was also a lay trustee of the powerful Orthodox Church in the state and was also a member of the national executive committee of Ficci and headed the Ficci Kerala council. Forbes Asia listed him as the 44th richest Indian in 2020 with close to USD5 billion assets and the richest Keralite.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muthoot-finance-chairman-mg-george-passes-away-958655.html
05-03-2021||National||Cong, BJP MLAs trade barbs as Haryana Speaker rejects private member's bill on crop MSP||The opposition and treasury benches entered into a war of words in the Haryana Assembly on Friday after the Speaker refused to allow tabling of a private member's bill moved by a Congress MLA on the grounds that the amendments it sought were related to the Centre's new farm laws -- a matter which is sub-judice. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta rejected the Haryana Agricultural Produce Markets (Haryana Amendment) Bill 2021, which sought to amend the APMC Act to make procurement of crops by anyone below the government-fixed minimum support price (MSP) a punishable offence. Congress MLA B B Batra moved the Bill, which also sought legal guarantee of MSP -- a demand made by farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. As the Speaker refused to allow tabling of the bill, Batra asked "under which law is it written that if the matter was sub-judice, it cannot be taken up in the state assembly." He added that the APMC Act was a state law. The Speaker said the bill has been rejected as the amendments being sought were in violation of the farm laws enacted by Parliament. Also, the fact is that the matter is still sub-judice with the the Supreme Court staying the implementation of the farm laws till further orders, he told the House. The statement of objects and reasons attached with the proposed bill explicitly imply that the intent of the legislation is to amend the central acts through an amendment to a state act on a matter which is sub-judice, the Speaker said. The issues led to a war of words between members of the opposition Congress and the ruling BJP. Congress leader and former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said, "We only want to make crop procurement a punishable offence. This bill is not against the Centre's Acts." Countering Hooda, Chief Minister M L Khattar said that the aims and objects of the bill clearly mention about the central legislations. Hooda said that the aims and objects were mentioned because central farm laws will have impact in the state. Khattar also told Hooda that the "private member's bill" wanted removal of Section 42 from the APMC Act, which was introduced by the erstwhile Congress government in 2008. BJP MLA Abhe Singh Yadav said when Parliament enacts a law, no state assembly has powers to counter it. "Even if Parliament enacts a law on state subject, the state has no power to change that Act," Yadav said. Congress MLA Jagbir Malik told the Speaker, "You have rejected it without valid ground, you must review it." As the Congress members including Hooda, Kiran Choudhary and B B Batra stood up and protested, the Speaker said the decision to reject the bill could be reconsidered if the Congress modified its aims and objects. Later talking to reporters, Hooda said, "The Speaker has rejected the bill citing that the matter is sub-judice whereas there is no bar on admitting it." He said the APMC Act is a state subject and the assembly has full right to amend it. "Despite this, the bill was rejected. The intention of the government is clear before everyone. It is clear from this that the government is holding back from giving MSP to farmers," the former chief minister said. Thousands of farmers from different parts of the country, mainly Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting against the Centre's farm laws at the three Delhi border points at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cong-bjp-mlas-trade-barbs-as-haryana-speaker-rejects-private-members-bill-on-crop-msp-958658.html
05-03-2021||National||Less than half of India's procured Covid-19 vaccine doses spent so far||India has so far used less than half of the Covid-19 vaccines it procured, necessitating an acceleration in the vaccination programme. Though more than one million doses were administered for two consecutive days, in total just under 20 million vaccines have been used as against the procurement of 41 million doses. Last month, the Union Health Ministry informed the Lok Sabha that an order of 41 million doses was placed for the two vaccines – Covishield and Covaxin – for the first two groups of healthcare workers and front line workers. With vaccine hesitancy limiting only about 50% use from these two groups, the same stock is now being used to inoculate the two groups from the general population – the senior citizens and people in the age bracket of 45-59 with comorbidities. The 41 million doses include the 10 million dose that came from the UN's Covax facility with funding support from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance – an international support agency. Experts are unanimous in their opinion that the scale of operation has to be increased if the original target of vaccinating 300 million Indians by August is to be met. “Meeting the original target of 300 million beneficiaries by August means daily average doses should reach 4 to 5 million as against the 4 lakh doses per day average we have been seeing for more than a month. What is required is a 10-fold increase in daily doses from its current levels,” Rijo John, a public health specialist and a former consultant to the WHO told DH. Till Friday late evening, more than 19 million people received the vaccine including more than 2.1 million 60 plus population and 3,13,000 people of 45-59 years. In addition nearly 6.9 million health care workers and 6.2 million front line staff received one dose while 3.2 million healthcare workers and more than 1,23,000 frontline staff got both the doses. “Maintaining morale of the vaccinators over the next several months as well as the fact that India is slipping into its summer will present some special challenges. The target of 300 million vaccinated by August is achievable, but we will have to ramp up the current numbers of daily vaccinations by at least a factor of 5 to 10,” noted Gautam Menon, a professor at Ashoka University, who is keeping track of the pandemic from the beginning. Meanwhile, nearly 17,000 fresh cases were reported once again on Friday, of which 84% was concentrated in six states. Also 113 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-half-of-indias-procured-covid-19-vaccine-doses-spent-so-far-958659.html
05-03-2021||National||Air bags made mandatory for front seat car passengers||From April 1, it is mandatory for all new car models to have airbags for front-seat passengers, and all existing models should be fitted with airbags from August 31 this year, the government said on Friday in a bid to boost passengers' safety.  The Union Ministry of Road Transport said this is a mandatory provision irrespective of the cars' class. This safety feature is based on suggestions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said in a statement. At present, the driver seat has an airbag, but the seat next to it doesn't.  "Only one airbag for the driver is not sufficient as it leaves the co-passenger in the front seat vulnerable to serious injury, or even death in the event of an accident," said an official in the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-bags-made-mandatory-for-front-seat-car-passengers-958662.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Congress dubs BJP 'Burden the Janta, Party', slams Modi govt over rising prices||The Congress on Friday launched a 'Speak Up Against Price Rise' online campaign with former party chief Rahul Gandhi accusing the central government of pushing people in the swamp of price rise just to earn taxes. The Congress, from its official Twitter handle, urged people to participate in the online campaign by speaking out against price rise. BJP = Burden the Janta, Party; the sooner we speak up against their loot, the better for the nation. "BJP = Burden the Janta, Party; the sooner we speak up against their loot, the better for the nation. Come, join our movement. Come, #SpeakUpAgainstPriceRise," the party said. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Price rise is a curse. The central government is pushing people in the swamp of price rise just to earn taxes."  महँगाई एक अभिशाप है। केंद्र सरकार सिर्फ़ टैक्स कमाने के लिए जनता को महँगाई के दलदल में ढकेलती जा रही है। "Raise your voice against the destruction of the country," he said, using the hashtag 'SpeakUpAgainstPriceRise'. He also attached a video on rising prices of essential commodities such as petroleum, diesel and cooking gas. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor also posted a video, speaking out against price rise, and said every single step that the Modi government has taken has been to empty the pockets of the common citizen to fill its coffers. "India will not tolerate this anymore. India will rise up, India will #SpeakUpAgainstPriceRise," he said. The Congress has been attacking the government over the rise in fuel and gas prices and has demanded that the prices be brought back to the level at which they existed at the time of the UPA government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dubs-bjp-burden-the-janta-party-slams-modi-govt-over-rising-prices-958349.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Book on Smriti Irani's victory in Amethi to be released in English||The English translation of journalist-author Anant Vijay's book Amethi Sangram: Aitihasik Jeet Ankahi Dastan will be released on March 15, announced publishing house Westland on Friday. The book, titled Dynasty to Democracy: The Untold Story of Smriti Irani's Triumph, traces Union Minister Irani's journey from her defeat in 2014 to her victory in the Congress stronghold of Amethi, Uttar Pradesh during the 2019 Lok Sabha election. The Hindi book was published in December 2020. The 44-year-old BJP leader had defeated the then Congress chief and MP Rahul Gandhi in his family bastion by a margin of 55,120 votes. It was the second time that Irani had contested against Rahul in Amethi. In 2014, Rahul got 4,08,651 votes against Irani's 30,0748 votes. "It was a feat that never occurred in the history of Congress party when a sitting President lost the parliamentary election. This happened in Amethi in 2019 when Smriti Irani defeated Rahul Gandhi. I was tracking the results of (the) Lok Sabha election and when this result came, a thought came into my mind to document the reasons of this one of the biggest political happening of Independent India. The result is 'Dynasty to Democracy',” said Vijay, who has authored 11 books -- including "Prasangvash", "Kolahal Kalah Mein", "Vidhaaon ka Vinyaas" and "Bollywood Selfie". Billed as 'karmabhoomi' of the Nehru–Gandhi family, it has been continually held by the Congress since its inception as a Lok Sabha constituency in 1967, except for half a dozen years in between. According to Westland, Vijay's book attempts to understand the reasons behind Irani's success in Amethi, shining a light on personality and political methods of the actor-turned-politician. "It examines how political parties function in a democracy like ours. The book can also be seen as a study of the RSS's working style, its strategies and exemplary execution that backed Smriti Irani's efforts from 2014 to 2019," read a statement issued by the publishers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/book-on-smriti-iranis-victory-in-amethi-to-be-released-in-english-958386.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||High Court asks Delhi government to comply with order to regulate online path labs or else face action||The high court, which was hearing a plea alleging non-compliance of its order in this regard, also sought to know from the AAP government whether its pathological laboratories and hospitals are NABL accredited. The plea alleged non-compliance of the high court’s August 6, 2020 order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in Delhi and to regulate online pathological labs. “There is something fundamentally wrong in the process. Are your own labs and hospitals NABL (National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) accredited? It is a very fundamental question,” Justice Najmi Waziri said. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and Urvi Mohan submitted that the government has issued a notification intimating all the labs that they have to follow the Supreme Court's order. The apex court had on April 8, 2020 directed that Covid-19 tests must be carried out in NABL-accredited labs or any agencies approved by the WHO or ICMR. The high court granted time to the Delhi government to take instructions on the issue and listed the matter for further hearing on March 12. “I expect you to put things in order or else we will probably have to issue contempt notice and shut all your establishments. Find some solutions and put things in order in the interregnum,” Justice Waziri orally observed. Advocate Shashank Deo Sudhi, representing petitioner Dr Rohit Jain, submitted that online pathological labs are not recognised, still they are conducting Covid-19 tests. They are not accredited labs and not even approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), he argued. The high court had earlier sought response of the Delhi government on the petition seeking initiation of contempt proceedings against the top government officials and others for alleged non-compliance of an order asking to take action and regulate online pathological labs. The petitioner has sought contempt action against Delhi Chief Secretary, Secretary, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Directors General of Health Service and ICMR for allegedly not complying with the high court’s last year order. Sudhi submitted that the online aggregators like 'healthian' and '1 mg' are illegally operating in Delhi. He claimed that these online aggregators are playing with the lives of the common people and must be banned. The plea claimed that the government has completely failed to comply with the order of the court by not taking appropriate legal actions against online health aggregators despite the direction. It alleged that authorities are equally responsible for restraining the illegal practices of online aggregators which are freely being carried out under the eyes of these officials in utter violations of the rules and regulations laid down by statutes and the guidelines issued by the respondents from time to time ever since the outbreak of deadly Covid-19. It said that several illegal online aggregators are advertising freely by offering attractive packages for body check-ups including the test for Covid-19 through SMSs or various online modes and added that the petitioner has received advertisements of online aggregators through e-mail for getting tested. The high court, on August 6, 2020 had directed the AAP government to take action in accordance with law against online health service aggregators, who are operating illegally without any registration, after hearing all the stakeholders. The direction had come while disposing of a PIL seeking a ban on allegedly illegal online health service aggregators from collecting diagnostic samples for testing of Covid-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/high-court-asks-delhi-government-to-comply-with-order-to-regulate-online-path-labs-or-else-face-action-958453.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Farmers' protest internal issue of India: British envoy to New Delhi ahead of debate in UK parliament||Even as the United Kingdom’s parliament is likely to discuss the issue on March 8 next, the new British High Commissioner in New Delhi, Alex Ellis, on Friday said that the protest against the new agricultural laws was an “internal matter” of India. “This is something we (the UK) look at, but it is something for India to resolve,” said Ellis, who took over as London’s envoy to New Delhi last month. The protest by farmers in India is likely to be taken up in the UK parliament on March 8 as an e-petition asking the lawmakers to discuss it had crossed the 1,00,000-signature threshold required for such a debate. Ellis told journalists in New Delhi that what happened in India often created ripples in the UK, which was now home to a large Indian Diaspora. “I think the (UK) Foreign Secretary (Dominic Raab) said it when he was here. ‘Your politics is our politics’. In other words, things that happen in India have ripples in the UK partly because you have such a big diaspora community in the UK, so these things get debated,” the British High Commissioner to India said. “Our Prime Minister (Boris Johnson) was asked about it actually in the Prime Minister's Question Time (in Parliament).” “This is something that is done by Parliament, the Government has to participate, it has to answer, but it is the parliamentarians, as you expect, raising issues that are a concern to them in their constituencies,” he said, responding to a question on the impact such a discussion in the UK parliament on an “internal matter” of India could have on New Delhi’s ties with London. “Coming back to the point about your politics is our politics to an extent. My observation more generally is that as the Indian diaspora grows and is very successful in many countries of the world you are going to see more of this,” he said, adding: “I think that as India grows and becomes more international and ever more significant in the world, there will be more debate about Indian issues.” The agitating farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the entry points of the national capital since November 8, demanding the repeal of the three new agricultural laws introduced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government and a legal guarantee on Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops. Thirty-six members of the UK parliament in early December wrote to British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and asked him to take up with the Modi Government the issue of protest by the farmers in India. The UK MPs, who signed the letter, are mostly from the Labour Party but included some from the Conservative Party and the Scottish National Party. The move was coordinated by Tanmanjit Singh Dhesi, a Sikh representing Slough in Berkshire at the UK House of Commons. They wrote to the British Foreign Secretary that the new laws introduced by the Modi Government had triggered widespread protests across India as the new legislations failed to ensure protection of the farmers from exploitation and fair prices for their produce. Dhesi and Preet Kaur Gill, another Sikh member of the UK House of Commons, earlier took to Twitter, criticizing police actions on the agitating farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-protest-internal-issue-of-india-british-envoy-to-new-delhi-ahead-of-debate-in-uk-parliament-958504.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Government looking to sell profit-making PSUs; it must strengthen, not sell them: Congress||The Congress on Friday alleged that the Centre is looking to sell profit-making public sector undertakings and said the government should not only do a re-think on embarking on a "distress privatisation drive" but should also strengthen PSUs. Senior Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said he was unable to understand the economic model of the government alleging that on the one hand, it was increasing taxes on commodities such as petrol, diesel and cooking gas while on the other hand, it was looking to sell assets built by public money. Crude oil prices are less than half of what they were during the UPA time, but domestic prices are sky-high, he said. "Even actors were speaking out at the time, but now they are also silent," he said at a press conference here. "The government is visible on the ground as a result of these public sector undertakings. The government will be limited to North Block and South Block if you privatise everything," he said. Shukla said the government should not only reconsider selling profitable PSUs, but they should be strengthened and there management be empowered. Congress spokesperson Gaurav Vallabh said the government's mantra is "Hum Do, Humare Do, Jo Bhi Mile Bech Do". "This is distress privatisation drive that the government is undertaking... the government should not be in the business of selling what was created by the previous government," he said. Vallabh alleged that the government was weakening PSUs to "sell them" and said the Life Insurance Corporation was an example of this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-looking-to-sell-profit-making-psus-it-must-strengthen-not-sell-them-congress-958533.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Supreme Court to hear on March 8 plea of minor girl seeking permission to terminate pregnancy||The Supreme Court Friday said it would hear on March 8 the plea filed by a 14-year-old rape victim, who has sought permission to terminate her 26-week pregnancy, saying “time is of the essence” in the case. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde allowed the counsel appearing for Haryana to file the medical report of the girl in a sealed cover. Section 3 of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act 1971 prohibits termination of pregnancy after 20 weeks. The top court had on March 2 sought report from the medical board of civil hospital Karnal about the feasibility of her request for termination of pregnancy. “Time is of the essence in the matter so we are listing it on coming Monday (March 8),” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. “In the meantime, as prayed for, counsel appearing on behalf of respondent-state is allowed to file the medical report of the petitioner in a sealed cover,” the bench said in its order. The bench was hearing a plea filed by the minor girl who has said that she was pregnant after being raped by one of her relatives. The top court had earlier issued notices to the Centre and Haryana government seeking their responses by March 5 on the plea, filed through advocate V K Biju.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/supreme-court-to-hear-on-march-8-plea-of-minor-girl-seeking-permission-to-terminate-pregnancy-958555.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||NIA court sentences ISIS terrorist to 7 years of rigorous imprisonment||A special NIA court here on Friday sentenced an ISIS terrorist to seven years of rigorous imprisonment for conspiring to establish the proscribed organisation's base in India by radicalising and recruiting youths through social media platforms. Imran Khan Pathan was convicted by the NIA Special Court, Patiala House. He has been awarded the sentence in a case registered by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in December 2015 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and the Indian Penal Code. The case pertains to a "larger criminal conspiracy hatched by the ISIS to establish its base in India by radicalising and recruiting Muslim youths through different social media platforms", an NIA official said. As a result, radicalised youths expressed their solidarity, allegiance and support to the ISIS and left India to join the terrorist organisation, the official said. The NIA had filed a charge-sheet and then supplementary charge-sheets against 17 accused, including Pathan. Earlier, the court had convicted and sentenced 16 of the 17 accused to up to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for a conspiracy hatched by ISIS handlers based in Syria and subsequent formation of a group Junood-ul-Khilafa-fil-Hind which owed its allegiance to the ISIS. Pathan was in direct touch with ISIS handler Yusuf-Al-Hindi. He had also received funds to the tune of Rs 50,000 from one of Yusuf's associates Mudabbir Mushtaq Sheikh, who was convicted for making an improvised explosive device and to further the activities of the ISIS in India, the official said. With this judgment, all 17 charge-sheeted accused involved in the case stand convicted by the special court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nia-court-sentences-isis-terrorist-to-7-years-of-rigorous-imprisonment-958577.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Ensuring victory of Cong in assembly polls priority: Ghulam Nabi Azad||Senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad on Friday said that ensuring victory of the party in the forthcoming assembly elections is a priority and he along with his colleagues will work towards it. Polls in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, and Union Territory Puducherry will begin from March 27. Azad, who is a prominent member of the group of 23 leaders who had demanded organisational overhaul in the Congress, said that for the next two months the party is the top priority. "We will campaign where ever the party sends us for campaigning or candidates invite us to campaign for them in the upcoming assembly elections in five states," he said during an interaction with reporters. "Ensuring the victory of the Congress in the upcoming assembly elections is our top priority. Everything else will be secondary. I and my colleagues will campaign in all upcoming state polls," Azad said, adding that "we will try our best that the Congress wins in these elections". Members of the group of 23 leaders, who had demanded an overhaul in the Congress, had recently said at an event in Jammu that the party has weakened. Asked whether the members of the 'G-23' will campaign even if the party does not ask them, Azad said, the party always sends main campaigners for some candidates. He said he has seen the party functioning for many years and has always gone to campaign wherever needed. Members of the Congress will get requests from candidates for campaigning once the scrutiny of nomination papers is compete, Azad said. The 'G-23' group has triggered several rows through its comments ever since it wrote to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding organisational overhaul and elections for every post in the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ensuring-victory-of-cong-in-assembly-polls-priority-ghulam-nabi-azad-958604.html
05-03-2021||National Politics||Congress demands immediate reduction in fuel prices||Stepping up pressure, Congress on Friday demanded immediate reduction in prices of petrol and diesel and accused the Modi government of not using high taxes on fuel for welfare of the common man. “Price rise is a curse. The central government is pushing the people into the morass of price rise only to earn taxes,” former Congress President Rahul Gandhi said. In a video posted on Twitter, Gandhi accused the Modi government of collecting huge amounts of money on account taxes on fuel, dubbing it as “robbery”. महँगाई एक अभिशाप है। केंद्र सरकार सिर्फ़ टैक्स कमाने के लिए जनता को महँगाई के दलदल में ढकेलती जा रही है।   “This money that is collected as taxes does not help you in educating your children or providing you healthcare facilities. The government gives this money to select businessmen. You are at a loss,” the former Congress President said. He said the common man was the worst hit during the Covid-19 pandemic, but only two-three businessmen reaped benefits. Several Congress leaders such as Sachin Pilot, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Shashi Tharoor and scores of party workers took to Twitter as part of the social media campaign to raise voice against the rising prices.  Congress also accused the Centre of embarking on a “distress privatisation drive”, instead of strengthening public sector undertakings.  Senior Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said he was unable to understand the economic model of the government alleging that on the one hand, it was increasing taxes on commodities such as petrol, diesel and cooking gas while on the other hand, it was looking to sell assets built by public money. “Crude oil prices are less than half of what they were during the UPA time, but domestic prices are sky high,” said Shukla, a former union minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-demands-immediate-reduction-in-fuel-prices-958664.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Rape victim dies by suicide in UP's Sambhal; 3 held: Police||A 21-year-old woman, an alleged rape victim, has committed suicide by hanging herself using a "dupatta" in a village located within the Bahjoi police station limits of this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Friday. The incident occurred on Thursday, they said, adding that three people have been arrested. "A complaint from the girl's father said she was raped by a man against whom a case was registered at the Bahjoi police station on January 27. The accused, Ashish, was sent to jail on February 3," Superintendent of Police (SP) Chakresh Mishra said. The complainant alleged that the family members of the accused were pressuring her daughter to withdraw the case, due to which she was suffering from anxiety. A case has been registered against the father, mother and brother of the accused, and they have been arrested, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-victim-dies-by-suicide-in-ups-sambhal-3-held-police-958380.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Gold smuggling case: SC notice to Sivasankar on ED's plea against his bail||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to M Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Kerala Chief Minister, on a plea of Enforcement Directorate against the High Court’s decision to grant bail to him in connection with the gold smuggling case. A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan sought a response of Sivasankar and posted the matter for hearing after six weeks. The ED, for its part, sought a stay on the High Court's order. The bench, however, said there is no need to stay as he is already out. The ED, which probed the money laundering angle in the case, has approached the top court against High Court's order, claiming Sivasankar was an influential person and his release would hamper the investigation into the case.  Sivasankar was arrested on October 28, 2020, after Kerala High Court had rejected his anticipatory bail petition. The case relates to the smuggling of gold through diplomatic channels in Kerala. It had come to light after 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore smuggled in a consignment camouflaged as diplomatic baggage was busted by the Customs in Thiruvananthapuram on July 5, 2019. Besides the ED, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Customs Department are all investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gold-smuggling-case-sc-notice-to-sivasankar-on-eds-plea-against-his-bail-958391.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan Chief Minister Gehlot receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and the state's Health Minister Raghu Sharma were administered the first dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine at Sawai Man Singh hospital in Jaipur on Friday. Gehlot tweeted a short video of him getting the first dose. "Arrived at IDH Jaipur (SMS hospital) here and administered the first dose of covid vaccine," he said. He asked people not to worry about the vaccine and said it is safe. The chief minister asked beneficiaries to get the vaccine dose when it's their turn and motivate others to do the same. Health Minister Sharma said there are no side-effects of the vaccine. "There is no complication to anyone in the state. The vaccine is safe and no need to worry about the misinformation that is being spread about it," he told reporters. "We have stock till Tuesday and I will speak to the Union health minister today to request him to supply the required doses so that we can continue the vaccination campaign," he said. Sharma said it is important to follow all the COVID-19 protocols even after getting vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-chief-minister-gehlot-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-958392.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Taxi driver associations protest in Delhi against rising fuel prices||Taxi driver associations held a protest against soaring fuel prices at the Barakhamba Road area of the national capital on Friday. Kamaljit Gill, Sarvodaya Drivers Association president, said taxi drivers tied black ribbons on their faces and held a peaceful protest from 10 am to 11 am. "The permission was for 80 people. However, around 200 reached Barakhamba Road, parked their vehicles and joined the protest peacefully without saying anything. We will hold another protest across the nation on March 22 and 23," he said. Other than Sarvodaya Drivers Association, Expert Driver Solution, Rajdhani Parivahan and other similar outfits participated in the protest, Gill said. Carrying placards, the protesters demanded that app-based taxis should be brought under city taxi permit as per a 2017 order of the Supreme Court. "App-based taxi drivers charge Rs 6 per kilometre. They give 25 per cent to the company as commission, and as the prices of petrol are increasing day by day, it is becoming difficult for them," Gill said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/taxi-driver-associations-protest-in-delhi-against-rising-fuel-prices-958396.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Amazon Prime Video's India head to not be arrested in 'Tandav' case: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday granted protection from arrest to Amazon Prime's Aparna Purohit in a case related to hurting sentiments through web series Tandav, while finding the recently introduced rules for Over-the-Top (OTT) platforms as "toothless". A bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked her to cooperate in probe in the FIR lodged by the Uttar Pradesh police. Hearing her plea for anticipatory bail, the court observed that the guidelines framed by the Centre on February 25 for regulating the web series and OTT platforms like Amazon and Netflix had "no teeth, as there is no provision for the prosecution of those who do not abide by these rules". "These rules are only guidelines... (There is) no mechanism to control (the content on OTT platforms). Without legislation, there cannot be control on it," the bench said. The court was hearing the plea of Amazon Prime Video India Head Purohit against the Allahabad High Court order, which declined to entertain her anticipatory bail in connection with the FIRs lodged against her over web series Tandav. The court pointed out "uncontrolled and unscreened" viewing of films on OTT platforms is an issue. The bench stressed that a law should be framed to put in place a mechanism to control the content on these online platforms. "The rules are more of guidelines in nature with no effective measure of either screening or taking effective action against those who do not follow," said the top court. Solicitor General, appearing for the Centre, asked for two weeks' time in the matter. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi maintained that hundreds of movies were beamed on Netflix and Amazon Prime and there was no pornography. The court had on Thursday favoured for some "screening" of web series and OTT platforms, saying in some cases even pornography was being shown over there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amazon-prime-videos-india-head-to-not-be-arrested-in-tandav-case-supreme-court-958397.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Wife's obscene TikTok videos do not justify inflicting cruelty on her: SC||The Supreme Court on Friday declined a man's plea for an anticipatory bail in a case of cruelty with his wife, rejecting his claim that she had made 300 obscene TikTok videos. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told a counsel appearing for Rajasthan-based Nirmal Kumar that her client was a cruel man and he should not expect any relief from court.  While the petitioner’s counsel denied the cruelty charge, the bench said his wife has called him cruel in her complaint and the court was merely citing it.  The counsel then claimed that the wife has allegedly made “300 Tik-Tok videos” which were obscene in nature.  But this does not mean that the man should commit any kind of cruelty on his wife, the bench said, adding, "Even if she has done that, still you do not mistreat her like that."  As the petitioner’s counsel urged for relief, the Chief Justice replied, “You divorce her if you could not get along, there is no need for cruelty.”  The petitioner’s counsel then said the FIR registered against her client was one-sided. To this, the court replied that FIRs are always one-sided and there has never been a joint FIR filed by both sides.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wifes-obscene-tiktok-videos-do-not-justify-inflicting-cruelty-on-her-sc-958415.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Rape survivor set ablaze in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh: Police||A 33-year-old rape survivor was set afire in Rajasthan's Hanumangarh district, police said on Friday. The woman has been admitted to a hospital in Bikaner with serious burn injuries, Golupura Station House Officer (SHO) Omprakash said, adding that Pradeep Vishnoi, who was accused by the woman of raping her in 2018, has been detained for questioning. The incident occurred in the early hours of Thursday. The victim, who has a daughter, was living with her maternal grandmother following a dispute with her husband, the police said. A man entered their house premises in the early hours of Thursday, sprinkled kerosene on the floor, knocked on the door and called the woman by her name. As she opened the door, the man dropped a burning stick on the floor, resulting in serious injuries to her, the SHO said. He said the victim's maternal grandmother has accused Vishnoi of committing the crime and the latter has been detained for questioning. CCTV footage obtained from the area is also being examined, the SHO said. The rape case against Vishnoi was lodged in 2018 on the basis of a complaint from the woman and the trial in the case is going on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-survivor-set-ablaze-in-rajasthans-hanumangarh-police-958436.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Akali MLAs suspended for creating ruckus during Punjab CM Amarinder Singh's speech||Ten Akali Dal MLAs were suspended from the Punjab Assembly for the rest of its Budget session after they created a ruckus, shouting slogans and storming the well of the House. After Speaker Rana K P Singh announced their suspension, the MLA squatted on the floor. Marshals were them called to evict them. The House is scheduled to sit for three more days after the weekend break. The Budget will be presented on March 8 and the session ends on March 10. Altogether, the Shiromani Akal Dal (SAD) has 14 members in the Punjab Assembly. The ruckus erupted while Chief Minister Amarinder Singh was replying to the debate on the Governor’s address. SAD and Aam Aadmi Party MLAs rushed to the well of the House and shouted slogans against the Congress government as the CM spoke about his party’s victory in the recent civic polls. The MLAs chanted slogans over the state government’s “unfulfilled promises.” In turn, some ruling party legislators also raised slogans against the SAD and the AAP for coming together to interrupt the CM's speech. The Speaker then adjourned the House for 15 minutes. When the proceedings resumed, the CM spoke about the relief in the electricity tariff given by his government to the industry after Covid-19 pandemic. Akali legislator N K Sharma contested his claim, saying a “high” tariff was being charged from traders. SAD MLAs rose from their seats and rushed to the well of the House again over the power tariff issue, prompting the Speaker to issue a warning. “I will name you. Don’t force me to suspend you for three days of the session,” he said. “If you do not allow the House to run, it is my 'dharma' to run it,” he said, asking the Akalis, “What message do you want to give to the world?” SAD legislators then staged a walkout. They returned when Amarinder Singh was targeting SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and his wife and former Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal. The CM said the SAD chief had written a letter to him supporting the farm ordinances while Harsimrat Kaur Badal called them “pro-farmer” just 10 days before her resignation as Union minister. SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia asked where Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were when the farm bills were passed in Parliament, triggering a sharp reaction from the treasury benches. Akali Dal legislators then again headed to the well of the House, shouting slogans. The Speaker said the Akali legislators were “deliberately disrupting” the proceedings despite being issued a warning. He named the Akali MLAs and suspended them for the remaining part of the session. The House was adjourned for 15 minutes. But instead of leaving, SAD legislators squatted on the floor and continued to raise slogans. Marshals then evicted them. Akali MLA Pawan Kumar Tinu was pushed out when he tried to enter the House again. Later in a statement, the SAD accused the Speaker of suspending Akali MLAs at the behest of the chief minister. Bikram Singh Majithia said the CM and the Congress did not have the “courage" to listen to the truth and wanted a clear field to “peddle their lies”. “That is why those who opposed their lies and deceitful ways have been suspended from the assembly while those who are pliant listeners like the Aam Aadmi Party legislators are still in the assembly. Democracy has been murdered in the process,” he said. Earlier, the AAP also staged a walkout after attacking Amarinder Singh over the farmers’ issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akali-mlas-suspended-for-creating-ruckus-during-punjab-cm-amarinder-singhs-speech-958446.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||West Bengal polls: Mamata Banerjee releases TMC list for 291 assembly seats||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday confirmed her candidature from Nandigram seat as she released the list of Trinamool Congress candidates for the upcoming assembly polls for 291 seats with emphasis on youths, minority, women and backward communities. Three candidates of the Bimal Gurung faction of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM), an ally of the TMC, will be contesting from the remaining three seats in Darjeeling. Affirming her candidature from the high profile Nandigram seat, Banerjee will vacate her traditional Bhowanipore seat in Kolkata, as she threw a challenge to her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP in December. "I will contest from Nandigram as I stick to my words. From Bhowanipore constituency, Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay will be contesting in the upcoming Assembly elections," Banerjee said while releasing TMC candidate list for the state polls. "On March 9 we will release our manifesto. On March 10 I will file my nomination for Nandigram seat," she told reporters. In January this year, Banerjee had announced that she would contest elections from the Nandigram seat in Purba Medinipur district. When asked about Adhikari likely to be pitted against her from the Nandigram, she declined to comment on it. This will be for the first time that Banerjee will be in the poll fray from Nandigram constituency, represented by Suvendu Adhikari in 2016 and another TMC candidate in 2011. Though Suvendu Adhikari has time and again expressed his desire to take on his former boss directly in Nandigram, the saffron party leadership is yet to a take a decision on it. Banerjee and Adhikari were the prominent figures of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that ultimately catapulted the firebrand Trinamool Congress supremo to power in West Bengal in 2011 ending 34-year-old rule of the Left Front. "This time we have stressed on more youths and women candidates. Around 23-24 sitting MLAS have been dropped and there are names of about 50 women, 42 muslims, 79 SC and 17 ST candidates in the list," Banerjee said. Exuding confidence of returning to power for the third consecutive time, Banerjee termed it as the "easiest" election the TMC has ever faced. "This would be a smiley election for us. We would win it," she said when asked whether this will be the toughest election ever the party had faced since Trinamool Congress inception in 1998. "After we come to power we will create Vidhan Parishad (Legislative Council) to accomodate senior and experienced leaders. We could not accommodate everybody especially those above the age of 80 years," she said. Listing out names of candidates, Banerjee sought the blessings of the people of the state and urged them to have faith in her. "I seek the blessings of people. I appeal to Maa Maati Manush for your faith. Have faith in me, will protect the state and take it to new heights," she said, turning to the slogan that first brought her to power in 2011. State Finance Minister Amit Mitra won't be contesting elections due to poor health, the TMC supremo said. Purnendu Bose is another elderly minister missing from the TMC list of candidates and so is veteran legislator Jatu Lahiri from Sibpur. "We will support GJM in the hills and they will support us in the plains," she said. Banerjee also challenged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah to deploy as much central force as they want, but the TMC will still emerge victorious. She also thanked Hemant Soren of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Sharad Pawar of NCP for extending their support to TMC. "After RJD, SP and Shiv Sena, TMC has received support from JMM and NCP for Bengal assembly polls. We would like to thank all of them," she said. Though electorally not much relevant in Bengal, the prominent opposition parties- RJD, SP, Shiv Sena, JMM and NCP of Sharad Pawar have prefered TMC to Congress-Left parties and announced their support to Banerjee in the battle royale for Bengal. Actress Sayantika Banerjee, Koushani Mukherjee, film director Raj Chakraborty along with several other actors and actress have been given nominations. Cricketer Manoj Tiwari will contest from Shibpur constituency in Howrah district. Prominent ministers-Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee have been retained from their traditional seats. Banerjee released her party candidate list from the same lucky room in her Kalighat residence from where she had done so in 2011 and 2016 assembly elections. In the 2019 general election she had announced candidates names from a different place within her residential premises which proved unlucky for her. The BJP had won 18 Lok Sabha seats in last Parliamentary poll out of total 42 constituencies in Bengal, only four less than TMC's tally of 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-bengal-polls-mamata-banerjee-releases-tmc-list-for-291-assembly-seats-958456.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Two more soldiers held in alleged data breach in Northern Command||The Army has widened its probe into an alleged case of a data breach in the Northern Command, with the role of two more soldiers being investigated after an Army man was found leaking sensitive information to Pakistani operatives last month. Sources told DH that the role of two other soldiers hailing from different battalions and posted elsewhere is being probed after their involvement surfaced during the Court of Inquiry (CoI) involving one soldier from the Northern Command. The General Officer Commanding of Nagrota-based 16-Corps is the presiding officer of the CoI along with two Major Generals as members. “The two soldiers were reportedly in the drug trade as users or sellers, which is being probed. Though posted at different places, all three soldiers were stated to be in touch with each other,” sources said, adding that all three now have been arrested for questioning. “It was through the drug route that Pakistani intelligence operatives allegedly enticed the Army jawans into gathering intelligence,” sources said while declining to name the soldiers caught for data breach and drug racket. The data breach took place when the soldier from Punjab and posted under Udhampur-based Northern Command was caught by officials dealing with the alleged issue. After the incident came to light, a CoI was ordered to probe how the soldier could get access to the data and the extent to which it was leaked to the operatives of Pakistani agencies. The data breach had reportedly taken place when the Indian Army was engaged in a military stand-off with the People's Liberation Army of China in the Ladakh region. The Udhampur-based Northern Command is in charge of security on both China and Pakistan borders in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-more-soldiers-held-in-alleged-data-breach-in-northern-command-958461.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Release more water in Yamuna, priests appeal to PM Modi ahead of Kumbh||The All India Teerth Purohit Mahasabha on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi for increasing the Yamuna's water flow, an apparent reference to the use of two canals linking it with the Ganges, to make it fit for bathing before the auspicious 'Shahi Snan' on March 9. While the arrangements made for the Vrindavan Kumbh by the government of Uttar Pradesh are commendable, the polluted Yamuna water mars the efforts, the outfit's president, Mahesh Pathak, said here, adding that three 'Ani Akhadas' (Hindu religious groups) have warned of a boycott if the river water is not clean. Upset over the pollution in the Yamuna at the Devarha Ghat on the first 'Shahi Snan' (auspicious bath) at the Vrindavan Kumbh, the Nirvani Ani Akhada, Digambar Ani Akhada and the Nirmohi Ani Akhara had on February 27 declared that they would boycott taking a dip in the next one if the water is not clean. The second and the third "Shahi Snan" are slated for March 9 and 13, Pathak said. "Please instruct the department concerned to discharge sufficient water into the Yamuna so that feelings of seers and common people are not hurt while bathing at the Devarha Ghat in Vrindavan Kumbh," he said. Another member of the organisation requested the Union government to find a permanent solution to the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/release-more-water-in-yamuna-priests-appeal-to-pm-modi-ahead-of-kumbh-958483.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Kashmir’s copper craftsmen hope for better times after lockdown ends||The end of lockdown brought some relief for Kashmir's traditional copper utensil makers, renowned for their immaculate craftsmanship, but their industry is under threat and their earnings low. Copperware, locally known as Traam, is deep-rooted in Kashmiri culture and is famous for intricate calligraphic engraving that requires extensive time and labour. Feeling the ever-increasing competition from modern gadgets and home appliances, artisans and sellers were dealt a severe jolt last year by a months-long lockdown imposed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The lockdown troubled us; we didn't get to do any work. There is a slowdown in the market," said a shopkeeper, Mushtaq Ahmed, in downtown Srinagar. Artisans, mainly based in the old quarters of Indian-administered Kashmir's summer capital Srinagar, engrave the traditional samovar used for boiling water, cutlery sets and other utensils considered a part of every Kashmiri family's heirlooms. However, their numbers are dwindling as they turn to other ventures to make ends meet. Artisan Gurmohammad Sheikh said copper had become very expensive while their profits had remained the same. "We have been labouring for the past 40 years but there has been barely any change in our compensation, it's almost the same as we used to get about 20 years back," he said. The Muslim-majority Himalayan region is claimed in full by nuclear arch-rivals India and Pakistan, though each rule only a small part.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmir-s-copper-craftsmen-hope-for-better-times-after-lockdown-ends-958503.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM gets first jab of anti-Covid vaccine in state, urges those eligible to get inoculated||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday took his first dose of an anti-coronavirus vaccine at the civil hospital here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated. "I got my first shot of #Covid 19 vaccine today. I urge all above 60 years of age or above 45 years with co-morbidities to get the vaccination dose as soon as possible. We all need to come together to defeat #Covid 19 and I'm sure we will.#MissionFateh," the chief minister tweeted. Singh was administered the vaccine by auxiliary nurse and midwife Manpreet at the hospital. His media advisor Raveen Thukral in a tweet said, "Punjab CM got his first jab of #CovidVaccine at civil hospital Mohali." The chief minister after being vaccinated said "it was painless and I am feeling fine", according to Thukral's tweet. The advisor also posted a short video in which Manpreet is seen administering the vaccine to the chief minister.   Cabinet ministers Balbir Singh Sidhu, O P Soni and Rana Sodhi and the chief minister's personal doctor, Vijay Kumar Harjai, were among those present during the vaccination. The central government had last week announced that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-gets-first-jab-of-anti-covid-vaccine-in-state-urges-those-eligible-to-get-inoculated-958525.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||5 Cong MLAs' suspension from Himachal Assembly revoked||The suspension of five Congress legislators from the Himachal Pradesh Assembly was revoked unanimously on Friday, Speaker Vipin Parmar said. Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri and MLAs Harsh Vardhan Chauhan, Satpal Raizada, Sunder Singh and Vinay Kumar were suspended from the Assembly on February 26 for allegedly manhandling Governor Bandaru Dattatreya. A resolution moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Suresh Bhardwaj for the revocation of their suspension was passed unanimously in the House. The suspension of the five lawmakers was revoked just a day before the presentation of the state budget for 2021-22 on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/5-cong-mlas-suspension-from-himachal-assembly-revoked-958530.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||IndiGo passenger reveals he is Covid-19 positive minutes before take-off: Report||IndiGo flight 6E-286 flying from Pune to Delhi on Thursday had to make an emergency U-turn before it even took off. Why? Just before it was about to take off, a passenger on the flight declared that he had tested positive for Covid-19. The passengers around the infected person were escorted to a containment area while the flight was disinfected and seat covers were changed. After the safety precautions, the remaining passengers were provided with PPE kits before the plane took off again, the report said. DH could not independently verify this report. Domestic passenger services resumed on May 25 after nearly two months of suspension to combat the coronavirus outbreak. Along with the limits on airfares, the government had asked the airlines to operate no more than 33 per cent of their pre-Covid domestic flights. On June 26, the cap was increased to 45 per cent and was gradually raised to 80 per cent. The ministry said on Thursday that the 80 per cent limit would remain in place till March-end. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indigo-passenger-reveals-he-is-covid-19-positive-minutes-before-take-off-report-958537.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Assembly dedicates March 15 Question Hour to first-time MLAs||In a novel initiative in the Madhya Pradesh Assembly to "raise the confidence" of first- time MLAs, all starred questions on which discussion will take place during the Question Hour on March 15 would be from them, Speaker Girish Gautam said on Friday. Gautam told reporters the move would also allow these new legislators to learn about the proceedings of the House. "Senior MLAs won't be allowed to ask counter-questions either during this period. It will raise the self-confidence of the new MLAs and, in the process, they will also learn about House proceedings," he said. He said, during Question Hour, around 25 queries are listed for discussion, of which some 10 are asked in the House, and new legislators often don't get the opportunity to take part as senior MLAs, some with good oratory skills, tend to take a lot of time, Gautam said. Some 150-200 questions are received everyday from MLAs, and a lottery system is deployed to choose 25 that would be discussed in the House during Question Hour, and it was seen that new legislators were not getting enough chances, the speaker explained. "Therefore, we decided that one day will be dedicated to the first-time MLAs and all 25 questions will be taken up from them for discussion in the House. Queries of senior MLAs will be kept aside on this day and the lottery system will choose 25 from the list submitted by first-timers," he said. He said it is intended the move becomes a permanent fixture from the next session. Replying to a query on the possible live telecast of the MP Assembly proceedings, Gautam said work on this front was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-assembly-dedicates-march-15-question-hour-to-first-time-mlas-958541.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||IED blast in Kashmir's Pulwama||Suspected militants triggered off a low intensity improvised explosive device (IED) in south Kashmir's Pulwama district on Friday. A police official said the small-sized IED was placed near a shop. However, there was no loss of life or injury in the incident, he added.  The area, he said, has been cordoned off to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ied-blast-in-kashmirs-pulwama-958547.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Decomposed bodies of woman, male friend found in Delhi||Decomposed bodies of a 23-year-old woman and her male friend were found at her residence in west Delhi's Tilak Nagar area, police said on Friday. The woman, identified as Priyanka Bisht, a resident of Nainital in Uttarakhand, was doing a consultancy job in Gurgoan while her friend, Pawan Paliwal (29), is a resident of Meerut but lived here in Uttam Nagar. He was a gym trainer and was also into modelling, they said. Police do not suspect any foul play and said they did not find any suicide note from the spot. However, the exact cause of their deaths will be ascertained through a post-mortem report, which is still awaited. Police were informed about the incident on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday. The woman lived here at a rented house in old Mahabir Nagar and her friend had come to her place two days ago, police said. After being informed about foul smell emanating from the house, a police team reached the spot and found the door of the house bolted from inside, following which they broke open the door, a senior police officer said. "Decomposed bodies of a man and a woman were found lying on the floor. No external injuries were seen on the body. An almost empty liquor bottle and some supplements and rappers of tablets found lying at the spot were seized," he said. The families of both the deceased have been informed and when enquired, they told police that the two were friends, the officer added. A post-mortem has been conducted and the viscera is preserved for further proceedings, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decomposed-bodies-of-woman-male-friend-found-in-delhi-958571.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Six found infected with UK Covid-19 variant in Indore||Six persons have been found infected with the UK variant of coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district, a senior official said on Friday. The infected patients, all of them males aged between 19 and 49 years, have no history of foreign travel, the official said. In light of this, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan directed officials to further intensify efforts to check the spread of the virus, he said. "We had sent nearly 100 samples for genome sequencing to Delhi-based National Center for Disease Control (NCDC) and on examination, it was found that six among them were infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus UK variant," Indore collector Manish Singh told PTI. "None of the infected men had gone on foreign tours recently, and we are tracing those who had come in contact with them," he added. The chief minister reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the Indore district during a virtual meeting. "Experts have said that the UK variant of the virus spreads faster than the other variants and as per the directives given by the chief minister, we will intensify efforts to check the spread," the official said. Use of masks at business establishments will be strictly enforced, he said. Night curfew will have to be imposed if there is a spurt in cases in the next three days, Singh said. Amit Malakar, the nodal officer for prevention of Covid-19, said the six infected persons are in home isolation and their condition is being monitored. Indore has recorded 60,386 Covid-19 cases and 933 casualties so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/six-found-infected-with-uk-covid-19-variant-in-indore-958597.html
05-03-2021||North and Central||Gear up for next year's civic polls, expose AAP's failures: Delhi BJP chief to party workers||Days after the BJP failed to win a single seat in the municipal bypolls in the national capital, the party's Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta on Friday urged members to highlight the Centre's welfare schemes and 'expose the AAP government's failures' ahead of the civic body polls next year. Addressing party workers at Badarpur constituency, he held the Arvind Kejriwal-led government responsible for the city's 'low' ranking in the 'Ease of Living Index' released by the Union Urban Development Ministry. Of the 49 cities ranked on the livability index in the 'million-plus population' category, Delhi figures at the 13th spot. "The ranking would have been much better had the government focused more on governance and on implementing the Centre's welfare schemes rather than on self-projection," Gupta said. The event in Badarpur Constituency was held as part of a 15-day 'Mandal Pravas' programme to strengthen the party at the booth. "Party workers at the grassroot level is the strength of the BJP which is the largest party in the world. The worker at the lowest level is the very foundation of our organization. "The need of the hour for the workers is to gear up for the next year's civic bodies election and expose the misdeeds and failures of the Kejriwal-led AAP government in Delhi," Gupta said. He was joined by Badarpur MLA and the Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. The Delhi BJP chief urged the party's state unit to work towards having an 'effective booth management' and a 'strong mandal' with dedicated workers. "All booth-level executive committees should have 21 active members before the foundation day of the party on April 6. All sections of the society should be given due representation in booth's executive committees," he said, coining a new slogan, "Booth jeeta, Chunav jeeta". BJP's state general secretary Dinesh Pratap Singh, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation Mayor Anamika Mithlesh Singh and spokesperson Richa Pandey Mishra were among those present in the several meetings held by Gupta.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gear-up-for-next-years-civic-polls-expose-aaps-failures-delhi-bjp-chief-to-party-workers-958616.html
05-03-2021||Oasis||Let us contribute to the end of the pandemic||The pandemic continues globally with recurring waves.  While for many it was the inconvenience of having to stay indoors, work from home or keep away from social and religious gatherings, for scores of others it was the tragedy of the death of loved ones, having to work in close proximity with the contagion, or loss of livelihood.  The vast majority of the lucky ones, who had no major calamity to deal with, naturally felt awful about what was going on.  On zoom meetings with colleagues, phone calls with extended families and WhatsApp chats with friends, we voiced our well-meant concerns and echoed in one voice that “it is all terrible!”    But sadly, our show of solidarity ended there. Have we all as citizens of the global universe done enough towards the end of the pandemic?  Have we as co-dwellers of a free planet where our freedom to breathe at ease ended where someone else’s nose began, taken our freedom with enough responsibility?  Or have we all collectively and singularly contributed to the second – and in some places to the third – wave of the pandemic?   These are the hard questions we must ask ourselves and ruminate deeply to arrive at the appropriate steps towards seeing an end to the pandemic. In our own little way, however hard or restraining or burdensome they may seem in the short run, each of us can - and should - continue to contribute towards the end of the pandemic.  For, unless our actions align with our sympathies for the suffering victims we remain as mere sympathizers.  If sheer emotions are what we can contribute then we ought to rethink our responsibilities as citizens and fellow dwellers on this planet. Until the pandemic ends we must resolve to continue to follow every safety protocol and create the right culture of caution and restraint.  Perhaps those who can postpone travel ought to do so; those who can work from home must continue to do just that; those who have a strong propensity to socialize must curb the urge.  In so restraining ourselves responsibly our actions will create a rippling effect. Then jointly and severally we will have successfully contributed to the end of the pandemic, and someday can recall with satisfaction our role in it!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/let-us-contribute-to-the-end-of-the-pandemic-958223.html
05-03-2021||Opinion||OPEC+ keeping output cuts won't surprise physical crude market||The decision by OPEC and its allies to extend crude oil output cuts into April came as something of a surprise to a market expecting some level of increase, but it shouldn't have. The problem for the prevailing narrative is that it's focused on what is happening in the paper crude market, the widely followed and traded Brent and West Texas Intermediate futures. They have been signalling increasing tightness in the global oil market as the world starts to recover from the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic, coupled with the ongoing supply restrictions imposed by the producer group, referred to as OPEC+. The paper market has a point: oil demand does look like it will be heading higher, but the problem is a matter of timing. The market is priced for a sharp increase in demand right now, and in the next few months. But the physical crude market is telling another story, with traders there saying there are plenty of cargoes available, especially for delivery to the top-importing region of Asia. The physical market has largely already sorted out what they are buying for April, and they are now looking more at loading programmes for May and June. It's quite likely that the OPEC+ group looked at what refiners were wanting in April and concluded that there was not yet enough demand to warrant pumping more crude in that month. If the paper market then takes OPEC+'s decision to keep its output down by about 7 million barrels per day (bpd) and bid up prices, then that's just a serendipitous bonus for the producers. The Brent market duly did what was expected, with the front-month contract rising as much as 5.7% to a one-year high of $67.75 a barrel, before retreating slightly to end Thursday's trade at $67.17. But the front-month contract expires on March 31, making it largely irrelevant to the physical market. The bullishness seen in paper crude contrasts with reports from physical traders, where in recent days there have been reports of several West African cargoes being offered for re-sale, and refiners in China, the world's biggest crude importer, cutting back on purchases. There were some interesting comments from Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the energy minister of top exporter Saudi Arabia, after Thursday's meeting of OPEC+. He says the kingdom is not in any hurry to end its voluntary, additional 1 million bpd of output cuts. If the Saudis genuinely believed the market was tight, adding those barrels back would be the first step and would reduce the risk of prices rising too rapidly, choking demand and the nascent global recovery. Another point the Saudi minister made was that countries complaining of high prices should use up inventories of cheap crude bought during the price collapse last year, a sign that OPEC+ doesn't yet believe inventory levels have dropped to what could be considered more normal levels. But perhaps Salman's bravest comment was an apparent suggestion that U.S. shale oil isn't the force in the market it used to be. "Drill, baby, drill is gone forever," he said, referencing the U.S. Republican Party's political slogan to promote the expansion of onshore production. While it may be the case that U.S. crude producers won't be as quick to ramp up and down in response to price signals as they had been in the past, it may be premature to write off their influence altogether. A further risk for OPEC+ is their action in maintaining output cuts is a green light to every exporter outside the group to maximise production and seize market share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/opec-keeping-output-cuts-wont-surprise-physical-crude-market-958285.html
05-03-2021||Panorama||Why Constitution is a de facto charter of labour rights||The labour rights movement underscores a special footnote in the spell of India’s freedom struggle. Regardless of its history, the constitution sincerely acknowledges the labour rights with the same standard as ordinary basic human rights. In order to take up this issue and rebut the contentions, the objects and positions of the labour rights and laws, as it is placed in the constitution, need first to be made clear. India’s main labour legislation is the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947. It contains both substantive labour rights and sets up a detailed procedure for the resolution of disputes between employers and employees. The two caveats, however, are: the disputants must be part of an “industry”, and the rights are guaranteed to “workmen”. As per economists and legal scholars, the purpose of industrial law is to rectify the inequality of bargaining power between workers and employers by creating a legal regime that strengthens trade unions, and encourages collective bargaining from a position of relative equality while refraining from intervening too much in the outcomes of the bargaining process. During the time of the Constitution-making, civil rights became enforceable fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution while the rights of labour were made to “reverse-swing” into the unenforceable Directive Principles of State Policy (Part IV) (DPSP). The possible logic that primarily appears by going through the pages of history, is that the labour rights have consistently been denied upon the guillotine of “fiscal capacity” and “economic reforms”. The right to work, the right to a living wage, the right to equal pay for equal work etc, are all “DPSPs”, not enforceable in the court of law. Though an individual cannot go to court to enforce her rights based on DPSP, the provisions contained under DPSP, however, as per Article 37, is binding on the government to implement. Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer, one of the members of the drafting committee, concurred that while the DPSPs are neither justiciable nor enforceable, it would be “idle to suggest that any responsible government or any legislature elected on the basis of universal suffrage can or will ignore these principles.” Notably, there were three exceptions to this pattern: a) Article 19(1)(c) [the freedom of association]; b) Article 23 [guaranteed freedom from forced labour]; and c) Article 24 [prohibition of the use of children in any hazardous employment]. This piece, for various other reasons, is only concerned with the “unenforceable labour rights” contained under the DPSP; and makes arguments in favour of the court that how they have, over the years, endeavoured to give DPSP a teeth to encroach upon the state’s arbitrariness and in turn to make them follow the constitutional mandate of social welfare. So, the question whether India should adopt – in its substance – inter alia, the right to work, the right to a living wage, and the right to equal pay for equal work should be regarded as a question of law for the reason that it is a mandate addressed to the ‘State’ under Directive Principles of the Constitution. Regrettably, in India or elsewhere, legal questions are altered when it affects the “corporates/business lobbies.” For example, Article 43 of the Constitution says: “The State shall endeavour to secure, by suitable legislation or economic organisation or in any other way, to all workers, agricultural, industrial or otherwise, work, a living wage, conditions of work ensuring a decent standard of life and full enjoyment of leisure and social and cultural opportunities...”. Besides, Articles 38, 39, 41, 42 and 43 have a noteworthy role in labour rights and laws, deriving their origin and philosophy from ‘magna carta’ of international industrial jurisprudence. But, when the Indian government, in PUDR v Union of India, stood before the court, they argued of having no locus standi on behalf of the labourers. Nevertheless, the court, in response, noted that denying equal pay for equal work not only violated the Equal Remuneration Act but also Article 14 of the Constitution. Equal society Further, the apex Court has observed in the case of Sri Srinivasa Theatre v Govt of Tamil Nadu, “...[E]quality before law can be predicated meaningfully only in an equal society, i.e., in a society contemplated by Article 38 of the Constitution,” reaffirming its resolve of giving DPSP a force. In Consumer Education & Research Centre v. Union of India, the Court concluded: “ [The] right to health, medical aid to protect the health and vigour of a worker while in service or post retirement is a Fundamental Right...to make the life of the workman meaningful and purposeful with dignity of person.” The SC has also noted in Olga Tellis v Bombay Municipal Corporation, that: “If there is an obligation upon the State to secure to the citizens an adequate means of livelihood and the right to work, it would be sheer pedantry to exclude the right to livelihood from the content of the right to life.” There is yet another major pronouncement of the SC – on the similar line of labour jurisprudence – in Madhu Kishwar v State of Bihar. It would, therefore, be naïve to suppose that the labour rights as enshrined in the DPSP, which are “not enforceable in the court of law”, are of no value and importance to get considered by the government. The constitution, in fact, serves as a charter of de facto labour’s right and freedom. The courts, too, through various judicial pronouncements, have elevated the labour rights to the standard of common basic human rights. In spite of that, the rights and freedom of labours remain under siege in India. (The writer is a student of law at Narsee Monjee Institute of Management Studies (NMIMS) School of Law, Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-constitution-is-a-de-facto-charter-of-labour-rights-958221.html
05-03-2021||Panorama||Stress increases gut distress||Did you know that the expression ‘butterflies in the stomach’ is said for a reason? Our gastrointestinal tract is sensitive to emotion. Anger, anxiety, sadness, elation — all these feelings (and others) have a close connection with the gut. Stress is associated with changes in gut bacteria, which in turn can influence mood. Thus, emotions can influence gut function. Link between gut and brain  The brain and gastrointestinal tract are intimately connected to each other. The gut has hundreds of millions of neurons (nerve cells) that can function independently and are in constant communication with the brain. Therefore, stress can affect this brain-gut communication, and may trigger pain, bloating, and gut discomfort. Long-term stress can thus cause constipation, diarrhoea, or an upset stomach. Stress impacts the gut Early life stress can impact the development of the nervous system, as well as how the body reacts to stress. These changes can increase the risk of gut diseases or dysfunction in the future. For example, you might feel nauseated before giving a presentation, or feel intestinal pain during times of stress. Stress increases gut distress, and therefore you might get a bout of diarrhoea or repeated urges to urinate during or following a stressful event. Stress can both delay the emptying of stomach contents and speed up the passage of material through the intestines. This combination of activity leads to abdominal pain and altered bowel habits. Additionally, acute psychological stress decreases a person’s pain threshold. Healthy individuals commonly report having abdominal discomfort or a change in bowel function when they are upset or distressed. The commonly used expressions like ‘butterflies in the stomach’, or a ‘gut-wrenching experience’ reflect this connection. When stressed, individuals may eat much more or much less than usual. Eating more food, or an increase in the use of alcohol or tobacco, can result in heartburn or acid reflux. Unhealthy diets may deteriorate one’s mood. Stress or exhaustion can also increase the severity of regularly occurring heartburn pain. A rare case of spasms in the oesophagus can be set off by intense stress, and can be easily mistaken for a heart attack. Stress may increase the amount of air that is swallowed, which increases burping, bloating and farting Symptoms: Many studies show that stressful life events are associated with the onset of symptoms or worsening of symptoms in several digestive conditions like Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Irritable Bowel Syndrome, Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease and Peptic Ulcers. Functional Gastrointestinal Disorders or FGID which form 40% of gastrointestinal cases are worsened by stress In summary, stress can lead to many gastrointestinal symptoms like decreased appetite, nausea, vomiting, burping, bloating, constipation, diarrhoea, abdominal pain, and overeating. This is related to the intimate communication and connection between the gastrointestinal tract and brain. However, before attributing symptoms to stress it is important not to miss a pathological cause for these symptoms. Visit a doctor and get a proper examination done to cause these changes can have a long-term impact and ignoring it can be harmful to health. (The writer is a Senior Consultant- Gastroenterology, at a hospital in Mulund, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/stress-increases-gut-distress-958222.html
05-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Yours meticulously||Perfection is an important ingredient for the medical profession. The all-consuming habit of lawlessness, started for me, in our medical college hostel. Locking the hostel room was a great ordeal, I would scuttle between the locked door and the stairs recurrently. I diagnosed myself with harbouring an obsessive-compulsive disorder. When I started turning the pages of the textbook, to my bewilderment, I was a brilliant and shining example of each and every disorder enlisted. I beseeched my friends to keep an eye on me, in the light of my fresh discovery. Notwithstanding my various fears, ultimately I landed up in NIMHANS, the premier neuropsychiatric institution of the country. I quite literally got on the nerves of my Neurology consultant as I made grammatical and spelling corrections for the interns' language. My consultant suggested I give in to my literary urges by pursuing a PhD in literature and later return for my Neurology residency. Several years later, on a lazy afternoon, I looked forward to something interesting. God had answered my prayers --a good friend of mine called me and said that she was organising a conference, first of its kind, called the 'winners'. In a New York minute, I accepted the invite. Meticulously, I started preparations for the talk. The resulting PowerPoint presentation was nothing short of a burgeoning metro train at peak hours.  New saris were bought, blouses stitched, matching chappal, ear drops, bangles, watch and such things lined up for the occasion. Finally, the D-day arrived. Sleep eluded me, a frisson of anticipation swept through. The refrigerator was hurriedly reshuffled so that my hubby would lay hands on the right stuff without tinkering, until my return. The domestic flight was at 17 hours, but the driver was called at 12 hours, to surmount unforeseen obstacles. I kept rechecking my laptop, ticket, credit card and USB stick.  My grand entry into the airport was met with a rude shock, as my flight number was at the 'final boarding’ stage. A bespectacled me removed and replaced my glasses trying to make sense of things desperately. In a last-ditch effort to catch the flight, I hopscotched across the various counters and staggered to the help desk. To my utter dismay, with imperturbable tranquillity, the flight attendant circled the departure time on my ticket which was 12!  All the hell broke loose... Yours meticulously was last seen running aimlessly with an eye in the sky to catch a fleeting glimpse of the already departed flight!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/yours-meticulously-958220.html
05-03-2021||Second Edit||Shameful conduct||Karnataka’s Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has reluctantly resigned after a sleazy video allegedly featuring him surfaced. The regularity with which such videos keep appearing points to the complete lack of probity in public life. A person’s sex life is a private affair and though there may be nothing illegal in a consensual relationship, those holding public office are expected to espouse high moral standards and set an example for others. In this case, however, the minister is accused of sexually exploiting a young girl, who is also seen in the video, with the promise of getting her a government job. Indian politicians are usually attired in white to signify purity, but their conduct often belies this. Their private actions are in total variance with the image they portray of themselves in public. While such moral turpitude among politicians attracts severe backlash in many countries, Jarkiholi’s supporters took to the streets demanding that his resignation be not accepted. The minister himself professed his innocence and refused to resign until he was coaxed to do so by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and the BJP high command. Nothing usually comes out of these cases because the woman in question normally does not file a complaint or turns hostile. What’s even more appalling is that politicians caught in unethical acts are actually rewarded. In 2007, Jayalakshmi, a nurse, had accused BJP MLA M P Renukacharya of sexual harassment. The two later compromised and Renukacharya is now political adviser to the chief minister with cabinet rank. In 2012, three BJP ministers had to resign after being caught watching porn in the Assembly. One of them, C C Patil, is a minister in the Yediyurappa cabinet now; another, Laxman Savadi, who even lost the 2018 Assembly elections, was made a member of the legislative council and promoted as deputy chief minister. BJP MLA Arvind Limbavali, now a minister, was cleared through an investigation into a video clip. Yet another BJP MLA S A Ramdas attempted suicide some time ago after he was accused of sexual exploitation, while his colleague Hartal Halappa was acquitted in a rape case. Congress, too, had its share of embarrassment with H Y Meti, a minister in the Siddaramaiah cabinet, being caught in a sex tape. One would expect such politicians to fade away into oblivion, in Karnataka they only seem to emerge stronger. While politicians are thick-skinned and rarely feel embarrassed, it is disappointing that the people not only forgive them for their indiscretions but also vote them back to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/shameful-conduct-958216.html
05-03-2021||South||65% sitting MLAs in Kerala have criminal cases against them||In poll-bound Kerala, 65 per cent of the 132 sitting MLAs in the state Assembly have declared criminal cases against themselves. Other than that, 12 MLAs from the Communist Party of India (CPI), nine from the Indian National Congress (INC), five from IUML and four Independent MLAs have also declared criminal cases against themselves. The ADR report analysed the criminal details of 132 out of 140 sitting MLAs. The report did not take the remaining MLAs into account as 4 MLAs had 'unclear' affidavits. The other 4 seats are currently vacant in the state Assembly. Elections to the 140-member Assembly will take place in a single phase on April 6 and the counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/65-sitting-mlas-in-kerala-have-criminal-cases-against-them-958348.html
05-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh bandh to protest Vizag Steel Plant privatisation plan peaceful||The Andhra Pradesh bandh organised on Friday to protest the centre's plan to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) is going on peacefully in the state. All the political parties, people's organisations, trade unions except the BJP are participating in the protest call given by the Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Samiti. The YSRCP government has also extended its support to the bandh. On Thursday, Minister for Information and Public Relations Perni Venkataramaiah said that the YSRCP government is against the privatisation of VSP and in this regard, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy had written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting alternatives to retain the organisation in the public sector. Since Friday morning, state transport corporation buses were confined to the depots as the minister said that APSRTC services will be stalled till 1 pm. The staff wearing black badges will resume their duties later on. All the emergency health services are operational as usual. Protesters blocked roads at several places and most of the commercial establishments, educational institutions etc., were shut. In Visakhapatnam, where the PSU with a 7.3 million tonne per annum (MTPA) production capacity is located, large scale human chains and protest rallies were held. The Modi government's plans to privatise the Vizag Steel Plant – a major icon of Visakhapatnam in north coastal Andhra Pradesh – has led to protests in the city since last month. The plant, a Navratna Public Sector Enterprise operating under the ministry of steel, is spread over 20,000 acres and Visakhapatnam is popularly known as “steel city,” because of VSP. In January, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs gave its in-principle approval for 100 per cent strategic disinvestment of the centre's shareholding in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (the corporate entity of VSP) “along with management control by way of privatisation.” VSP, commissioned in 1992, is the first shore-based integrated steel plant in the country. The plant employs about 15,000 permanent and 20,000 contract workers and provides indirect livelihood to over 65,000 people. The plant thus supports one lakh jobs and about five lakh people – about a quarter of Vizag city population, unions say. However, the main drawback and the reason for the losses reported of RINL-Vizag Steel, over the years, is the lack of captive iron ore mines. VSP unions have been agitating for allocation of captive mines from the last few years. The demand is now being echoed by the political parties. The VSP's foundation was laid in 1977 by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi, after a prolonged agitation, when people rallied with a popular slogan “Visakha ukku-Andhrula hakku” (Vizag Steel is Andhra's right). The agitation had reportedly claimed over 30 lives. CM Reddy had earlier stated that his government would do everything in its capacity to stop VSP's privatisation, including sending a resolution passed by the state assembly opposing the centre's plans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-bandh-to-protest-vizag-steel-plant-privatisation-plan-peaceful-958388.html
05-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Polls: Edappadi Palaniswami to contest from Edappadi, Panneerselvam from Bodinayakkanur||The ruling AIADMK on Friday released its first list of six candidates for the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Chief Minister K Palaniswami would contest from Edappadi constituency in his home district of Salem and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam from Bodinayakanur in Theni district, his native place. Senior leaders D Jayakumar (Fisheries Minister) and C Ve Shanmugam (Law Minister) have been fielded from Royapuram here and Villupuram in northern Tamil Nadu respectively. MLAs, S P Shanmuganathan and S Thenmozhi would face the polls from Srivaigundam and Nilakottai (Reserved) segments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-edappadi-palaniswami-to-contest-from-edappadi-panneerselvam-from-bodinayakkanur-958403.html
05-03-2021||South||BJP Kerala chief K Surendran clarifies remark about CM candidate||Kerala BJP Chief K Surendran on Friday clarified he had not made any announcement on the party's chief ministerial candidate for the coming assembly elections in the state and said what he expressed was that the people and party workers wanted E Sreedharan to "lead" them. He said the BJP's central leadership alone will decide on the party's chief ministerial candidate. "What I said yesterday was the people of Kerala and the BJP workers want a leader like E Sreedharan to lead them. There is no doubt in it. Kerala and its people want the leadership of Sreedharan." "I am the party chief in Kerala. I know what I said. I never made any announcement yesterday other than saying that the people of Kerala want the leadership of Sreedharan," Surendran said at Pathanamthitta. His comments came a day after Union Minister V Muraleedharan tweeted that the 'Metroman' will be the CM candidate only to retract later saying the party had not made any such announcement. Surendran also blamed the media in the state for "wrongly interpreting" what he had said and claimed that the CPI(M) and the Congress were jittery after Sreedharan joined the party. Earlier on Thursday, Surendran had said that if the NDA "under the leadership of the 'Metroman', gets an opportunity to rule the state, we are confident we will be able to implement development works under Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a ten-fold force in Kerala." Addressing a party meeting in Thiruvalla, he highlighted the achievements of Sreedharan, including completing the reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover here in five months, much ahead of the stipulated time. "He completed the project in five months without any corruption. That is why we requested Sreedharan and our party leadership that he should be projected as the (NDA's) Chief Minister candidate," he had said. This was the first time the party indicated that Sreedhran will be the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. Confusion prevailed among BJP cadres since Thursday after Muraleedhran withdrew a tweet saying the 'Metroman' will be the chief ministerial candidate of the saffron party for the Assembly elections on April 6. Muraleedharan on Thursday night clarified that he wanted to inform that through media reports he learnt that the party has announced Sreedharan as the chief ministerial candidate. But when he cross-checked with Kerala party unit president Surendran, he said he had not made any such announcements, Muraleedharan had said. The union minister's social media post on Sreedharan's leadership in the Assembly polls came hours after Surendran said he had requested the party's national leadership to announce 'Metroman' as the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. Sreedharan, the 88-year old technocrat had recently announced his decision to end his 24-year long career with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to enter electoral politics. He has said his main aim was to help the party come to power in Kerala and that he will be open to chief ministership. The 'Metroman', who is all set to contest the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, said he will file the nomination papers after resigning from the post of DMRC's Principal Advisor. Sreedharan, now a member of the BJP state Election Committee, said he had requested the party leadership to field him from a constituency not far from his residence in Ponnani in Malappuram district. Predicting a big victory for the BJP in the polls, the technocrat said his campaign style will be different from that of a normal politician.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-kerala-chief-k-surendran-clarifies-remark-about-cm-candidate-958475.html
05-03-2021||South||Court in Bihar gives death sentence to nine in Hooch case; Four women get life imprisonment||Nine persons were awarded death sentence and four women were imprisoned for life by a court here on Friday in connection with a hooch tragedy that claimed close to 20 lives a few months after Bihar went dry. All the 13 surviving accused in the August 2016 case were convicted by Additional District Judge Luv Kush Kumar. According to special public prosecutor Ravi Bhushan Srivastava, altogether 14 people had been named accused in the illicit liquor case and one of them had died pending trial. Altogether 19 people had died in the districts Khajurbani locality on August 16, 2016, upon consuming spurious liquor, four months after the Nitish Kumar government banned the sale and consumption of alcohol across the state.  The hooch tragedy had led to a massive outcry and several police personnel were placed under suspension in its wake. A raid conducted in Khajurbani, a cluster of about 25-30 households, all involved in the illicit liquor trade, had led to the recovery of more than 500 litres of alcohol. The then District Magistrate had ordered imposition of a "collective fine" on the locality in a bid to deter the residents from continuing with their earlier occupation. Those facing the gallows following the court order are Chhathu Pasi, Kanhaiya Pasi, Nagina Pasi, Lalbabu Pasi, Rajesh Kumar, Sanoj Kumar, Sanjay Chaudhary, Ranjit Chaudhary and Munna Chaudhary. The women co-accused getting lifer are Laljhari Devi, Kailasho Devi, Indu Devi and Rita Devi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/court-in-bihar-gives-death-sentence-to-nine-in-hooch-case-four-women-get-life-imprisonment-958484.html
05-03-2021||South||Swapna Suresh made allegations against Kerala CM, Speaker in dollar smuggling case: Customs to HC||Causing major embarrassment to the Left-front government in Kerala, especially when the Assembly elections are approaching, the Customs Department on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh had made 'shocking revelations'  linking Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and three ministers with illegal activities, including foreign currency smuggling. In an affidavit submitted before the HC in the gold smuggling case, Customs made these revelations and offered to give the Court a confidential statement of Swapna in a sealed envelope. According to the affidavit, "Swapna stated with clarity on the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of the Chief Minister and the Speaker with the help of UAE former consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram. She has also clearly stated about the improper and illegal activities of three ministers and the Speaker. She further stated the involvement and kickbacks received by high-profile persons from various deals. She was witness to all these transactions and was a witness to the same as she is well versed in Arabic language and hence was forced to act as the translator between the above said persons and persons from the Middle East." While the government was yet to react to the fresh developments, Opposition Congress-led UDF alleged that it was due to CPM-BJP nexus that the central agencies did not initiate any legal action against Vijayan or his cabinet colleagues despite having incriminating statements. He also alleged that the delay in the proceedings of the SNC Lavalin corruption case againt Vijayan was also owing to this nexus. Prime Minister Narendran Modi and Vijayan would not criticise each other, he said. The fresh developments also came close on the heels of Kerala government openly alleging that central agencies were acting against the Kerala government with political motives. The state government was also exploring scope of legal action, including police case, against ED officials on the basis of a complaint of an official of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board that ED officials harassed mentally after summoning to collect statements pertaining to the masala bonds issued by KIIFB. Meanwhile, CPM politburo demanded the centre and the ED to rescind the case for FEMA violation registered against KIIFB as the ED's action against KIIFB was a blatant misuse of the agency as a political tool by the BJP government at the centre. The ED action coming after the announcement of elections is all the more reprehensible as it is a blatant effort to try to discredit the LDF government and the extensive developmental work undertaken under the auspices of the KIIFB. It is a serious violation of the federal principle, a statement from the politburo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swapna-suresh-made-allegations-against-kerala-cm-speaker-in-dollar-smuggling-case-customs-to-hc-958497.html
05-03-2021||South||Congress terms as 'shocking' revelations against Kerala CM by smuggling accused; CPI(M) questions Centre's intentions||The Congress on Friday termed as "shocking" Kerala gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh's revelations against state Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan that foreign currency was smuggled at their instance. The ruling CPI(M), however, hit out at the BJP-led central government questioning its intentions in the backdrop of the elections. The Customs, probing the case, claimed in the Kerala High Court on Friday that Suresh, prime accused in the gold smuggling case, has made 'shocking revelations' against Vijayan, Sreeramakrishnan and some ministers with regard to dollar 'smuggling' involving UAE consulate officials. In an affidavit filed in the court weeks before the assembly elections in the state, the Customs said Suresh made the 'revelations' in statements given to the agency under section 108 and 164 of the CrPC. Attacking the Customs (Preventive) Commissionerate, which submitted an affidavit in the Kerala high court containing a statement of Suresh revealing the Chief Minister's role in dollar smuggling, the ruling CPI(M) alleged that the probe agencies have stooped so low that they have become an election tool in the hands of the BJP. The party-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) said it would launch a protest against the "political games" played against the chief minister, ministers and the Left government using the central probe agencies. Hitting out at Vijayan, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, said he does not have the right to remain in the chief minister's post in view of the revelations. Referring to the statement given by Suresh to a magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC, the senior Congress leader said still the probe agencies have not taken any action against the chief minister and the Speaker. He alleged a ploy by the state government and the central government for not going ahead with a detailed investigation into the case despite the revelations by Suresh before a magistrate. "Even with this shocking evidence in hand, the probe agencies have freezed the investigation. Who gave instructions to freeze the investigation? The investigation was freezed when it was sure that the probe would reach the chief minister. This seems like part of a ploy by the chief minister and the BJP," Chennithala said. This statement was in hand for the last two months but still the probe agencies failed to move forward with the case, he alleged. "This is a ploy by the state central governments", Chennithala said. The CPI(M) alleged that the affidavit submitted by the Customs in the high court shows that the BJP is disturbed after knowing that the Left will retain power in the state after the polls. "Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the Left government have an image of good governance in the Kerala society. This has given jitters to those who rule the centre and they will go to any extent to fight against the Left. The probe agencies have stooped so low that they have become an election tool in the hands of BJP. Don't think that people are fools," the CPI(M) said in a statement. It said the intention of the central government has become crystal clear with the Customs submitting a 'secret statement', given by one of the accused months ago, just after the election was declared. "The probe agencies which reached Kerala to investigate the gold smuggling case have been unable to find anything related to it. Their attempts to create a smokescreen of allegations were defeated by the people of the state in the recent local body polls," the CPI(M) said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-terms-as-shocking-revelations-against-kerala-cm-by-smuggling-accused-cpim-questions-centres-intentions-958520.html
05-03-2021||South||AIADMK first off the blocks with list of nominees for TN Assembly polls||The ruling AIADMK on Friday released its first list of six candidates for the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu ahead of arch-rival DMK and pending conclusion of seat-sharing with allies, including the BJP. The party's star candidates, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam will contest from their respective home constituencies of Edappadi in Salem and Bodinayakanur in Theni districts. The AIADMK allotted 23 seats to ally PMK days ago before DMK finalised seat-sharing with Indian Union Muslim League, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi. The ruling party, however, is yet to conclude the seat-sharing exercise with the BJP and others. The IUML and MMK were allotted three and two seats respectively by the DMK and it gave six segments to the VCK. Senior leaders D Jayakumar (Fisheries Minister) and C Ve Shanmugam (Law Minister) have been fielded once again from Royapuram and Villupuram in northern Tamil Nadu respectively. MLAs S P Shanmuganathan and S Thenmozhi would face the polls from Srivaigundam and Nilakottai (Reserved) segments. Asked about the AIADMK releasing its list ahead of DMK, political analyst Durai Karuna said it was not altogether new as it had happened before, from the time of party founder M G Ramachandran. "By declaring constituencies before the conclusion of the seat-sharing exercise, allies cannot demand segments that have been announced," he said. "If you look at the community profile of candidates, it is a mix. AIADMK has given a subtle signal of assurance to uphold social justice," Karuna, also a veteran journalist, said. The Chief Minister and Deputy CM are from Gounder and Mukkulathor communities respectively, while Shanmugam is a Vanniyar. Jayakumar represents the fishermen community and Shanmuganathan is Nadar and Thenmozi a Dalit, he said. "It is a politically important message in the first list itself.Rivals target AIADMK for aligning with the BJP,accusing the saffron party of working against social justice," he told PTI. The Tamil Nadu Assembly is 234-member strong and according to sources, the AIADMK is keen on contesting from at least '170 seats', including the 134 segments where it emerged victorious in the 2016 polls. The AIADMK on Thursday conducted interviews for party ticket aspirants. AIADMK senior leader D Jayakumar told reporters that talks with allies were going on smoothly, adding, "there is no friction or crack." A BJP leader expressed confidence that seats to be contested by his party was likely to be out "tonight or on Saturday".  The DMDK too said the poll deal with AIADMK would be concluded in a day or two. The 66-year old Chief Minister was first elected in 1989 to the Assembly and re-elected in 1991, 2011 and 2016. A Minister since 2011, he became the Chief Minister in February 2017. Panneerselvam, popularly known as OPS, became an MLA for the first time when he was 50-years old in 2001. He was re-elected in 2006, 2011 and 2016. He was the Chief Minister during 2001-02 when late J Jayalalithaa faced legal hurdles in holding the office. After she was convicted in an assets case in 2014, OPS was again named as Chief Minister by her and was the CM between 2014 and 2015. Following her death in December 2016, he was the CM for a brief period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-first-off-the-blocks-with-list-of-nominees-for-tn-assembly-polls-958534.html
05-03-2021||South||Congress does damage control as Wayanad leaders quit||One of the four local Congress leaders in Wayanad who quit in the past few days, returned to the party after the Kerala party leadership launched a damage control exercise. The grand old party is also relieved as one local CPM leader also joined the party. K K Viswanathan, a senior district leader of the party, revoked his plan to leave Congress. Kerala PCC secretary M S Viswanathan, District Congress Committee general secretary P K Anil Kumar and Mahila Congress leader Sujaya Venugopal are the other prominent local leaders who quit the party. The unrest in Congress camps of Wayanad due to the selection of candidates for the upcoming Assembly polls is especially embarrassing for the party as Rahul Gandhi represents the constituency in Lok Sabha. Following the deliberations initiated by senior Congress leaders, Viswanathan withdrew his resignation. He is likely to be fielded by the party in one of the three Assembly seats in the district. He said that there were some misunderstandings that were now cleared. Resentment towards the party district leadership was said to be the key reason for the four resignations. Meanwhile, a local leader of CPM E A Sankaran joined the Congress camps. Sankaran who is a tribal community leader alleged that the left-front government was betraying the tribal community and more CPM supporters from the tribal communities would join Congress soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-does-damage-control-as-wayanad-leaders-quit-958579.html
05-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jagan launches fact check portal to stop 'malicious propaganda' against his government||Speaking on this occasion, Reddy said that the main objective to bring the fact-check website was to stop the spread of fake and malicious propaganda mainly about government programmes on social media. “The government intends to counter false propaganda with evidence, and clearly demonstrating to the public how a particular false campaign was started.” The Chief Minister directed the authorities to take action in malicious propaganda instances after identifying the culprits behind spreading the false information.  “No one has the right to deliberately damage the reputation of an individual or the system,” said the Chief Minister. YSRCP leaders have been accusing Opposition parties in the state of misleading the public with false, fabricated information. Meanwhile, condemning the news in a section of media that YSRCP is threatening candidates to withdraw from the civic polls, advisor to the Reddy government Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said that the “party would not tolerate the false propaganda and will proceed legally by filing defamation case against those responsible.” Addressing reporters at the YSRCP central office on Thursday, Sajjala asserted that the results of municipal elections for 12 corporations and 75 municipalities, to be held on 10 March, wpuld be a repeat of Panchayat polls results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jagan-launches-fact-check-portal-to-stop-malicious-propaganda-against-his-government-958581.html
05-03-2021||South||Telangana Minister KT Rama Rao slams Centre for 'backtracking' on rail coach factory at Kazipet||TRS working President KT Rama Rao has hit out at the Narendra Modi government alleging backtracking on the proposals to set up a rail coach factory at Kazipet and an integrated steel plant at Bayyaram. The ruling party and the BJP have sharpened their attacks on each other as the MLA graduate constituency polls for two seats in Telangana near. After the non-starter Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) project in Hyderabad, KTR, as he is popularly known, has now targeted the Centre on the Kazipet rail coach factory and Bayyaram integrated steel plant proposals, which are part of the assurances made in the AP Reorganization Act,  2014. The three projects in discussion fall under the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam graduate constituencies going to polls on 14 March. “Unfortunately, not an inch has moved on these projects despite our multiple requests. In the case of the rail coach factory we handed over 150 acres, when 60 acres was asked for. But regrettably again they decided not to take it up,” KTR said, while addressing a CII conference in Hyderabad on Friday. “Had ITIR been grounded, and had the Central government invested more in developing infrastructure, we could have created a couple more lakhs employment in the state,” said KTR, who is also Telangana's IT, Industries and Municipal Administration Minister. “Injustice to Telangana” On Thursday, the TRS leader accused the BJP government of doing injustice to Telangana since its formation. “It has once again exhibited its anti-Telangana stance by failing to set up a railway coach factory in the state as promised in the AP Reorganisation Act.” KTR cited an RTI response and criticised the Union railway ministry for stating “that there was no need to set up the factory.” “The BJP cannot reject or take a U-turn on a promise made in Parliament. Rail coach factory is Telangana’s constitutional right and we will fight for our rights with the Centre,” said KTR, adding that the TRS MPs would agitate for the factory during the coming sessions. The minister also lashed out at the Centre for “non-allocation of bullet/speed trains to a metropolis like Hyderabad which is again a testament to BJP's discrimination towards Telangana.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-minister-kt-rama-rao-slams-centre-for-backtracking-on-rail-coach-factory-at-kazipet-958583.html
05-03-2021||South||Stalin demands arrest of ex-special DGP booked in alleged sexual harassment case||DMK president M K Stalin on Friday demanded the immediate arrest of a special DGP rank official facing sexual harassment charges by a woman IPS officer as he charged the Tamil Nadu government with 'shielding' the accused. Also, he demanded the arrest of other police officials who attempted to prevent her from lodging the complaint against her superior. The state government had on February 24 removed the special Director General of Police (Law and Order) and placed him on "compulsory wait" after the woman officer filed a complaint of sexual harassment against him. The Madras High Court had on March 1 on its own took notice of the matter and said it would monitor the probe into the case to ensure that the fundamental rights of the survivor official to a free and fair investigation was not reduced to an empty ritual. Condemning 'threats' issued to the woman IPS official, the DMK chief accused the state government of shielding the DGP rank official and a Superintendent of Police, who allegedly attempted to prevent her from proceeding to lodge the complaint, despite the Crime Branch CID police registering an FIR against the two. "Why are the two police officers involved in such crimes still not suspended and arrested?", Stalin asked, in a statement here, and claimed the FIR was registered only after the DMK and several organisations protested. Stalin said "it is certain that women of Tamil Nadu will give a fitting reply" to the chief minister in the assembly April 6 elections. "The state Chief Secretary and the Home Secretary should order the arrest of the two police officials. In case there is delay in arresting them, the Election Commission should intervene and take action," he urged. The state government has also constituted a woman IAS official headed six member committee to probe the allegations of sexual harassment against the officer. Ten woman IPS officers had recently met the state DGP and sought action against the accused officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-demands-arrest-of-ex-special-dgp-booked-in-alleged-sexual-harassment-case-958606.html
05-03-2021||South||Customs issues notice to Kerala speaker in dollar smuggling case||The Customs' Kochi unit was learnt to have sent a notice to Kerala Assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan in connection with dollar smuggling allegations involving the gold smuggling accused. According to unconfirmed reports, the Speaker was directed to appear at Customs office on March 12. Customs had earlier summoned a member of the Speaker's personal staff in connection with this case. The fresh development came close on the heels of Customs informing the Kerala High Court that gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh revealed that Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Speaker, and three ministers were involved in illegal activities including foreign currency smuggling.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/customs-issues-notice-to-kerala-speaker-in-dollar-smuggling-case-958639.html
05-03-2021||State||5.3% people in world have hearing disorders, says KoIMS director||Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences (KoIMS) director Dr Cariappa suggested making more efforts towards completely eliminating hearing disorders among people. He was speaking inaugurating the programme to mark ‘World Hearing Day’ and an awareness campaign organised by KoIMS, All India Institute Of Speech and Hearing, Mysuru and Health department, on the premises of KoIMS on Thursday. Stating that 5.3% people in the world have hearing disorders, Dr Cariappa said that children are more vulnerable to hearing disorders and there is a need to carry out regular check-ups. Hearing disorders among children should not be neglected and added that the Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences had the best facilities forthe diagnosis of hearing disorders. District Family Welfare officer Dr Anand said people should immediately consult specialist doctor in case of lack of hearing. KoIMS superintendent Dr Lokesh said the government has implemented several programmes to prevent deafness. The concerned should utilise the facilities available in government hospitals. KoIMS principal Dr Vishal Kumar said one should stay away from loud noise. Getting exposed to loudness increases the chances of loss of hearing, specially among children. KoIMS chief administrative officer Dr Nanjundegowda, resident medical officer Dr Roopesh Gopal and KoIMS ENT department head Dr Shwetha were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/53-people-in-world-have-hearing-disorders-says-koims-director-958225.html
05-03-2021||State||Calligraphy improves creativity, memory, says expert||“Calligraphy helps to improve creativity among students,” opined Jyoti Calligraphy founder Namita R Rao. She was speaking as a resource person at a two-day workshop on calligraphy organised by the department of Postgraduate Studies in English at Field Marshal K M Cariappa College recently. “Overdependency on technology, has made the process of writing mechanical.” “As everything is readily available on computer, the students do not use their creativity much. Good handwriting is an art and improves one’s writing skills and creativity. Practicing calligraphy will bring a positive effect in the minds and also improves memory. Calligraphy is also a good hobby,” she said. College Principal Dr Chowrira Jagat Thimmaiah stressed on the need for students to involve in creative works. The National Education Policy 2020 too focuses on skill improvement. Head of Department of Postgraduate Studies in English Dr Nayana Kashyap, lecturer Soor Sabha, Chinnappa B G and others took part in the workshop.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/calligraphy-improves-creativity-memory-says-expert-958226.html
05-03-2021||State||Seek inspiration from lives of scientists, students told||Students should contribute to the field of Science by excelling in Science research. One should seek inspiration from the lives and achievements of great scientists and their inventions, said Kodagu Zilla Panchayat CEO Bhanwar Singh Meena. He was speaking after inaugurating the Sir C V Raman District-Level Science Quiz organised by Rajya Vijnana Parishat and the department of Education at the Government Junior College on Thursday. “Students should develop interest towards study of basic Science at High School-level to achieve high in future,” he said. District Scouts and Guides vice-president K T Baby Mathew lauded students from Kodagu who have achieved high in the National-level events. Rajya Vijnana Parishat former joint secretary T G Premkumar said that the Vijnana Parishat has been striving to eliminate blind beliefs in society, along with nurturing a scientific mindset among children. Students Abhay Kaushik, Deepthi C Joshi and K Gayatr who submitted scientific paper at the 27th National Children’s Science Congress held in Tiruvanantapuram last year. Teachers Sumitra and K Florence and Zilla Panchayat deputy secretary P Lakshmi were felicitated by DDPI P S Macchado, on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seek-inspiration-from-lives-of-scientists-students-told-958227.html
05-03-2021||State||‘Scrap ACB and reinstate Lokayukta’||The Lokayukta should be reactivated after scrapping the Anti-Corruption Bureau, urged Kodagu unit of RTI and Social Activists’ Forum. Submitting a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, the Forum members said that the chief minister should fulfill the assurance made by him during elections. “The chief minister had stated that if his government comes to power, the ACB will be scrapped and the Lokayukta will be provided with more power.” But, even after two years after his government came to power, the Lokayukta has not been given full powers, the activists said and urged the state government to appoint the Lokayukta. RTI and social activists forum Madikeri taluk unit president Ajith Kottakeriyana, vice-president Pradeep Maragodu, general secretary Yogesh T Nekkila, secretary Umesh Gowda and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/scrap-acb-and-reinstate-lokayukta-958228.html
05-03-2021||State||One dies, several injured in bee attack||One person died and several others were left injured when honey bees attacked them in the town on Thursday evening. T K Velayudan (68) is the deceased. He succumbed to death owing to serious injuries caused by honey bee bites. He was a resident of Ajjimutta. Several others, who were bit by bees, are being treated at a hospital. Among the injured are M T Suresh (29) and Manavattira Gagan (25). Suresh, the injured, said they were attacked by bees when they were coming to town from Hale taluk. Many others took shelter in safe places to protect themselves from bee attack. The reason for sudden attack by honey bees is unknown. The incident has created fear among people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-dies-several-injured-in-bee-attack-958229.html
05-03-2021||State||‘Develop Arebhashe culture’||Retired officer of Women and Child Welfare department, Damayanti, felt the need for honest efforts towards preservation of Arebhashe culture and tradition. She was speaking during the valedictory programme of week-long training camp on Arebhashe culture organised by the Karnataka Arebhashe Samskrithi Sahitya Academy at Kodagu Gowda Samaja in Madikeri. “It is impossible to follow all traditions. But culture, language and literature have to be preserved for next generations. The speakers of Arebhashe language should take pride in claiming their culture.” Kodagu Gowda Samaja secretary Kodi Chandrashekhar opined that camps on Arebhashe language should be organised at the village-levels as well. Also, youth should utilise such opportunities. He suggested recording all the programmes organised by the Academy. Arebhashe Samkrithi and Sahitya Academy chairman Lakshminarayana Kajegadde said that culture should always be kept alive. In a positive development, youth have been showing interest in Arebhashe culture. The Academy will organise Arebhashe workshops in Aluru, Siddapura and Bhagamandala. Taluru Yashoda, resource person, called upon the participants of the camp to share their knowledge they have acquired during the camp with others. The camp participants sung songs on ‘Hari Seve’, ‘Gange Pooje’, ‘Dibbana’, ‘Sobane’, ‘Valaga’ and so on. Kannada Sahitya Parishat taluk president Kudekal Santhosh, Arebhashe Samkrithi and Sahitya Academy members Dhananjaya Agolikaje, Prema Raghavaiah Chokkadi, K C Dayananda and Academy registrar Chinnaswamy were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/develop-arebhashe-culture-958230.html
05-03-2021||State||Coronavirus mutations high in Bengaluru||The mutation rate of the coronavirus is high in Bengaluru when compared to the national average, researchers from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) have found. The research team, led by Professor Utpal Tatu of the Department of Biochemistry, IISc, found that isolates or viral samples taken from nasal secretions of Covid-19 positive individuals in Bengaluru had over 11 mutations per sample, higher than the national average (8.4) and the global average (7.3), according to a statement by the IISc. Professor Tatu said these numbers may now vary as the study was conducted last year but was pending peer review since November before being published in the Journal of Proteome Research this February. “Our findings have been corroborated by developments since,” he said. “For one, we found that a majority of isolates in Bengaluru contained a mutated variant of the novel coronavirus which was named D614G. Now, the D614G variant is the most common variant of the virus in Bengaluru.” But can the city’s mutation rate mitigate the effectiveness of vaccinations or drive a new Covid resurgence? “The verdict is still out,” he said. However, in another paper, researchers from the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB) recently studied 146 unique novel coronavirus variants for “escape mutations,” which gives some variants the ability to “evade” antibodies that can kill them. Vaccines work by triggering an antibody response.  Concern has grown over one such escape variant, the N440K. “As per the latest information, the N440K variant has been found in large numbers in Karnataka,” Adjunct Professor Vinod Scaria of CSIR-IGIB said. The pace of mutations means better testing methods are needed, Professor Tatu said, adding that his team used “proteo-genomic” investigation. The genomic analysis used next-generation sequencing (NGS), a technology that allows for rapid sequencing of the entire genome.  During their analysis on how people respond to the virus, the IISc team also considered host proteins. They discovered 441 proteins unique to Covid-19 positive patients, many of which are speculated to play a key role in the body’s immune response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/coronavirus-mutations-high-in-bengaluru-958233.html
05-03-2021||State||19 people test positive for Covid in DK||For the third consecutive day, 19 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada district on Thursday. The total deaths in the district stood at 740. The total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 34,506 while the total number of discharges stands at 33,561, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V stated in a press release. The district has 205 active cases with patients undergoing treatment in different hospitals. So far, 35,256 cases have been registered against people for violating mandatory mouth mask rule and a fine amount of Rs 36,32,710 has been collected from the violators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/19-people-test-positive-for-covid-in-dk-958239.html
05-03-2021||State||Illegal Kapila Park Gau Shala demolished||An illegal ‘Goshala’ that was posing hurdles to acquisition of land for first-ever Indian Coast Guard Academy, was demolished by district administration in Kenjar, on the outskirts of city, on Thursday. At District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting, held about 10 days ago, Dakshina Kannada (DK) Deputy commissioner Dr Rajendra K V had promised to evict the encroachers from the land allotted for the Academy. BJP state President Nalin Kumar Kateel, who was present in the meeting, had declared the goshala as illegal. Prakash Shetty of Sumeda Trust, which runs Kapila Park Gau Shala in Kenjar, accused the district administration of demolishing the goshala without serving any notice. “There are 300 cattle in my goshala. Where should I find an alternative land for the cattle? The least government could have done is to provide an alternate land for the goshala,” he said. “This cruel act of the administration and representatives is a betrayal to Hindutva and humanity. It is worse than Mughal rulers,” he declared. 'Compensation received' Rajendra told mediapersons that the land was purchased by Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (KIADB) and the original owner had also received compensation. But the owner after receiving the compensation had sold the land to Shetty. “If the owner contacts us, we will make alternative arrangements for the cattle. The district administration will not make alternative arrangements to relocate his business,” he clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/illegal-kapila-park-gau-shala-demolished-958240.html
05-03-2021||State||Free screening prog to identify cervical cancer||Manipal OBG (Obstetrics and Gynecological) Society has begun screening programme to identify early stages of cervical cancer in women, in the age group 25 to 60 years, in 19 hospitals. Manipal OBG Society President and Obstetrician Dr Krishnananda Mallya told mediapersons that during the screening programme, Pap Smear test will be conducted to identify the presence of precancerous cells on cervix. This test will cost Rs 500, but the Society is offering the test free of charge, he said. The screening will be conducted till March 8 to mark International Women’s Day, Mallya added. Manipal OBG Society will celebrate the day and create awareness among women about this disease. The screening has already begun at CHCs (Community health centres) in Brahmavara, Hebri, Taluk government hospital in Karkala, Suvidha Nursing Home in Honnavar, Dr A V Baliga Hospital in Doddanagudde, Sonia Clinic in Manipal, City Hospital in Udupi, City Hospital in Karkala, Hitech Hospital in Udupi, Manish Hospital in Kundapur, Adarsha Hospital in Kundapur, Vivek Hospital in Kundapur, Navamasa Women Specialty Clinic in Kundapur, TMA Pai Hospital in Udupi, Kasturba Hospital in Manipal, Vathsalya Clinic in Santhekatte, Udupi; Gandhi Hospital in Udupi, Infant Jesus School in Perampalli, Udupi and Nayak Health Care in Bhatkal. The eligible women can walk in to any of these hospitals and enroll for screening, he said. Mallya said that the cervical cancer prevalence was commonly found in India and about 1,23,000 women were diagnosed with cervical cancer every year. As many as 74,000 of them are dying in India every year, he added. “Opting for Pap test where cells from cervix are scraped and examined for abnormal growth helps in early detection of the cancerous cells,” he said. Another method to stay safe is to opt for human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination. Through this screening programme by the Society, about 1,000 women will benefit, he added. Manipal OBG Society Secretary Dr Rajalakshmi said that the Pap test is a simple procedure and an effective test to help women to get rid of cervical cancer risks. Getting Pap test done every three years helps in keeping cervical cancer away, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/free-screening-prog-to-identify-cervical-cancer-958242.html
05-03-2021||State||AAP raises doubts on effective utilisation of funds by MSCL||The district unit of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has urged Mangalore Smart City Limited (MSCL) to make public the reasons behind termination of PMC (Project Management Consultant) contract with Wadia Techno Engineering Services Limited (WTE). “MSCL should also explain to public (main stakeholders) on the quality of PMC services rendered, the pros and cons arising from the termination of contract with WTE. If there are any lapses in services, WTE should be held accountable,” AAP District Convener Rajendra Kumar K P stressed. Rajendra also sought to know in detail, the selection procedures for next PMC. “Is MSCL going for second successful bidder and appoint a new consultant?,” he asked. Rajendra charged that previous stringent pre-qualification criterions had eventually prevented Mangalore-based consultancy firms from participating in tender process.  Rajendra also accused MSCL of executing PMC activities with the help of an in-house team. “AAP will like MSCL to place before the public, their in-house manpower strengths and capabilities to execute projects of such magnitude as well as the mechanism for controlling accountability of its staff while performing PMC roles in absence of appointed PMC,” Rajendra urged. The AAP leader, also a RTI activist, said the premature termination of PMC contract with WTE has cast doubts on the effective utilisation of Rs 2,000 crore funds by MSCL. Mangalore Smart City Limited In-charge Managing Director Prashant Kumar Mishra and Mangalore City Corporation (MCC) Mayor Premanand Shetty on Thursday maintained that termination of PMC (Project Management Consultant) contract with Wadia Techno Engineering Services Limited (WTE) will not have any bearings on the projects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/aap-raises-doubts-on-effective-utilisation-of-funds-by-mscl-958243.html
05-03-2021||State||Construction of FOB completed at Mangaluru junction||The construction of an additional Foot Over Bridge (FOB), connecting platform one and 2/3, has been completed at Mangaluru Railway Junction (MAJN). The work on FOB, located on north side of the station, begun at a total cost of Rs 1.55 cr in October 2019. Railway Designs and Standards Organization (RDSO) specifications had been followed in the construction of FOB. The bridge has 3.3-metre-wide stairway and gangway. The length of the gangway is 20.4 metres and it is 6.53 metres in height from the rail level. It is durable and better in functional aspects. At the edges of the steps, angles had been provided for grip and durability. On the gangway, vitrified tile surface is provided in a chess board pattern for better aesthetic appeal. Protective mesh and screen coverings have been provided on both sides to prevent contact of passengers with the live Over Head Electrical wires. The FOB also allows users a panoramic view of nature. Coated iron profile sheets are used for roofing of the FOB. Tubular sections are used in roofs to reduce the weight ofthe structure.  Trains that stop at this station At present 21 pairs of trains which includes Express trains connecting important cities like Bengaluru, Mysuru, Ernakulam, Thiruvananthapuram and states like Goa, Maharashtra (Mumbai - Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Chatrapathi Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Dadar, Pune) Gujarat (Veraval, Jamnagar, Porbander), Rajasthan (Ganganagar and Ajmer), Madhya Pradesh (Indore, Jabalpur), Haryana (Hisar) and New Delhi, stop at the station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/construction-of-fob-completed-at-mangaluru-junction-958244.html
05-03-2021||State||Seer opposes inclusion of upper castes in ST category||Valmiki Gurukula Peeta seer Brahmananda Valmiki Guruji has opposed inclusion of castes that have an advantage in education and are also well-off in the list of Scheduled Tribe. Though Valmiki community is included in ST category since 1991, the reservation benefit has not been utilised effectively by the community. It is not right to include upper castes in ST category to avail the benefits of the reservation, he told mediapersons at Patrika Bhavan in the city. If many castes are included in ST category, then genuine beneficiaries will suffer. Though Nagmohan Das Commission in the report had recommended on increasing reservation for ST community to 7.5 per cent to government, no steps have been initiated in this regard, he alleged. To protest against the inclusion of upper castes in ST category, a padayatra will be held from Doddaballapura to CM’s official residence from March 24 to 26, he said. Guruji said there are 6,000 people hailing from Valmiki community in Dakshina Kannada district. The community has been demanding land for construction of Maharshi Valmiki Dhyana Kendra, Valmiki Ramayana Adhyayana Kendra and a Valmiki Bhavana. The demand has not been fulfilled so far, he regretted and urged district administration to grant land immediately. Welcoming the construction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, he said a temple dedicated to Valmiki Guru should be constructed in the Ram Mandira complex atAyodhya. Dakshina Kannada Valmiki Nayaka Vividdhodesha Seva Sangha Vice President Yogesh urged the district administration to invite Valmiki community members to SC/ST grievance meeting convened at DC’s office. Ambedkar and Maharshi Valmiki Abhivridhi Nigama should also convene a meting every month to redress the grievances of members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seer-opposes-inclusion-of-upper-castes-in-st-category-958245.html
05-03-2021||State||DH Radio | The Lead: Sand mining in Malaprabha River basin||In this episode of The Lead, get to know the issues related to sand mining in the Malaprabha River basin and what drives illegal sand mining there.  Ahmed Shariff: Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to The Lead by DH Radio. River sand mining is a profitable business but it has its ills. One such river affected by the mining is the Malaprabha. To know more about this, we are joined by Shrinidhi R, DH's senior correspondent from Hubballi. Hi, sir and welcome to DH Radio. Shrinidhi:  Hi. Ahmed: What is the situation in the Malaprabha basin? Shrinidhi: Malaprabha is a lifeline for almost four districts — Bagalkot, Belagavi, Dharwad and Gadag. Apart from drinking water, it provides water for irrigation to 6 lakh hectares of land. But in the last two years) 2019 and 2020) there was a flood-like situation... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-radio-the-lead-sand-mining-in-malaprabha-river-basin-958292.html
05-03-2021||State||PVR opens a new 6-screen property in Mysuru||Multiplex major PVR on Friday announced the launch of a new six-screen property in Mysuru, Karnataka. "PVR Cinemas with this launch strengthens its presence in Karnataka with 109 screens in 16 properties and 292 screens across 47 properties in South. Located in the heart of India's silk city, the new PVR Cinemas spreads across an area of 32,240 sq feet and can accommodate a total of 1,078 audiences," the company said in a statement. PVR said the new property features advanced cinematic technological solutions to offer a holistic movie-going experience to the patrons in the region. Designed to deliver a hygienic, safe and wholesome cinematic experience, the new multiplex also brings in new-age technologies in a modern aesthetic avatar. Sanjeev Kumar Bijli, Joint Managing Director, PVR Ltd, said, "South is an important market for us and occupies the major share of screens, and expanding in the region holds a lot of significance for us due to the immense passion for movies among audiences. In line with the company's expansion plans, we are pleased to introduce the biggest multiplex in Mysuru and provide best-in-class entertainment and enhanced experiences to our audiences." With this opening, PVR now operates 844 screens at 177 properties in 71 cities (India and Sri Lanka). The multiplex industry has been one of the worst impacted due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. The government allowed cinema halls across the country to operate at full capacity from February 1 with adherence to Covid-19 safety protocols. Prior to that, multiplexes and cinema halls were operating at 50 per cent sitting capacity in accordance with the Unlock-5 guidelines issued by the government following Covid-19 pandemic. Multiplexes and cinema halls were closed for almost seven months and opened in October last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pvr-opens-a-new-6-screen-property-in-mysuru-958394.html
05-03-2021||State||Jarkiholi case: Activist takes documents with regards to alleged sex CD to police||Activist Dinesh Kallahalli who had filed a complaint against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has reportedly carried some documents with regard to the CD to the Cubbon Park police station in Bengaluru. Kallahalli had not appeared before the police for questioning yesterday citing threats to his life.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-case-activist-takes-documents-with-regards-to-alleged-sex-cd-to-police-958402.html
05-03-2021||State||Karnataka records 677 fresh Covid infections, four deaths||Karnataka reported 677 new Covid-19 cases and four related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9.53 lakh and the toll to 12,354, on Friday. The day also saw 427 patients getting discharged after recovery.  As on March 5, a total of 9,53,813 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,35,066 discharges. Out of 6,374 active cases, 112 are in ICUs. Bengaluru Urban reported two more deaths while Bidar and Chikkaballapur saw one fatality each. Of the fresh infections reported on Friday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 444 cases followed by Kalaburagi with 37 new cases, Tumakuru 28, Mysuru 23 and Udupi 22. A total of over 1,91,46,913 samples have been tested, so far, out of which 78,807 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-records-677-fresh-covid-infections-four-deaths-958608.html
05-03-2021||State||MLC urge govt to bring back old pension scheme||Members of the Legislative Council on Friday demanded the state government reintroduce the Old Pension Scheme (OPS). Under the new National Pension System (NPS), the pension amount (which requires 10 per cent contribution by employees) goes into mutual funds. As a result, the employees are unaware of where their money is being invested and also about how much they would get at the end of their service, the MLCs argued. MLC K T Srikante Gowda drew the attention of the House to the issue, which received support from members cutting across party lines. In his support, several MLCs, including BJP leader Ayanur Manjunath, said the government employees were made to believe that the new system was a “ticket to realise all their dreams”, at the time of implementation. In reality, the employees were unaware of where their money was being invested. Moreover, it discriminated between legislators and ordinary government employees. “As legislators, we are all still enjoying the benefits of the Old Pension Scheme. This is a discriminatory practice,” he pointed out.  Specifically raising the problem of teachers in government-aided schools, Srikante Gowda said the government had put the onus on the school managements to pitch in their share of 10 per cent for NPS, instead of the government doing it. “The school managements are not in a position to pitch in this share. As a result, these teachers are not getting any pension at all,”he said.  Responding to their demands, the ruling party leader in the House Kota Srinivas Poojary said a committee, led by the additional chief secretary, had already been constituted in 2018 to look into the issue. “We will include the issue of aided schools under the same panel,” he assured the House.  ‘Make Kannada schools govt-aided institutions’ Srikante Gowda also demanded the government to restart the process of recognising aided schools. “Kannada medium schools that have been set up after 1995 have not been taken into consideration for aid. The government should relax its regulations to include new schools at least until 2005, and bring them in the aided fold. This will be a good way to protect our Kannada medium schools,” the MLC urged. A proposal in this regard was before the finance department and owing to financial constraints, it was not taken forward, Poojary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mlc-urge-govt-to-bring-back-old-pension-scheme-958609.html
05-03-2021||State||West Bengal elections: Arvind Limbavali summoned to Delhi||Forest and Ecology Minister Arvind Limbavali was summoned by the BJP central leadership on Friday, as part of the team set up to spearhead the elections in West Bengal. The team comprising 13-14 leaders from various parts of the country have held several virtual meetings and will take part in a physical meeting during the weekend. According to sources, each of the members will handle five to 10 constituencies during the course of the eight-phase Bengal elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/west-bengal-elections-arvind-limbavali-summoned-to-delhi-958619.html
05-03-2021||State||Amid speculations, Congress' Ibrahim meets Siddaramaiah||At a time when speculations are rife about Congress MLC C M Ibrahim joining the JD(S), the senior MLC met party leader Siddaramaiah over breakfast on Friday morning. The meeting of the duo comes merely three days after Siddaramaiah went to Ibrahim’s house for a dinner. The frequent meetings are believed to be an effort on part of Congress to retain Ibrahim in the party. In December 2020, Ibrahim had met JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda. The MLC had bought some time to take a decision on joining the JD(S). Speaking to media persons after Friday’s breakfast meeting, Ibrahim rubbished all rumours of him quitting the party. “I have not said anywhere that I am joining the JD(S). I met Siddaramaiah to discuss the future course of action in state politics and my role in it. We spoke about the road ahead and issues related to it,” Ibrahim told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amid-speculations-congress-ibrahim-meets-siddaramaiah-958622.html
05-03-2021||State||One year on, kin of India's first Covid victim relives the ordeal||On March 11, 2020, Kalaburagi drew the nation's attention to the first known death in the country from an illness caused by the coronavirus. It has been almost one year since the 76-year-old Muhammad Hussain Siddiqui was confirmed as India's first Covid-19 fatality, Hamid Faisal Siddiqui(49), the elder son of the deceased, spoke to DH about the ordeal and trauma he and his family went through after his father's death. "As soon as the news of my father's death spread, the relatives and friends stayed away. When I visited a milk parlor to get milk for children, the vendors shut the door saying there is no milk. The people used to look at me in fear. The civic workers refused to clean the street on which our house located," Faisal, a chief Quazi, narrated his pain to DH. "Even though the family members tried coming to terms with the shock of the death, we could not because of the situation that we were in. At a time when the people refused help, the police and the health staff boosted our confidence by calling us twice a day to enquire about our health. The police didn't allow me to go out of the house for almost three months after the death of my father," Faisal said. Aqeela, the wife of Faisal, was working as assistant professor at Tipu Sultan Unani Medical College here. She had to resign her job as her colleagues and students feared talking to her. She is now practicing at home. The family members faced a lot of problems initially. Now, we are coming to terms with... The sudden death of our father and media spotlight we received the corresponding month last year remained etched in memory forever, he said. 'Death not due to Covid-19' Faisal claimed Muhammad Hussain Siddiqui did not die of Covid. Had he caught the virus infection, the children who played with him should have been infected. "I too was with him since he fell sick and travelled to Hyderabad along with him. I didn't contract Covid-19. I still don't understand why the authorities not issued a Covid-19 positive report till date, he asked. Treated badly Experience in Hyderabad is very terrible for us. "The doctors and staff nurses at Apollo Hospital did not go near him even though I gave them Rs 10,000 to purchase PPE kits and other safety equipment. When we decided to return to Kalaburagi, the ambulance drivers refused... Finally, we managed to get an ambulance for Rs 40,000. My father breathed his last en route to Kalaburagi. He would be alive if he was treated immediately," he said with a choking voice. One year after the incident, things seem returning to normalcy in the family. The people are inviting him and his family members to the function and are talking to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/one-year-on-kin-of-indias-first-covid-victim-relives-the-ordeal-958661.html
05-03-2021||State||Man held in connection with illegal stone quarrying||Mayakonda police nabbed a man in connection with illegal stone quarry activities and seized explosives at Gujjikonda village in Davangere taluk on Friday. According to police, the arrested has been identified as Karthik, a resident of Kurki camp. The explosives include ten gel blasters, four kg blasting powder, electric detonator and explosive booster and cables. Police have also booked case against stone quarry owner Dinesh and Tangavelu .||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/man-held-in-connection-with-illegal-stone-quarrying-958668.html
05-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Appalling!': Senior citizens' anger over Co-WIN glitches grows||A senior citizen unable to find a vaccination slot, another whose name does not appear in the beneficiary list despite registration and yet another elderly person who has to resort to procuring the vaccine outside the system. They all have one thing in common: A frustrating experience on the Co-WIN portal. Over the last 48 hours, 64-year-old Sreenivas (name changed) had been frantically searching for a vaccination slot at the hospitals in the vicinity of his postal zip code in Shantala Nagar. To his dismay, he found that many of the designated hospitals did not have available slots for vaccination. Finally, on Wednesday morning, he found an open slot at Bowring Hospital. “However, the slot was dated March 30,” he said. “It is just appalling. As a senior citizen, I wanted to get vaccinated as soon as possible not only for the sense of safety it brings. If the first dose itself is only available on March 30, when would the second dose happen?” Dr Rajani Nageshrao, deputy director, Immunisation, Department of Health and Family Welfare described the March 30 date as incorrect and as being prompted by still deficient training of hospital staff on the software. “Currently hospitals are not scheduling dates at all. They only schedule slots for the next day,” she said, suggesting that hospital staff are making errors in slot scheduling. She added that from Monday onwards, hospitals have to plan and offer slots for the 10-day periods. Another senior citizen, 68-year-old Veena, had also successfully registered but could not find an open slot at the centre of her choice, Mallige Hospital in Gandhi Nagar, near her home. Instead, she was referred to Vikram Hospital. “However, when I went to Vikram, I was stunned to find that the hospital did not even have my name in the beneficiary list,” she said. Such experiences are adding to growing anger within the public about the rollout of Phase 3 of vaccinations. “It is just chaos,” Veena said. On-spot registrations take off Many senior citizens and the government are turning to on-the-spot registrations as the fix. Dr Thrilok Chandra, Health Commissioner, noted that on-spot registrations have started from Tuesday, and added that all private hospitals would be asked to join in vaccination efforts from last week. However, experts cautioned that unless problems with the Co-WIN portal are ironed out that chaos will still reign. “Even if the scale-up happens and on-site registrations start, the data will still have to be entered in the Co-WIN portal. The system is not at all smooth at present,” said Dr H M Prasanna, President of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes' Association (PHANA). Another concern is that people would swamp vaccination centres. Dr Chandra said that the current target of 200 vaccinations per day would be increased in some hospitals and that a token system would be introduced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/appalling-senior-citizens-anger-over-co-win-glitches-grows-958443.html
05-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress' protest over Sangamesh suspension washes out Karnataka Assembly session||Congress legislators continued their protest against the suspension of party MLA BK Sangamesh on Friday, washing out proceedings at the Legislative Assembly in the first half of the day. The Assembly was adjourned twice by Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri before noon as Congress legislators raised slogans in the House. Attempts by Kageri to convince the opposition to withdraw the protest and participate in the discussion were unsuccessful. Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had demanded from the Speaker to withdraw the suspension order, which he alleged was issued unilaterally by violating house norms. However, Kageri refused to yield, which led to sloganeering by the Congress MLAs. Sangamesh, MLA from Bhadravathi, was suspended from the Assembly for a week on Thursday after he removed his shirt protesting an FIR against him and his family members. Speaking to reporters, Siddaramaiah lashed out at the Speaker of being "an agent of the Chief Minister", accusing him of suspending Sangamesh at the behest of the CM. "Removing the shirt was neither indecent nor vulgar," he said, seeking clarity on the House rule that provides for suspension for the act.  "He had removed his shirt in anger, protesting the case against seven of his family members," he added. Speaker Kageri dismissed allegations of taking a unilateral decision to suspend Sangamesh. "His suspension was under section 348 of the Legislative Assembly Rules of Procedure. He was removed only with the consent of a majority of members in the House after the ruling party moved a resolution," Kageri said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-protest-over-sangamesh-suspension-washes-out-karnataka-assembly-session-958492.html
05-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Hubballi-Dharwad rank low in ease of living index, dragged down by poor use of technology||The twin cities of Karnataka saw poor rankings in the Ease of Living (EOL) Index and municipal performance index released this week by the Centre for 2020 on the back of lagging digital payments, absence of recreation and entertainment centres, and ward committees. Hubballi-Dharwad, found in the 10-lakh-plus population category, ranks an abysmal 37th of the 49 cities evaluated for EOL, while in the Municipal Performance Index (MPI) the twin cities rank 21st. The only satisfactory note is that Hubballi-Dharwad ranked second in EOL and first in MPI for the state. A total of 111 Smart Cities were evaluated based on their efforts to cultivate a better quality of life, create infrastructure, and address challenges of urbanisation across India. And the twin cities have scored an overall point of 51.39 (out of 100) in EOL and 48.14 in the MPI. Poor in technology The cities score a mere 15.89 points and rank 46th in use of technology. Limited use of technology in payment of taxes to Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike, payment towards NWKRTC and others which could help in bringing in transparency in the administration, were the reasons behind this. The conjoined cities also performed poorly on the economic ability, scoring just 6.58 points and ranking 40th. In the citizens' perception survey, Hubballi-Dharwad ranks 40th and has scored 71 points, while the nation's average is 76.8 points. On the brighter side, the twin cities rank 5th when it comes to finance and 13 at the national level for planning. Speaking to DH, HDSCL Special Officer S H Naregal said twin cities have been included in the 10-lakh-plus population category, where it had to compete with cities like Bengaluru, Pune, Ahmedabad, Chennai, Surat, Navi Mumbai, Coimbatore, Vadodara, Indore, and Greater Mumbai. The majority of those cities are metropolitans with greater infrastructure and internet penetration. He added that at present twin cities do not have a zoo, bigger gardens, recreation parks, and other tourists spots which resulted in a poorer EOL ranking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hubballi-dharwad-rank-low-in-ease-of-living-index-dragged-down-by-poor-use-of-technology-958557.html
05-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Deputy Director of Karnataka Mines & Geology department suspended||B M Lingaraju, Deputy Director of the Mines and Geology Department in Karnataka, was suspended on Friday for allegedly indulging in corruption and harassing people. He was suspended following a departmental inquiry, a release from the office of Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani said. It said Lingaraju was accused of indulging in corruption and harassing owners of stone quarrying companies when he was functioning as acting (in-charge) Deputy Director of Mines and Geology department in Bagalkot district. Fayaz Ahmed Sheikh, Geologist, Deputy Directors Office, Mines and Geology Department, Bagalkot was earlier suspended over the same charges. Noting that Nirani took the action after receiving written complaints and proof from mining companies against the two officials during his recent visit to Bagalkot, the release said the officials were accused of indulging in massive corruption and encouraging illegal activities in Bagalkot district. Taking serious note of the issue, the minister ordered a departmental inquiry against the officials, it said, adding that the probe revealed that Lingaraju received additional royalty from stone crusher industries association in Kalaburagi district The official has been accused of rejecting the renewal application of KS Kankale, citing lack of sufficient space in the safety buffer zone and demanded a bribe of Rs 10 lakh. The probe also revealed that the officer harassed the owner of Jayadeva stone crusher to renew the unit's licence by citing safety issues and demanded a huge amount as bribe. The contractor obtained a loan, sold his assets and attempted suicide due to huge bribe amount demanded by Lingaraju, the release added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/deputy-director-of-karnataka-mines-geology-department-suspended-958663.html
05-03-2021||West||Powerloom factory gutted in fire in Thane district; no casualties or injuries||A powerloom factory was gutted in a devastating fire in the wee hours of Friday in Bhiwandi town in Thane district of Maharashtra, an official said. However, no casualty was reported. Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said the fire broke out at the factory situated on Naigaon Road at around 2.20 am. Firefighters from the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation doused the flames after about two hours, he said. No one was injured in the blaze but the powerloom factory was totally destroyed, Kadam said. The cause of the fire was not yet known, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/powerloom-factory-gutted-in-fire-in-thane-district-no-casualties-or-injuries-958319.html
05-03-2021||West||Rhea Chakraborty named in Sushant Singh Rajput's case charge sheet||Nearly nine months after Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput was found dead in his flat, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed its charge sheet in the case that involves the drug angle behind the mysterious death. Rhea Chakraborty has been named in the charge sheet. Chakraborty, her brother Showik and his friend and assistant director Rishikesh Pawar, house manager Samuel Miranda and house help Dipesh Sawant are some of the accused in the case. NCB officials said that the case was thoroughly investigated on the basis of seizures effected from the accused persons, voluntary disclosure statements, technical evidence i.e connectivity through Call details, WhatsApp Chats, details of bank accounts/financial transactions and other oral and documentary evidence. "During the course of the investigation, several seizures of various narcotics drugs and psychotropic substances, electronic gadgets and Indian as well as foreign currency were affected. The technical gadgets and the mobile phones were analyzed and the relevant incriminating evidence regarding the sale, purchase, procurement, consumption and possession of narcotics drugs were extracted. Drugs seized were sent for chemical examination," NCB officials said. They added that substantial Indian and foreign currencies have also been seized during investigation and action taken under relevant provisions. They allegedly used to get drugs for the actor. Sushant (34), who had acted in Bollywood films such as M.S. Dhoni: The Untold Story (2016), Kedarnath (2018) and Chhichhore (2019), was found dead on June 14 at his duplex flat in Mount Blanc building at Bandra here. The Bandra police station in Mumbai registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the case, however, following the first information report (FIR) registered by the actor’s father Krishna Kishore Singh in Bihar and growing demand for a detailed probe and request by the Bihar government, the Supreme Court ordered a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). On August 19, the CBI formally took over the case and then the Enforcement Directorate (ED) joined in to probe the financial angle and NCB was roped in to investigate the drugs angle. It needs to be mentioned here that the NCB has 180 days to file the charge sheet under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). There are two sets of cases that were registered by NCB – FIR 15/2020 and FIR 16/2020 – and there seems to be a common thread, according to the investigations conducted so far by the federal anti-drug agency. While 15/2020 deals with the drug angle vis-à-vis Sushant Singh Rajput case, 16/2020 involves a probe of the larger Bollywood-drug cartel nexus. Over the last five-plus months, the NCB had gathered evidence through searches, narcotics seizures, data analysis, statements and technical investigation. WhatsApp chats of the suspects have also been analysed in detail. The NCB has arrested around 30 persons during the investigations – which include drug suppliers, peddlers and couriers.  It needs to be mentioned that the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government had come under fierce attack of the BJP and the social media over the investigations of the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rhea-chakraborty-named-in-sushant-singh-rajputs-case-charge-sheet-958354.html
05-03-2021||West||Former chief secretary Sanjay Kumar appointed MERC chairman||Retired bureaucrat Sanjay Kumar has been appointed the new chairman of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC), an official said on Friday. The former IAS officer's appointment to the post was cleared by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray late on Thursday, he said. Kumar, who retired on February 28 as chief secretary of the state, will serve as MERC chairman for five years, the official said. Veteran bureaucrat Sitaram Kunte has succeeded Kumar as the top officer of the state bureaucracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-chief-secretary-sanjay-kumar-appointed-merc-chairman-958372.html
05-03-2021||West||Filing review plea on SC's OBC quota ruling an option: Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar||Moving the Supreme Court with a review petition against its ruling that reservations to Other Backward Classes cannot exceed 50 per cent of the seats in local bodies reserved for SCs, STs and OBCs taken together, was an option before the Maharashtra government, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said in the Assembly on Friday. The Supreme Court on Thursday said reservation in favour of Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in concerned local bodies in Maharashtra cannot exceed aggregate 50 per cent of the total seats reserved for Scheduled Castes, the Scheduled Tribes and OBCs taken together. The apex court, while reading down section 12(2)(c) of the Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act, 1961, that provided 27 per cent quota for persons belonging to backward class, also quashed notifications issued by the State Election Commission (SEC) in 2018 and 2020 to the extent of providing seat reservation in local bodies concerned for OBCs. It said election results of OBC candidates, which had been made subject to the outcome of pleas pending before it, are declared as non-est in law and the vacancy of seats be forthwith filled up by the SEC for the remaining term of the local bodies concerned. Raising the issue in the Legislative Assembly, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of the BJP demanded that the Question Hour be set aside and the MVA government make a statement, saying the apex court judgement will have a far-reaching impact on OBCquota. Fadnavis criticised the government for neglecting the issue of OBC quota and not forming a commission to collect empirical data on Other Backward Classes population. "I demand that the government file a review petition citing the coronavirus pandemic and form an OBC commission at the earliest. The government should seek a stay on the order. "During my tenure (as chief minister), the government had promulgated an ordinance of proportional reservation to OBCs. But the ordinance has now lapsed. The court order puts a question mark on the obc reservations," the BJP MLA said. Pawar, while responding to Fadnavis, said elections to local bodies as per the Mandal Commission-mandated quota (for OBCs) are being held since 1994. The Supreme Court order is only regarding local bodies in Dhule, Nandurbar, Nagpur, Akola, Washim, Bhandara and Gondia districts, he said. "The court order is restricted to a few local bodies. But, if Fadnavis says the entire state can be impacted, we will have to find a solution. I suggest all of us meet to discuss and find a way out," the Deputy Chief Minister said. He said the verdict was discussed by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with cabinet colleagues on Thursday evening. Pawar said the MVA government is committed to OBC reservation. "If the court verdict impacts all zilla parishads, then the issue will be discussed with political parties and legal experts to arrive at a solution," the Deputy CM said. However, moving the Supreme Court with a review petition against its ruling was an option before the Maharashtra government, Pawar said. Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal asked the government to make a statement on the issue before the budget session ends on March 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/filing-review-plea-on-scs-obc-quota-ruling-an-option-maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-958417.html
05-03-2021||West||Civic Polls: Goa BJP removes state spokesperson Dattaprasad Naik||Ahead of the civic polls in Panaji, the Goa BJP on Friday removed its state spokesperson Dattaprasad Naik from the post. State BJP President Sadanand Shet Tanavade issued an order stating that Naik has been relieved from his post. While Naik was unavailable for comment, sources in the party claimed that the removal is a part of an exercise to bring in discipline in the set up ahead of the civic polls. The Panaji-based leader is an arch-rival of local MLA Atanasio Monserrate, who is heading a panel for the polls to the Corporation of City of Panaji (CCP), scheduled to be held on March 20. "In view of the reconstitution of responsibilities, you are hereby relieved as the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party, Goa Pradesh," the order stated. Tanavade on Wednesday had told reporters in Margao city that the party will address the rebellion within its fold in the next two to three days. The elections for 11 municipal councils and the CCP are scheduled to be held later this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/civic-polls-goa-bjp-removes-state-spokesperson-dattaprasad-naik-958431.html
05-03-2021||West||Maharashtra’s debt crosses Rs 5 lakh crore||Amid a Covid-19 triggered slowdown and projected negative growth, Maharashtra’s debt stock has crossed a whopping Rs five lakh crore. According to the Economic Survey of Maharashtra 2020-21, the debt stock currently stood at 5,20,717 crore (budget estimates) while the interest payment due was Rs 35,531 crore.  In 2019-20, the debt stock stood at Rs 4,64,020 crore (revised estimates), the interest due was Rs 34,173 crore. The debt stock of Rs 5,20,717 crore, which is 19.6 per cent of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), well within the limit – 25 per cent of the GSDP – as per Fiscal Policy Strategy Statement 2020-21. The Economic Survey said that the state’s economy is expected to grow by minus 8 per cent during 2020-21 – a similar growth what the Indian economy is expected to grow. Maharashtra’s Agriculture and allied activities to grow by 11.7%; Industry by minus 11.3% and Services by minus nine per cent in 2021. As per the advance estimates, nominal (at current prices) GSDP for 2020-21 is expected to be Rs 26.61 lakh crore and real (at constant 2011-12 prices) it is expected to be Rs 19.62 lakh crore for Maharashtra, according to the Economic Survey, prepared by Directorate of Economics and Statistics, that was tabled in both the Houses of Maharashtra Legislature on Friday. The revenue receipts of the state are Rs 3,47,457 crore for 2020-21 (BE) as against Rs 3,09,881 crore during 2019-20 (RE). The tax and non-tax revenue (including central grants) as per 2020-21 (BE) are Rs 2,73,181 crore and Rs 74,276 crore respectively. Actual revenue receipts during April to December 2020 were Rs 1,76,450 crore (50.8 per cent of BE). The revenue expenditure of the State is Rs 3,56,968 crore as per 2020-21 (BE) as against 3,41,324 crore during 2019-20 (RE). As on March 31, 2020, aggregate bank deposits and gross credit of scheduled commercial banks in the state were Rs 27.55 lakh crore and Rs 28.26 lakh crore respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-debt-crosses-rs-5-lakh-crore-958452.html
05-03-2021||West||Man whose explosive-laden SUV was found near Ambani's home, found dead||In a shocking and intriguing development, the man whose SUV was parked with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening note seized near the home of Reliance Industries Limited Chairman Mukesh Ambani, has been found dead on Friday. The body of Mansukh Hiren, a businessman, was recovered from the Reti-Bunder creek at Mumbra in Thane district. The incident comes as a major embarrassment to the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government even as the opposition BJP demanded the resignation of state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and that the case be transferred to the National Investigation Agency. The stolen Mahindra Scorpio was lying abandoned near a tree located near Antilia, the house of Ambani at the Carmichael Road residence on February 25 – and the police seized 20-odd gelatin sticks and a letter threatening Ambani and his wife Nita Ambani, the Chairperson of Reliance Foundation.   "Ye to sirf ek trailer hai. Neeta Bhabhi, Mukesh Bhaiyya, family... ye to sirf ek jhalak hai. Agli baar ye saaman pura hokar tumhare pass aayega, aur pura intezaam ho gaya hai," the threatening letter read. An FIR was registered by the Gamdevi police station but parallel probe was ordered by the Crime Branch-CID – and Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit was made the Investigating Officer. The body was recovered at a time when Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the Maharashtra government provide security to Hiren. Initiating a discussion on the Law & Order situation in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly,  Fadnavis demanded government hand over the probe to the NIA. “There are several strange coincidences in the case,” Fadnavis said. He also pointed out that Hiren seemed to know Vaze and telephone records confirm this fact. “The local police station does not reach there, the Crime Branch does not reach there, but Sachin Vaze reaches....he seizes the car, threat letter,” he said. He also questioned why the probe was given to Vaze when the police earlier said that an Assistant Commissioner of Police would carry out the probe. However, minutes later, reports came that Hiren has been found dead. Fadnavis has asked Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to reply on the issue. Meanwhile, Thackeray is learnt to have sought a detailed report from Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe. Hiren, in his statement to Mumbai Police had reportedly claimed that his car had not been in use for over a year and he recently drove the car because he wanted to sell it. He said that his car had broken down, after which he parked it at the Mulund-Airoli Link Road. He said that when he returned to the spot the next day, the car was not there. Deshmukh said that the car belonged to one Sam Peter Newton, who had given the car to Hiren’s automobile spare-parts company for fixing its interiors. “The car owner could not pay the dues so Hiren took the car,” he said. He also said that Vaze is not the Investigation Officer but Assistant Commissioner of Police Nitin Aluknare is on the investigation. However, Fadnavis pointed out that in the police statement, Hiren had said that he had purchased the car from Newton. “There are ifs and buts and coincidences that needs to be probed and hence it should be given to NIA,” he said. "There were not one but two cars. One was Scorpio and one Innova. Both the cars came from Thane and have followed the same route and reached the location," Fadnavis said, adding that both Vaze and Hiren are Thane residents. BJP objects to Vaze's presence in the hospital where Hiren's body is held The BJP has taken objection to the presence of Vaze in the hospital in Thane where the post-mortem of the body of Mansukh Hiren is being conducted. “What is he doing there...we have information that Sachin Vaze is in the hospital where the post-mortem is being done,” senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra minister Ashish Shelar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-whose-explosive-laden-suv-was-found-near-ambanis-home-found-dead-958478.html
05-03-2021||West||Arnab gets exemption from appearance in suicide abetment case till April 16||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted interim exemption to TV journalist Arnab Goswami from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibaug in adjoining Raigad district in connection with abetment to suicide case. The relief has been granted till April 16. Goswami, the Republic TV Editor-in-Chief, and two others are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibaug-based interior designer Anvay Naik, who killed himself in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused. They were arrested on November 4, 2020. The accused failed to get relief from the HC after which they approached the Supreme Court which granted them bail on November 11. On Friday, Goswami's advocate Sanjog Parab told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale his client has been directed to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Alibaug, a coastal town 100km from Mumbai, on March 10 for committal of the trial in the case to a sessions court. The HC was hearing a petition filed by Goswami challenging the FIR lodged against him by the Raigad police in the case and the subsequent chargesheet submitted in the local court. The 47-year-old journalist, who has denied charges levelled against him in the case, has sought the HC to quash the FIR. Parab sought the HC to grant Goswami exemption from appearance in the local court. Since we are seized of the matter, we grant the petitioner (Goswami) protection with regard to exemption from appearance till April 16 when we will hear the plea further, the court said in its order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/arnab-gets-exemption-from-appearance-in-suicide-abetment-case-till-april-16-958502.html
05-03-2021||West||More time given to panel for report on notices against Arnab, Kangana||The Maharashtra legislature on Friday extended till the last day of next legislature session the time for the privileges committee to submit its report on breach of privilege notices against journalist Arnab Goswami and Bollywood actress Kangana Ranaut. A proposal for deadline extension was moved in the Assembly by privileges committee chairman Deepak Kesarkar. Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik had submitted the breach of privilege notices against Goswami and Ranaut to the office of the Assembly Speaker on September 7 for their "objectionable" comments. Sarnaik had taken objection to Goswami's comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other ministers while reporting on the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. The breach of privilege notice against Ranaut was for comparing Mumbai with Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir (POK). Shiv Sena MLC Manisha Kayande had moved the breach of privilege motion in the Legislative Council against Republic TV editor-in-chief Goswami on September 8 last year. Similarly, Congress MLC Ashok alias Bhai Jagtap had moved a motion against Ranaut on the same day, accusing her of making objectionable remarks about Mumbai and the city police. The actress last year waded into a controversy after she likened Mumbai to POK and also stated that she feared the Mumbai police more than the movie mafia. The two houses extended the time of the privileges committee to submit its report on the notices till the end of the next legislature session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/more-time-given-to-panel-for-report-on-notices-against-arnab-kangana-958510.html
05-03-2021||West||Police bust arms manufacturing unit of Maoists in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli; One cop sustains bullet injury||In a major well-coordinated 48-hour-long operation, police and security forces have busted an arms manufacturing unit of outlawed Maoists in Gadchiroli district in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. Nearly 70-odd officers and men of the Gadchiroli police were involved in the operation, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told reporters in the Vidhan Bhavan complex in Mumbai. According to him, it was a successful Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC) against the Maoists. “I would like to congratulate all the police personnel involved in the operation. It was a huge success,” he said. One jawan sustained injury in his leg because of a bullet injury, in the operation at the remote and virtually inaccessible core areas of the rebels. “His condition is stable,” said Deshmukh. Air support was provided to the police team – and a helicopter was sent out to assist the policemen during the action that was based on pin-pointed intelligence. A large number of paramilitary forces, along with state police, were sent to the spot to help the C-60 squad of elite commandos during the operation along the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border. The operation was led by Deputy Inspector General Sandeep Patil and Superintendent of Police Ankit Tyagi. The casualties inflicted on the other side is not yet known.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-bust-arms-manufacturing-unit-of-maoists-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-one-cop-sustains-bullet-injury-958539.html
05-03-2021||West||Maharashtra reports over 10,000 Covid cases for the first time since October||Increasing the concerns of the state government, Maharashtra on Friday reported over 10,000 cases, the first time since mid-October last year. On Friday, 10,216 cases and 53 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 21,98,399 and 52,393, respectively. The total active cases in the state mounted to 88,838. Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Amravati and Nagpur districts reported the bulk of the cases during the 24-hour period. The fatality rate in the state is 2.38 per cent. While Mumbai reported 1,174 fresh cases, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region recorded 2,135 new cases of infection. Next week, the Maharashtra government is expected to undertake a comprehensive review of the pandemic situation and the vaccination drive. Out of 1,66,86,880 laboratory samples, 21,98,399 have been tested positive (13.17%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently, 4,10,411 people are in home quarantine and 4,203 people are in institutional  quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-over-10000-covid-cases-for-the-first-time-since-october-958548.html
05-03-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare: Heated exchange between MVA, BJP||The death of the prime witness in the incident of parking of gelatin stick-laden Scorpio near Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia rocked the Maharashtra Legislature on Friday, with the Opposition BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi government engaging in a war of words. The BJP members were on their feet as the MVA government rejected the demand of handing over the case from the Mumbai Police to the National Investigation Agency. “The prime witness in the case is dead. In fact, I demanded that he be given protection, we were apprehending that there was a threat to his life. What has happened is fishy, serious. There are strange coincidences. We demand that there should be an NIA probe,” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis told the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Fadnavis also raised doubts over the role of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. However, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of NCP, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab of Shiv Sena and Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole rejected the demand of an NIA probe. Fadnavis said that he would submit the evidence that he has and write to Union Home Minister Amit Shah for an NIA probe. "The state government seems to be trying to protect someone, let the NIA probe," he said. “There is no need for an NIA probe. The Maharashtra Police is capable enough, so are the Thane Police and the Mumbai Police,” said Deshmukh. Parab pointed out that the Opposition should have faith in the state police. “You are an ex-Chief Minister, you have handled the Home portfolio, you have praised the police,” he told Fadnavis. Patole, a former Speaker said that in the Bhima-Koregaon case, the NIA on its own took over the probe and the state government was never consulted.  “Let us not create doubts about our police,” he said. BJP MLAs Sudhir Mungantiwar, Girish Mahajan and Ashish Shelar, all former ministers, demanded that the case be handed over to the CBI. An agitated Deshmukh told Fadnavis: “You are naming Vaze again and again. Are you angry with the fact that Vaze was the one who arrested (Republic Media Network Editor-in-Chief) Arnab Goswami in the Anvay Naik suicide case and he was kept in judicial custody for seven days?” Amid protests by BJP, Deshmukh further said: “We have respect for NIA, CBI, ED and NCB. We also have respect for Maharashtra Police, CID and ATS.” He said that it is now six months that the CBI is probing the Sushant Singh Rajput death case. “We have been repeatedly asking about the outcome of the investigation, but nothing has been said so far,” he pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-heated-exchange-between-mva-bjp-958562.html
05-03-2021||West||Antilia bomb scare case: Car owner's wife raises questions over his death||After her husband Mansukh Hiren, the man whose SUV was parked with 20-odd gelatin sticks along with a threatening note near the home of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, was found dead on Friday, Vimala Hiren said that he couldn't have died by suicide. Mansukh Hiren's body was recovered from the Reti-Bunder creek at Mumbra in Thane district. During a brief interaction with newspersons outside her residence, Vimala said, "Our car was stolen around 8 days ago....my husband was cooperating with the police," adding that he used to go to the Crime Branch on a regular basis. "They (police) used to call him almost daily...he was cooperating...they used to make him sit the whole day," said an inconsolable Vimala.  She also said that her husband's mobile phone was switched off since last evening. "He said he was called to Ghodbunder by an officer of the Kandivali Crime Branch named Tawde...he (Tawde) used to call him....yesterday he told us that it was Tawde from Kandivali Crime Branch....but he (Tawde) was not present when he reached...after that, his phone was switched off," she said.  Hiren's family lodged a missing complaint with the Thane police after he did not return. "We saw in the news that he had committed suicide, but that is not true...he cannot commit suicide...it is a rumour," she said. Upon asking if she was suspicious of someone, Vimala said, "We cannot say anything....let there be a proper probe...there should be an in-depth probe."  A close family friend, Sahil Lodha, said that it was definitely not a case of suicide. "There must be a detailed probe....the entire Jain community is with the family," he said.  Hiren's stolen Mahindra Scorpio was found lying abandoned near a tree located near Antilia, the house of Ambani at the Carmichael Road residence on February 25 – and the police seized 20-odd gelatin sticks and a letter threatening Ambani and his wife Nita Ambani, the Chairperson of Reliance Foundation.   Hiren, in his statement to the Mumbai Police, had reportedly claimed that his car had not been in use for over a year and he had recently driven the car because he wanted to sell it. He said that his car had broken down, after which he parked it at the Mulund-Airoli Link Road and added that when he returned to the spot the next day, the car was missing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-bomb-scare-case-car-owners-wife-raises-questions-over-his-death-958613.html
05-03-2021||West||Gujarat records 515 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in several weeks||Gujarat recorded 515 new coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single- day spike in one-and-half months, which took the caseload to 2,72,240, the state health department said on Friday evening. With a single fatality, the death toll rose to 4,413. As many as 405 coronavirus patients were discharged from the hospital, taking the recovery count to 2,64,969, which is 97.33 per cent of the caseload. There are 2,858 active cases in the state now, including 43 on ventilator support, the department said. Ahmedabad reported 115 new cases, followed by 110 in Surat, 103 in Vadodara and 56 in Rajkot. So far, 12.37 lakh people have been given a first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat while 2.90 lakh have got a second dose too. No new case was reported in Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu in the last 24 hours, leaving it with a case tally of 3,379 and active caseload of five. Gujarat Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 2,72,240, New cases 515, Death toll 4,413, Discharged 2,64,969, Active cases 2,858, and people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-515-new-covid-19-cases-highest-spike-in-several-weeks-958626.html
05-03-2021||West||Mumbai Police's Sachin Vaze, an old friend of controversies||Controversies are not new to Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. The 49-year old is now with the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch-CID of the Mumbai Police, now handling cases like the sensational TRP rigging scam, the Anvay Naik suicide case in which he arrested TV anchor-editor Arnab Goswami, sports car scam involving Dilip Chhabria and Bollywood-TV-entertainment industry’s casting couch racket. Tech-savvy Vaze knows how to get the best of gadgets and gizmos. He has solved several cyber crime cases, financial frauds and one international credit card fraud case. Vaze joined the police in 1990 as a sub-inspector and was initially posted in the Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district and then in Thane. When he entered Mumbai Police, he went on to become one of the “encounter specialists” and eliminated several gangsters including those belonging to Dawood Ibrahim's and Chhota Rajan's gangs. On March 3, 2004, Sachin Vaze was suspended along with 14 other policemen on murder charges on the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, a suspect in the December 2, 2002 Ghatkopar bomb blast case. He subsequently resigned from the police on November 30, 2007, after requests for his reinstatement were rejected by the Maharashtra Government. His suspension was revoked and he was reinstated to Mumbai police on 6 June 2020, during the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and ensuing lockdown due to shortage of police staff. After his reinstatement, Khawaja Yunus's mother Asiya Begum filed contempt pleas in the Bombay High Court against Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Additional Director General of Police Amitabh Gupta. The latter was the Principal Secretary of the Home department and is now Pune Police chief.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-polices-sachin-vaze-an-old-friend-of-controversies-958657.html
