06-03-2021||First Edit||Dissent not sedition. Thank you, SC||The verdict has implications that go beyond the case that was before the bench. The court explained that “the expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the central government itself cannot be said to be seditious.’’ This sends out a clear message to the government not to take vengeful actions of the extreme kind that are now resorted to against critics and those who disagree with its policies and decisions. Sedition charges have been foisted against people on the flimsiest grounds. All governments have used Section 124-A of the IPC, which deals with sedition, inappropriately. But the present government has used it more indiscriminately than others. There is a political culture being deliberately nurtured and promoted in the country in which critics are harassed, bullied and intimidated in various ways. The nation is sought to be equated with the government, and those who oppose the government become traitors to the nation. The sedition clause is a colonial-era legacy which says that “whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation or otherwise brings or attempts to bring into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards the government shall be punished with imprisonment for life.” This is a provision that should have no place in a democracy. The Supreme Court has made it clear that the provision should be invoked only if there is a disruption of public order or incitement to violence. But it is routinely misused. Between 2016 and 2019, the number of cases filed under Section 124-A increased by 160% but the conviction rate dropped to 3.3%. A provision which is so prone to misuse should be dropped from the statute book altogether, as many democratic countries have done. There is no democracy without dissent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/dissent-not-sedition-thank-you-sc-958737.html
06-03-2021||In Perspective||On Myanmar, a deliberate poise||India’s neighbourhood policy is being tested like never before, thanks to an ongoing border stand-off with China, a faltering relationship with Nepal over an unusual assertion of sovereignty by the Oli government, and perpetual high tensions with Pakistan. The February 1 coup in Myanmar has only compounded matters. Initially, the Ministry of External Affairs reacted cautiously to the coup in Myanmar, expressing “deep concern” and noting past support for democratic transition. The careful reaction by New Delhi illustrates the guarded nature of its approach to developments in Naypyidaw. India was not always so supportive of Myanmar’s generals. After the 1962 coup, India-Myanmar ties were severely restricted. When Myanmar began its democracy movement in 1988 and acts of violence by the military were widespread, India was among the first to be critical, even aiding pro-democracy activists through the Indian Embassy. In 1993, India honoured Aung San Suu Kyi with the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding. The Modi government’s fence-riding approach to the current coup is indicative of how India’s interests have changed over the years and how those interests crisscross with those of China in Southeast Asia. There is a deliberate poise in India’s approach to the Tatmadaw – that of seeking to avoid interference in the internal affairs of other states while balancing that with its security compulsions. The situation in Myanmar is complex for India as it is caught between the pressure to join the chorus of nations calling for a return to democracy and the indispensability of Myanmar in helping India contain its insurgency in the North-East. The other issue is of China, and its increasing stakes inside Myanmar, particularly its stakes with anti-India insurgents. Furthermore, Myanmar’s ability to help India in the North-East is complicated by the Tatmadaw’s own complex relations with China. This geopolitical intricacy overrides India’s stand on the current crisis. Although it may put India in league with China in keeping out of a chorus for the return of democracy, it is underscored by India’s own security necessities in the North-East. For example, Myanmar helped India conduct joint operations inside its sovereign territory to contain insurgency in the North-East in June 2015 against insurgents belonging to the National Socialist Council of Nagaland-Khaplang (NSCN-K). More recently, in January, NSCN-K leader Niki Sumi was forced to abandon its base in Myanmar after an offensive by the Tatmadaw. This came after a visit by Indian Army Chief General M M Naravane to Myanmar. The rooting out of Sumi was seen as a victory for India and the result of strengthened ties in Myanmar and in the wider Indo-Pacific. Myanmar has also become another front in the geopolitical competition between India and China. While China has developed a number of infrastructure projects in the country, concerns have been raised about Beijing’s growing economic clout. China eventually agreed to a lower 70% stake in the strategically important Kyaukpyu seaport, a critical component in its Belt and Road Initiative linking regional economies with mainland China. Beijing is also a supplier of arms and other equipment to insurgent groups in the country, some of which carry out activities inside India. Recent visits by Chinese leaders to Myanmar, such as that of Xi Jinping in January 2020, have demonstrated a renewed focus on Myanmar. China is all over the geographical map in Myanmar -- from oil and gas pipelines to railways that would link the interior with the Chinese mainland. As such, Chinese interests inside Myanmar have also aimed to sabotage India’s presence, which makes the current political crisis of grave concern to both New Delhi and Beijing. India’s current stand creates a broader spectrum of relationships with Myanmar, which is unique insofar as it has demonstrated its capacity to work with both a military regime and a democratically-elected leader. India, in the future, is likely to cautiously nudge the Tatmadaw into returning to democratic rule but will likely continue to work with General Min Aung Hlaing, with whom it has a working relationship. In 2019, India and Myanmar signed a memorándum of understanding to elevate cooperation in the defence sector, evidenced in $100 million in military sales. India is now the top defence supplier to Myanmar, compared to China, which has sold arms worth about $47 million. Since the construction of the Kyaukpyu seaport, China’s ability to circumvent its Malacca dilemma has underscored the immediacy of a geostrategic upper hand in the Bay of Bengal --and increased the importance of Myanmar in India’s foreign policy. Myanmar is important to India in terms of internal security as well as external factors, such as the strategic competition with China. Therefore, India has prioritised its own security interests over the temptation to push for democracy, reflective of a new sense of realpolitik in Indian foreign policy. (Cogan is Associate Professor of Peace and Conflict Studies at Kansai Gaidai University, Osaka, Japan; Mishra is Deputy Director, Kalinga Institute of Indo-Pacific Studies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/on-myanmar-a-deliberate-poise-958736.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bull ‘Esuru Dange’ in Shikaripur gets martyr-like funeral||Thousands of people from various villages in Shikaripur taluk paid homage to their beloved bull ‘Esuru Dange’ (Esuru revolt), treating it on par with a martyr, by holding the national flag during the funeral procession in Esuru village on Friday. According to the villagers, the bull had taken part in bull race events held in various districts across the state and had emerged as the winner many times. The people of the taluk had become fond of the bull as it had brought honour to the region through its performance in those bull races and had rarely suffered defeat. The death of the bull on March 4 devastated the villagers of the taluk. The owner of the bull is Prashanth, a dentist who is also the Vice President of the State Halu Matha Maha Sabha. Manju was the caretaker of the bull in the village. To honour their beloved bull, the villagers carried it in a procession while holding the national flag before it was buried in the farm of Manju in the village. Women performed puja to the bull which had been decorated with garlands. It may be recalled that Esuru was the first village in the country to form an independent government in 1942, much before the nation gained independence from British rule in 1947.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bull-esuru-dange-in-shikaripur-gets-martyr-like-funeral-958677.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru woman arrested for murdering husband||A woman in Bantwal taluk allegedly murdered her husband by attacking him with a sickle. The accused has been identified as Umavathi (50) and the victim is Sesappa Poojary (60). According to the police, Sesappa Poojary in an inebriated condition got into a quarrel with Umavathi on March 3 and after he assaulted her in a fit of rage, Umavathi attacked him with a sickle on his forehead. The injury remained untreated. Owing to excessive bleeding, he died on Friday night. Following the complaint by victim’s daughter Nayana, the Bantwal Rural Police registered a case and arrested the woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-woman-arrested-for-murdering-husband-958858.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Siddaramaiah should be ashamed to support suspended MLA Sangamesh: Shettar||Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar slammed Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Assembly, for justifying the deeds of Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh in the House, saying that he should be ashamed to support Sangamesh. “Today Siddaramaiah is supporting Sangamesh’s act of standing shirtless in assembly, tomorrow he may encourage an MLA of being ‘dress less,” he said, adding that Sangamesh should be suspended from assembly for rest of the term for his unruly behaviour in the Assembly and for threatening the speaker. Sangamesh was suspended from the Assembly for a week on Thursday after he removed his shirt protesting an FIR against him and his family members. He said that the Speaker’s ruling is final and can not be questioned, adding that threatening the Speaker amounts to a breach of privilege, and Sangamesh is known for indulging in threatening politics all through his life in Bhadravathi. Sangamesh is not fit to be an MLA, he said. Shettar also told the media that some ministers in Yediyurappa’s cabinet have knocked the doors of court as precautionary measures against their character assassination. He said one can not restore a man’s reputation once a piece of wrong information is circulated. “To prevent such a scenario, six ministers have approached the court and there is nothing wrong in it,” he said and added that elected representatives are living in strange times, where a victim of sexual harassment is not filing a case, but someone else is. When asked about Ramesh Jarkiholi case and electing his brother Balachandra Jarkiholi as a cabinet minister, Shettar said he would not discuss such issues in public and the party will take a decision on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siddaramaiah-should-be-ashamed-to-support-suspended-mla-sangamesh-shettar-958942.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Narayana Gowda defends application for injunction||Speaking to reporters here, Narayana Gowda asked activist Dinesh Kalahalli to make public the CDs of other ministers. The minister said, “We are not asking to hide the truth and we bow if the truth is telecasted. We approached the court seeking protection. He asked Dinesh Kalahalli to release CDs of other ministers soon. “Why he is delaying?” Narayana Gowda questioned. Speaking about Ramesh Jarkiholi’s scandal, he claimed it is his personal matter and it is not possible to believe all the matter in the video. “The video might be fake,” he defended. Gowda also said, he does not know why he is identified as ‘Bombay Kalla’. “I am in Mumbai then Bombay from last 32 long years and there is not even a single case against me. I will retire from politics if I have done anything wrong,” he challenged. It has to be noted that JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy had described him as ‘Bombay Kalla’ when he quit the JD(S) and joined the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/narayana-gowda-defends-application-for-injunction-958979.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parva - conflict of thought, conflict in action: Belavadi||‘Parva’ is an ambitious project of Rangayana-Mysuru, a government-sponsored repertory. While Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariyappa says that the objective to stage ‘Parva’ is to make the attention of theatre enthusiasts of entire India to turn on Karnataka, play director Prakash Belavadi says, Parva is all about converting ‘conflict of thoughts into conflict in action’. The first show of ‘Parva’, the magnum opus of Rangayana, will be held at 10 am on March 12, Friday, at Kalamandira, here. Repeat shows of the seven-and-a-half-hour play, an adaptation of ‘Parva’, a novel by S L Bhyrappa, first published in 1979, is on March 13 and 14, at Kalamandira. From March 25, the shows will be at Bhoomigeetha auditorium, up to three months on weekends. The play will be staged in three parts, on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, at 6.30 pm, while it will be staged in full, with two breaks, on Sundays, from 10 am. DH: None of S L Bhyrappa’s literary works were experimented by Rangayana, so far. Why Bhyrappa now, and why ‘Parva’? Cariappa: Bhyrappa is one of the best and most-read writer of our times. Just before the Covid lockdown, we had staged another big project ‘Malegalalli Madumagalu’, based on Kuvempu’s novel. His classic work ‘Sri Ramayana Darshanam’ was staged in 2019. Lockdown restricted our movement and activities. By following Covid guidelines, we experimented ‘Vachabhinaya’ of ‘Kusumabaale’ of Devanuru Mahadeva, ‘Bommanahalliya Kindarijogi’ of Kuvempu, theatre festivals and workshops. To put the talent of our artistes and technicians and, also their time and energy, to good use, we planned a long-term project. Rangayana is meant to do the impossible. Thus, ‘Parva’ happened. Prakash: It is a culmination of various aspects. It is coincidence. Bhyrappa is one of the greatest living writers in India. I had contacted Bhyrappa earlier, about Parva’s adaptation as play. But, I could not explain to him on how I will do it. When Cariappa approached to do a project on Bhyrappa’s works, we held a consultation with Rangayana artistes. We started with ‘Sartha’ and finalised ‘Parva’. If not now, when?’ was the question. What are the interesting aspects of Parva? Prakash: Parva is the extreme of consciousness narrative. It is monologic narrative translated into dialogic, to make it a human drama. Humans have internal conflict. There is no choice before the characters, even though they know what is right and what is wrong. Parva is a translation of ‘conflict of thought’ into ‘conflict in action’. For most professional as well as amateur theatre persons, Bhyrappa or his literary works were either untouchable or difficult, for their own reasons. Of late, Bhyrappa is fit into a particular ideology, by a section of both his critics as well as fans? Over the years, your ideology has evolved. Is there a difference in your perception of the novel, now? Prakash: I am still a Leftist, by ideology and action. I follow Karl Marx’s principle of ‘From each according to his ability, to each according to his needs’ in letter and spirit. I am only opposed to division of the society on Leftist ideology. The New Left has made a virtue of ‘divisive ideology’. I read Parva only a few years back. Since then, I have read a few of his works. Now, I realise what I missed. There is a huge hype on ‘Parva’. An aura is created around it. There is a huge expectation. New theatre enthusiasts are created. Does it mount pressure on the team? Prakash: Pressure is pleasure in theatre. We do the impossible on stage in theatre. It is greater pressure if only three people turn up to watch it. A section of theatre enthusiasts are against the price of tickets. They say that amateur troupes are mandated to stage plays without selling any ticket, even if they get just Rs 20,000 as aid from the government. How do you justify the pricing? Cariappa: Rangayana is an autonomous repertory, with Rangasamaja as apex body. Rangayana is allowed to avail donations and sell tickets to mobilse funds, to strengthen. Rangayana has only 12 artistes, but Parva troupe is expanded to 40. We are preparing since six months, by paying salaries to artistes. Big names like Prakash Belavadi and Prasad Biddappa are associated. Government funds of Rs 50 lakh is only for production. Rangayana’s regular price of tickets is Rs 100 for the two-and-a half hour episode of Parva and Rs 250 for the entire play. Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 tickets are only for the first three shows. The premium Rs 1,000 tickets are all bought by S L Bhyrappa Sahitya Prathistana. Besides, most of the enquiry is for Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 tickets. People do not mind paying Rs 100 for a good play. When you spend money on cinema, you create an asset, which can be multiplied in copies and exhibited any number of times, on multiple platforms. When you spend a huge amount on a theatre production, how do you intend to create an asset and justify the investment? Prakash: If the government intends to create an asset like a movie, it could have established a film production company rather than a repertory. The idea is about creating intangible assets. Watching Amitabh Bachchan act on stage is anytime a bigger experience than watching his film on television.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parva-conflict-of-thought-conflict-in-action-belavadi-958980.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Agro scientist ‘Rice Mahadevappa’ passes away||Eminent agriculture scientist and plant breeder M Mahadevappa (84), popularly known as ‘Rice Mahadevappa’, died of age-related ailments in Mysuru on Saturday. Mahadevappa leaves behind his wife, a son and a daughter. The final rites of the departed soul will be held at his native village Madapura, Chamarajanagar district, on Sunday noon. Suttur mutt seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami, junior seer Sri Jayarajendra Swami and Siddeshwara Swami of Jnana Yogashrama paid the last respects. Mahadevappa is a recipient of several awards, including Padma Bhushan in 2013, Padma Shri in 2005, Rajyotsava Award in 1984 and Bharat Ratna Sir M Visveswaraya Memorial Award in 1999. He served as vice-chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, for two terms and as chairman of Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board, under Indian Council of Agricultural Research. He also served as director of JSS Rural Development Foundation, Mysuru. Mahadevappa’s contributions to agriculture, through innovations, are significant. He developed nine varieties of high yielding paddy. Besides, he made efforts to eradicate Parthenium, a weed, through Integrated Parthenium Weed Management, a scientific and efficient weed management technique.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/agro-scientist-rice-mahadevappa-passes-away-958981.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Expel six ministers till probe is completed’||Speaking to reporters here, on Saturday, Mahesh said, “Applying for an injunction order is a shame on the people’s representatives. All six ministers, who were among the 17 MLAs who joined the BJP from the Congress and the JD(S), should be expelled from the cabinet, until the truth is probed.” Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Dr K Sudhakar, Minister for Municipal Administration Narayan Gowda and Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj have moved the court, seeking an injunction against publishing anything defamatory about them. Mahesh asked, “Why have the ministers moved court, if they are righteous? There is a conspiracy behind it and the blackmailers behind the videos must be traced. Is there a conspiracy to blackmail the 17 MLAs, who joined the BJP, by trouncing the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government?”. When asked whether Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara, who accompanied the 17 MLAs during their stay in Mumbai, is behind the incident, Mahesh said, “Our friend (referring to BJP MLC A H Vishwanath, without mentioning his name) had earlier referred to a CD. But, we did not believe him. He might mention these matters in his book ‘Bombay Days’.” When Yogeeshwara was inducted into Yediyurappa’s Cabinet in January, Vishwanath had alleged that Yogeeshwara managed to get ministership, by blackmailing under the guise of a CD. Demanding an investigation into the CD case, Mahesh said, “The people around us and family members are suspecting us. Thus, there must be a thorough investigation in this regard.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/expel-six-ministers-till-probe-is-completed-958983.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||We are clean, says Karnataka BJP leader Byrathi Basavaraj amid claims of Jarkiholi-like CDs by activists||Karnataka Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj on Saturday said that there are political conspiracies against six ministers to malign them. "Accordingly, we moved to court, seeking an injunction against newspapers and TV channels from publishing anything defamatory against us," he said.  The ministers approaching the court comes days after a video allegedly showing the intimate moments of Ramesh Jarkiholi with a woman was leaked to the media, thus forcing him to resign as a minister amid speculations and claims by a few activists of more such incriminating CDs. “We are clean. Nothing had happened in Mumbai. If they have any documents or proof, let them release it,” he told media persons at Mangalore International Airport, on way to Kukke Subrahmanya Temple on Saturday. “We all are discharging our duties by becoming part of the government. The Opposition is targeting us. We approached the court for our safety. There is nothing that prevents us from approaching the court. We are being targeted as we had joined the BJP from Congress. To ensure that nothing happens to us, we had approached the court. Those who are levelling allegations should come out with the documents,” said the Minister. The six ministers are among the 17 MLAs of the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government, who rebelled and submitted their resignations. After they were disqualified by the Legislative Assembly Speaker under the anti-defection law. Later, they joined the BJP and won the elections in 2019 and were inducted into the Cabinet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/we-are-clean-says-karnataka-bjp-leader-byrathi-basavaraj-amid-claims-of-jarkiholi-like-cds-by-activists-958938.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ganiga community throws its weight behind Congress MLA Sangamesh||In a fresh turn of events, the Karnataka State Ganiga Association has threatened to launch an agitation against the state government if the cases registered against Congress MLA B K Sangamesh are not withdrawn. The MLA, backed by Congress leaders, has been alleging that the B S Yediyurappa-led government was slapping false cases against him and his family members. On Saturday, the Ganiga Association, headed by the community’s seer Jagadguru Yogi Kallinatha Mahaswami, shot off a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa demanding that the cases be revoked.  “On February 28, 2021, some miscreants tried to set fire to the dais during a Kabbaddi event in Bhadravathi. When Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh tried to stop this, he was attacked by the miscreants. Not just that, baseless cases motivated by political interests, were registered by them against the MLA,” the seer wrote in the letter. There were more than 85 lakh people in the community across the state and if the cases against the legislator were not withdrawn, the community would launch an agitation against the state government, the seer warned. Meanwhile, addressing the media on Saturday, Sangamesh threatened to release incriminating documents against B S Yediyurappa and K S Eshwarappa, who he alleged, were behind the cases registered against him. “What the BJP government is doing is abuse of power. I will soon release documents incriminating both Yediyurappa and Eshwarappa,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ganiga-community-throws-its-weight-behind-congress-mla-sangamesh-958987.html
06-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress MLA’s son held over Bhadravathi group clash||The Old Town Police on Saturday, arrested B S Basavesha, son of MLA B K Sangameshwara in connection with group clash in the town last week.  According to police, the MLA’s son was absconding after the clash between BJP and Congress workers in the town following a kabaddi tournament on February 28. A total of five people were injured in the incident. The  BJP workers had lodged a complaint against the MLA, his son and followers and there was also a counter-complaint. Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested Basavesha from a bungalow in Challakere town of Chitradurga district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-mla-s-son-held-over-bhadravathi-group-clash-958992.html
06-03-2021||Main Article||Jai Shree Ram vs Jai Hind||It is a sad commentary on the nature of our electoral politics today that campaigns are conducted on the rhetoric of who is a better Hindu and a greater devotee of Ram from amongst politicians desperate for power. And it is ironic that politicians from Gujarat, where the normal greeting is ‘Jai Shree Krishna’ have become devotees of ‘Jai Shree Ram’ in Bengal. It shows, if any evidence is required, the utterly cynical use of Ram for electoral gains that was started by L K Advani back in the 1990s. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was on the dais, too, was surprisingly silent. Either he was not aware of the significance of ‘Jai Hind’ or simply let the Hindutva brigade show its bigotry at an event to commemorate Netaji who was totally opposed to Hindu communalism. While Netaji recognised Hinduism as the most important cementing factor among India’s ethnic diversities, he also wrote that the advent of Muslims led to “a new synthesis”. It must be noted that the INA had a large component of Muslims.  By irritating Mamata with shouts of ‘Modi, Modi, Modi’ and ‘Jai Shree Ram’ and forcing her to walk out of a government function, the BJP succeeded in its game- plan of portraying her to Hindus in Bengal as a Muslim appeaser who did not respond warmly to a Hindu greeting. Such is the deviousness of election campaigning that when faced with a Hindu politician of an opposing party, the BJP has to resort to a “I am more Hindu than you” brand of politics. As to where this kind of politics will lead us is best seen in the ‘Talibanisation’ of Pakistan’s polity. The Taliban have now become the ‘guardians’ of ‘real Islam,’ not the Pakistani Generals who created the Taliban in the first place. It’s a different matter that the Islamic State terrorist group now claims the mantle of being ‘guardians’ of ‘true Islam’ in the region, for they are more violent and more ruthless in killing their enemies, a majority of whom are Muslims of different sects. The lynch mobs that went around killing Muslims since 2014 have done so hailing ‘Jai Shree Ram’ or making their victims recite ‘Jai Shree Ram’ before striking them down. The Taliban and Islamic State killers, too, hail Allah as they cut off the throats of their enemies. Could there be worse acts of degradation of one’s religion and God? As Gandhiji once wrote: “Religion is outraged when an outrage is perpetrated in its name.” Identity politics, which begins with an imagined homogeneity of one’s own group (say, a religious group) as distinct from the ‘Other’, has a relentless logic of its own. Soon, it starts to differentiate people within its own community on cultural, regional and linguistic lines so that the loyalty of its followers remains intact and they are kept busy attacking one new enemy after another. It begins to see conspiracies by the ‘Other’ under every roof and bed. And every criticism becomes an act of ‘sedition’ as the ‘Leader’ has to be protected against all attacks, howsoever silly or serious. This was evident in the bizarre reaction of the government to tweets by two young celebrities, pop icon Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg. In the minds of the government and its bhakts, the Swedish teenager, who had linked a ‘protest tool kit’ to her comment, became the lynchpin of an international conspiracy against the government. The paranoia has now been taken to a new level, with the Ministry of Home Affairs calling for citizen volunteers to detect ‘anti-nationals’ online. While there is no definition of the term ‘anti-national’ in the Indian Penal Code, or of ‘tukde tukde gang’, ‘urban naxals’, etc., they are clear as daylight Delhi Police which takes its orders directly from the Union Home Minister. Another, more pernicious, development is the practice of putting stickers on the houses of those who have paid for Ram Mandir construction. This is clearly aimed at marking out those Hindus who refuse to make a donation as ‘enemies’ of the Hindutva project, perhaps to be dealt with later. The comparison it drew to the Nazis, who marked out Jews in 1920s Germany with the Star of David, was apt. Union Home Minister Amit Shah said recently, “Jai Shree Ram is a symbol against appeasement. Youth in Bengal have to knock at the High Court’s door to organise pandals during Durga Puja; children are not able to celebrate Saraswati Puja; people are not allowed to take Shobha Yatra on Ram Navami.” It is clear what the youth of Bengal will be doing if the BJP comes to power in that state. (The writer is a former Cabinet Secretariat official)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/jai-shree-ram-vs-jai-hind-958735.html
06-03-2021||National||Indian envoy to China meets Chinese Vice FM; calls for complete disengagement in eastern Ladakh||Indian Ambassador to China Vikram Misri on Friday met Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Luo Zhaohui and emphasised the importance of completing the disengagement of troops from the remaining areas in eastern Ladakh, saying it would help restore peace and tranquillity at the border and provide conditions for progress in bilateral ties. The meeting took place days after the armies of the two countries concluded withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of the Pangong Lake in eastern Ladakh. At the 10th round of the senior commanders' meeting last month, India is learnt to have insisted on a faster disengagement process in areas such as Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang to defuse tension in the region. "Ambassador @VikramMisri met H.E. VFM Luo Zhaohui today at MFA China. Amb emphasised that maintaining peace & tranquility in border areas had always been the basis for development of bilateral relations,” a tweet by the Indian Embassy here said. "Emphasizing the importance of completing disengagement in the remaining areas, Ambassador @VikramMisri noted that this would help restore peace and tranquility and provide conditions for progress in relations,” a second tweet said. He also “flagged outstanding consular issues pertaining to Indian nationals and requested MFA’s facilitation in seeking a resolution,” another tweet said. Vice Foreign Minister Luo was a former Chinese Ambassador to India. In New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said on Friday said that India expects China to work with it through existing bilateral consultation mechanisms to ensure early completion of the disengagement process in the remaining areas in eastern Ladakh to allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces. At a weekly media briefing, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had a detailed discussion with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi last week and agreed to set up a hotline, details of which would be worked out through diplomatic channels. "It is our expectation that the Chinese side will work with us both through the WMCC (Working Mechanism for Consultation and Cooperation on India-China border issues) and the senior commanders' meetings to ensure that disengagement in the remaining areas is completed at the earliest," Srivastava said. "This would allow both sides to consider de-escalation of forces in eastern Ladakh as that alone will lead to the restoration of peace and tranquillity and provide conditions for the progress in our bilateral relationship," he added. Indian and Chinese troops who were locked in over an eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh disengaged from the most contentious area of Pangong Tso. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese armies erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake area and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. Subsequently, 20 Indian soldiers were killed in a fierce hand-to-hand combat on June 15 in the Galwan Valley, an incident that marked the most serious military conflicts between the two sides in over four decades. Eight months after the confrontation, China admitted that its four soldiers were killed in the clash.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-envoy-to-china-meets-chinese-vice-fm-calls-for-complete-disengagement-in-eastern-ladakh-958673.html
06-03-2021||National||Collegium proposes five advocates as judges, reiterates the names of five others||The Supreme Court Collegium has reiterated its earlier recommendation for the elevation of three advocates Viju Abraham, Mohammed Nias C P and K K Paul as judges at Kerala High Court and Nagendra Ramachandra Naik at Karnataka High Court and Satyen Vaidya at Himachal Pradesh High Court. It recommended for the elevation of three advocates for the appointment of judges at Madhya Pradesh High Court and one each at Punjab and Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir High Courts. The CJI-headed body also approved for the elevation of A Badharudeen, a judicial officer as judge of the Kerala High Court. Three advocates whose names have been recommended for appointment as judges at Madhya Pradesh High Court are Vivek Sharan, Nidhi Patankar, and Pranay Verma. Vikas Bahl and Rahul Bharti have been recommended for appointment as judges at Punjab and Haryana and Jammu and Kashmir High Courts respectively. In other recommendations, the Collegium approved the proposal for the appointment of 10 additional judges as permanent at the Allahabad High Court. Their names are Justice Ali Zamin, Justice Vipin Chandra Dixit, Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav, Justice Ravi Nath Tilhari, Justice Deepak Verma, Justice Gautam Chowdhary, Justice Shamim Ahmed, Justice Dinesh Pathak, Justice Manish Kumar, and Justice Samit Gopal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/collegium-proposes-five-advocates-as-judges-reiterates-the-names-of-five-others-958683.html
06-03-2021||National||Remove PM Modi's photo from vaccine certificate: EC asks Health Ministry to follow poll code||Politics over the Covid-19 vaccination drive has gathered steam as electioneering picked up in four states and one union territory ahead of Assembly elections.  Election Commission wrote to the Health Ministry asking it to follow the model code of conduct “in letter and spirit” after Trinamool Congress (TMC) complained of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph over Covid-19 vaccination certificates. Trinamool Congress had told the Commission that Modi’s photographs on Covid-19 vaccination amounted to “misuse of official machinery by the Prime Minister” and violated the model code of conduct. Unfazed by the setback, BJP stepped up its attack on Congress and other opposition parties accusing them of causing delays in the vaccination process by questioning the efficacy of the home-grown Covaxin. “More than 40 countries have placed orders for Covaxin. Nobody has any doubts about this vaccine, but Congress wants to play politics over it,” BJP spokesman Sambit Patra said. He claimed that states such as Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab had refused to use Covaxin for the vaccination drive, which he said was an insult to Indian scientists and a conspiracy to defame India globally. President Ram Nath Kovind, Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were administered the Covaxin last week, which the government hoped could help shed the hesitancy towards the home-grown vaccine. Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh also received the Covaxin jab. India's vaccination drive was slow in the initial phases when healthcare and frontline workers were given the jabs. The vaccination drive has picked up over the past few days in the latest phases when senior citizens and those in the age group of 45-60 with comorbidities were vaccinated. According to the health ministry, West Bengal has administered 14.87 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries in the state, Kerala has inoculated 9.02 lakh, Tamil Nadu 7.61 lakh, Assam 3.57 lakh and Puducherry 17,501.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/remove-pm-modis-photo-from-vaccine-certificate-ec-asks-health-ministry-to-follow-poll-code-958690.html
06-03-2021||National||Brinda Karat slams BCI for terming letter to CJI over rape remarks 'malicious attack' on judiciary||Hitting out at the Bar Council of India for its support to the Chief Justice of India over his remarks while hearing a case where he asked a rape accused if he was willing to marry the victim, CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat said the issues raised in the resolution of the BCI have wider implications for the struggle for justice. The left leader said she will not respond to the "petty, personal allegations" made against her in the resolution, adding that she believed that her work in the field of women's rights should speak for itself. Karat had earlier lashed out at CJI S A Bobde over comments made during the hearing of a plea filed by a public servant, who is accused of repeatedly raping a girl, against the Bombay High Court February 5 order which had cancelled his anticipatory bail. "In this context, the role of the Bar Council, a statutory body requires examination. The resolution mentions my letter to the Chief Justice regarding certain comments he made in the open court which were widely reported in the press. "Nowhere does the resolution contradict the reports, in other words, there is no dispute that such comments were indeed made. Whether or not the comments form part of the judgement is immaterial. The fact that such comments were made and reported have their own impact on society at large," she said in her response to the BCI. Coming in support of the Supreme Court, the Bar Council of India on Thursday asked activists, who wrote to Chief Justice S A Bobde urging him to withdraw remarks made in a rape case, not to "scandalise" the highest judiciary and take "political mileage" of its proceedings. The apex bar body, in a resolution adopted during a meeting, termed the letter written by Brinda Karat to CJI Bobde as a "malicious attack" on the judiciary and said the freedom of speech and expression cannot be stretched to the extent of "maligning and weakening" the institution. Karat said, "Comments made by higher authorities such as those made in the present case asking a rape accused whether he would marry his victim, have a most damaging impact on victims of crimes and in this case tend to dilute the enormity of a crime against a minor." "Comments may not have legal sanctity but certainly provide legitimacy to retrograde social approaches, which I have mentioned in my letter. In fact the Bar Council, if indeed it wanted to react, should have upheld the best judicial practices and standards and taken up the negative impact of such comments, with the court concerned," she said. The Left leader also said that while the bar council speaks of a "written agreement" between the parents of the rapist and the minor girl, she asked if there is anything legal about such an agreement. "Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl tried to commit suicide? Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl refused the marriage offer? And also most importantly if such an agreement was made on behalf of the girl when she was a minor, once she became an adult is it not the bounden duty of the Court to ask her opinion first, before asking the rapist if he would marry her? "It is indeed distressing that the Bar Council resolution does not at all show any sensitivity whatsoever to the minor victim," she said. Karat also said that it requires examination why a council of such senior lawyers should not see the necessity of judicial processes, more so in cases of rape of a minor, to put the interests of the victim, not the perpetrator, at the centre of the process for justice. She said while the Bar Council has described her letter to the CJI and its reporting in the media as "acts of gross contempt", the resolution also states that immediate measures must be taken to stop this practice of malicious attack, she meant neither malice nor contempt. "On the contrary, some of the words in the Council's resolution may be taken as intimidation. I doubt very much if such intimidation and threats against an individual/s are within the mandate of the Bar Council. I reiterate the contents of my letter," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brinda-karat-slams-bci-for-terming-letter-to-cji-over-rape-remarks-malicious-attack-on-judiciary-958710.html
06-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Hoax bomb call at Taj Mahal||The Taj Mahal complex in Agra was temporarily shut after a man called the control room saying a bomb has been placed on the premises, which would explode soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-hoax-bomb-call-at-taj-mahal-958770.html
06-03-2021||National||SC allows 3-day parole for Lajpat Nagar blast convict||The Supreme Court has granted three-day parole for a life term convict in the 1996 Lajpat Nagar blast case to attend his daughter's marriage. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian allowed a plea by Mohd Naushad, represented by senior advocate Siddhartha Dave and advocate Farrukh Rasheed. An appeal by Naushad, who has been in jail for 24 years, against the Delhi High Court's 2012 judgement which reduced his trial court's sentence from death penalty to life imprisonment has been pending before the top court. In his application filed through advocate Rasheed, Naushad, a resident of Delhi's Turkman Gate, sought seven days parole for daughter's marriage scheduled on March 10. He submitted that he has earlier been granted custody parole on nine occasions and his conduct in jail has throughout been found good.  In the order passed on Friday, the top court, however, granted him relief for three days only between March 9 and 11 for the purpose of attending to the marriage of a daughter. In this period, he would be escorted by Delhi police all the time except his stay in the house. "The police may guard the house or wedding venue from outside, but shall not go inside," the court said. The 1996 blast at Lajpat Nagar here had claimed the lives of 13 people and left 38 others injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-allows-3-day-parole-for-lajpat-nagar-blast-convict-958782.html
06-03-2021||National||'India-China border tensions reflect growing Chinese aggression and assertion'||The current India-China border tensions reflect a disturbing trend of growing Chinese aggression and assertion in the region and toward allies and partners of the United States, Biden’s pick for top Pentagon policy job, Colin Kahl, has told lawmakers. In his submission to the members of the Senate Armed Services Committee during his confirmation hearing for Defence Under Secretary for Policy, Kahal, however, expressed the US resolve to stand by its allies and partners. “The India-China border tensions reflect a concerning trend of growing aggressiveness and assertiveness by China in the region, including toward allies and partners of the United States,” said Kahl. “We will, however, continue to stand by our allies and partners and support their ongoing efforts to deescalate the situation. If confirmed, I will continue to monitor the situation closely as both parties work toward a peaceful resolution,” he said, in his written answers to the questions for his confirmation hearing. The past decade has seen promising trends in the US-India defence trade and technology relationship, he said, adding if confirmed, he will work to sustain these trends, including through a focus on major procurements and high-end technology. Responding to a question on India, Kahl said if confirmed, he would continue to operationalise India’s status as a “Major Defence Partner” by positioning the US and Indian militaries to cooperate more closely to advance shared interests in the Indo-Pacific region. “To this end, I would support efforts to strengthen interoperability, expand bilateral and multilateral security cooperation across the region and deepen defence trade and technology sharing,” he said. He added that he would also leverage regular senior-level bilateral and multilateral engagements with likeminded partners to bolster the relationship. “To continue elevating the US-India partnership, I would prioritise a few promising areas of cooperation. These include deepening information-sharing and mutual logistics operations, growing our defence trade and technology relationship, and expanding high-end cooperation in the maritime domain, including in the Indian Ocean region and southeast Asia,” Kahl said. “Importantly, I would also seek to expand multilateral cooperation with like-minded partners in the region, including through the Quad, Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) mechanisms, and other regional engagements,” he added. Responding to questions from Senators during his confirmation hearing on Thursday, Kahl said the biggest opportunity is the growing concern and recognition that a more assertive China has produced. “That is, I think that a lot of our allies and partners are nervous. Frankly, I think that the pandemic and China's early cover-up of the pandemic, and some of its heavy ended, wolf warrior diplomacies during the pandemic have also created opportunities for us to lean in with countries who are increasingly worried about Beijing,” he said. “I could not agree with you more about the importance of emphasising our alliances and our partnerships. It is one of the biggest asymmetric advantages that the United States has. No other global power has a network of allies and partners that we have. And if I'm confirmed, a huge part of my job will be in nurturing those relationships,” he added. The United States has enormous opportunities in the Indo-Pacific, he said. “I think that the last administration made some important strides in this area, as did the Obama administration. I think we have opportunities to work not just with our treaty allies like Japan and South Korea and Australia and the Philippines, but with countries like Singapore and Vietnam and others in ASEAN. And I think there are growing opportunities with India. So, I actually think this is an area where we have an enormous possibility,” Kahl said. Senator Jack Reed, Chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee said the US must take a long term approach to strategic competition with China, a challenge Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin has appropriately described as the pacing threat for the Department of Defense. “Competing effectively with China requires that we develop new technologies to rival China's advancements in new operational concepts to ensure the desired effect against Chinese aggression,” he said. According to Kahl, China is the only country in the world that can challenge the United States systematically that is in the economic domain, the technological domain, the military domain, and frankly, in shaping international order more broadly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-china-border-tensions-reflect-growing-chinese-aggression-and-assertion-958785.html
06-03-2021||National||Exponential rise in violence in West Bengal, says EC in response to DH editorial||(The following is the response of the Election Commission of India to an editorial published in Deccan Herald) (a) West Bengal State Assembly Election was conducted in six phases in 2016. However, the first phase was split into 1(a) phase and 1(b) phase hereby in effect making it a seven phase election. In the last Lok Sabha elections in 2019, the election in West Bengal was conducted in seven phases. Since then the level of day to day street violence, hooliganism, even killings attributed to political motives by one political party/entity to the other and vice versa have seen an exponential rise. As per report of National Crime Records Bureau on "Crime in India 2019", at table 2A.2 (p.161), out of 61 murders for ‘political reason’ in the country, highest 12 reported from West Bengal, and it also adds in its footnote (p.161): ‘Due to non-receipt of data from West Bengal in time for 2019, Data furnished for 2018 has been used’. (b) In 2020, as per reports of MHA, in the state of West Bengal, 663 incidents of political violence were noticed in which 57 persons died and 1314 persons were injured. (c) Due to Covid restrictions and social distancing norms, numbers of polling stations in West Bengal have gone up from 77,413 to 1,01,916 an increase of 31.65%. It would be appreciated that this enhancement of polling stations entails extra deployment of polling personnel as well as Central Police Forces. As a matter of fact, the number of polling stations in rest of the three states and UT of Puducherry also registered substantial increase (34.71% in Assam; 34.73% in Tamil Nadu; 89.65% in Kerala; and 67.63% in Puducherry). All these require substantial mobilisation of resources including vehicles for polling officials and security personnel. (d) It has also been mentioned that EC has stretched the polling schedule in case of West Bengal. This is also factually incorrect because this time poll period starting from the date of announcement to date of counting is 66 days; which was 74 days in 2011 elections; and 77 days in 2016 elections in these 5 States/UT of Puducherry. For a newspaper of the standing of Deccan Herald to say that EC’s decision is seen as a measure to aid the BJP is completely and grossly incorrect. EC is not responsible in increase of crime like street violence, hooliganism and murders, etc. EC has in its possession even more specific district-wise inputs of West Bengal a mention of which was deliberately eschewed during the press conference, so as not to embarrass the Government of West Bengal from a media platform. In the context of the foregoing, you may publish these facts equally prominently in your newspaper for readers to get a factually correct view. Sheyphali B Sharan,Additional Director General (Media),Election Commission of India||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/exponential-rise-in-violence-in-west-bengal-says-ec-in-response-to-dh-editorial-958791.html
06-03-2021||National||India reports 18,327 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload tops 1.8 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,11,92,088 with over 18,000 fresh cases being reported in a span of 24 hours in the country after 36 days, while active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday and were recorded at 1,80,304, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll reached 1,57,656 with 108 more fatalities, while a total of 18,327 new cases were registered in a day, the ministry's data showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise in fresh cases remained below 18,000. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,54,128 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.98 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,80,304 which now comprises 1.61 per cent of the total infections. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,06,92,677 samples have been tested up to March 5 with 7,51,935 samples being tested on Friday. The 108 new fatalities include 53 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,656 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,393 from Maharashtra followed by 12,513  from Tamil Nadu, 12,354 from Karnataka, 10,918 from Delhi, 10,275 from West Bengal, 8,729 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,172 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-18327-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-tops-18-lakh-958796.html
06-03-2021||National||Mercury likely to rise in Delhi; IMD forecasts light rain on March 7||The maximum temperature is likely to rise by three to four degrees Celsius in Delhi in the next few days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Light rain is also predicted in the city on Sunday under the influence of a fresh western disturbance affecting the hilly region, it added. On Friday, the maximum temperature settled at 31.6 degrees Celsius, five notches above normal. It is likely to rise to 34 degrees Celsius by Monday, the IMD said. The minimum temperature will also increase by two to three degrees Celsius over the next few days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mercury-likely-to-rise-in-delhi-imd-forecasts-light-rain-on-march-7-958807.html
06-03-2021||National||Dalai Lama receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Dharamsala||Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama was administered the first dose of the anti-coronavirus vaccine at Zonal Hospital in Dharamsala on Saturday morning. The Dalai Lama's office thanked the Government of India and the Himachal Pradesh dispensation for facilitating the first dose of the vaccine for the spiritual leader. After getting inoculated, he asked people to come forward in large numbers and get themselves vaccinated for the greater benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalai-lama-receives-first-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-dharamsala-958810.html
06-03-2021||National||Farmers block highways outside Delhi to mark 100th day of protest||Hundreds of farmers on Saturday blocked a six-lane expressway skirting the national capital to mark the 100th day of protests against the three farm laws, declaring that their agitation would continue till the reforms are rolled back. Riding tractors and cars, farmers squatted on the 134-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway and forcibly stopped collection of toll-tax from 11:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. “Our agitation would continue till the farm laws are withdrawn. We will fight till our last breath,” Rakesh Tikait, leader of the Bhartiya Kisan Union said as the agitation on Delhi’s borders against the farm laws completed 100 days. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, speaking at a ministry event, said that the farmers were unable to point out the flaws in the farm laws and were stuck on the single demand for repeal. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described the laws as much-needed reforms for the country's vast agriculture sector and said that the protests were politically motivated. Congress described the 100 days of protest as a black chapter in India’s history. “We think this is a black chapter in our democracy, where everything was done to disrupt this peaceful protest. They (farmers) were demonised, all kinds of conspiracies were hatched against them, but they stayed on,” Congress spokesman Pawan Khera said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said the farmers’ protests were reflective of the anger of the people against the Modi government, which would gradually lead to its downfall. “Whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders, for them nails have been laid at the borders of Delhi. 'Annadaatas' demand their rights, the government commits atrocities,” Gandhi said on Twitter. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the Centre and said the farmers were following the path laid down by the freedom fighters. “100 days of farmers' struggle, a fight for rights, of respect for 'annadaatas', of the path shown by Gandhiji, Sardar (Vallabhbhai) Patel, Nehruji, (Lal Bahadur) Shastriji, Shaheed Bhagat Singh,” Priyanka said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the borders of Delhi since late November, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-block-highways-outside-delhi-to-mark-100th-day-of-protest-958817.html
06-03-2021||National||West Bengal elections: Shocker for 28 TMC MLAs, ministers as party denies them ticket||Over 28 sitting MLAs, including five ministers, faced the axe in Trinamool Congress’ full list of 291 candidates who would be contesting the West Bengal Assembly Elections starting on March 27. It came as a shocker for the MLAs that were denied nominations by the party. Several TMC leaders voiced anguish against Mamata Banerjee’s decision and held protests at a few places too. "May God give Mamata-didi good sense and counsel, I have been with her from the beginning," said Guha, the former deputy speaker of the state assembly. Four-time Satgachia MLA Sonali Guha, once a close associate of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, burst into tears after learning that she was denied a ticket this time. Banerjee, validating her decision had said that she was dropping these leaders because of their age. Former TMC MLA Arabul Islam, a strongman from Bhangar in the South 24 Parganas district, broke down in tears as he said that those who have loved the party with their heart have been ignored. "I will do whatever the local people want me to do," he said about his future plans, as some of his supporters burnt tyres and put up roadblocks in the area in protest. Supporters of Rafiqur Rahaman, the sitting TMC MLA of Amdanga in North 24 Parganas, blocked the highway in the area after his name did not appear on the list. A section of the Trinamool Congress's Siliguri leadership also took exception to Omprakash Mishra, a Kolkata resident, being made a candidate from the north Bengal town. TMC leader Nantu Pal said that the people would not support "an outsider". (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-elections-shocker-for-28-tmc-mlas-ministers-as-party-denies-them-ticket-958829.html
06-03-2021||National||Golden moment: Ex-TMC MP Dinesh Trivedi joins BJP ahead of West Bengal polls||Three weeks after quitting as Trinamool Congress' Rajya Sabha MP, criticising the party for political violence in poll-bound West Bengal, former Railway Minister Dinesh Trivedi on Saturday joined the BJP saying it was the "golden moment" of his life. Trivedi, who had announced his resignation from Rajya Sabha on February 12 on the floor of the House, was welcomed to the party at a press conference attended by BJP President J P Nadda and Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan among others. One of the first General Secretaries of Trinamool Congress, 70-year-old Trivedi's entry into BJP comes as Bengal approaches polls amid a heated battle between ruling TMC and the saffron party. Welcoming Trivedi into the party, Nadda said he is a "principled person" who was earlier a "right person in the wrong party" and was "now in the right party". Nadda said Trivedi never compromised on his principles but always paid the price for that. "In Trinamool, corruption, opportunism, the killing of democracy, strangling of institutions, all these things are enshrined. Dinesh Trivedi has a long political experience and has taken an ideological journey in politics. He has spent his life fighting the battle of thought, bypassing power. That is why the rich and sensitive personality Dinesh Trivedi has joined BJP today," Nadda said. Trivedi said this was the "golden moment" he had been waiting for. For some, he said family is supreme in politics but people are supreme in BJP. He also said international communities have started taking India more seriously following the Narendra Modi-led government's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. While announcing his resignation, Trivedi had said in the House, "I feel cannot keep quiet when there is so much violence going on back home. I am in a party and obviously bound by the party discipline. I now feel suffocated." Trivedi had told reporters on February 12, "Trinamool Congress is not in the hands of Mamata Banerjee anymore. It has been taken over by corporate professionals who just joined. There is no forum within the party to air our views. The party wants me to abuse the Prime Minister every day. They want me to rush to the well. I can't do that." Trivedi, who was in Congress and later in Janata Dal, joined Trinamool Congress in 1998 and was its first General Secretary along with Mukul Roy, who had also deserted the party to join BJP.  He was elevated to Manmohan Singh's cabinet in 2011 when Mamata Banerjee resigned as Railway Minister to become West Bengal Chief Minister. However, he had to quit later after he invited the wrath of Mamata for increasing train fare in the budget. Trivedi lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but TMC nominated him to the Rajya Sabha in April last year. He first entered the Upper House in 1990 and was elected once again in 2002. In 2009 and 2014, he won Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/golden-moment-ex-tmc-mp-dinesh-trivedi-joins-bjp-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-958830.html
06-03-2021||National||Plea in Supreme Court seeks hybrid form of court hearings across country||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking the resumption of physical hearing of cases, alongside the ongoing video-conferencing mode, in all courts and tribunals across the country. The apex court is presently hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearing of cases should resume immediately. However, the fresh public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by lawyer M L Sharma in his personal capacity seeks a hybrid mode of hearing, in which the litigants and the lawyers would be free to choose the mode of hearing. "Be further pleased to issue proper writ direction to the state to provide/arrange video systems for judicial proceedings all over India in the interest of justice," the plea says. It says paperless e-filing of judicial records and hearing through video-conferencing would save lives as papers have been found to be carriers of the Covid-19 virus. "Several registrars and staffers of this court and judges suffered from Covid-19 due to handling of paper books. Several litigants have been facing threats of getting the infection while visiting court premises...," the plea says||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-supreme-court-seeks-hybrid-form-of-court-hearings-across-country-958832.html
06-03-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh to make carrying negative Covid-19 report mandatory for Maharashtra travellers||In view of the rising coronavirus cases, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has instructed the state authorities to make it mandatory for the travellers coming from Maharashtra to carry a negative COVID- 19 test report. Chouhan issued the directives in this regard during a meeting held on Friday, an official statement said. "It will be mandatory for the travellers coming from Maharashtra to carry a negative report for coronavirus infection. The responsibility for this will be with the bus operators, who will allow passengers to board the bus only on the basis of the report," Chouhan said. Adequate arrangements should be made for checking along the the state's border areas, he said. Chouhan said that the number of coronavirus cases in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Betul, Chhindwara, Ujjain and the state's districts bordering Maharashtra, has been on the rise. He also said that the situation in all the districts along the Maharashtra border should be monitored constantly. The chief minister expressed the possibility of imposition of night curfew in Indore and Bhopal- the two cities in the state that are worst-affected by the pandemic. "The coronavirus infection in Bhopal and Indore is continuously rising. If there is no drop in the COVID-19 cases in the next three days, then night curfew will be imposed in Bhopal and Indore from March 8," Chouhan said. The coronavirus cases in Indore have almost doubled over the last fortnight. Hence, there is a need to pay special attention in Indore and Bhopal,the chief minister said. On Friday, six persons in Indore district were found infected with the UK variant of coronavirus. These patients - all of them males aged between 19 and 49 years - had no history of foreign travel, an official had said. Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 457 COVID-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 2,63,747, health officials said. With 176 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 60,386, while that of Bhopal rose to 44,474 with the addition of 77 cases. Indore has so far reported 933 deaths and Bhopal 618.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-to-make-carrying-negative-covid-19-report-mandatory-for-maharashtra-travellers-958842.html
06-03-2021||National||Delhi government to form separate education board for 2,700 schools in city||The Delhi government on Saturday approved the formation of a separate school board for nearly 2,700 schools in the city. In the beginning, 21-22  government schools will be affiliated to the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) and in the next four-five years all the schools will be brought under it, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference. There are around 1,000 Delhi government schools and about 1,700 private schools, most of them affiliated to the CBSE, in the city. The new Board will have a governing body headed by the Education Minister of the Delhi government and an executive body headed by a chief executive officer, Kejriwal said. The DBSE will be aimed at imparting such education that prepares "fiercely patriotic" and self-dependent students who serve the society and the country in a selfless manner, he said. The Board will bring in the best international practices and high-end techniques in school education. It will impart education as per the aptitude of the students, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-to-form-separate-education-board-for-2700-schools-in-city-958848.html
06-03-2021||National||SC to commence hybrid physical hearing on experimental basis from March 15||The Supreme Court has decided to begin hybrid (physical and virtual mode) hearing on an experimental basis from March 15, amid opposition from the Bar members for Standard Operating Procedure for it. It said on a pilot basis, final hearing or regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays will be heard through hybrid mode. The SC Bar Association, however, decided to challenge the SoP for hybrid hearings by filing a writ petition, saying "it has been unilaterally thrusted upon the members of the Bar, even though it is an equal stakeholder". In a circular issued on March 5, the Secretary General of the Supreme Court said that Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has issued directions on commencing of hybrid mode of hearing in the apex court. "On an experimental basis, and as a pilot scheme, the final hearing/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the court rooms; all other matters, including those listed on Mondays and Fridays shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode," the circular said. Unless otherwise directed by the bench, final hearing or regular matters where the number of advocates for the parties are more than the average working capacity of the court rooms, as per Covid-19 norms, that is 20 per courtroom at any given time, would invariably be listed for hearing through video or tele-conferencing mode, it added. The circular said that in hybrid hearing, all the counsels appearing for one party can appear either through physical presence or through video or tele-conferencing. It further said that wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms is mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the courtrooms. The top court has been conducting hearing through virtual mode since March last year due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-commence-hybrid-physical-hearing-on-experimental-basis-from-march-15-958849.html
06-03-2021||National||Citing friendly relations, Myanmar asks Mizoram to handover its 8 policemen||Citing friendly relations with India, Myanmar has asked Mizoram government to hand over eight police personnel who had crossed the border to fleeing from the military and had taken shelter in Aizawl and Champhai districts.  In a letter to Maria CT Zuali, the deputy commissioner of Champai, her counterpart in Myanmar's Falam district, Saw Htun Win on Friday said eight police personnel had crossed over to Mizoram in the past few days and four of them are taking shelter in Champhai. "In order to uphold friendly relations between the two neighbouring countries, you are kindly requested to detain eight Myanmar police personnel who had arrived in Indian territories and hand over to Myanmar," said the letter. The letter also attached photographs of the four policemen for identification. Falam shares a border with Champhai district. DH on Thursday reported that eight Myanmarese nationals including three policemen had taken shelter in neighbouring Serchip district. This happened amid intensified clashes between the military and the pro-democracy protesters, who are demanding restoration of the democratically-elected government led by Aung San Suu Kyi. Sources on Saturday said at least 16 Myanmarese nationals had taken shelter in Mizoram so far seeking asylum. Some of them claim they are police personnel. They are being taken care of in the community halls of Mizoram villages close to the border. Mizoram shares a nearly 510-km-long border with Myanmar. There is a possibility that India may see an influx of immigrants fleeing political persecution by the Military. Officials in Mizoram said the state government had already taken up the matter with the Centre seeking direction for necessary action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/citing-friendly-relations-myanmar-asks-mizoram-to-handover-its-8-policemen-958850.html
06-03-2021||National||Covid-19: HC directs 3,499 undertrial prisoners to surrender, no extension of interim bails||The Delhi High Court has directed 3,499 undertrial prisoners, who were granted interim bails to de-congest jails amid the Covid-19 pandemic, to surrender on expiry of their period. The decision of the court was based on the recommendation of the high-powered committee (HPC) constituted on the direction of the Supreme Court to decongest jails to prevent the spread of Covid-19. A bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Talwant Singh said it was "not inclined" to further extend the period of interim bail granted to these undertrial prisoners (UTP) under various criteria laid down by the HPC in its several meetings. "It is therefore directed that all the 3,499 UTPs granted interim bails under the various criteria laid down by the HPC, who have not obtained regular bails from their court concerned, or any other superior court to its court concerned, shall surrender before the jail superintendent (S) upon the expiry of the period of their interim bail commencing from March 7," the bench said in its order passed on March 3 and made available on Saturday. It added that as the 3,499 UTPs were admitted to interim bails on different dates, so the period of their interim bails will expire with efflux of time on different dates and there was no requirement to fix any specific date for their surrender. The high court while refusing to extend the interim bails considered the observations and recommendations made by the committee, the improved situation of Covid-19 in Delhi-NCR and the resolution passed by the HPC on February 17 of not recommending further extension of interim bails to 3,499 UTPs. It also took into consideration the March 1 directions of the Supreme Court whereby 2,318 prisoners granted interim bails by trial courts and 356 prisoners granted bail by the high court have been asked to surrender within 15 days. The high court, which disposed of the petition relating to extension of interim bails, made it clear that all these UTPs may invoke the jurisdiction of the court concerned for grant of regular bail and the courts shall consider it on merits. It also directed the director general (prisons) to ensure that this order is conveyed to all the 3,499 UTPs by telephone and all other available modes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-hc-directs-3499-undertrial-prisoners-to-surrender-no-extension-of-interim-bails-958851.html
06-03-2021||National||15 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 on March 5, highest in a day: Health ministry||Nearly 15 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 5, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.94 crore, official sources said on Saturday. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) had started from February 2. Administering of second dose of Covid-19 vaccine started on February 13 for those beneficiaries who had completed 28 days after receipt of the first dose. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive commenced from March 1 for those above 60 years of age and for people aged 45 years and above with specified co-morbid conditions. As on Day 49 (March 5) of the vaccination drive, a total of 14,92,201 Covid-19 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 11,99,848 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 18,333 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs), and 2,92,353 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine, health ministry said. These beneficiaries (11,99,848) include 1,10,857 individuals, aged between 45-60 years, having specified comorbidities, and 7,61,355 people aged above 60 years. More than 1.94 crore (1,94,97,704) vaccine doses have been administered through 3,57,478 sessions, as per the provisional report till Saturday 7 am. These include 69,15,661 HCWs (first dose), 33,56,830 HCWs (second dose), 63,55,989 FLWs (first dose) and 1,44,191 FLWs (second dose), 3,46,758 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 23,78,275 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, it said. Meanwhile, the ministry said, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have reported a high number of COVID-19 daily new cases, cumulatively accounting for 82 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours. A total of 18,327 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 10,216 followed by Kerala with 2,776 cases, while Punjab reported 808 new cases. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new coronavirus cases, the ministry highlighted. India's total Covid-19 active cases have reached 1,80,304, comprising 1.61 per cent of the country’s total number of infections. On the other hand, 21 states and Union territories (UTs) have less than 1,000 active cases, the ministry said. Arunachal Pradesh has reported only three active cases. Showing the change in active cases for states/UTs in 24 hours, the ministry said Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu have shown a reduction in the active cases in a span of 24 hours. On the other hand, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana have displayed a rise in the active cases during the same time period, it noted. Besides, 108 deaths due to the disease were reported in a day, it said. Six states account for 85.2 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (53). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths and Punjab reported 11 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Eighteen states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Uttarakhand, Lakshadweep, Puducherry, Assam, Sikkim, Manipur, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Nagaland, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/15-lakh-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-on-march-5-highest-in-a-day-health-ministry-958865.html
06-03-2021||National||Pune-based Hindutva leader booked for 'promoting enmity'||A case has been registered against Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote, prime accused in the Bhima- Koregaon violence case, for allegedly promoting enmity between groups through his remarks made recently, a Pune police official said on Saturday. Satish Kale, a leader of Maratha Seva Sangh, Sambhaji Brigade, lodged a complaint against him at Kondhwa police station in Pune city. Ekbote, who is the executive president of Samasta Hindu Aghadi, objected to the construction of a religious place for a minority community in Kondhwa and passed objectionable remarks that may "promote enmity between different groups", the complaint against him said. Based on the complaint, a case was registered against him, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pune-based-hindutva-leader-booked-for-promoting-enmity-958872.html
06-03-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari, wife take Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS Nagpur||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari received the first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur on Saturday. The road transport, highways and MSMEs minister was accompanied by his wife Kanchan Gadkari, who also took the vaccine shot. "Took the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine today along with my wife at AIIMS, Nagpur. This is safe," the senior BJP leader said after taking the jab. He urged people to get inoculated in order to make the country free from Covid-19. "I appeal people to come forward for vaccination and contribute towards saving the country from corona," Gadkari, 63, said. He also shared a short video of him getting the first dose. The second phase of the country's Covid-19 vaccination drive commenced on March 1 for people over 60 years and those in the age bracket of 45-59 years and have specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-wife-take-covid-19-vaccine-at-aiims-nagpur-958875.html
06-03-2021||National||Centre sends health teams to Maharashtra, Punjab after spike in daily Covid-19 cases||With Covid-19 numbers zooming past the 18,000-mark on Saturday after a month, the Union Health Ministry once again dispatched two high-level expert teams to the problem states of Maharashtra and Punjab besides asking eight other provinces to follow the time-tested “test-track and treat” strategy to tame the epidemic. At a review meeting with the states, health officials pointed out that 9 districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa and one in Chandigarh were of concerns as they saw a drop in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and low number of contact tracing of the Covid-19 positive cases. “Please continue with the effective strategy of ‘Test Track and Treat’ that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic,” Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told the state officials. NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul also attended the meeting. The states have also been told to improve overall testing in districts reporting a reduction in testing and increase the share of gold-standard RT-PCR tests in districts that are dependent on high levels of antigen testing. The review was undertaken after a high number of active caseload was being reported from these eight states The states were told to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in the districts that are seeing clusters of cases. Also, it was underlined that the need is to carry out close contact tracing of a minimum of 20 persons per positive case. Out of 18,327 fresh Covid-19 cases and 108 deaths reported in the last 24 hours, more than 10,000 cases and more than 50 deaths were from Maharashtra, making it the number one problem state where the epidemic is growing rapidly once again. Punjab is another big cause of worry as it saw the steepest rise in the number of cases in the last one month. The Centre on Saturday rushed two high level multidisciplinary public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist the state health departments in Covid-19 surveillance, control and containment measures. The Maharashtra team is being led by P Ravindran, senior CMO, disaster management cell of the Health Ministry while the Punjab team is being headed by S K Singh, Director, National Center for Disease Control, New Delhi. Each of these ten states has been asked to accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. They were told to make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-sends-health-teams-to-maharashtra-punjab-after-spike-in-daily-covid-19-cases-958886.html
06-03-2021||National||Out of 30 sitting MLAs in Puducherry, only one holds a Diploma: Report||The report adds that 15 out of 30 (50 per cent) sitting MLAs in Puducherry from various parties have declared their educational qualification to be between 5th pass and 12th pass. 13 (43 per cent) MLAs have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above, while one MLA holds a diploma, and another has declared self to be uneducated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/out-of-30-sitting-mlas-in-puducherry-only-one-holds-a-diploma-report-958887.html
06-03-2021||National||She Leads: Politicians come together to train women to enter politics||A group of political leaders, including a former Governor and MPs, have come together with an NGO to train women to enter politics and run for office at state and national levels. The programme 'She Leads' designed by StreeShakti-The Parallel Force is a virtual training programme of 35 hours spreading over seven days and already it is into the second batch. Supported by Chevening Alumni Project Fund (CAPF) and conducted also in collaboration with the Indian School of Democracy, Netri and Shakti, the programme has seen future women leaders getting guidance from former Uttarkhand Governor and ex-Congress Union Minister Margaret Alva, former Congress MP Rajeev Gowda, BJP's Lok Sabha MP Heena Gavit and Samajwadi Party spokesperson Ghanshyam Tiwari. "Women are more accessible and acceptable to the people in their constituency. Politics is a winnable arena for women," Alva said. "We should rise above identity politics. The British policy of divide and rule should be rejected, based on caste we should not cast our vote," Gavit added. The first batch has over 50 trainees from 13 states and the programme started on February 24 and is scheduled to culminate on March 8, International Women's Day. The second batch programme started on Saturday and will have sessions by Prithvi Reddy (AAP) and Bandana Kumari (AAP) and former BJP MP Archana Chitnis. With this first step, Sthree Shakti founder Rekha Mody said that 'She Leads' aims to start a journey for strengthening the political leadership of women in India. "The next step will be to start certificate courses for young women in colleges and universities for them to consider politics as a career option. Delhi-based Miranda House is the first college to begin this certificate programme. The time has come for women to claim their political space. I hope women will aspire and lead the country," Mody said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/she-leads-politicians-come-together-to-train-women-to-enter-politics-958891.html
06-03-2021||National||Enforcement Directorate arrests 2 directors of Tamil Nadu firm in bank loan fraud case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday said it has arrested two directors of a Tamil Nadu-based company in an alleged money laundering case worth Rs 325 crore linked to a bank fraud case. Hittesh Patel and Suresh N Patel, directors of Shinago Plantations Pvt Ltd, were sent to 10 days ED custody by a special court on Saturday after they were placed under arrest under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), it said in a statement. The two allegedly laundered funds to the tune of Rs 325 crore by using a network of nearly 20 group entities located across Tamil Nadu. The probe found that the accused "in collusion with the valuers availed loans from erstwhile Corporation Bank (now Union Bank of India) on the basis of inflated value of the properties offered as collateral and indulged in wilful diversion of funds through various group accounts." "The funds so availed by various individuals/group concerns, in the form of Letters of Credit (LC), cash credit (CC) limits and agriculture term loans, were transferred within the group entities through circular rotation of money to avail more funds from the bank without any actual business," the agency claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-arrests-2-directors-of-tamil-nadu-firm-in-bank-loan-fraud-case-958921.html
06-03-2021||National||SC finds promise to marriage not false; quashes rape case||The Supreme Court has quashed a rape case against a man after finding the complainant admitted that it was a consensual relationship and there was no material to suggest the marriage promise was false at the inception. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah allowed an appeal by Sonu alias Subhash Kumar against the Allahabad High Court's order of September 26, 2019. The court pointed out there was no allegation that the promise to marry the complainant was false at the inception. In fact, the contents of the FIR lodged at Mathura on February 7, 2018, apparently showed that there was a subsequent refusal by the man to marry the girl which gave rise to the registration of the FIR.  Going through the FIR and the complainant's statement before the judicial magistrate, the court said there was no manner of doubt that the relationship between them was of a consensual nature and the parties were in the relationship for about a period of one and a half years.  However, subsequently, the man had expressed a disinclination to marry her which led to the registration of the FIR. The man, for his part, contended no offence has been made out within the meaning of Section 376 (rape) of the IPC. He further said that there was absolutely no intent on his part when he entered upon the relationship, not to marry the complainant nor can it be even suggested that the promise to marry was false. Agreeing to his contention, the top court's bench said, "We are of the view that the High Court was in error in declining to entertain the petition under Section 482 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) on the basis that it was only the evidence at trial which would lead to a determination as to whether an offence was established." The court quashed the charge sheet as well as the trial court's order taking cognisance of the offence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-finds-promise-to-marriage-not-false-quashes-rape-case-958927.html
06-03-2021||National||SUV probe: Opinion on Mansukh Hiren's death reserved in autopsy report||Opinion on likely cause of the death of Mansukh Hiren, who is said to be the owner of the vehicle with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month, is reserved in his postmortem report on Saturday, a Thane police official said. Viscera of Hiren has been sent to a forensic laboratory in Mumbai for analysis, he said. The body of Hiren (46) was fished out of a creek along the Mumbra-Reti Bunder road in neighbouring Thane on Friday morning, police had said. The postmortem report received on Saturday mentioned that there are no visible external injuries on Hiren's body, the official said. "Hiren's viscera has been preserved and sent for chemical analysis to the forensic sciences laboratory at Kalina in Mumbai," he said. The official said drowning is suspected to be the cause of Hiren's death. On Saturday, senior police officials visited Hiren's residence in Naupada in Thane with postmortem report and convinced his family members to take possession of his body which they had refused to accept earlier for want of autopsy report, he said. "The postmortem report has been handed over to Hiren's family members and further process is on," said DCP Avinash Ambure. Meanwhile, a team of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) probing the recovery of the vehicle outside Ambani's residence and Hiren's death visited the spot at Mumbra creek wherehis body was found, the official said. Earlier in the day, Mumbai unit BJP president Mangal Prabhat Lodha, MLC Niranjan Davkhare, local MLA Sanjay Kelkar visited the residence of the deceased. A large contingent of media personnel and relatives of Hiren was also present, A Thane Police official had said that Hiren had left his shop around 8.30 pm on Thursday in an autorickshaw and since then his phone was switched off. "His family members had lodged a missing person's report on Friday morning after he did not return home and a case was registered at Naupada police station. By that time, a body was found at Mumbra and it was later confirmed that the deceased was Mansukh," he had said, adding that Hiren's mobile phone is yet to be recovered. Hiren's Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near Antilia, Ambani's multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Crime Branch of Mumbai police had recorded Hiren's statement in the case. Hiren, who was in vehicle spare parts business, had said he had lodged a police complaint after the SUV was stolen. The mysterious death of Hiren triggered a war of words with the opposition BJP and the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by the Shiv Sena. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP on Friday demanded a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the incident. On Saturday, Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil alleged that suspicious death of Hiren is prima facie a murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/suv-probe-opinion-on-mansukh-hirens-death-reserved-in-autopsy-report-958928.html
06-03-2021||National||Not selling glass as diamond: Jharkhand Government||Showcasing Jharkhand as one of the most attractive investment destinations, the state government on Saturday urged industry players to come forward to invest in proposed projects with investment potential of Rs 1 lakh crore and reap rich dividends. Promising that the Jharkhand government did not believe in selling 'glass as diamonds', it said it was ready to offer lucrative sops to industry players for investing in the state that alone houses India's 40 per cent of mineral wealth with 33 per cent of forest cover. Making a strong case for investment in the state, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, "If you are looking to invest in agro and food processing, textiles, automobile, electric vehicles, pharmaceuticals and electronic system design and manufacturing to name a few areas, Jharkhand promises exciting opportunities." He was addressing a meeting to come out with a Jharkhand Industrial Investment and Promotion Policy here in consultation with stakeholders. "Jharkhand has huge potential in all areas, be in mines and minerals, forest produce, textiles or vegetables....Entire country knows Tatas...This is the region where he set his foothold...This is the place which saw gigantic establishments like HEC, steel, coal, power and fertiliser and other plants...Unfortunately soon after taking charge as CM, entire country faced this pandemic...Now it is the mission and vision of this government to take it forward on the path of progress with steely resolve," Soren said. Apart from being mineral-rich state, Jharkhand ranks second in the country in production of tomatoes, fifth for peas and beans, sixth for cabbage, okra and cauliflower and has over 175 minor forest produce with 33 per cent forest cover. The proposed draft policy entails subsidy, sops and land for investors. Production of silk in the state is close to 1,200 tonnes with employment to 1.8 lakh people while Jharkhand is house to leading automobile industry giants like Tata and more than 800 auto ancillary and auto component units are set up at Jamshedpur and Adityapur, the chief minister said. Listing advantages of investment in Jharkhand, Chief Secretary Jharkhand Sukhdev Singh said it was not the motive of the government to "sell glass as diamond or silver as gold", it was up to investors to grab this huge opportunity to dig diamond and hone it. Pointing towards lack of stability so far in the state which became a hindrance for investments, the Chief Secretary said, "Selling something becomes more difficult if the seller is carrying a baggage of legacy issues of political instability and a lack of continuity in policy. I have no hesitation in saying that ever since in its birth in 2000 for nearly a decade and a half the average lifespan of the government in Jharkhand was less than one and a half years." He said it was automatic to have doubts and questions about the security and safety of huge investments under such circumstances and added that such things had become the issue of the past as the state had a stable government now under Chief Minister Soren who during the pandemic earned laurels from all quarters by ensuring that migrant labourers, students and citizens were brought back to state whether by trains or airplane including even from Leh and Laddakh and Andaman and Nicobar. Urging investors to come forward, he said mentioned of mineral wealth of the state. "Anybody with any industry plan based on minerals or other areas is welcome with open hands," he said and listed the advantages like wide network of national highways, including stretches of dedicated freight corridor Amritsar- Kolkata passing through Jharkhand, advanced multimodal hub in state for water transport and air connectivity which was being strengthened further with plans of setting up more airports. State industries secretary Pooja Singhal made a detailed presentation before the investors in this regard. The state aims to develop connectivity web of air, road and rail network that will help industries and manufacturing units switch seamlessly between different modes of transport as they send their goods to markets in India and abroad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-selling-glass-as-diamond-jharkhand-government-958933.html
06-03-2021||National||75th year of Independence celebrations to begin on March 12||Celebrations to mark the 75th anniversary of India’s Independence next year are set to begin on March 12, the day Mahatma Gandhi embarked on the historic salt satyagraha 91 years ago. The celebrations – 'Bharat ka Amrut Mahotsav’ – will continue for 75 weeks till Independence Day next year and will be guided by a 259-member national committee chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The committee will provide policy direction and guidelines for the formulation of programmes for the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence, at national and international levels,” a statement from the Ministry of Culture said. The first meeting of the committee is scheduled on Monday. Multiple events such as cycle rallies, exhibitions, yoga camps, essay competitions involving children, local innovation challenge competitions were being planned for the occasion. The members of the panel include former president Pratibha Patil, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, chief ministers, leaders across the political spectrum including Congress president Sonia Gandhi, NCP chief Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, BSP chief Mayawati, Trinamool chief Mamata Banerjee, artistes such as Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, senior BJP leader L K Advani, almost all Union ministers and several governors. The celebrations will mark the anniversary of ‘Dandi March’ and there shall be a curtain-raiser event in different locations across the country on the same day. The commemorations will include 75 events for 75 weeks with one prominent event every week and the programmes will be planned at 75 places or monuments of historical significance spread across states and UTs. A national implementation committee, chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah, has already been set up to guide the programmes to be undertaken by different ministries of the Centre to celebrate the 75th anniversary of India’s independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75th-year-of-independence-celebrations-to-begin-on-march-12-958934.html
06-03-2021||National||Gujarat man infected with Covid-19 after taking second dose of vaccine||A health official in Gujarat has tested positive for coronavirus days after taking the second dose of the vaccine against the infection, officials said Saturday. The man, a health officer in Gandhinagar's Dehgam taluka, had taken the first dose on January 16 and the second one on February 15. He had fever and and his samples were examined, which detected the Covid-19 infection on February 20 said Gandhinagar's Chief Health Officer Dr MH Solanki. "He is in home isolation as his symptoms are mild. He has told me that he is fit to join work from Monday," Solanki added. The CHO said it generally takes around 45 days for antibodies against the infection to develop after both the doses of the vaccine are administered. He also said one must wear a mask and adhere to all Covid-19 protocols like social distancing etc. even after taking both doses of the vaccine against the infection in order to be on the safe side. As on Friday evening, Gujarat has a caseload of 2,72,240, including 4,413 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-man-infected-with-covid-19-after-taking-second-dose-of-vaccine-958937.html
06-03-2021||National||Centre open to evaluate, explore cryptocurrencies, says Union minister Anurag Thakur||Union minister Anurag Thakur on Saturday said the government is open to evaluate and explore new technologies, including cryptocurrencies, for improving governance. Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself is a strong advocate of embracing technology in various aspects of governance, the Minister of State for Finance said while addressing an event organised by Entrepreneurs' Organisation - EO Punjab. "Let me say that we welcome innovation and new technology...blockchain is a new emerging technology. Cryptocurrency is a form of virtual currency. I firmly believe that we must always evaluate, explore and encourage new ideas with an open mind," he said. A High-Level Inter-Ministerial Committee (IMC) was constituted under the Chairmanship of Economic Affairs Secretary on digital currencies and it has submitted its report. The government would take a decision on the recommendations of the IMC and the legislative proposal, if any, would be introduced in Parliament following the due process, he said while inviting suggestions and views on this issue. Cryptocurrencies are digital or virtual currencies in which encryption techniques are used to regulate the generation of their units and verify the transfer of funds, operating independently of a central bank. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Friday said the government is still formulating its opinion on cryptocurrencies and will take a calibrated position. Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das had last week said the apex bank has certain 'major concerns' over the impact cryptocurrencies may have on the financial stability in the economy and has conveyed the same to the government. The RBI had virtually banned cryptocurrency trading in 2018 and had directed all entities regulated by the central bank to cease dealing in virtual currencies. The Supreme Court had also asked the Centre in 2019 to frame policies for crypto, and in 2020, struck down the curbs imposed by the RBI. The Reserve Bank had through various public notices on December 24, 2013, February 1, 2017 and December 5, 2017, cautioned users, holders and traders of virtual currencies, including bitcoins, regarding various risks associated in dealing with such virtual currencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-open-to-evaluate-explore-cryptocurrencies-says-union-minister-anurag-thakur-958941.html
06-03-2021||National||PM asks India Inc to write to him about compliance burden that hurts them the most||In an interaction with India Inc, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has told them to write to him individually on one compliance burden that each of them wishes to get rid of. The government, he said, is trying to remove as many as 6,000 compliance burdens for India Inc at the Centre and state levels this year to promote ease of doing business further. Modi said that he is looking to reduce the number of forms that each business fills in various fields whether to set up an industry or pay tax. Modi said this while interacting with India Inc through a webinar on production-linked incentives to give a boost to domestic manufacturing. “You may not get so much time in the webinar to explain which compliance burden is hurting your business. You can write to me directly. We, in the government, are going to take it seriously,” Modi was quoted as telling India Inc by a few leaders who participated in the webinar. The prime minister said that the PLI scheme should not only concentrate on expanding local manufacturing but also strive to promote local exports. “India exports to limited countries, it exports a limited number of products and it exports from a very limited space – only from two to four corners of the entire country. We want to change that. We want each district of India to export on its own,” the prime minister told the business honchos and promised to reduce the number of laws further to help them carry on with their business. The prime minister’s remark on expanding exports comes in the midst of criticism that India is promoting protectionist policies in the shadow of its self-reliance policies. Among those who have warned against the ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ resulting into protectionist regime include former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan, who recently said the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' campaign of the government should not result in protectionism, adding that such policies had not worked in the past. His comments came after the country raised tariffs on several products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-asks-india-inc-to-write-to-him-about-compliance-burden-that-hurts-them-the-most-958962.html
06-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India thrash England by an innings and 25 runs; IPL may begin on April 6||Summary: In your evening news brief, India beats England on the third day of the fourth Test; IPL may begin on April 9; Nearly 15 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 5 and anti-coup protests continue in Myanmar. Here is the top news of March 6, 2021: India trounced England by an innings and 25 runs on the third day of the fourth Test to complete a 3-1 series victory on Saturday, securing their place in the June's World Test Championships final against New Zealand. Resuming the day at 294 for seven in reply to England's first innings total of 205, the hosts put on board 365 for a big 160-run lead. The 2021 edition of the Indian Premier League (IPL) will begin on April 9, exactly 12 days after the Indian cricket team completes its ongoing assignment against England, a BCCI source revealed on Saturday. The third and last match of the ODI series against England will be held on March 28 in Pune. The duration of the popular T20 league has been fixed keeping in mind India's international schedule. Nearly 15 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 5, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 1.94 crore, official sources said on Saturday. The countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) had started from February 2. Anti-coup demonstrators returned to the streets of Myanmar Saturday, a day after a United Nations envoy urged the Security Council to hear the nation's 'desperate pleas' and take swift action to restore democracy. The country has been in turmoil since a February 1 putsch ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi from power, triggering a massive uprising from hundreds of thousands angered to be returned to military rule. Source: PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-thrash-england-by-an-innings-and-25-runs-ipl-may-begin-on-april-6-958965.html
06-03-2021||National||Scores of Myanmar citizens waiting to enter India: Officials||Scores of Myanmar nationals have gathered at the border with India waiting to join about 50 who have already crossed the frontier to flee the country's coup turmoil, Indian officials said Saturday. Myanmar authorities have meanwhile asked India to send back eight police who fled this week. Forty-eight Myanmar nationals, including the eight police, have entered India's northeastern state of Mizoram, a senior officer in the Assam Rifles paramilitary force told AFP. "At least 85 civilians from Myanmar have been waiting at the international border to enter India," the official added, speaking on condition of anonymity. Anti-coup demonstrations have spread across Myanmar since a February 1 putsch ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi. Security forces have escalated a brutal crackdown on protesters, killing more than 50 people. Indian media reports said those who have crossed the border include police and local officials who refused to follow military orders. Myanmar has sent a letter, seen by AFP, asking for the eight police to be quickly sent back. The letter was sent to officials in Mizoram's Champhai district where some of the refugees are. "In order to uphold friendly relations between the two neighbour countries, you are kindly requested to detain eight Myanmar police personnel who had arrived to Indian territories and hand-over to Myanmar," the letter said. Indian government officials said the letter was being studied along with the cases of those who have crossed the border. India, which has sought to build closer ties with Myanmar in order to counter China's influence, has not condemned the coup but the country's UN ambassador T.S. Tirumurti this week said that Myanmar's democratic gains of recent years "should not get undermined."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scores-of-myanmar-citizens-waiting-to-enter-india-officials-958973.html
06-03-2021||National||ED summons to Mehbooba part of Centre's 'vindictive' politics: PDP||The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Saturday said the Enforcement Directorate summons to its president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti was part of the Centre's "vindictive" politics and asserted that such tactics would not dampen the will of people of Jammu and Kashmir to struggle for the restoration of their constitutional rights. The party said, "the ED summons is yet another ploy to try and arm-twist the people and leadership of Jammu & Kashmir, to kill dissent and disagreement across regions and to silence the genuine demand" for the restoration of statehood and the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. "Such tactics won't dampen our will to have our constitutional status restored. This is the price one pays when we oppose the BJP's ideology and divisive politics,” PDP leader Ghulam Nabi Lone Hanjura said in a statement. Hanjura accused the BJP of employing coercive measures through various agencies to target opposition leaders. "Recent events are witness to how the BJP has been employing coercive measures through various agencies to target opposition leaders across the country and the government is resorting to a game of witch-hunt and suppressions in Jammu & Kashmir as well,” he added.  The Enforcement Directorate on Friday summoned Mufti for questioning on March 15 in a money laundering case, officials said. The 60-year-old PDP leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, has been served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. Jammu and Kashmir's special status under Article 370 of the Constitution was revoked by the Centre in August 2019 and the state was bifurcated into union territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-to-mehbooba-part-of-centres-vindictive-politics-pdp-958975.html
06-03-2021||National||QS World Rankings: VIT in top 12 colleges of India||The Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has been ranked one among the top 12 institutions of India in engineering and technology. It has also been identified as one within the top 450 universities in the world as per QS subject ranking 2021. According to a release by the VIT, seven subjects of VIT are in the list published by QS. “Four subjects including computer science and information system, electrical and electronics engineering, mechanical engineering and chemistry have moved up 50 positions as compared to the previous year,” the release said. Further, the computer science and information system (CS&IS), electrical and electronics engineering (EEE) have been ranked within the top 10 India. The EEE is ranked within the top 300, both CS&IS and Mechanical Engineering are ranked within the top 400 in the world. VIT’s Mathematics and Biological Sciences have entered in QS Subject Ranking for the first time and are ranked within the top 500 and 600 in the world respectively. The QS World University Rankings by Subject 2021 cover a total of 51 disciplines, grouped into five broad subject areas. The QS World University Rankings by Subject are compiled every year to help prospective students to identify the leading universities in a particular subject.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/qs-world-rankings-vit-in-top-12-colleges-of-india-958984.html
06-03-2021||National||Adityanath launches Global Encyclopedia of Ramayana||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday launched the Global Encyclopedia of the Ramayana and said that this epic and the Mahabharata give the best life lessons. Stories in Hindu epics help us envision a better India, he said.  Asserting that historical facts cannot be denied, the chief minister said still there are some people who raise questions on the existence of Lord Ram in Ayodhya.  Launching the encyclopedia in an e-book format prepared by the Ayodhya Research Institute, the chief minister said the construction of the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya makes this launch of the Global Encyclopedia of Ramayana more special.  "This encyclopedia will motivate us to visit Ayodhya as it will introduce all to the untouched aspects of science and spirituality," he said. "There are Sapta Puri, seven holy cities, which are considered as the holiest Hindu pilgrimage sites. Out of these, Ayodhya, Mathura and Kashi are in Uttar Pradesh. It is a matter of pride for us that a workshop has been organised by the Department of Culture, in collaboration with the Ministry of External Affairs," he said.  The Chief Minister said parochialism and constricted mentality of certain sections deprived the country of its justifiable pride in history. "People who are misguiding the public for their own benefit and betraying the country will not be spared. People who are creating false propaganda about India for money will face the heat," Adityanath said. CM Yogi urged the people to not let go of the harmonious spirit of the nation by getting involved in petty communal disputes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adityanath-launches-global-encyclopedia-of-ramayana-958997.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Whiff of federal politics as regional parties gather around Mamata||A whiff of federal politics is at play in the recent round of assembly polls in four states particularly West Bengal where regional parties have lined up to support Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress at a time when the main Opposition party at the national level, Congress, is down in the dumps. On Friday, Maharasthra’s Shiv Sena became the third regional party to announce support to TMC, stating it will not contest the West Bengal polls. Before it, Rashtriya Janata Dal from Bihar and Samajwadi Party from UP extended their support to Didi, hailing her credentials as an Opposition leader. In what could be a warning signal to Congress, whose bargaining power has substantially fallen, this alliance indicates even regional parties with which the grand old party allied in past are not taking it as a serious challenger to the ruling BJP.  After Sena announced its backing to Banerjee, its MP Sanjay Raut took to Twitter saying "at the moment, it appears to be a Didi vs All fight".  For the BJP the challenge is that it may have to confront the combined might of regional parties in future, which may make some sort of an umbrella outfit, leaving the respective state space to the dominant party there.  Regional parties, especially the ruling ones, have proven to be bigger challenges for the BJP than Congress. Arvind Kerjiwal-led AAP came back to power for the third time in 2020 despite a high octane election campaign by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP chief Amit Shah. Congress, which had ruled Delhi for 15 years prior to the AAP in 2013, sank further. Defeating such regional parties with a strong regional face would be a bigger challenge for the BJP than decimating Congress, which is in a disarray after two back-to-back Lok Sabha poll debacles. Adding to that are the party's internal woes with a vertical divide in the party over leadership issues. Political analyst Badri Narayan, a professor, Govind Ballabh Pant Social Science Institute, Allahabad, says “regional parties are rushing to back Mamata Banerjee as they see the possibility of a image victory for them in case Mamata wins the poll even as BJP’s stock is rising in the West  Bengal politics day by day. They are aware that Congress cannot stop the BJP in the state. Hence all of them have lined before here. Moreover, they do not have to gain anything with the rise of Congress, defeating which in the past they have established themselves in the respective states.” There are signs of an attempt by the regional parties to create a federal front. Soon after walking out of NDA, erstwhile ally Shiromani Akali Dal’s Prem Singh Chandumajra in December last year met Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai to work out an understanding to forge a national alliance. While this is still a far-fetched idea and next Lok Sabha polls are more than four years away, the constant decline of Congress and the confusion in the rank and file of that  party seems to have spurred regional parties to look for other options to checkmate the BJP. Congress had allied with Samajwadi Party for the 2017 assembly polls of Uttar Pradesh but the joint campaign “UP Ke Ladke” of Rahul Gandhi and Akhilesh Yadav bombed and BJP came to power with a massive majority. In 2020, RJD and Congress fought Bihar polls in alliance but they failed to unseat the ruling NDA. The poor show of Congress was blamed to a large extent for this. RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari trained his guns at Congress for extracting more number of seats to contest than its actual strength. Even Sena, which has backed TMC, is an alliance partner of Congress in Maharashtra government The ripple effect of Bihar polls was that Congress is having to bargain really hard with the DMK for seats in Tamil Nadu in this round of polls. The unveiling ceremony of the former Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) chief M Karunanidhi in December 2018 had become a big show of Opposition unity. “See right now, right now BJP is the main challenger for all these regional parties in their states. If Mamata manages to halt the BJP’s rise in West Bengal, this gives a moral booster to them. So this is a kind of anti-BJP mobilisation by all these forces and in this they do not see much of a role for Congress. For Congress these are difficult times,” Prof Narayan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/whiff-of-federal-politics-as-regional-parties-gather-around-mamata-958685.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Polls: TMC bids on new faces to beat anti-incumbency||West Bengal's ruling Trinamool Congress on Friday stole a march on its rivals, the BJP and the Left-Congress-ISF alliance, by coming out with the party's full list of 291 candidates, bringing in 114 new faces in a bid to beat the decade-old anti-incumbency. Announcing the candidate list, TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that the remaining three seats of the 294 constituencies would be fought by its ally, the Bimal Gurung faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM). Reaching out to the politically crucial 49 per cent women voters and 30 per cent minority population, the TMC's list has 50 women and 42 members of the minority community. Besides, Banerjee fielded 79 Scheduled Caste and 17 Scheduled Tribe candidates. Altogether 28 sitting MLAs, including five ministers, faced the axe because of age factor or poor health. The feisty TMC boss, who herself switched constituency and will be fighting from the high profile Nandigram seat, either nominated new faces or interchanged candidates in 160 assembly constituencies. Affirming her candidature only from Nandigram, Banerjee said she will not contest from her traditional Bhowanipore seat in Kolkata, as she threw a challenge to her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP in December. "I will contest from Nandigram as I stick to my words. From Bhowanipore constituency, Sovandeb Chattopadhyay will contest the upcoming Assembly elections," Banerjee said. "On March 9, we will release our manifesto. On March 10, I will file my nomination for the Nandigram seat," she told reporters. Banerjee had announced in January that she would contest the poll from the Nandigram seat in Purba Medinipur district. The BJP had challenged Banerjee to contest the poll from one seat only if she is confident of her victory. When asked if Adhikari is likely to be pitted against her, she declined to comment on it. Adhikari won from Nandigram in the 2016 assembly election while another TMC candidate emerged victorious from the seat in 2011. Though Adhikari has time and again expressed his desire to take on his former boss directly in Nandigram, the saffron party leadership is yet to decide on it. Banerjee and Adhikari were the prominent figures of the anti-land acquisition movement in Nandigram in 2007 that ultimately catapulted the firebrand TMC supremo to power in West Bengal in 2011, ending the 34-year-old rule of the Left Front. "This time, we have put special stress on women, youth and backward communities. There are names of about 50 women, 42 Muslims, 79 SC and 17 ST candidates in the list," she said. However, in 2016, the TMC had fielded 57 Muslim candidates. Exuding confidence to return to power for the third consecutive term, Banerjee described this election as the "easiest" the TMC has ever faced.  "This would be a smiley election for us. We would win it," she said when asked whether this will be the most challenging election ever the party had faced since its inception in 1998. "After we come to power, we will create Vidhan Parishad (Legislative Council) to accommodate senior and experienced leaders. We could not accommodate everybody, especially those above the age of 80 years," she said. Banerjee sought the blessings of the state's people and urged them to have faith in her. "I appeal to 'Maa Mati Manush' (Mother, Land and People) for your faith. Have faith in me, we will protect the state and take it to new heights," she said, turning to the slogan the party used during 2011 election. State Finance Minister Amit Mitra won't be contesting elections due to poor health, the TMC supremo said. Cabinet ministers Purnendu Bose and Abdur Razzak Mollah and ministers of state Ratna Ghosh Kar and Banchu Hansda were not given tickets this time. Banerjee's long time associate Sonali Guha and Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, a prominent face of the anti- land acquisition movement at Singur, were also dropped. Both were MLAs since 2001. According to TMC sources, poll strategist Prashant Kishor and I-PAC's survey has played a vital role in the candidate selection. "Out of the 114 new faces, including in seats where the TMC had lost time, to interchanging candidates in at least 160 seats is a reflection of the survey of I-PAC," a senior TMC leader said. Actresses Sayantika Banerjee and Koushani Mukherjee, director Raj Chakraborty and several others from the film industry were given nominations. Cricketer Manoj Tiwari and former footballer Bidesh Bose were also nominated. Most of the celebs were fielded in tough seats from where TMC leaders have joined the BJP in the last one year. Ratna Chatterjee and Sujata Mondal Khan, wives of BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee and Soumitra Khan respectively, were also given tickets by the TMC. The editor of Hindi daily Sanmarg and former Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Gupta was made a candidate for the assembly election. Ministers such as Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Subrata Mukherjee will contest from their traditional seats. Following the release of the candidate list, a number of MLAs who were dropped and their supporters protested in various parts of the state, blocking roads. Several TMC leaders, who were either dropped or were aspirants, announced that they would quit the party. The BJP mocked Banerjee for fielding so many new faces claiming that these are signs that the TMC doesn't have faith in its own leaders. "The TMC nominated so many new faces. Mamata Banerjee herself changed her traditional seat. These reflect that the TMC has already lost the election, even before the elections were announced," state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said. Banerjee released the candidate list from the same lucky room in her Kalighat residence from where she had done so in the 2011 and 2016 assembly elections. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, she announced candidates names from a different place within her residential premises, which proved unlucky for her. The BJP had won 18 Lok Sabha seats in the last Parliamentary poll out of 42 constituencies in Bengal, only four less than the TMC's tally of 22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-polls-tmc-bids-on-new-faces-to-beat-anti-incumbency-958790.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi reaches Kevadia for military commanders conference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi reached Kevadia Saturday morning to address the Combined Commanders' Conference, a brainstorming meeting of top military officials being held in the vicinity of the Statue of Unity. After landing at Ahmedabad airport, Modi left for Kevadia, which is around 200 km from the state capital. At Ahmedabad airport, the prime minister was received by Gujarat Governor Acharya Devvrat, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel. He will address top commanders of the armed forces who are here for the three-day meet which began on Thursday, an official said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh arrived here on Friday to participate in the conference||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-reaches-kevadia-for-military-commanders-conference-958806.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Government torturing 'annadata': Rahul Gandhi slams Centre over farmers' protest||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday attacked the Centre over the farmers' protest and said nails were laid at Delhi's borders for those whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders. Gandhi's attack came after the farmers' agitation entered its 100th day on Friday, with protesting union leaders asserting that their movement is far from over and they are "going strong". In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Whose sons risk their lives on the country's borders, for them, nails have been laid at the borders of Delhi. Annadaatas demand their rights, the government commits atrocities." देश की सीमा पर जान बिछाते हैं जिनके बेटे,उनके लिए कीलें बिछाई हैं दिल्ली की सीमा पर। The Congress leader has been supporting the farmers' protest against the three central farm laws and has attacked the government over the legislation on several occasions. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured farmers that the MSP would continue. Farmer leaders have already made it clear that they would not settle for anything less than the repeal of the new farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-torturing-annadata-rahul-gandhi-slams-centre-over-farmers-protest-958834.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Cattle-smuggling case: CBI issues lookout notice against TMC leader's brother||The CBI has issued a lookout notice against Bijay Mishra, brother of Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Binay Mishra and a close confidante of party MP Abhishek Banerjee, in a cattle-smuggling case, officials said on Saturday. The agency is also contemplating to approach the Interpol to get a Red Corner Notice issued against Binay Mishra, who has not joined the probe, they said. The agency has summoned two senior officers of the West Bengal police -- an inspector general and a superintendent of police -- on Monday for questioning in connection with the case, the officials said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) named Binay Mishra as a co-accused in its supplementary chargesheet filed in the cattle-smuggling case last month. Binay Mishra is believed to be very close to West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's nephew, Abhishek Banerjee, the officials said. In its chargesheet filed before a special CBI court in West Bengal's Asansol, the agency has already shown Binay Mishra as absconding. On February 18, the CBI filed a chargesheet in the case against Border Security Force (BSF) Commandant Satish Kumar and six others for their alleged involvement in a cattle-smuggling racket operating at the India-Bangladesh border. The central probe agency has recently questioned Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira and sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in a separate case pertaining to illegal coal mining and pilferage from the mines of the Eastern Coalfields Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cattle-smuggling-case-cbi-issues-lookout-notice-against-tmc-leaders-brother-958861.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||100 days of BJP's arrogance; black chapter in our democracy: Congress slams govt over farmers' protest||As the farmers' protest against the Centre's new farm laws completed 100 days, the Congress on Saturday said the period was a "black chapter" in India's democracy for the treatment meted out to the protesters and also marked 100 days of the ruling BJP's "arrogance". Congress leader Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre over the farmers' protest and said nails were laid at Delhi's borders for those, whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders. His attack came after the farmers' agitation completed 100 days with the protesting union leaders asserting that their movement is far from over and they are "going strong". In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Whose sons risk their lives at the country's borders, for them nails have been laid at the borders of Delhi. 'Annadaatas' demand their rights, the government commits atrocities." देश की सीमा पर जान बिछाते हैं जिनके बेटे,उनके लिए कीलें बिछाई हैं दिल्ली की सीमा पर। Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra also hit out at the Centre in a tweet in Hindi. She said, "100 days of farmers' struggle, of the fight for rights, of respect for 'annadaatas', of the path shown by Gandhiji, Sardar (Vallabhbhai) Patel, Nehruji, (Lal Bahadur) Shastriji, Shaheed Bhagat Singh." With the hashtag '100DaysOfBJParrogance', she said, "100 days of BJP government's arrogance, of assault on farmers, of lies and scorn for farmers." 100 दिनकिसानों के संघर्ष के,हक की लड़ाई के,अन्नदाता के सम्मान के,गांधी जी, सरदार पटेल, नेहरू जी, शास्त्री जी, शहीद भगत सिंह के दिखाए हुए रास्ते के। Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said that the protesting farmers have been braving all odds -- of nature and the might of the State -- for the last 100 days. "They have braved all kinds of insults heaped upon them by the government and pro-government media. Today, what we are witnessing is an attempt to wipe out the narrative of the farmers, to wipe out the narrative of their protest from the media," he alleged at a press conference here. "Each one of us, whichever category we may belong to, have our own struggles and that is the awareness on which the government depends," Khera said. There is one section of the society that has found time to come out and protest -- farmers -- against these "black laws" and they are "our voice", he added. "The country has seen through this government's efforts for headline management...a cornered regime is there and how will it react now is for us to wait and watch," the Congress leader said. "The farmers have called this day a black day. We think this is a black chapter in our democracy, where everything was done to disrupt this peaceful protest. They (farmers) were demonised, all kinds of conspiracies were hatched against them, but they stayed on," he added. The Congress demands that the three new farm laws should immediately be repealed, Khera said. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several border points of Delhi, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28 last year, demanding a repeal of the three new farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it is trying to put an end to the MSP and the "mandi" (wholesale market) systems through the new laws. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has also assured the farmers that the MSP system would continue. Farmer leaders have made it clear that they would not settle for anything less than a repeal of the new agriculture laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/100-days-of-bjps-arrogance-black-chapter-in-our-democracy-congress-slams-govt-over-farmers-protest-958885.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||He is ungrateful: TMC on Dinesh Trivedi joining BJP ahead of West Bengal Assembly elections||Slamming its former Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi for switching over to the BJP, the Trinamool Congress on Saturday said he is "ungrateful" and has backstabbed the ruling party in West Bengal ahead of the assembly polls. Trivedi quit from the upper House of Parliament last month, saying he was feeling suffocated in the Trinamool Congress and was unable to bear various incidents that are happening in the state. Earlier in the day, he joined the BJP at its headquarters in New Delhi in the presence of saffron party president J P Nadda. Reacting to the development, Trinamool Congress spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, "For the last so many years, he (Trivedi) did not say anything. Now, just before the state assembly polls, he has made complaints about the party. He is ungrateful and has betrayed people of the state." "He held several posts of the party and was entrusted with many responsibilities. At a time when he should repay the Trinamool Congress, he has backstabbed it," Ghosh said. Trivedi was once a close confidant of West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee and was her choice for holding the important railway ministry portfolio in the Union Cabinet during the UPA government. Echoing Ghosh, Trinamool Congress Lok Sabha MP Sougata Roy said, "People like Trivedi enjoy power during their tenure and leave a party at the time of elections." Several TMC leaders have quit the party in recent months to join the BJP as the saffron party mounts an aggressive all-out campaign to end Banerjee's 10-year-old reign in the state.  Apart from Trivedi, two former state ministers - Suvendu Adhikari and Rajib Banerjee - had quit the Trinamool Congress and switched over to the BJP recently. Since the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 19 TMC MLAs and a Lok Sabha MP of the party had joined the BJP. Elections to 294 assembly seats in West Bengal will be held in eight phases, beginning on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/he-is-ungrateful-tmc-on-dinesh-trivedi-joining-bjp-ahead-of-west-bengal-assembly-elections-958893.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Modi to address rally at Bengal's Brigade ground on Sunday, suspense over Mithun Chakraborty's presence continues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will sharpen BJP's campaign for the high-octane assembly elections in West Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds on Sunday. The Prime Minister's Sunday rally is said to be culmination of the 'Parivartan Yatra' launched by the saffron party in the poll-bound Bengal in February this year. "Prime Minister will set the tone of the election campaign with a rally at Brigade grounds," a BJP leader said. Sunday's rally will be the first major event of the saffron party in West Bengal after declaration of eight-phase elections in the state. The BJP has planned to make it a grand success with a record crowd presence which the iconic ground has never witnessed. The BJP which was scheduled to come out with the candidate list for the first two phases on Friday had decided to postpone it for the brigade rally. "We have decided to postpone the release of the candidate list for the brigade rally. Once it is over, we would come out with our list," BJP leader Rahul Sinha said. Along with Modi several top senior BJP leaders will be present at the rally. According to BJP sources, the rally might also throw up surprises as a few noted personalities including Bollywood actor Mithun Chakraborty might be present on the dais. "He may be present at the rally tomorrow. Let's see what happens," a senior BJP leader said. BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya, however, said nothing has been discussed regarding Chakraborty's joining the saffron camp. Once considered close to the CPI(M), Chakraborty was Rajya Sabha MP for the TMC for few years, before resigning expressing desire to quit politics. The BJP has gone all out to campaign for the rally launching innovative campaigns, from social media to the streets. The party activists have been hosting flash mobs over the past few weeks at several locations across the state, including busy traffic intersections and crowded localities to rally a large number of people at the Sunday event. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal 2019 general elections,only four less than TMC's tally of 22. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, its leaders are upbeat that the party will end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the state polls. Elections for the West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has already drawn the battleline with declaration of TMC candidate list Friday. Banerjee, who heads Trinamool Congress, announced names of 291 candidates and left three seats for the ally Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (GJM) in Darjeeling. Congress-Left Front-Indian Secular Front of the Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui have joined hands to challenge the TMC as well as the BJP in the battle for Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-to-address-rally-at-bengals-brigade-ground-on-sunday-suspense-over-mithun-chakrabortys-presence-continues-958908.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Smriti Irani attacks Rahul Gandhi, accuses him of 'insulting' people of Amethi||Union Minister Smriti Irani launched a scathing attack on former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Saturday, accusing him of "insulting" the people of Amethi by comparing voters in the north with those in Kerala. The Amethi MP, who laid the foundation stone for a bus stand in Tiloi, said the people of the town gave Gandhi immense love for 15 years despite him "not doing anything for its development". "It is wrong for Rahul Gandhi to say that there is a lack of understanding among the people of Amethi than those in Kerala. I believe that there is no dearth of understanding in the people of Amethi. Rather it is in Rahul Gandhi," she said. Her remarks come after Gandhi at a public gathering in Kerala's Thiruvananthapuram recently said, "For the first 15 years, I was an MP in the north, I had got used to a different type of politics. For me, coming to Kerala was very refreshing as suddenly I found that people are interested in issues, and not just superficially, but going into detail." Attacking the Gandhi family, Irani said a political family of the country ruled Amethi for 30 years but never thought about its development. "Instead of developing Amethi and opening a medical college here, they continued to get their guest house constructed," she claimed. Talking about farmers, Irani said in 2013, when Gandhi's party was in power only 800 farmers got the benefit of minimum support price in Amethi while in 2020, as many as 23,800 farmers benefitted from MSP here. The Union minister said it is a matter of concern that there was not a single fertilizer rack centre in Amethi and claimed that the farmers had to face lathis for fertilizers. She said after the BJP came to power in Uttar Pradesh, a fertilizer rack centre was formed in Gauriganj in Amethi and construction work for a bypass and over bridge started in the town. Irani said the benefits of development schemes are reaching the common man directly, the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sammann Nidhi has given financial strength to the farmers and people have benefitted directly from Ayushman Bharat Yojana, Ujjwala Yojana and Saubhagya Yojana. Earlier in the day, she took part in a ground-breaking ceremony of the bus stand to be constructed in Tiloi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/smriti-irani-attacks-rahul-gandhi-accuses-him-of-insulting-people-of-amethi-958910.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||BJP unruffled by public anger due to EVMs, claims Digvijaya||Senior Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Saturday said the Centre was not bothered about public anger over farm laws and rising fuel prices because the ruling BJP relied on EVMS to win elections. Singh, who sported a black arm band to mark 100 days of the protest against the Centre's new farm laws, was speaking to reporters in Jaiheda in Madhya Pradesh's Shajapur district. "Politicians get worried seeing such public anger but the BJP is unruffled because it depends on EVMs. LPG prices have gone up from Rs 594 in November to 890 now. More than 80 per cent of the beneficiaries of the Centre's Ujjwala yojana are unable to buy refill cylinders," he said. Central excise on petrol and diesel had gone up 10 times under the BJP dispensation, which in turn had unleashed inflation and caused tremendous distress to people, the former MP chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-unruffled-by-public-anger-due-to-evms-claims-digvijaya-958923.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal election: BJP releases first list of 57 candidates; pits Suvendu against Mamata in Nandigram||BJP on Saturday released the list of candidates for the first two phases of the West Bengal Assembly elections. The saffron party fielded former Trinamool Congress (TMC) heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari from the Nandigram Assembly constituency in East Medinipur district, pitting him in an intense contest against Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. BJP’s decision to field Adhikari from Nandigram holds significance as the land agitation in Nandigram in 2007 played a key role in bringing TMC to power in Bengal in the 2011 Assembly elections.  By fielding Adhikari, the most prominent and significant turncoat against the Chief Minister, BJP seems to be trying to make the best of its defection strategy against the TMC. Although Mamata had spearheaded the land agitation at Nandigram against the Left Front Government, Adhikari had played a key role in organising the movement. Adhikari was arguably the only leader in the TMC after Mamata who has a substantial mass base. He also wields significant organisational clout in Nandigram. The former Transport Minister has repeatedly taken jibes at the TMC supremo claiming that whether he contests from Nandigram or not, he  will ensure that Mamata returns “defeated and empty handed” from Nandigram. BJP’s move to field Adhikari from Nandigram is likely to make Mamata’s fight in the constituency difficult as even when he was in the TMC, Nandigram was considered to be his bastion. Adhikari’s clout in Nandigram becomes evident from the fact that he won from the constituency in the 2016 Assembly elections with a whooping margin of 81,230 votes. He had bagged 67.21 per cent votes. However, Nandigram has a significant Muslim population which had backed Adhikari till he was in the TMC. It remains to be seen whether he can retain his Muslim vote base after joining the BJP. On the other side, BJP fielded former cricketer Ashoke Dinda from the Moyna constituency. It has also put former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh in the Debra constituency, pitting her against another retired IPS officer Humayun Kabir fielded by the TMC. Out of the 57 seats in Bengal for which BJP announced the candidate list, it has left the Baghnundi seat to the AJSU.  It is yet to announce candidates for Barjora, Kashipur and Kharagpur Sadar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-election-bjp-releases-first-list-of-57-candidates-pits-suvendu-against-mamata-in-nandigram-958925.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||Ex-BSP MLA Dhirendra Prasad joins Congress||Former BSP MLA and Dalit leader Dhirendra Prasad joined the Congress along with his supporters here on Saturday. He joined the party in the presence of Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu, and expressed faith in the values and ideology of the party under Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and national general secretary and in-charge of Uttar Pradesh, Priyanka Gandhi. Prasad, former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA from Puyawan in Shahjahanpur district, said Congress was “fighting the real battle of Dalits, backward and underprivileged”. "Congress and Priyanka ji are fighting the real battle of Dalits, backward and underprivileged, and today the Jatav society is feeling completely betrayed by BSP and Mayawati,” he said. Talking to reporters, Lallu said Prasad’s coming in the party fold will further strengthen the ongoing struggle led by Priyanka Gandhi to "save the country, democracy and constitution", and for the welfare of the exploited and deprived sections of society. He said people have become completely disenchanted with non-Congress parties, including the BJP, and a large number of public representatives and youth are increasingly aligning with the Congress. Lallu also cited the 'Nadi Adhikar Yatra' organised by the Congress from Baswar, Allahabad to Ballia Majhi Ghat for the rights of “Nishad brothers and fishermen”. During the Congress rule, the Nishad community was given the right to natural produce from rivers, drains, pokharas, lakes, soil and sand, but their rights were snatched away during the non-Congress governments. Taking this trend forward, the BJP has taken away the rights of the Nishad community on rivers, streams and soil, he alleged. “Today big companies are looting the minerals of rivers, and when the Nishad community opposed it, the BJP government took brutal action and beat them up. This government should know that those who have been beaten up will destroy their pride and overthrow them in the coming elections,” the Congress leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ex-bsp-mla-dhirendra-prasad-joins-congress-958952.html
06-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal elections: Modi to take BJP’s battle for ‘Epar Bangla’ to ‘Opar Bangla’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi appears to be set to take the Bharatiya Janata Party’s campaign to win away the “Epar Bangla” from Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress to “Opar Bangla” too. Just a day before the first of the eight-phase polling for the assembly elections in West Bengal, often referred to as “Epar Bangla” (Bengal on This Side), will take place, the Prime Minister will embark on a two-day visit to Bangladesh a.k.a “Opar Bangla” (Bengal on the Other Side). And, with his BJP already on a no-holds-barred campaign to wrest power from the Trinamool Congress in the State, the Prime Minister’s March 26-27 visit to the neighbouring country too is expected to be loaded with political messages to the voters in West Bengal. The most conspicuous will be the one that will come out of his visit to Orakandi, a small town in Gopalganj district of Bangladesh. The ‘Thakur Bari’ in Orakandi is the most sacred shrine for the Matuas – a Vaishnavite Hindu sect, which, with a population of over three crore in West Bengal, has emerged as a ‘vote-bank’ that the BJP is keen to win away from the TMC. Modi is likely to pay obeisance to the temple dedicated to Harichand Thakur, who founded the sect out of a reformist movement in the early 19th century. The sect comprised Namashudras, Chamars and Malis, who were then treated as untouchables by the upper caste Hindus of undivided Bengal. Modi will meet his counterpart Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka. He will take part in the celebration of the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Hasina’s father and the founder of Bangladesh, in Dhaka. A source told DH that although the Prime Minister’s itinerary in Bangladesh had not yet been finalized, he had conveyed to the officials his keenness to visit Thakurbari in Orakandi during his tour to the neighbouring country. Harichand Thakur was born in Safaldanga in 1812, but spent most of his life and died in neighbouring Orakandi in 1878. The Matuas grew in number in West Bengal as many of them migrated from erstwhile East Pakistan after the partition and continued to do so even after creation of Bangladesh in 1971. They now account for nearly 17% of the population of West Bengal and can influence the poll-results in 40-45 of the total 294 assembly constituencies in the State. The Matuas of West Bengal have been a trusted support base for the TMC in the past several elections in the State. Mamata Banerjee, the Chief Minister of the State since 2011, had a very close relation with the matriarch of the community, Bina Pani Devi a.k.a “Boro Ma”, till the centenarian died in 2019. The BJP, however, has been trying to make a dent in the TMC’s vote-bank. The saffron party now has an MP from the community – Shantanu Thakur, one of the grandsons of “Boro Ma”. Not only the Matuas, the Prime Minister’s visit to Bangladesh will also send out a message to the larger Bengali Hindu population in poll-bound West Bengal. He is likely to visit “Sugandha Shakti Peetha”, one of the 51 Shakti Peethas spread across the subcontinent and much revered by the Hindus. In yet another bid to reach out to people of West Bengal, Modi is also likely to travel to Kushtia in Bangladesh to visit the ‘Shilaidaha Kuthi Bari’, which was built by Dwarakanath Tagore and where his Nobel Laureate son – Rabindra Nath Thakur – lived for many years. In Kushtia, the Prime Minister is also expected to visit the ancestral house of Jatindranath Mukhopadhyay, a.k.a ‘Bagha Jatin’, a revolutionary freedom fighter, who died a few days after being injured in an encounter with the police of British Raj in Balasore in Odisha in 1915.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-elections-modi-to-take-bjp-s-battle-for-epar-bangla-to-opar-bangla-958964.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt budget likely to be 'biggest so far', have provisions to promote patriotism||The annual budget of the Delhi government is likely to be "the biggest so far" and have provisions to promote patriotism, sources said on Friday. The Budget Session of Delhi Assembly, scheduled to begin from March 8, will have no question hour. The budget for financial year 2021-22 will be tabled in the House on March 9, they said. "The annual budget for 2021-22 is going to be the biggest in the history of Delhi government. It is also likely to have provisions to promote patriotism," said a source in the government. The AAP dispensation had presented Rs 65,000 crore budget for 2020-2021 fiscal that was around 10 per cent more than that of 2019-20.  Sources said the budget is also expected to have some new announcements besides measures to speed up various projects and schemes delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The government is likely to come up with announcements to celebrate the 75th Independence Day. The Kejriwal government is also likely to come up with its roadmap for Delhi by the time the country celebrates its 100th Independence Day," sources said. Later this month, the government is likely to launch a 75-week long celebrations leading up to platinum jubilee of India's Independence, they said. BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri alleged that the AAP government was "violating" rights of the legislators by not having question hour in the Budget Session. "We have raised the matter with the Assembly Speaker and plan to meet the Lt Governor also to seek his intervention to restore question hour," he said and alleged that the AAP government was s running away from its responsibility of answering the MLAs' questions. "All MLAs, including those of the ruling party, require answers to questions that people of their constituency have from different departments. We have not been given time to give notice for questions this time," Bidhuri claimed. Sources said the question hour was shelved because the budget session was called with less than 15 days time available to inform the MLAs about it. "The members of the House need to file questions 12 days prior to tabling of the answer, which is not available this time," they said. Bidhuri said, the MLAs are to be notified 15 days before calling of the session, but they were informed about the Budget session as late as Thursday, exactly four days before it begins. The Leader of Opposition demanded that the government extends the session for a week to allow the MLAs get answers during the question hour. The budget session will conclude on March 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-budget-likely-to-be-biggest-so-far-have-provisions-to-promote-patriotism-958740.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM announces Rs 1 crore aid to kin of jawan killed in Chhattisgarh blast||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has announced Rs one crore financial assistance to the family of a security personnel from the state, who was killed in Chhattisgarh two days back in a blast of IED planted by Naxals, officials said on Saturday. The jawan, Laxmikant Dwivedi, was a security personnel with the 22nd battalion of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) of Chhattisgarh. He was martyred on Thursday in the blast of a pressure improvised explosive device (IED) planted by Maoists. The chief minister also announced a government job to a family member of Dwivedi, whose body was brought to Rewa, his home district in MP, on Friday, the officials said. Chouhan also announced that his family would be given a house, they added. Dwivedi's last rites were performed at his native village Barchha Kakahra, located around 150 kilometres from Rewa district headquarters, on Friday. MP Minister of State Ram Khilawan Patel also paid tributes to Dwivedi by reaching his village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cm-announces-rs-1-crore-aid-to-kin-of-jawan-killed-in-chhattisgarh-blast-958820.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||28-year-old woman sexually harassed in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli||A 28-year-old woman was allegedly sexually harassed by a man in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Saturday. SHO Shyambir Singh said the incident took place on Friday when the woman was alone at her house. Rajbir entered her house and sexually harassed her, the SHO said. A case was registered under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and Section 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) of the IPC against Rajbir and a probe into the matter was underway, he added. In another case, a six-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised at a village in Shamli district on Friday, the police said. According to a complaint lodged at Jhinjhana police station, a 14-year-old boy took the alleged victim to a nearby field and sodomised him. The police said an investigation into the matter was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/28-year-old-woman-sexually-harassed-in-uttar-pradeshs-shamli-958823.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Abducted three-year-old girl rescued from Punjab||A three-year-old girl who was kidnapped from a locality here was rescued from Jalandhar in Punjab, police said on Saturday. The girl's aunt and her boyfriend were arrested in this connection, they added. Girl’s aunt Nishu Dwivedi (20) had kidnapped the child on Tuesday and went to her boyfriend who was living in Jalandhar, Punjab, Superintendent of Police, Fatehpur, Satpal Antil said. A police surveillance team reached Jalandhar on Friday and safely rescued the kidnapped girl, he said. Nishu and her boyfriend Navdeep Singh alias Ginni (25) were arrested, Antil added. During interrogation, Nishu told police that she had run away from the house to marry her boyfriend and had taken the child along with her so that both she and her boyfriend could stay in a hotel as husband and wife without inviting any attention, the SP said. She said that she had no intention to harm the child, he added. The girl was handed over to her family members, he said. Nishu and Navdeep Singh will be produced in the court on Saturday, Antil said. The girl’s father works as an assistant teacher, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/abducted-three-year-old-girl-rescued-from-punjab-958833.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Farmers protesting farm laws block KMP expressway in Haryana||Farmers protesting the Centre's three agriculture laws on Saturday blocked the six-lane Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders. The protest, which began at 11 am, would continue till 4 pm. The call for blocking the expressway was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations. The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway is also known as the western peripheral expressway. The 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. “We will block the KMP expressway. However, emergency vehicles will be allowed,” general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Jagmohan Singh said. Farmers in Haryana's Sonipat district brought their tractor-trolleys and parked them in the middle of a stretch of the KMP expressway. Protesters, including women, carrying their respective union flags as well as black flags shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre for not acceding to their demands. “Our agitation against three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back,” a protester in Sonipat said. In Palwal district too, farmers staged a dharna. The KMP expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution. It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-protesting-farm-laws-block-kmp-expressway-in-haryana-958836.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||World's highest railway bridge in Jammu and Kashmir to be ready by year-end||The world's highest railway bridge in Jammu and Kashmir, which is 35 metres higher than the Eiffel Tower, is all set to be ready by the year-end. The bridge, 359 meters above the River Chenab is on the Katra-Banihal railway line at Kauri village in Reasi district. The cost of the 1.3-km-long bridge is estimated at around Rs 1,250 crore and as many as 1,300 workers and 300 engineers were engaged in its making that started in 2004. Officials said that the bridge is being built in the deep gorge and the main arch of the bridge has a length of 476 metres which is the largest arch in India. They said that once this arch will be complete, work on the track laying beside the viaduct will be started. Due to inclement weather and challenging terrains, the bridge, built in seismic zone IV, has missed several deadlines so far. This Chenab bridge is likely to have a lifespan of 120 years. The Konkan Railway Corporation Limited (KRCL) is building this engineering marvel over a challenging 111 km stretch under the Udhampur-Srinagar-Baramulla Rail Link (USBRL) project. The bridge will include 17 spans with a 469 metres main arch across the Chenab river and viaducts on either side. According to officials, steel was chosen to construct the bridge as it will be more economical and able to resist temperatures of -20°C and wind speeds of above 200 km/h. Officials said they are hopeful that the Chenab bridge is completed by the year-end as people of Kashmir are eagerly waiting for its completion so that it can provide all-weather connectivity to the Valley and parts of the Jammu division with the rest of the country. Union Railway Ministry had said recently that the Udhampur-Baramulla rail project will be completed by December 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/worlds-highest-railway-bridge-in-jammu-and-kashmir-to-be-ready-by-year-end-958838.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh MLAs to get full salary from April, MLALAD fund fully restored||Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur announced on Saturday that the salaries of state MLAs will be paid in full from April 1 and the MLA local area development (MLALAD) fund will be fully restored. The state government had last year decided to cut 30 per cent salaries of its MLAs and suspend the MLALAD fund for two years to fight the Covid-19 pandemic. Presenting the budget for the fiscal 2021-22, Thakur announced in the assembly that the MLAs will get their full salary from April 1. Thakur, who also holds the finance portfolio, said the MLALAD fund will not only be restored but it will be hiked by Rs 5 lakh from the earlier Rs 1.75 crore to Rs 1.80 crore. Presenting his fourth budget, Thakur said the Planning Department of the state would be renamed as Niti Vibhag.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-mlas-to-get-full-salary-from-april-mlalad-fund-fully-restored-958841.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Raped 27 years ago, woman files complaint against two men after her son asks his father's name||Roshni (name changed) had allegedly been raped repeatedly by two men, when she was just around 14 years, in Uttar Pradesh's Shahjahanpur district, about 175 kilometres from Lucknow. One Naki Hasan of her locality had entered the house when she was alone and allegedly raped her, Superintendent of Police (City) Sanjay Kumar told PTI on Saturday. Referring to the police report lodged on the basis of the woman's complaint, Kumar said after the accused, his younger brother Guddu also raped her. The victim has alleged that she was raped by both the accused on multiple occasions. Kumar said that a DNA test may be conducted. A year later, she gave birth to a male baby, who was adopted by one of her relatives. Fearing social humiliation, her parents chose not to lodge any complaint and the victim got married a few years after. However, six years after the marriage, the husband came to know about the incident and deserted her. Meanwhile, the adopted son also came to know about his biological mother and chose to return to her. Her past returned to haunt Roshni, when her now 23-year-old son sought to know the name of his father, but she had no answer. Roshni decided not to burden her son with her past, she approached the cops to register a complaint of rape against the two men, who had allegedly raped her repeatedly while she had been living with her elder sister. Withal, the Uttar Pradesh police refused to lodge the complaint forcing Roshni to move the district court. A police official from Shahajahanpur said that a case was lodged and the matter was being investigated. ''We will get a DNA test conducted if need be....the victim will get justice,'' he added. The court, a few days back, ordered the registration of an FIR in this case.   (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/raped-27-years-ago-woman-files-complaint-against-two-men-after-her-son-asks-his-fathers-name-958862.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||A toilet with two seats in Uttar Pradesh; official says it will help children overcome fear||It is something that no one could even imagine in his wildest dreams- A toilet with two seats. The Panchayati Raj Department has constructed a toilet, which has two seats, in Uttar Pradesh's Basti district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow. The toilet was constructed at Bhiura village. The matter came to light when the picture of the two-seat toilet went viral on social networking sites triggering sharp reactions from the people. What made the matter funnier was the explanation put forward by a senior official when queried in this regard. ''It will help the children overcome their fears,'' the official remarked. He, however, did not care to elaborate. According to the sources, the officials of the Panchayati Raj department were in a hurry to spend the budget given to them under the Swachcha Bharat Mission' and therefore constructed such a toilet. ''They just wanted to show that the entire budget was utilised,'' said local Congress leader Ankur Verma in Basti. As the matter snowballed into a controversy with the opposition parties slamming the district administration, an inquiry was ordered into the same. ''We have ordered an inquiry....we will fix responsibility and punish the guilty,'' said a senior district official in Basti on Saturday.  ''The pictures (toilet with two seats) are laughable but they are also examples of sheer carelessness,'' said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/a-toilet-with-two-seats-in-uttar-pradesh-official-says-it-will-help-children-overcome-fear-958871.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Two killed in brawl at BJP MLA's birthday bash in Madhya Pradesh||Two persons attending the birthday bash of a BJP MLA in Madhya Pradesh Damoh's district have been killed over some dispute, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred around 10 pm on Friday at Banwar village under Nohata police station area after a dispute among the attendees of the function, Damoh Superintendent of Police Hemant Chouhan said. As per initial investigation, one of the deceased Jogendra Singh (30) died of a gunshot while another deceased Arvind Jain was beaten to death by some persons with stones and sticks, the SP said. He said attackers have not been identified so far and further investigation was underway. According to sources in police, Jabera MLA Dharmendra Singh Lodhi was not present at the bash when the incident occurred. Sources said Jain was a representative of the MLA at the function while Singh was a guest teacher. On the other hand, Damoh district Congress president Ajay Tandon accused the police of failure in maintaining the law and order. "The incident occurred in the birthday party of BJP MLA Dharmendra Singh Lodhi at a time when the district is under high security due to the arrival of President Ram Nath Kovind," Tandon said. President Kovind is on a two-day visit to Madhya Pradesh beginning Saturday. He is scheduled to arrive in Jalhari village in Damoh district at 9.30 am on Sunday, from where he will go to Sangrampur village to attend 'Janjatiya Sammelan' organised by MP Tribal Welfare Department. While the BJP MLA could not be reached for reaction, state BJP secretary Rajneesh Agrawal said he was unaware of the incident. "The incident has nothing to do with the BJP. The law will take its own course," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-in-brawl-at-bjp-mlas-birthday-bash-in-madhya-pradesh-958873.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab's Jalandhar admin imposes night curfew to tackle coronavirus||Punjab's Jalandhar administration imposed a night curfew from Saturday to tackle the recent surge in coronavirus cases in the district. The night curfew will remain in place in the district from 11 pm to 5 am, said Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori. He said the order will be effective from Saturday till further directions. Jalandhar on Friday had reported the maximum 134 fresh cases in the state. There are a total of 856 active cases in Jalandhar as of now, according to a medical bulletin. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases for nearly four weeks. Last month, the Punjab government had authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to impose night curfew in coronavirus hotspots in their districts if needed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabs-jalandhar-admin-imposes-night-curfew-to-tackle-coronavirus-958879.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand tragedy: Heavy rains, rise in overall temp in four decades could have led to rock collapse||Heavy precipitation in the Chamoli region from February 4-6 and an overall rise in temperature in Uttarakhand in last four decades could have led to the rock collapse which triggered the deadly flash floods in the state last month, according to a study by the International Centre for Integrated Mountain Development. The report by Kathmandu-based ICIMOD, which was released on Friday, found that a crack had formed prior to the incident at the site where the rock detachment led to a rockslide from the Raunti peak. The rockslide brought along with it mounds of earth and snow which could have triggered the flash floods. With a straight slide line of 1.6 km (5500 to 3900 masl), the kinetic energy during the fall generated enough heat to melt the ice. As the debris moved downstream in the Rishiganga river, it pushed running river water ahead of it, including water from small ponding structures along the river path. So far 72 bodies and 30 human body parts have been recovered from different places in the avalanche-hit areas, out of which 41 bodies have been identified. As many as 132 persons are still missing. The ICIMOD is a regional organisation that works on different aspects in the Himalayan-Hindukush region. It has eight members --- India, China, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. At the same headwall of the Raunthi peak, a large ice avalanche was previously released somewhere between 19 September and 9 October 2016, which deposited ice and more bedrock in the valley below, the report states. “The resulting destabilisation of the rock due to the lack of ice cover (glacial debuttressing, stress-release fracturing), and increased exposure to solar radiation and hence an increased freeze thaw cycle, in combination with a large snowfall event preceding the event of February 7, 2021 and rapid melt water production, may have favoured the fracturing of rock,” the report states. “This can, however, not explain the depth of the fracture (150 metres), which must have evolved over a longer period of time,” the report states. The ICIMOD report further states that a strong western disturbance passed across Kashmir and northwest India from February 4-6. It was fully charged with convective instability that may have contributed to the heavy precipitation. The Uttarakhand tragedy occurred on February 7. “Numerical simulation of some of the attributes have been carried out which depict strong evidence of heavy precipitation contributing to high flows downstream,” it said. The numerical simulation on February 4 shows heavy precipitation over the region. The western disturbance travelled with relatively slower speed and its stagnancy produced concentrated precipitation, the report states. “Precipitation data derived from Global Precipitation Measurement (GPM) Mission suggests that there were continuous precipitation events from February 3-5 which resulted in approximately 58 mm of cumulative precipitation. Most of the precipitation in the high altitude areas of Chamoli would have occurred as snowfall,” it states. The temperatures are also rising in Uttarakhand, the report states, saying maximum temperature in the Chamoli area has increased at the rate of 0.032 degrees C per year between 1980 and 2018. Furthermore, January 2021 was the warmest January on record in Uttarakhand for six decades, the report states. “While a hazard event like the flood at Chamoli cannot be directly attributed to climatic changes, the increased thaw-freeze cycle of permafrost could have partially contributed to the event,” it states. A report by the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology (WIHG) also stated that the collapse of a massive rock, which brought down a large amount of earth and snow, may have triggered the flash floods. The debris also blocked the mouth of a stream in the upper reaches of the Rishiganga river. This led to formation of a glacial lake which is being monitored continuously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-tragedy-heavy-rains-rise-in-overall-temp-in-four-decades-could-have-led-to-rock-collapse-958896.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Five killed, over 25 hurt as two buses collide in UP's Aligarh||Five people were killed and over 25 injured after a collision between two Haryana Roadways buses in Uttar Pradesh's Aligarh district on Saturday, officials said. A tyre of one bus busted suddenly and it went out of control, colliding with another bus near Karsua village in the Lodha police station area of the district around 2 pm, the officials said. Aligarh District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh said the injured have been hospitalised and the Chief Minister's Office in Lucknow has been apprised of the situation. "Four people died on the spot while one succumbed to injuries at the hospital. Around 25 to 30 other passengers got injured in the incident. Some of them are severely injured and have been rushed to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College,” Singh told reporters. Others injured are being treated at the district hospital and families of the victims are being contacted, he said. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Aligarh officials to ensure proper medical treatment of those injured, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-killed-over-25-hurt-as-two-buses-collide-in-ups-aligarh-958912.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Samajwadi Party to initiate 'cycle yatra' against BJP's 'oppression' of Azam Khan||The Samajwadi Party will take out a 'cycle yatra' to highlight the "continued oppression" of senior party leader Azam Khan by the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh, a party spokesperson said on Saturday. The yatra will begin from Rampur, the home district of Azam Khan, on March 13 and conclude on March 21 in Lucknow, party spokesman Rajendra Chaudhary said in a statement issued here. "The purpose of this yatra is to register public anger over the actions of the BJP government against the founder of Mohammad Ali Johar University and SP MP Mohammad Azam Khan and draw people's attention over it,'' Chaudhary said. Yadav will reach Rampur on March 12 and address a press conference at the Mohammad Ali Johar University and will also speak at a public meeting there, Chaudhary said, adding that on March 13, state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel will flag off the 'cycle yatra' from Ambedkar Park, Rampur. Passing through Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Lakhimpur and Sitapur, the 'cycle yatra' will reach the party headquarters in Lucknow where the party president will address workers, Chaudhary said, adding that senior leaders will flag off the yatra at different places all through the route. "Mohammad Azam Khan is an MP and former minister, his wife Tanzin Fatima is an MLA yet they have been framed in cases. Azam Khan's son Abdullah Azam has also been made an accused and ever since the BJP came to power, this family is facing continued problems. They are being framed in fake cases,” Chaudhary alleged. The SP has been supporting Khan since the beginning, he said. The Lok Sabha MP has set up the Johar university and taken steps towards spreading higher education and improving the lives of the youth but he is being humiliated and harassed by the government, the spokesman alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadi-party-to-initiate-cycle-yatra-against-bjps-oppression-of-azam-khan-958929.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Night curfew imposed in four Punjab districts||A night curfew was imposed in Punjab's four districts from Saturday to tackle a recent surge in coronavirus cases. The orders came after Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan and Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta held a meeting to review the coronavirus situation with all DCs, district police chiefs and civil surgeons through a video conferencing. The districts where the night curfew has been imposed are Jalandhar, SBS Nagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala. The night curfew will remain in place in the districts from 11 pm to 5 am. Jalandhar Deputy Commissioner Ghanshyam Thori had earlier in the day said the order will be effective from Saturday till further directions. However, there will be relaxation for workers or staff working in factories which run on 24-hour shifts and also in cases of medical emergency. These orders will not be applicable on people returning after travelling in buses, trains or flights. The chief secretary in a tweet has urged people to get themselves vaccinated and to continue to follow the Covid-appropriate behavior. Last month, the Punjab government had authorised deputy commissioners (DCs) to impose the night curfew in coronavirus hotspots if needed. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid19 cases for nearly four weeks. Jalandhar reported 242 cases on Thursday, 134 cases on Friday and 154 on Saturday, promoting the district authorities to take this decision. Jalandhar is at the second spot in terms of coronavirus cases after Ludhiana. It has so far reported 22,410 Covid-19 cases. There are a total of 926 active cases in Jalandhar as of now, according to a medical bulletin. SBS Nagar, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur on Saturday reported 156, 85 and 137 cases, respectively. Punjab on Saturday reported 1,179 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the infection tally to 187,348 cases. Twelve more deaths took the fatality count to 5,910. Punjab is among the five states that has been asked by the Centre to refocus on strict surveillance, containment and RT-PCR testing to check the growing number of cases. The other four states are Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. Earlier, health officials had ascribed the upswing in the number of cases to non-adherence of Covid-19 safety guidelines like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing by people. Earlier, the state government had lifted the night curfew from January 1 because of a decline in coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/night-curfew-imposed-in-four-punjab-districts-958963.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Depressed over skin colour, Noida schoolboy jumps to death||A class 11 student, who was allegedly battling depression due to his physical looks and skin complexion, jumped off his 15th-floor apartment and died on Saturday in Uttar Pradesh's Noida, police said. The local Sector 49 police station was alerted around 5 am about the incident, which took place in a high-rise building in Sector 78, according to officials. The parents of the 17-year-old boy were living separately. His mother lives in Gurgaon, while father, who works in a multinational company (MNC), was staying here in Noida, they said. "His parents informed the police that their son had been battling depression due to his physical features and skin complexion. He had talked to them about his complexity because of his looks in the past also," Sector 49 Station House Officer (SHO) Sudhir Kumar told PTI. The body was sent for post mortem after the incident and no complaint has been made by the family, the SHO said. Meanwhile, mental health experts said depression is treatable and suicide preventive. "Teenagers and people in their early 20s could suffer from 'body dysmorphic disorder', a mental health condition in which one cannot stop thinking about one or more perceived defects or flaws in their appearance," Dr Kunal Kumar, Head of Department Psychiatry in Sharda University and Medical College, said. "Such health conditions are very much treatable and preventable if first observers, like parents, recognise the behavioural changes in their kids and talk to them in order to not let the kids doubt their self-esteem," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/depressed-over-skin-colour-noida-schoolboy-jumps-to-death-958990.html
06-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh farmers getting high prices of their produce, claims Yogi Adityanath||Farmers in Uttar Pradesh have access to better market and getting high prices of their produce due to the state government’s consistent efforts, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath claimed here on Saturday. After inaugurating a 'jaggery festival', the CM asserted his government has been working relentlessly to double the farmers’ income by making them available a wider market for their produce. "Sustained efforts for the welfare of farmers are resulting in rich benefits in the state and farmers are now getting better market and high price for their produce,” the CM claimed. Recalling the condition of sugarcane growers before his government came to power four years ago, Adityanath said dues of farmers had remained pending for years. “Due to the government's efforts, the sugarcane produced in the districts of Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Ayodhya, Lakhimpur Kheri and Shahjahanpur is getting market not only in the state but the entire country,'' the chief minister said, according to an official release. He said efforts of the state government with a view to bring changes in lives of farmers have resulted in successful events like the jaggery festival. ''These programmes have been started to enable the local products get new markets and branding besides best remunerative price to farmers in the country," he added. He also exuded confidence that the jaggery from the state will get international recognition and farmers will get remunerative prices. It is for the first time after the Independence of the country that a 'jaggery festival' is being organised in UP, he claimed, adding that the aim of the event is to encourage farmers to produce quality jaggery and products made from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-farmers-getting-high-prices-of-their-produce-claims-yogi-adityanath-958996.html
06-03-2021||Opinion||Democracy weather report: Cloudy, with a chance of easy living||During the week, we had two different sets of data to tell us how we’re doing. First, the US-based NGO Freedom House told us that we’d gone down a rung on its ratings of freedom in countries around the world, saying that we were losing the opportunity to be a global democratic leader. On the plus side, we also learned this week that Namma Bengaluru had topped the Ease of Living index among the major cities of the country. In this era of information overload, there is no shortage of rankings. A lot of institutions putting out such data seem to believe in boiling complex things down to simple figures. Quite often in the process, the nuance of what’s being measured is diminished, and sometimes even wiped out. To top that, there are people who don’t need surveys to tell them anything, because they have already made up their minds about answers to any questions. The net result is that a lot of the debate immediately after a survey is put out is about the credibility of the surveyor, their possible motives and hidden agendas, and so on. That usually goes on till the sun sets, more often than not without coming to any conclusion. Not all surveys are loaded with such scope for argumentative believers. The Passport Power rankings, for example, are quite straightforward. Some countries allow visa-free travel to Indians, others have some small procedure to be followed, and still others have erected various kinds of requirements that one might more accurately describe as entry barriers. If you tally these up for each country, some kind of score emerges from that. Every news magazine has at least one ‘survey’ issue each year, and some of them even have more than one issue, devoting the front pages to rankings and indices. There’s no shortage of material -- university rankings, ease of doing business, popularity of governments. Pick a topic, and there’s probably a ranking of some kind for it. So, what should we make of the latest ones, especially Bengaluru’s great leap forward from last year’s dismal rank to this year’s table-topping performance? Should we be happy to be living the easiest life on offer in an Indian metro? Or should we point out that however high we may rank, it’s only in comparison to other places just like ourselves, and there’s still a long way to go before ranking high on a list of Indian cities also puts us among the top ranks of places around the world? The indices are only as good as we want them to be, and they say more about our priorities than anything else. During the last few weeks, I found myself twice in conversations about the ‘great work’ being done in other states -- in Chennai and also in several cities in Odisha. There was genuine happiness in the voices of those telling me about what’s going on in those places, and even hope that there would be lessons from them for other cities. I pointed out that in Chennai, there has been no elected local government since 2016 -- a delay that is so long that almost a whole term could be fit into it by now. In Odisha, my friend freely admitted that elections to several cities and towns were behind schedule,leaving bureaucrats in charge of running them. That story is familiar to us. Bengaluru, too, hasn’t had an elected council for the last six months. But does that matter? Should our metrics for how good our cities are be so poor that if we don’t have an essential piece of democracy in them, we would only lose a few points in the rankings? One could say, reasonably, that there should be minimum standards that we set for these things, and that properly functioning institutions of democracy are among them. My friends telling me about Chennai and Odisha admitted this as a failure. But in each case, they quickly moved on to telling me how, in the absence of an elected council the administrators were able to get a lot of good things done. And the more that can happen before the next election the better, lest the councillors muck up the whole thing in their usual ways. I’ve heard that in Bengaluru, too, several times in the last 10-15 years, as we’ve gone through gaps in local council terms repeatedly. That isn’t right. Freedom fighters didn’t stand up to the British risking life and limb for this. Our Constitution, which we teach widely and speak proudly about, doesn’t have any place for it. The laws don’t permit it. But somehow, when we look in our collective mirrors and assess ourselves, we seem to discount the very meaning of freedom, reducing it to merely one factor among many in deciding how we’re doing. More than Freedom House telling us about ourselves, we should be thinking about freedom in our own house. Our liberties are important. If we take the view that in some cases they can be set aside, even for a while, because some other things matter more, we put at risk the freedoms that were hard-fought and won. And from there, it’s only a short distance to being not quite free. Any ranking of anything we want to take pride in should begin with a minimum qualification to be considered. Elected and accountable governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/democracy-weather-report-cloudy-with-a-chance-of-easy-living-959026.html
06-03-2021||Opinion||By the people, for the politicians?||It was a sign in a car park at Delhi airport that alerted me to the existence of VVIPs in India. The car park was designated especially for them. I couldn’t help wondering, does India really have so many VIPs that another more exclusive category is needed? As it turns out, yes. India has the largest number of VIPs in the world -- almost 580,000 of them! Populous China, in comparison, has less than 450. Who could they be, and what makes them so important? Much to my dismay, I learned that most are politicians. Those people who, in a democracy, are supposedly elected by the people to serve the people. Yet, in India, they’re pampered with all kinds of perks to serve their own egos. What I really can’t come to terms with, though, is how they’re allowed to blatantly flout rules. Last week in Mumbai, a political party chief held an official event in a prominent city park. The event took place without police permission, and without the party chief wearing a face mask. “I don’t wear a mask at all,” he retorted when questioned about it. Never mind that the common man is harassed and fined for not complying with the mask mandate. Consequences don’t apply to politicians. A couple of days later, a leader from the same party complained about people not wearing masks or social distancing at nightspots in an opposing party’s constituency. “Why should action not be taken?” he demanded. How ironic that the rules suddenly matter! Jam-packed political rallies, VIP weddings with hundreds of guests, and other functions all go on despite restrictions that only seem relevant for businesses and individuals. Meanwhile, in Australia, where I’m from, an irate local homeowner showed how democracy is done differently when he interrupted the Prime Minister, who was holding a press conference right in front of his house, and ordered everyone to get off his freshly reseeded grass. “Sure, let’s just move back,” the Prime Minister agreed amicably, before giving the homeowner the thumbs up and reassuring him that it was “all good”, thereby proving he wasn’t above the lawn...I mean, above the law! The Chief Health Officer of the Victoria state government didn’t get preferential treatment either, when he visited a craft brewery without a booking during Covid capacity restrictions. The already-full brewery refused to seat him but took a photo and shared it on social media along with an amusing note, “Sorry, you couldn’t get on the beers with us...we hope to see you again once restrictions ease.” Politicians caught breaking the law in Australia are punished like any ordinary person. A New South Wales state minister, spotted at his holiday home during lockdown, was fined $1,000 and forced to resign. Imagine that! (He put up a fight though, and was reinstated to his position once the fine was dismissed in court). In Melbourne, a state member of parliament was fined $1,652 for attending an anti-lockdown protest. A Canberra politician was also fined $1,000 for breaching state border restrictions. Even a former Australian Prime Minister narrowly escaped being fined after locals saw him outside his zone of residence during lockdown and reported him to the police. Indians are notorious for disobeying rules. Honestly, I don’t blame them. It starts from the top. A county’s leaders need to be responsible and set the right example for the public. If they don’t, they should be held accountable. How can India possibly develop as a democracy otherwise? Calls have been made to end the VIP culture in India for years but not surprisingly, little has happened. Why would it, when according to V Raghunathan in his book Games Indians Play, one’s “sense of self-worth is massaged only by having the ‘authority’ to break rules”? The blow to politicians’ egos might be too much to bear if they have to start behaving like everyone else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/by-the-people-for-the-politicians-959027.html
06-03-2021||Opinion||Corruption in politics: The new normal?||During elections, politicians claim their only motive is to serve the people, but when they are given a chance to do so by being made ministers, they demand some particular portfolios. And there are reasons for that. Some portfolios enable the minister to impact a large number of people through welfare or developmental projects; a few departments are considered lucrative because the ‘income’ is high; and the least in demand are those where they can neither undertake any major works nor line their pockets. Though it might be wrong to generalise, because there are some exceptions even among politicians, the scene is more or less the same in almost every state. So, how does a minister make money? Usually, ministers and bureaucrats receive a ‘cut’ in most government contracts, which run into hundreds of crores of rupees. But how can there be any underhand dealings when these contracts are awarded through the tendering or open bidding process? In many cases, the contracts are ‘managed’ even before the tender document is made public. Often, big companies, with the connivance of ministers and officers, get the tender conditions tailored in such a way that only they will qualify, while their business rivals are eliminated on one ground or the other. There are also many cases where the minister is ‘committed’ to a particular company, but the competitor is better qualified. Here, the minister adopts the direct approach. He calls the competitor and requests them to withdraw from the fray, with a promise to award a major contract in the future. That way, everybody is happy. Another source is official transfers, with the price of each posting determined by how profitable it is for the officer. The bribe could range from a few lakhs to a crore or more. But this does not guarantee the officer a peaceful stint. Some posts are so much in demand that the chair becomes shaky within a few months when another officer offers a higher price. In many such instances, the babu may have to pay a ‘top-up fee’ if he intends to continue in the post. At the end of one year, it is also common for officers to receive a call asking them to pay a ‘renewal fee’ or vacate their seats to the highest bidder. In addition, in many states, officers are required to pay a monthly ‘retention fee’ or ‘mamool’ to their bosses. Usually, a quota is fixed for departments like the sub-registrar’s office, regional transport authority and police stations. The burden, of course, is passed on to the common man. One state, for instance, has evolved a very transparent system of distribution of the spoils at every level in the police department. A monthly fee is fixed for liquor vends and business establishments, and the total collection which is pooled from all police stations is distributed from the lowest to the highest level according to a set percentage, depending on the rank of the officer. On rare occasions, when an honest officer in the ‘value chain’ refuses to accept the money, his share is divided equally among the subordinates. Corruption is so deeply ingrained in the system that people have come to accept that it is normal to pay a bribe for almost all services, especially when it comes to obtaining a driving licence or registering a property. Oddly, an officer is considered corrupt only when he harasses people for bribes. Otherwise, the usual refrain is, “He is a good officer. He never demands money, but only accepts what is given to him.” It is a different matter that if ‘something’ is not given, nothing will move. Corruption has become a way of life, but we cannot blame our politicians and bureaucrats alone, because the giver is as guilty as the taker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/corruption-in-politics-the-new-normal-959028.html
06-03-2021||Opinion||The wonder that is the Election Commission of India||In a few weeks, about a fifth of India’s population will vote between March 27 and April 29, in state Assembly elections, with results due on May 2. Though they are not ‘national elections’, given the diversity and size of the states in question, they might as well be. This complex exercise, featuring thousands of candidates, lakhs of personnel and crores of voters, will be overseen by the Election Commission of India. As a constitutional body, the ECI is responsible for the conduct of the Lok Sabha and state Assembly elections under Article 324. This includes the power to prepare rolls, register parties, accept or reject nominations, seek information on spending, etc. It has offices in each state, but these should not be confused with the State Election Commissions (which are concerned only with Panchayat and Urban Local Body elections). The Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners overseeing the running of the ECI are also constitutionally protected from executive interference in their work. While the CEC enjoys the same protections as judges of the SC, other ECs can only be removed on the recommendation of the CEC. But the EC has not been above criticism in its functioning. The most common criticism perhaps has to do with the way in which voter rolls are prepared, leaving out or including the names of too many people. A study of Delhi’s voter list in 2015 by Janaagraha found that 41% of the names on an electoral list had at least one error, and about 8% of citizens who had registered could not find their names on the list. These problems are not unique to Delhi, but it must prompt us to ask the question, why is one body based in Delhi in charge of preparing the electoral rolls for nearly a billion voters? This exact question was raised in the Constituent Assembly during the discussion on the draft articles related to the ECI. HV Pataskar questioned why the electoral process should be centralised even for state elections. The reasons given by the Drafting Committee, namely that ruling parties at the state level were indulging in malpractices to add names and interfere in elections, did not convince him. Kuladhar Chaliha from Assam was another who raised objections, contending that the provision for a centralised body and process did not take into account the diversity of the country and seemed to assume that the provinces could not be trusted to set up impartial election commissions. Annie Mascarene of Travancore State, who had earlier supported the Article, changed her mind and asked why the Canadian model was being followed for an ECI, making the Centre seem like an imperial power controlling the provinces. The proposal for a central ECI also had strong support, sometimes from surprising quarters. One of the staunchest critics of much of the Constitution as proposed by Ambedkar, Naziruddin Ahmad of West Bengal, was a supporter of this provision. He frankly admitted that he had changed his mind on the issue after seeing live instances of the way in which party politics was playing out in West Bengal at the time. He argued that a neutral ECI based away from the states would be the best possible solution. Ambedkar himself was more focused on defending the need for the ECI to be independent and did not respond to strong criticism, preferring to adopt the arguments of KM Munshi and HN Kunzru. Especially telling is what Kunzru said in response to Chaliha: “[Kuladhar Chaliha] said…that the provinces were better in this respect than the Centre…My friend coming from Assam ought to know that complaints after complaints have been received from Assam that ingenious devices are found to shut out people who have settled in Assam from the electoral rolls. The complaints may be wrong; I am not here judging them. But the complaints are there...” Anyone familiar with the controversies over citizenship and voting in Assam would recognise what Kunzru was talking about. The spark that probably ignited the Assam agitation in the 1980s was a controversial bye-election in 1979 in which voter lists had been inflated by getting thousands of non-citizens who had come from across the border to register. Though the NRC was supposed to have solved this issue, the current scenario suggests otherwise. The worries expressed while creating a centralised ECI were perhaps justified. But the fact that disputed election results are a rarity and not the norm (as in some countries) is testament to the vision of the Constitution-framers in designing an institution that would be safe from government interference and also work to enable every Indian to vote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-wonder-that-is-the-election-commission-of-india-959029.html
06-03-2021||Opinion||The fragility of power: Reading Machiavelli in context||Why is a book written over 500 years ago still important today? Niccolò Machiavelli’s 'The Prince', written in 1513, presents this conundrum. The answer depends on how you read it: as a liberal reading a satire, if it were read by one like Raja Ram Mohan Roy; a manual of brutal state building, when it serves as bedside reading for fascist leaders; or as a primer for amoral politicians, as in our times, on realpolitik to suppress dissenting populations and purge the political firmament of men and women of character. 'The Prince' remains a deeply influential political text, while Machiavelli himself, in common perception, is remembered only by the pejorative ‘Machiavellian’, meaning unscrupulous, especially in politics. This is a pity, for in real life, Machiavelli was a mild-mannered scholar and one of the early champions of liberty. 'The Prince' deserves to be read, if only, for what it says so eloquently underlines the significance of what it does not say. Born in 1469 in Renaissance Italy, Niccolò Machiavelli served as a civil servant in the city-state of Florence, until the Republic was overthrown and the Medici seized power. He was then tried for treason, imprisoned, exiled and banned from public life. How must rulers rule, was a question that had engaged intellectuals before Machiavelli; the originality of Machiavelli was in his ability to interpret evidence and give new meaning to a central question -- what kind of a polity must we foster? Far from instructing tyrants, that a simplistic reading of the book might suggest, Machiavelli was laying bare the truth about the ways of venal politics, so that the citizens know better what their leaders really were. 'The Prince' represents a watershed in political philosophy. Before Machiavelli, politics was intertwined with ethics, in theory if not in practice. Machiavelli was the first political thinker who decisively separated politics from ethics, and gave political statecraft a certain autonomy, that laid the foundation for the later study of modern political economy. Ironically, in the history of political philosophy, he is not nearly as important as a Rousseau, for instance, who triggered the Enlightenment and was the inspiration for the French Revolution; or Marx, who influenced social and political transformations in the 20th century. Yet I dare say, the reason why readers across the world still read 'The Prince' is because this little book is quite simply a classic. Its importance is not so much the advice that it offers to rulers, but the manner in which it articulates a world view -- a particular way of looking at the world. The timeless value of Machiavelli is that 'The Prince' shows us what the world looks like when viewed from an amoral, unethical perspective. Even while rendering advice to rulers to be realistic and ruthless, it presents, by implication and in brilliant fashion, the unstated counterfactual -- the superiority of republican values. When reading 'The Prince', don’t miss the allegory; think instead of the present-day political class that displays explicit cynicism for democratic values, believes that politics is nothing but power and naked ambition, and uses deceit and muscle and money power to expand its own selfish interests, singularly devoid of ethical considerations, even while it masquerades as pragmatist. What such politicians miss, though, is the heart of what 'The Prince' encapsulates: the tragedy of power, once it is divorced from ethics. There is no more compelling cautionary tale than the power struggles of Cesare Borgia (1475-1507), the illegitimate son of Pope Alexander VI and a mercenary politician in the Italy of the time, his spectacular rise and dramatic downfall, that inspired Machiavelli to write 'The Prince'. What Machiavelli really points to by imputation in 'The Prince', as if against his own doctrine, is that statecraft or the practice of power politics, where the end justifies any means to secure and consolidate power, is doomed to never really flourish. To paraphrase Isaiah Berlin, his singular achievement was to plant a permanent question mark in the path of posterity -- that ends equally ultimate, equally sacred, may contradict each other -- and rulers cannot espouse one value as superior to all others, for that becomes the basis for suppression. Machiavelli was one of the makers of pluralism, and of its acceptance of tolerance. If as readers of 'The Prince' in this post-truth world, we must draw just one lesson, it is this: be wary of politicians who claim their legitimacy from a singular value -- whether religion or virtue. When political power claims moral authority, a good question to ask is why this claim is being made and what those political leaders stand to gain. If 'The Prince' compels us to ask these questions of our own ruling class, it should be reason enough to read, arguably, the most famous book on politics ever written.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-fragility-of-power-reading-machiavelli-in-context-959030.html
06-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Catch everyone!||After my selection to civil services, there was about a year of training at the National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie where all the probationers gathered. It was a confluence of youth from all corners of the country full of idealism, zeal and ambition. In due course, we all started feeling like one family. Even then some differences persisted like the one between the North and South. The Northerners often looked at us with certain condescension and called us Idlies though we did not refer to them as Chapatis. We had to undergo and pass rigorous training in horse riding. I was simply no good at riding. I fell down once and badly hurt myself in one of the sessions. I could never again muster enough confidence to ride well again. Lance Naik Naval Singh was in charge of riding and horses and was a tough riding master. One of our colleagues from Bengaluru, Shankarappa, was equally frightened of riding like me. One morning he fell from the horse and both the rider and the horse went in different directions. Naval Singh shouted “pakdo pakdo” (catch catch). Hearing this, the riding assistants ran after the horse to catch it. Then Naval Singh shouted “Ghode ko nahin, Sab ko pakdo”, (not the horse but catch the master). Thus, they ran after the bulky Sab and brought him back. It was a big joke in the Academy for quite some time.  Shankarappa was a jovial person by nature, always keen on making others happy with his jokes and pranks.  He never took offence, even if the jokes were at his cost. Here is another story about him in which I was also involved. Trainees from all non-Hindi states had to learn Hindi but nobody really took the Hindi Professor seriously. It was a regular show by my friend to start arguing with him that South Indian trainees were exempted from Hindi class and he would produce a copy of the concerned Government order. One day, before Shankarappa sat down after his normal performance, I tried to set the chair right for him. Before I could place the chair correctly, he sat down and fell with a thud on to the wooden floor. The usually calm professor got really angry and threatened to report me to the Director. But Shankarappa nonchalantly got up with his normal smile and said it was entirely his fault and I was only trying to help him. Thus, saving me from serious disciplinary action. Such a good man was Shankarappa. This gentle giant passed away early after serving our state for quite a few years. He would not have liked us to cry for him. We cherish him with happy memories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/catch-everyone-958734.html
06-03-2021||Second Edit||A minister for the lonely and depressed||The Covid-19 pandemic has affected and changed all aspects of life of people everywhere. Economy, politics, governance, society and all other areas of activity have been impacted as never before, and the consequences will be fully clear only in the coming years. One important area that has been badly hit is the mental health of people. Social interaction and public activities have been reduced to the minimum and, as a result, isolation has increased. Japan recently appointed a ‘Minister for Loneliness’ to deal with issues arising from the isolation of individuals in society. Cases of suicide have increased there and were at an 11-year high last year. Japan is not the only country to be confronted with the problem and having to tackle it at the government level. Britain appointed its Minister for Loneliness in 2018, long before the pandemic. The ministry has become more relevant after the outbreak of the pandemic which aggravated the tendencies that were building up in society due to various factors. Human beings are social animals, and it is a paradox that a pandemic which is a collective threat to humanity and affects everyone without distinction has also separated people from one another. The reason may be that it has to be fought by everyone individually, and keeping others away is the way to keep the virus away. This certainly exerts an existential pressure to bury the natural social instincts and habits, and that works on the mind. The world has even otherwise seen a progressive disintegration of community life through centuries with the spread of individualism and ideologies and systems based on it. Modes of living and attitudes acquired through many millennia of human experience have seen changes, especially in what is known as the developed world. Loneliness has itself, in fact, spread like a pandemic in societies. Surveys have shown that 40-50% of the people in the UK and the US have felt lonely in their lives. Loneliness causes not only mental health problems but also physical ailments. It is considered worse than obesity and can lead to a host of ailments like coronary diseases, stroke, cognitive decline and dementia, and increase the risk of death by as much as 25%. Depression and suicidal tendencies are obvious consequences. So, there is a strong case for loneliness to be treated as a separate medical issue and for society and government to give it special focus. In India, too, mental health issues are coming into sharper focus, with cases of suicide rising among younger people, including students. The matter calls for serious attention.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-minister-for-the-lonely-and-depressed-958738.html
06-03-2021||South||AIADMK ally BJP to contest 20 seats in Tamil Nadu elections as part of alliance||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday inked the seat-sharing pact with its senior ally, AIADMK, for 20 Assembly seats in the April 6 elections. The national party will also contest the by-polls to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, which it lost in 2019. The agreement was reached after a week-long negotiations between the BJP and AIADMK. According to the agreement signed between AIADMK coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami and BJP general secretary C T Ravi and Tamil Nadu state unit president L Murugan, the BJP will contest in 20 assembly constituencies.  The constituencies for the BJP will be announced later. With this, the AIADMK has finalised seat-sharing with two parties as it signed the deal with PMK, an influential party among Vanniyars in north Tamil Nadu, last week. The agreement also said the AIADMK will extend support to BJP in the by-elections to Kanyakumari seat. In 2019, Pon Radhakrishnan of BJP lost the seat to H Vasanthakumar of Congress. However, Vasanthakumar died in August 2020 due to Covid-19 infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-ally-bjp-to-contest-20-seats-in-tamil-nadu-elections-as-part-of-alliance-958672.html
06-03-2021||South||Dollar smuggling case: LDF holds protest marches to Customs offices in Kerala||Declaring war against the BJP-led central government over the Customs investigation against its top leaders in connection with dollar smuggling in poll-bound Kerala, the ruling LDF on Saturday organised protest marches towards the offices of the central agency in the state. Taking a serious note of the CPI(M)-led alliance's move to target it politically, the Customs alleged that a political party was trying to intimidate the investigation agency but made it clear that it will not work. "A political party trying intimidation, will not work," Customs (Preventive) Commissioner Sumit Kumar wrote on his Facebook page. He also shared the notices of the LDF announcing the march towards Customs offices in the state.  A political battle erupted in the state a day after the Customs, probing the gold smuggling case, claimed prime accused Swapna Suresh has made 'shocking revelations' against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and some ministers on dollar 'smuggling' involving UAE consulate officials.  "She has stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of the Hon'ble chief minister and the Hon'ble Speaker with the help of the Consulate," the Customs has said in a statement filed in the Kerala high court. Taking out a march towards Customs offices in Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode on Saturday, the CPI(M) alleged that the central agencies were acting as a political tool of the BJP-led central government. The Left parties charged the central agencies with trying to 'tarnish' the image of their leaders by levelling baseless allegations against them at the time of polls in the state. The Customs has become propaganda machinery for the BJP and the Congress in the state, they said. Hitting back at the CPI(M), the BJP said the state's ruling party was trying to "befool the people of the state" over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dollar-smuggling-case-ldf-holds-protest-marches-to-customs-offices-in-kerala-958855.html
06-03-2021||South||37% of Puducherry MLAs have criminal cases against themselves: ADR Report||The Puducherry Legislative Assembly has a total of 30 members, among whom 11 have declared criminal cases against themselves. The cases are further fragmented into serious criminal cases, declared cases related to murder, and declared cases related to attempt to murder.   4 or 13 per cent of the MLAs have declared serious criminal cases, 1 MLA has declared a case against self relating to murder, while 6 MLAs have cases related to attempt to murder against them. Among the parties, Congress tops the list for MLAs with criminal and serious criminal cases. Six among the 15 Congress MLAs are part of a criminal case, while three have allegedly committed a serious crime.  The All India N R Congress has 7 MLAs among whom 1 each have a criminal and serious criminal case against themselves. AIADMK and DMK, the main parties in Tamil Nadu have four and three MLAs sitting in the Puducherry Assembly respectively. Of them, one AIADMK and two DMK MLAs have criminal cases against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/37-of-puducherry-mlas-have-criminal-cases-against-themselves-adr-report-958880.html
06-03-2021||South||83% of sitting MLAs in Puducherry are crorepatis: Report||As Puducherry is all set for upcoming Assembly elections, which will take place in a single phase on April 6, let us take a look at the bank balance of the MLAs in the UT. According to a report by Association for Democratic Reforms, out of 30 sitting MLAs analysed, 25 (83%) are crorepatis. The report said that the average asset per sitting MLA is Rs 9.66 crore. The average asset per MLA for 15 Congress MLAs analysed is Rs 9.63 crore, 7 All India N R Congress MLAs is Rs 9.06 crore, 4 AIADMK MLAs is Rs 5.69 crore, 3 DMK MLAs is Rs 19.31 crore and one IND MLA has average assets of Rs 1.09 crore.    The richest Puducherry legislator is Kamaraj Nagar's Congress MLA A Johnkumar who has over Rs 32.27 crore worth assets attached, followed by the party's Lawspet MLA V P Sivakolundhu, who has over Rs 29.85 crore worth of properties, and the third is All India N R Congress MLA N Rangasamy from Indira Nagar, with Rs 29.53 crore worth assets, both movale and immovable.     All India N R Congress MLA Kopiga B has the least amount of properties among the analysed ministers, with properties worth Rs 24 lakh. Ahead of the assembly polls, the Congress on March 4 revamped its Puducherry unit, appointing various office bearers, executive committee members and district presidents. The PCC is headed by A V Subramanian. Meanwhile, BJP plans to unleash a high-voltage campaign in Puducherry with a battery of central leaders as it seeks to wrest power in the union territory, as party in-charge for Puducherry Nirmal Kumar Surana said the BJP would field about 10 star campaigners in the UT, where elections to the 30-member assembly would be held on April 6. The counting of votes for Puducherry will take place on May 2 along with that of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/83-of-sitting-mlas-in-puducherry-are-crorepatis-report-958926.html
06-03-2021||South||Kerala CPM leader's wife also under Customs scanner; Customs allege of intimidation by left-front||Kerala CPM former state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan's wife Vinodini was caught between the ongoing tussle between the Customs and the ruling Left Democratic Front in Kerala with the Customs seeking a statement and asking her to appear on Wednesday. A top Customs official alleged that the LDF is trying to intimidate them by raising allegations of a political ploy by the central agency. According to sources, a mobile phone worth around Rs. 1.13 lakh said to be gifted by a private firm to former UAE consulate in Kerala as a kickback to former UAE consulate general in Thiruvananthapuram was found to be used by Vinodini. In this connection, the Customs issued a notice to her. Top sources also confirmed that Kerala Assembly speaker P Sreeramakrisnan's statement would be also recorded in connection with his suspected links with dollar smuggling. On Friday, the Customs office said in an affidavit filed before the Kerala High Court that key accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh had stated in her confidential statement that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Speaker and three ministers carried out illegal transactions with the UAE consul general. Meanwhile, the LDF on Saturday staged protest marches in the state alleging that the central agency was acting as per the political ploy of the BJP government at the Centre with polls around the corner. The opposition Congress and BJP are trying to make these developments a major campaign issue against the ruling government. Leaders of both parties are also demanding a detailed probe against the Chief Minister. The row over the mobile phone had surfaced several months ago. The initial allegation was that Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala received one of the six costly phones bought by Santosh Eapen, managing director of the private firm entrusted with the construction of the UAE agency-funded housing scheme of the Kerala government. Eapen had earlier stated that he had handed over the phones to gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh. However, Chennithala had denied the allegation. Balakrishnan, who was then the CPM state secretary, had also attacked Chennithala over the issue. Balakrishnan later stepped down from CPM state secretary post citing health reasons. But the arrest of his son Bineesh Kodiyeri in connection with the Bengaluru drug peddling case was learnt to have forced him to step down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-leaders-wife-also-under-customs-scanner-customs-allege-of-intimidation-by-left-front-958969.html
06-03-2021||South||Sadhguru asks for temples to be released from state control in Tamil Nadu||In a bid to release temples from state control in Tamil Nadu, Sadhguru requested Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and DMK supremo MK Stalin on Twitter. “11,999 temples dying without a single pooja taking place. 34,000 temples struggling with less than Rs 10,000 a year. 37,000 temples have just one person for pooja, maintenance,security etc! Leave temples to devotees”, the Tweet said. Another Tweet by him read, “The Alvars established a sense of passionate Worshipfulness in this land, unique to Tamil culture. State interference is trampling on & suffocating this Uniqueness”. He said that the current state of temples under state control is similar to the time when the British East India Company captured temples out of greed for land and wealth. He also called for temples to be managed by the community and not the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sadhguru-asks-for-temples-to-be-released-from-state-control-in-tamil-nadu-958971.html
06-03-2021||South||Kerala CM attacks Customs Commissioner, raises suspicion against MOS Muraleedharan||Stepping up an attack against the Customs and the BJP government at the Centre, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has alleged that Customs Commissioner in Kerala was trying to help the Opposition parties in Kerala during the election as allegations poured in against the LDF government and the CM. He also alleged that gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage, in which the Speaker, some MLAs and the CM himself are under scanner, started after BJP leader from Kerala V Muraleedharan became Minister of State for External Affairs. Vijayan was reacting to an affidavit filed by Customs before the Kerala High Court on Friday stating that gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh had named in her confidential statement Vijayan, Kerala Assembly Speaker and three ministers. Vijayan alleged that a Congress-BJP nexus was going on to tarnish the LDF government's image and the Customs Commissioner was dancing to their tune. He said that Swapna was in the custody of central agencies for several weeks and her statements had come out, but no reports so far suggested that she gave statements against the Chief Minister, Speaker or ministers. He said that there could be chances of the accused coming under pressure from the investigation agencies for political interests.  Vijayan also alleged that Customs Commissioner flouted the norms by revealing details of confidential statements of  Swapna, as he was not even party to the case pending before the High Court. Legal measures were being explored against the unlawful acts of the central agencies, said Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-attacks-customs-commissioner-raises-suspicion-against-mos-muraleedharan-958972.html
06-03-2021||South||Ex-Ranji cricketer arrested for collecting money for 'KTR's swearing-in as Telangana CM ceremony'||The Hyderabad police have arrested one ex-Ranji player for extorting money from corporate companies in Hyderabad for IT minister KT Rama Rao's “swearing-in ceremony as Telangana Chief Minister.” The accused was posing as the personal secretary of Telangana IT, industries and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao, popularly known as KTR. Budumuru Nagaraju (25), a post-graduate in business administration, had represented Andhra Pradesh in the Ranji Trophy matches during the 2014-2016 season. Budumuru made the company representatives believe that the contribution was for erecting hoardings, advertisements in the print and electronic Media “about KTR's swearing-in ceremony as Telangana Chief Minister.” Earlier this year, Telangana political circles were abuzz with the talk that KTR would soon replace his father K Chandrasekhar Rao as the CM. However, addressing a party meet last month, Rao himself has put an end to such speculation stating that he was in the pink of health and would remain the CM for the next ten years.” According to the police, the accused had targeted corporate companies in the medical, realty and educational sector by gaining their phone numbers on the net. He then made calls introducing himself as Bandari Tirupati, personal secretary to KTR. Informing the company representatives that KTR's swearing-in as the CM of Telangana is soon to be held at the Lal Bahadur Stadium, he demanded money from them for erecting hoardings, advertisements tin Print & Electronic Media about the ceremony. Budumuru thus collected over Rs 39 lakhs in six cases and was demanding money in three other cases. The nine cases are registered under various police stations of Hyderabad and Cyberabad commissionerates. The police seized Rs 10 lakh and the cell phone used in the commission of offence. Anjani Kumar, Hyderabad police commissioner said that Budumuru is “most wanted cheater and habitual white-collar offender.” A native of Polaki in Srikakulam District of AP, Budumru was previously arrested in 10 cases registered in Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Guntur, Nellore cities in the two Telugu states. “During his cricketing career, Budumuru was getting sponsorships from various firms and so got habituated to a luxurious lifestyle, and developed various vices. He turned to crime to earn easy money through illegal channels to sustain his lavish lifestyle,” the commissioner said. Budumuru, with a criminal record since 2018, and released on bail in the earlier cases, “did not change his attitude and continued his cheating attitude.” Based on credible information, the North Zone Task Force cops laid a trap and apprehended the accused on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-ranji-cricketer-arrested-for-collecting-money-for-ktrs-swearing-in-as-telangana-cm-ceremony-958977.html
06-03-2021||State||Fire at Cauvery wildlife sanctuary limits in Hanur||Forest fire incidents continued in the region on Friday with fire being spotted at a forest in the Bandalli Betta falling under Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits in Hanur taluk of Chamarajanagar district. It is suspected that the fire, possibly started by miscreants, as per the Forest Department, might have destroyed hundreds of acres of forest vegetation.  The fire was spotted at the Hanur wildlife range on Friday afternoon with the range forest officer and department personnel struggling to douse the flames from spreading till 8 pm. Speaking to DH, Deputy Conservator of Forest S Ramesh said, "It is suspected that miscreants might have set fire in the middle of the forest at Bandalli Betta. As there was strong wind, it was very difficult to contain it. The employees are on the spot trying to stop the fire from spreading".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fire-at-cauvery-wildlife-sanctuary-limits-in-hanur-958694.html
06-03-2021||State||Row over buses terminating trips near Talapady solved||A simmering row over buses prematurely ending their trips near Talapady toll plaza and causing inconveniences to passengers was solved at a meeting of stakeholders, convened by Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V. To avoid paying the hefty toll, buses were terminating their trips in front of the toll plaza. The DC directed bus owners to pay Rs 14,000 as monthly toll, which found the approval of bus owners, NHAI and Navayuga Udupi Tollway Private Limited, that operates Talapady toll gate. Owing to the termination of trips, children and elderly were made to walk for nearly 300 meters in order to reach the Talapady bus stand, situated on other side of the toll gate. Several organisations had been raising objections and seeking district administration’s intervention to solve the issue. The DC held a meeting of representatives from Dakshina Kannada District Bus Owners’ Association (DKDBOA), elected representatives of zilla panchayat, Talapady Gram Panchayat and local organisations, including Gadi Nadu Rakshana Vedike, and put an end to the row. At present, 31 city buses are plying between Mangaluru and Talapady. The decision has come as a relief for hundreds of passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/row-over-buses-terminating-trips-near-talapady-solved-958712.html
06-03-2021||State||Seven students held in two ragging cases in Mangaluru||The Mangaluru police have arrested seven students in two separate ragging cases reported in as many weeks in the city. The four students of final year engineering at Srinivas College in Mukka - K U Shamil (22) of Mukka, Mohammed Bazil (22) of Baikampady, Sambram Alva (20) of Kenchanakere in Mulki and Ashwith S Johnson (21) of Kalpane in Kulashekar - were arrested for ragging the juniors, Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said on Friday. Three suspects Shamil, Bazil and Sambhram had reportedly threatened and assaulted a lecturer of the college. The jurisdictional police have booked a case against the four students and arrested them based on the complaint lodged by college dean Thomas Pinto on March 3.  The college has already suspended the students in question. In another ragging case, the Kankanady police have arrested Mohammed Adil (20), Rijin Royaz (20) and Mohammed Nizammudin (20), all students of Yenepoya Degree College, on charges of ragging. The trio trespassed into the rented room of a few juniors at Pumpwell Simon Lane and forced them to shave their beards and heads.  One of the victims had filed a complaint with Kankanady police. Shashi Kumar urged authorities of educational institutions to take strict measures against ragging. Despite repeated warnings, ragging incidents had increased in the commissionerate jurisdiction, the police commissioner said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seven-students-held-in-two-ragging-cases-in-mangaluru-958716.html
06-03-2021||State||Baby-selling racket busted in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi||Mangaluru police have busted a baby-selling racket and arrested a 30-year-old seller. A five-month-old baby girl, that was sold to a woman in Karkala, was also rescued in the joint operation launched with the help of Mysuru-based Odanadi Seva Samsthe and Childline-1098 Dakshina Kannada. The accused Ryan alias Riona (30), a resident of Mulki, was running a poultry and fancy store besides being involved in sale of babies. “He was arrested under section 370 (human trafficking) of IPC,” Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar told media personson Friday. Preliminary investigation by police revealed that baby boys (infant) were sold for Rs 6 lakh and baby girls were sold for an approximate Rs 4 lakh. The accused claimed that he had purchased the baby girl for Rs three lakh from her parents in Hassan and had sold it to one Kavitha from Karkala for Rs 4.5 lakh. Siddhanth P of Odanadi Seva Samsthe said they had received a call, a few days ago, about newborn babies being sold in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. “I succeeded in securing contact number of Ryan. Later, I contacted him and pretending to be a customer placed a request for a baby. Baby girls are sold for Rs 4.5 lakh to Rs 5 lakh and baby boys are sold for Rs 5.5 Lakh to Rs 6 Lakh. A token of Rs 1.5 lakh needs to be paid based on the tentative date of birth of the baby,” he said. Siddhanth said, “We suspect involvement of doctors and officials as well. The arrested had promised to arrange a birth certificate, Thayi card and other documents also.”  “During my conversation with the racketeers, I was told about doctors from Hassan or Shivamogga who facilitate sale of babies. The children could be born out of wedlock or due to unwanted pregnancies. Initially, I was told that a child from Hassan or Shivamogga would be sold to me. But on Thursday the accused had told me that a baby from Bengaluru or Tirupathi would be given to me,” he added. A team involving Mangaluru South Police Station Sub Inspector Sheetal, Center Coordinator of Childline Deekshith Achrappady, and Siddhanth was formed to crack the case. They met the accused at a hotel near Kadri Park around 3 pm on Thursday and arrested him immediately.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/baby-selling-racket-busted-in-dakshina-kannada-udupi-958717.html
06-03-2021||State||Bharat Air Fibre to provide high speed internet in rural areas||To provide high speed internet service to remote and rural areas, BSNL has commissioned Bharat Air Fibre services in Doddathota and Kamila villages in Sullia taluk. “Already 23 houses in Doddathota and 8 in Kamila are availing the services,” Principal General Manager (PGM) G R Ravi informed media persons on Friday. Highlighting advantages, he said the newly commissioned Bharat Air Fibre will help provide faster and reliable internet services in the rural areas on par with high-speed optical fibre.  There is immense scope for digital education. Broadband connectivity in rural areas will play a crucial role. BSNL will commission Bharat Air Fibre services in Bantwal and Vittal soon, Ravi  said. The Rs 449 plan offers benefits such as 30 Mbps data speed and up to 3,300 GB data to the user. Under Rs 599 plan, the bandwidth speed of 60 mbps till 3,300 GP per month are offered, he said. The frequent disruption in power supply in Puttur and Sullia areas had been affecting quality of services offered by the BSNL. Low voltage lead to battery discharges in tower, which in turn affected the shelf life of the batteries. The batteries of the towers will be replaced in the region shortly, which will ensure uninterrupted services to the customers, Ravi added. There are 11,000 fibre connections in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts and the target is to increase it by three times. BSNL will also launch 24X7 back up support from Mangaluru, to address the grievances related to Fibre-to-the-Home (FTTH), landline and other services, he said. BSNL has partnered franchise models for providing its Bharat Air Fiber Services. Ravi said that to improve connectivity, the backhaul systems are being upgraded in the district. Google bundled devices—Google Mini and Google Nest are offered at 72% discount to customers who had subscribed FTHH plans 777 and above. Due to voluntary retirement schemes announced by the government, staff strength of BSNL in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts hadreduced to 235 from 870. The retirement package saved about Rs 50 crore annually for the company, he said. BSNL is offering its buildings on rent to Central and state government departments, public sector units, and other institutions. These properties are in prime locations. Due to drastic reduction in the strength of employees, there is surplus space available at all telephone exchanges, administrative buildings and staff quarters. Already, 200 quarters have been given for rent, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bharat-air-fibre-to-provide-high-speed-internet-in-rural-areas-958720.html
06-03-2021||State||Cleanliness drive to go on till Nethravathi bridge is litter-free||Hasiru Dala and Anti Pollution Drive Foundation (APDF) will carry out a river cleaning drive near Nethravathi bridge, on the city’s outskirts, every Sunday (from 6 am to 11 am) till the area is free from all kinds of litter. The drive carried out on February 28 witnessed the participation of 150 volunteers. The waste collected at the end of the day exceeded 14 tonnes. This represents only about 10% of total waste dumped at the site. As the waste is littered on a slope, ropes and hooks were used to get down to the slope and haul up the waste. Modified bags, made from old fishing nets, were used to stock the collected waste and haul it up. A majority of waste comprised diaper, sanitary disposables, meat, household mixed waste, construction waste, thermocol, broken crockery, dead animals and electronic items. The trash collected was shifted to Pacchanady dumping yard in vehicles of Antony Waste Handling Cell. NSS and student volunteers of St Aloysius College, Roshini Nilaya, volunteers from Abhisaran Academy of Education and Sports Trust, Parisara Samrakshana Nagarika Okkuta, Nadi Parisara Abhiyana Samithi, Big Bang Group, Journey Theater Group, Jamaat Islam Hind, Team Bozsky Orbs and others took part in the drive. It is estimated that over 200 tonnes of waste is presently dumped near the Nethravathi bridge. All this waste was dumped recklessly in the past few months by the public. “If the waste is not cleared, the toxic pollutants are likely to poison the River Nethravathi and the sea during the rainy season,” said APD Foundation Founder and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Abdullah A Rehman. “The repeated appeals by civic authorities and fencing have failed to discourage people from dumping waste near the river. This problem if not tackled will spell doom to both ecology and the river, which is the lifeline of Mangaluru. We appeal to the citizens to stop discarding waste at such places and participate in the cleanup drive,” Rehman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cleanliness-drive-to-go-on-till-nethravathi-bridge-is-litter-free-958724.html
06-03-2021||State||2 schools in Karnataka sealed after 22 kids test Covid positive||Twenty-two children in two government schools — one in Kalagi in Kalaburagi and the other in Bengaluru — tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. The two schools were sealed for seven days. Students in both schools were asymptomatic. This is the first time schools were sealed after in-person classes resumed for grades 6 and above for the current academic year. Schools for Class 10 and 12 reopened from January 1.  In Kalaburagi, where 15 students were infected, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Rajashekhar Maali told DH that throat swabs of about 20 students were collected on March 1. Of them, the reports of 15 students returned positive for Covid on Thursday.  Throat swabs of about 174 people including students, teachers and cooks were collected on Friday and the report is expected on Saturday evening, he said. The DHO said the students may have been infected after attending a wedding on February 26 at Bedasur tanda where a few Mumbai returnees were also present. As a precaution, the bazaar day on Monday at Kalagi will be cancelled and the police have been asked to fine those without masks. Kalaburagi deputy commissioner V V Joythsna told DH that they suspect samples may have been contaminated during collection or in the laboratory. Fresh samples have been sent for tests. “Only after results on Saturday can we confirm that they are positive. All primary and secondary contacts have been quarantined,” the SDC said. In Bengaluru, the seven class 10 students of the government high school at B Narayanapura in KR Puram who tested positive, have been shifted to the hospital. On February 26, after two teachers had complained of Covid-19 like symptoms, the headmaster advised them to get tested and declared a holiday for the school on Saturday. The reports of the two teachers turned out positive on March 1, Monday, after which all 213 children of Class 8, 9 and 10 and the rest of the teachers took the Covid-19 test. “The test results that arrived on Friday showed that seven children were positive. We immediately went to the school, informed the Health Department officials, sanitised the premises and also declared a holiday for the next seven days,” said Hanumantharaya, Block Education Officer, Bengaluru South 4. Speaking to DH, other teachers suspect their colleagues may have got infected in public transport to reach the school. “Both the teachers were symptomatic,” say teachers. The officials said the report has been submitted to higher authorities and the Primary and Secondary Education Minister. There is a primary school adjoining the high-school where 53 students were attending Vidyagama classes. When tested, their teacher tested positive but no students were found infected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2-schools-in-karnataka-sealed-after-22-kids-test-covid-positive-958726.html
06-03-2021||State||'Sheni award' to Mridangam player Vidwan Babu Rai||‘Sheni award’, instituted in memory of well-known Yakshagana artist Sheni Gopalkrishna Bhat, will be awarded to Mridangam player 97-year-old Vidwan Babu Rai Kotekkar at Shri Sharavu Mahaganapathy temple on March 14 (4.30 pm). Sheni Gopalkrishna Bhat Charitable Trust Secretary P V Rao told mediapersons at Patrika Bhavan on Thursday, that the Sheni award includes a cash prize of Rs 25,000. Babu Rai, born in Kotekkar near Kumble in Kerala in 1923, developed a passion for Mridangam and was trained by Pandit Venkatesh. He achieved national recognition when he began working as music director for films in 1944. Rai has also worked with many artists like Sheni Gopalkrishna Bhat and poets like Da Ra Bendre. The mridangam player has served as an Akashavani artist in Mangaluru Akashavani. Trust President M R Vasudeva said a Harikatha discourse was planned from March 7 to 13 on the premises of Sharavu Ganapathy temple. The discourses, to begin from 4.45 pm onwards, will focus on stories from Ramayana. Prior to the award presentation, a Talamaddale (Shrirama Niryana) will be staged. Sharavu Kshetra managing trustee Raghavendra Shastri, SCDCC president M N Rajendra Kumar, former minister Krishna J Palemar, Krishnaraja Tantri of Kudupu Kshetra will be present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sheni-award-to-mridangam-player-vidwan-babu-rai-958732.html
06-03-2021||State||Three-day 'Femme fete' from March 6||‘Femme Fete’, a three-day exhibition-cum-workshop, will be held at Big Buddha Garden cafe in Yeyyadi from Saturday. Laxmi Shenoy told reporters that the exhibition by women entrepreneurs for women is being organised to mark International Women’s Day. As many as 20 stalls will be set up, she added. Shalmali Ghate said that the tastefully designed kiosks will sell from food to fabric to artificial jewellery. Aisha and Shilpa Kaushik said workshops on different ways of draping saree and use of menstrual cups have been planned for two days. On the final day, a film on feminism will be screened, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-day-femme-fete-from-march-6-958733.html
06-03-2021||State||Karnataka Congress MLA's son held over group clash in Shivamogga||Bhadravathi police nabbed MLA BK Sangamesh's son Basavesh in connection with group clash. According to police, he was arrested in Chitradurga. BJP workers had lodged a complaint against Congress workers alleging that they assaulted former member when they raised the slogan Jai Sri Ram after the Kabaddi tournament in Kanaka Mantap in the town last week. This had led to a clash between followers of BJP and Congress. The complaint had been lodged against  MLA B K Sangamesh who was suspended for a week for taking off shirt in the assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-congress-mlas-son-held-over-group-clash-in-shivamogga-958805.html
06-03-2021||State||Ministers have moved court fearing character assassination: Jagadish Shettar||Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, he said one cannot restore his/her reputation once wrong information is circulated. “To prevent such a scenario, the six ministers have approached the court and there is nothing wrong in it,” he said and added that elected representatives are living in strange times, where a victim of sexual harassment is not filing a case, but someone else is. Breach of privilege Taking a dig at the Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah, Shetter said the Congress leader should feel ashamed of justifying the deeds of Bhadravathi MLA B K Sangamesh. “Sangamesh should be suspended from Assembly for rest of the term for his unruly behaviour in the House and also for threatening the speaker,” Shettar said. Speaker’s ruling is final and cannot be questioned, he said and added that threatening the speaker amounts to a breach of privilege. Sangamesh is not fit to be an MLA, he charged. When asked about, Ramesh Jarkiholi’s condition (for resigning from the post of minister) of making his brother Balachandra Jarkiholi a Cabinet minister, Shettar said he would not discuss such issues in public and the party will take a decision on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ministers-have-moved-court-fearing-character-assassination-jagadish-shettar-958993.html
06-03-2021||State||Service of doctors during Covid-19 laudable, says MLC Tejaswini Ramesh||MLC and BJP spokesperson Tejaswini Ramesh lauded the service rendered by doctors during the Covid-19 pandemic, risking their lives.  Speaking at ‘Jan Aushadhi Day’ programme organised by the Kodagu District Jan Aushadhi Centre Owners’ Federation at Kaveri Kalakshetra, she said, “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has dreamt of building a strong and healthy India. Unfortunately, there is malicious propaganda against generic medicines. There are more than 7,000 Jan Aushadhi Centres in Karnataka. There is propaganda against Covid-19 vaccines as well. The schemes for the poor should not be misused.”  Jan Aushadhi scheme should reach out to the people. It is a challenging task to provide medical healthcare facilities to the last strata of society. The health sector is not earning money alone. One should have the mindset to serve in rural areas as well, she added.  “All those who join the medical field should be patriots. Indian doctors and the paramedical staff are serving in other countries. The medical fraternity has contributed a lot to the health sector,” Tejaswini said.  MLA M P Appachu Ranjan said in order to ensure that patients are not denied medicines, the government had introduced the Jan Aushadhi scheme. The Jan Aushadhi Centre owners should create awareness among the people. The scheme should be utilised effectively. It is a tragedy that a few doctors are hand-in-glove with private medical shops.  MLA K G Bopaiah said the Centre wants people to become self-reliant. Jan Aushadhi will be beneficial to those from an economically poor background. There is no doubt over the quality of medicines supplied under the Jan Aushadhi Centres.  BJP Krishi Morcha state secretary Dr B C Naveen Kumar said people’s cooperation is essential for the success of the government’s welfare schemes.  Senior doctor Manohar G Patkar inaugurated the programme. Rakshitha B Shetty, Deekshitha P T and Krithige won the first three places respectively, in the essay competition, on the pros and cons of Jan Aushadhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/service-of-doctors-during-covid-19-laudable-says-mlc-tejaswini-ramesh-959016.html
06-03-2021||State||Hockey star Subramani stresses fight against drug menace||“There is an alarming rise in drug addiction among people. It is a tragedy that students become victims of drug addiction. The fight against drug menace should begin with students itself,” said former international hockey player Baleyada Subramani. He was speaking at the inauguration of sports and cultural activities at the Government First Grade College in Virajpet. “We have to script our own success stories. All incidents in life are lessons to learn. We have to engage in learning process from birth to death. Parents are the biggest asset in our life. We have to follow the path laid down by them,” he said.  He called upon the students to inculcate discipline in life to achieve success.  “Serving the country should be our biggest achievement in life. Students should join the armed forces. Even women are also joining the armed forces in the recent years,” he said.  Janapada Parishat president Dr S Balaji said there is a need to save folklore which is on the verge of extinction. The Parishat has been creating awareness on folk in villages.  He said the Parishat has constituted teams and visited 1,300 villages to create awareness on folk and culture. It is a tragedy that artistes do not get adequate support.  College principal Dr D K Bopaiah and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hockey-star-subramani-stresses-fight-against-drug-menace-959020.html
06-03-2021||State||Protest against rise in price of essential commodities in Karnataka||Dalit Sanghatane and Women Groups staged a protest against the rise in price of petrol, diesel, LPG and other essential commodities, in front of Nadakacheri in Shanivarasanthe.  The protesters raised slogans against the Central and state governments.  Dalit Sanghatane district convener D J Erappa accused the Centre and the state governments of following anti-people policies. The amendment to Land Reforms Act through ordinance is against the interest of the farmers. The government is moving against the aspirations of the Constitution, he added.  Dalit Sanghatane Samithi president Vimala said that the rise in price of essential commodities have inconvenienced the common man. The government is following anti-people policy.  A memorandum was submitted to the Governor through deputy tahsildar Madhusudan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/protest-against-rise-in-price-of-essential-commodities-in-karnataka-959022.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Six Karnataka ministers move court seeking injunction against media houses||Six ministers of the B S Yediyurappa government have moved a city court on Friday, seeking an injunction against newspapers and TV channels from publishing anything defamatory against them. The six ministers are Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Agriculture Minister BC Patil, Cooperation Minister HT Somashekar, Health and Family Welfare, and Medical Education minister K Sudhakar, Municipal Administration minister KC Narayan Gowda and Urban Development minister Bhyrati Basavaraj. They are among the 17 MLAs of the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition, who rebelled and submitted their resignations. After being disqualified by the Legislative Assembly Speaker under anti-defection law, they were flown to Mumbai and were lodged at a hotel. Sudhakar confirmed on Twitter that they had approached the court as a "precaution to prevent the telecast of unverified reports". Such reports can tarnish the image cultivated over a lifetime, he said. ರಾಜ್ಯದಲ್ಲಿ ದಕ್ಷತೆಯಿಂದ ಕಾರ್ಯ ನಿರ್ವಹಿಸಿ ಜನಮನ್ನಣೆ ಗಳಿಸುತ್ತಿರುವ ಸಚಿವರ ವಿರುದ್ಧ ವ್ಯವಸ್ಥಿತ ಸಂಚು ರೂಪಿಸಿ ತೇಜೋವಧೆ ಮಾಡುವ ರಾಜಕೀಯ ಷಡ್ಯಂತ್ರ ನಡೆಯುತ್ತಿರುವ ಗುಮಾನಿ ಇದೆ. ಆಧುನಿಕ ತಂತ್ರಜ್ಞಾನದ ಯುಗದಲ್ಲಿ ಪ್ರತ್ಯಕ್ಷ ಕಂಡರೂ ಪ್ರಮಾಣಿಸಿ ನೋಡು ಎಂಬ ಪರಿಸ್ಥಿತಿ ಇರುವುದು ಸುಳ್ಳಲ್ಲ. (1/3) Their petition was heard at the Additional City Civil Sessions court on Friday and orders are expected Saturday, March 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-karnataka-ministers-move-court-seeking-injunction-against-media-houses-958674.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Renowned Kannada poet N S Lakshminarayana Bhatta passes away||Renowned Kannada poet, eminent academic, and critic Prof N S Lakshminarayana Bhatta (85) passed away on Saturday morning in Bengaluru. Known as 'NSL' in the literary circles and Kannada music world, Lakshminarayana Bhatta was born in Shivamogga in 1936. A former dean and Kannada professor at Bangalore University, NSL's poems gave a new direction to the Kannada Light Music (Sugama Sangeeta) world.  Achieving a blend of tradition and modernity in his poems, Prof NSL was one of the finest poets of modern Kannada literature (Navya tradition) with a special love for children's literature and contributed several works. His poems, which were sung by noted musicians like C Ashwath, Shivamogga Subbanna, Mysore Ananthaswamy and others, have become popular songs. He had also translated the famous 50 sonnets of William Shakespeare (Suneeta), 50 poems of Irish poet William Butler Yeats (Chinnada Hakki) and several other prominent English writers' literary work to Kannada. An expert in Kannada, English and Sanskrit literature, Prof NSL  had served as a visiting faculty in several universities in the United States.  His anthology of poems, including those which are popular as Kannada musical albums such as Nilanjana, Deepika, Bhava Sangama, Baro Vasantha, Madhuri, and Mandara, have been widely talked about. Recipient of Sahitya Academy awards and many other prominent awards, Prof NSL's works include Mrichhakatika, Espeet Raja, Twelfth Night, Jagannatha Vijaya, Mudra Manjusha Comprehensive History of Kannada Literature, and collection of poems by Santa Shishunala Sharif with comments and criticism. Prof NSL, who was admitted to a private hospital for age-related ailments a few days ago, breathed his last on Saturday morning. His cremation will be done at the Banashankari crematorium on Saturday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/renowned-kannada-poet-n-s-lakshminarayana-bhatta-passes-away-958797.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Rice' Mahadevappa passes away in Mysuru||M Mahadevappa, popularly known as 'Rice' Mahadevappa, died of age-related ailments, at his residence, in Mysuru, on Saturday. He was 83. Mahadevappa was an Indian agricultural scientist and plant breeder, renowned for developing high yielding hybrid varieties of rice. Mahadevappa also served as the vice-chancellor of University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad. He is the recipient of Padma Bhushan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rice-mahadevappa-passes-away-in-mysuru-958802.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid vaccination at 3,000 centres from March 8, target to vaccinate 1.5L people each day: Karnataka Min||Covid-19 vaccine will be administered at around 3,000 centres, including primary health centres, taluk hospitals and district hospitals, starting Monday, said Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar adding that the state has set a target of vaccinating 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh people a day. The minister held a meeting on Saturday to review the Covid-19 situation and progress of the vaccination drive. With 3,000 centres identified for the drive, Sudhakar urged people to come forward in large numbers to receive the vaccine jab. “We had only 300-350 centres, so far. From Monday, there will be a tenfold increase,” he said. In the last several weeks around 200-250 cases were reported in BBMP limits every day, which suddenly increased to 400 on Friday. According to BBMP Commissioner Manjunath Prasad, “A total of 12 clusters have been identified in BBMP limits and testing will be increased to 40,000 a day from the existing 30,000. No new cases have been identified in these clusters. We will work out a strategy to test targeted populations. ILI and SARI cases will be the focus. We have already trained 300 hospitals to provide vaccine. On Friday, 11,000 people were vaccinated. In the next 10 days this will be increased from 60,000 to one lakh. We have a blueprint ready for that,” he said. The health minister said contact tracing would be made more robust. “The Centre has directed the states/UTs to trace 20 primary and secondary contacts for every positive case. All these 20 contacts will be subjected to Covid-19 tests,” Sudhakar said. The challenge is due to the influx of people from neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra, which are witnessing a surge in Covid cases. He said along with strict measures at borders, restrictions on large gatherings would also be tightened. “Avoid large gatherings, and agitations at least for next one month. Not more than 500 people will be allowed at large gatherings and we will speak to the police department on strict enforcement of this rule,” said Sudhakar. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will hold a video conference with deputy commissioners of the districts where positivity is high. Since there are more inter-state travellers to Mangaluru, testing will be ramped up there, he said adding that instructions had been issued to Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Udupi, Kodagu, Belagavi and Tumakuru to be more vigilant. Sudhakar said vaccination drive would be ramped up with the support of Revenue, Transport, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj departments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-vaccination-at-3000-centres-from-march-8-target-to-vaccinate-15l-people-each-day-karnataka-min-958935.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||KSRTC flybus service to Madikeri, Kundapura||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has restarted flybus services from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) to Madikeri and Kundapura. In a release issued on Saturday, the KSRTC said the service was started a day before. The fare for the Madikeri-KIA service is Rs 1,000. There are two departures from KIA at 12.30 am and 12 pm. In the return direction, the buses from Madikeri will leave at 8.30 am and 8.30 pm. The KIA-Kundapura flybus fare has been fixed at Rs 1,210. There will be one service from each side. The bus from KIA will leave at 9 pm and the bus from Kundapur will leave at 7 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ksrtc-flybus-service-to-madikeri-kundapura-958985.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mandya woman files plaint against Kallahalli, Mulali over sleaze CDs||According to the complaint filed by K H Indira of Manava Hakkugala Seva Samithi, Dinesh after releasing the CD has stated before media that he had got the CDs of three more politicians. Rajashekar held a press conference on March 3 and announced that there are CDs of 19 politicians involved in intimate acts. Both their statements lead to many doubts and she suspects that there is an organised team behind it. So she demanded that the Cubbon Park police immediately arrest the duo and inquire them about the source of the CDs. The statements made by the duo activists are indirectly the face of honey trap conspiracies, Indira said in the complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mandya-woman-files-plaint-against-kallahalli-mulali-over-sleaze-cds-958986.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SWR to restart trains from Bengaluru to Hubballi, Hosapete||Continuing its efforts to restart the trains cancelled due to the lockdown, the South Western Railway (SWR) will run two express trains from Bengaluru to Hubballi and Hosapete as well as another train between Hosapete and Harihar. The Hubballi-KSR Bengaluru Daily Express Special (06242) will commence operation from March 10. The train will leave Hubballi at 6 pm. From Bengaluru, the train (06241) service will commence on March 12. The train will leave KSR Bengaluru at 11.55 pm and arrive at Hubballi at 10 am. The KSR Bengaluru-Hosapete Daily Express Special (06243) will commence operation from March 11. The train will depart Bengaluru at 5 am. From Hosapete, the train (06244) service will begin from March 12. The train will depart Hosapete at 12.10 pm. The Hosapete-Harihar Daily Unreserved Express Special will commence operations from Hosapete on March 11. The train (06345) will depart from Hosapete at 4 pm. The service from Harihar will commence from March 12. The train (06246) will leave Harihar at 4 pm every day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/swr-to-restart-trains-from-bengaluru-to-hubballi-hosapete-958988.html
06-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||A budget like no other, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa has an unenviable task ahead||Come March 8, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will present his eighth budget - arguably one of his toughest, due to the challenges staring at the state in the post-pandemic era. Dwindling revenues of the government and an increase in liabilities will be staring Yediyurappa in the face, which according to experts, will force him to focus on fiscal consolidation and rationalisation of expenditure. The first priority of the budget should be to bounce the economy back to 2019-20 levels. Though the CM has promised that the budget will be “a good one,” all fiscal indicators point at the challenge to even reach this modest target set by him. For instance, Karnataka’s own tax revenue -- which is the government’s biggest source of income -- will be less by Rs 35,000 crore. In all, the government’s total receipts will be shy of a whopping Rs 63,753 crore compared to 2020-21 budget estimates. Karnataka was forced to borrow over Rs 80,000 crore during the year, after the Centre raised the borrowing limit from 3% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5%, to finance the lockdown induced revenue shortfall. Though Centre has assured to repay, the state was also forced to borrow around Rs 11,000 crore - eligible to be paid by the Centre as GST compensation. Speaking to DH, Madhusudhan B V Rao, senior research advisor, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, Bengaluru, said that Karnataka was likely to suffer from lack of funds unless there was a big increase in tax collection. “There is not much room for fiscal manoeuvring in the budget. Any tweak in excise tax on petrol or diesel will result in a huge outrage and the CM too will not be comfortable to raise fuel prices at this juncture,” he said.  Ahead of the budget, the Karnataka State Policy and Planning Commission has advised clubbing various schemes - which are similar - to rationalise costs. Sources in the Finance Department (FD) project a reduction of at least 10% in budget size. “However, since budget announcements are just estimates, it is possible that the CM will try and meet the budget size of last year or slightly increase it,” sources said. The CM is under pressure to not only kickstart the economy, but also complete development works, especially irrigation that took a beating due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Having handled the Finance portfolio in the past, Yediyurappa has already sounded an alert that the Covid-19 induced stress on the economy would likely continue. The Finance Department has asked all departments to keep their budget proposals basic. Madhusudhan stressed on initiatives to increase non-tax revenue, noting that concrete measures were essential in that direction. “The only thing that could be looked into for the state to improve its revenue stream is non-tax revenue - such as increase in user charges for water supply and others,” he said. Noting that non-tax revenue of the government was meagre, he said measures were required to increase it to the levels commensurate with tax revenue. “This will help revive the struggling economy,” he said. Sources in the FD also highlighted the increase in committed expenditure such as salaries, pensions, interest payments and others, which has touched 88% last year, allowing only 12% of the state revenue to be spent on welfare schemes. “As committed expenditure is bound to surge this year, announcement of new projects and allocating funds for them will be highly difficult,” sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/a-budget-like-no-other-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-has-an-unenviable-task-ahead-958991.html
06-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Car owner's post-mortem expected today||The post-mortem report of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren is expected by Saturday after which the probe by the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) into the entire issue involving the parking of gelatin-stick laden Scorpio near the house of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani would gather steam. “The post-mortem has been conducted...the opinion is reserved, it would be available today,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 1) Avinash Ambure. The post-mortem was conducted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital at Kalwa in Thane. The body of Hiren (48), who owned an automobile spare parts firm, was found dead in the Reti Bunder creek near Mumbra. His wife, Vimala Hiren, has said that Hiren cannot die by suicide and there should be a thorough probe into the incident. In what could help the investigators, Vimala said that her husband was called by “Tawde Sahab of Kandivli Crime Branch” and asked him to meet at “Ghodbunder Road”. The Hiren family stay in the Vikas Palm Complex at Thane West. Hiren’s friend and social worker Sandeep Khambe said that Hiren was a good swimmer. “Mansukh Bhai was a good swimmer...he used to swim regularly..he has taught his three kids how to swim,” he said. Family friend Sahil Lodha added that there were no financial issues in the family and they were very happy. “Something is amiss...there should be a thorough investigation and the entire Lodha community and Jain fraternity stands by the family,” he said. Meanwhile, the BJP has taken objection to the presence of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin in the hospital in Thane where the post-mortem on the body of Mansukh Hiren was conducted. “What is he doing there...we have information that Sachin Vaze is in the hospital where the post-mortem is being done,” senior BJP leader and former Maharashtra minister Ashish Shelar said. “Sachin Vaze is not from Thane police...he is not from ATS...so what was he doing there,” he said. The stolen Mahindra Scorpio was abandoned near Antilia, the home of Ambani on Carmichael Road, on 25 February. The police seized 20-odd gelatin sticks and a letter threatening Ambani and his wife, Nita.  Following the seizure, an FIR was registered by the Gamdevi police station but a parallel probe was ordered by the Crime Branch-CID, and Vaze of the Crime Intelligence Unit was made the Investigating Officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-car-owners-post-mortem-expected-today-958792.html
06-03-2021||West||Female cub of tigress Avni released into wild after two years||The female cub of tigress Avni, who was shot dead after being declared a man-eater in November 2018, has been released into the wild in the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) of Maharashtra's Nagpur district after over two years of "re-wilding" efforts, authorities said. This adult tigress, now named PTRF-84, was released on Friday, Chief Conservator of Forests and FieldDirector of the PTR said in a release. This female cub of Pandharkawada tigress Avni (PKT-1), was housed in the in-situenclosureatTitralmangiof the PTR since December 2018. She was reared/re-wilded as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), it said. She is approximately 3.2 years old. She had been brought to the PTR as an orphaned cub on December 22, 2018, following a rescue operation. After that, she was housed in 5.11 hectares of enclosure for over two years, the release added. An expert committee supervised her entire re-wilding experiment and as per its decision, a proposal was sent to the NTCA for her release, which was approved, it said. Before her release, the tigress was radio-collared with the help of scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII). "Further monitoring of the tigress will be carried out with the help of field formation and satellite tracking. Although we cannot predict how this tigress will behave in the wild, the forest department has taken the best of efforts to re-wild the animal using systematic re-wilding techniques," the release said. Tigress Avni, believed to have been responsible for the death of 13 persons in Maharashtra, was shot dead in Yavatmal district in November 2018 as part of an operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/female-cub-of-tigress-avni-released-into-wild-after-two-years-958800.html
06-03-2021||West||Fire destroys power loom factory in Maharashtra's Bhiwandi town||A power loom factory was gutted in a major fire that broke out in Bhiwandi town of Maharashtra's Thane district in the wee hours of Saturday, an official said. No casualty was reported in the incident, he said. The blaze erupted around 3 am at the factory located in Sonibai Compound of Dhamankar Naka area, Santosh Kadam, chief of the Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC), said. On being alerted, two fire engines of the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation rushed to the spot. "Nobody was injured in the fire," Kadam said, adding that the firefighting operation is still underway. The cause of the fire was not yet known, he added. On Friday, another power loom unit situated on Naigaon Road in the town was gutted in a devastating fire. Bhiwandi is known as a power loom hub.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-destroys-power-loom-factory-in-maharashtras-bhiwandi-town-958818.html
06-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Sanjay Raut wants Maharashtra govt to 'unearth truth' at the earliest||Amid mounting offensive by the BJP over the death of Mansukh Hiren, senior Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said an investigation into the entire case involving the planting of gelatin sticks-laden car would be important for the prestige and image of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “It is very important for the prestige and image of the government,” Raut told reporters in Mumbai. “There are doubts if Hiren's death was by suicide or murder. He was an important witness in the case. The Home Department should unearth the truth at the earliest. This is important for the prestige and image of the government," he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane lashed out at the government over the entire issue. “Disha Salian - was happy but committed suicide. Sushant Singh Rajput - was ambitious but committed suicide. Puja Chavan - was too strong but committed suicide. Mansukh Hiren - wife says he can’t commit suicide!  This is what happens in Maharashtra under Maha Vikas Aghadi!” Disha Salian - was happy but committed suicideSushant singh Rajput - was ambitious but committed suicidePuja chavan - was too strong but committed suicideMansukh Hiren - wife says he can’t commit suicide !This is what happens in Maharashtra under Maha Vikas Aghadi! In a related development, BJP MLA and Mumbai city chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha met the family of Hiren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-sanjay-raut-wants-maharashtra-govt-to-unearth-truth-at-the-earliest-958840.html
06-03-2021||West||BJP demands NIA probe in Antilia bomb scare case||As new facts emerged vis-a-vis the Antilia bomb scare and Mansukh Hiren death case, the BJP continued to mount pressure for a comprehensive probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The case is turning out to be a major embarrassment for the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. “We have asked for a probe by a central agency...let NIA probe it,” state BJP President Chandrakant Patil told reporters. According to him, prima facie, the death of Mansukh Hiren is “murder”. Patil said that Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis elaborated on the timeline of events and gave details of phone calls between Mansukh Hiren and Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze but the response of Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was not serious. “There seems to be involvement of a police officer,” he said. Meanwhile, senior Shiv Sena leader and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said an investigation into the entire case is important for the prestige of the Uddav Thackeray-led MVA government. The case is about the plantation of a gelatin-sticks-laden SUV outside the house of business tycoon Mukesh Ambani. “There are doubts if Hiren's death was by suicide or murder. He was an important witness in the case. The Home department should unearth the truth at the earliest. This is important for the prestige and image of the government," Raut said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane lashed out at the government over the entire issue. “Disha Salian was happy but committed suicide. Sushant singh Rajput was ambitious but committed suicide. Puja Chavan was too strong but committed suicide. Mansukh Hiren's wife says he can’t commit suicide!  This is what happens in Maharashtra under Maha Vikas Aghadi!” In a related development, BJP MLA and Mumbai city chief Mangal Prabhat Lodha met the family of Hiren. MNS leader Sandeep Deshpande said that API Vaze had joined the Shiv Sena in 2008.  However, Raut refused to comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-nia-probe-in-antilia-bomb-scare-case-958930.html
06-03-2021||West||Summer has arrived; so has the urrak in Goa||So, as the first warm winds of summer lash across Goa, the changing season is synonymous with the arrival of the cultish alcoholic beverage, urrak, in the state's many local pubs and taverns. While feni is a double distilled derived from fermented cashew apple juice, urrak is a single distillate, which packs a punch especially when it comes to the indigenous taste-buds, which have been accustomed to downing the brew, either with a simple dash of line and water or an ice-cold lemon drink to beat the heat. "Urrak is a drink prepared using cashew apples, the juice is fermented and distilled to get urrak. The second distil will give us cashew feni. The Portuguese introduced cashew trees to Goa," says Sandip Madkaikar, assistant professor- Food Production at V M Salgaocar Institute of International Hospitality Education, located in Raia in South Goa. The cashew plant is believed to have been imported to Goa from Brazil by the Portuguese, who had colonised both regions in the 1700s. While Goa has been virtually synonymous with cashew nuts and feni, local residents have been toasting to urrak every summer, from March to May when the drink is brewed. Fresh cashew juice is fermented in large vats before it is distilled using traditional methods for urrak first and then feni. "The locals prefer urrak over any other liquor brands as it is exclusively available during this time of the year and people eagerly wait for the arrival of urrak. The best way to have urrak is with lemonade or Limca and a dash of lime and chilly," Madkaikar said. Just like in the case of wine or any other alcohol, the key to a good urrak lies in its aroma and the notes, which the drink inscribes on the palette. "Urrak has to be cloudy, about 30% (alcohol) and should have the aroma of fresh cashew," says Hansel Vaz founder of the popular feni brand 'Cazulo Premium Feni'. Storing urrak has however been a challenge. The brew is available for just about three months a year because according to experts it lacks shelf life."Fine drinks like whiskey or feni have high alcohol content and spoilage is not an issue," says Clement Mark DeSylva, a master blender and a feni evangelist. "Sedimentation, which is common in urrak also leads to deterioration of urrak over time," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/summer-has-arrived-so-has-the-urrak-in-goa-958936.html
06-03-2021||West||SUV probe: Post-mortem report of Hiren inconclusive||The mystery over the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren deepened further on Saturday with the post-mortem report coming in inconclusive, unable to pin-point the exact cause of death. The post-mortem was conducted at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa. The opinion on the report has been reserved and the viscera have been sent for chemical analysis to the Sir JJ Hospital in  Mumbai. There are no visible marks on the body of Mansukh Hiren. Mansukh Bhai (48), as he was popularly known, was the owner of the Mahindra Scorpio SUV that was parked near Antilla, Mumbai residence of Mukesh Ambani, with gelatin-sticks and a threatening letter. The body of Mansukh (48), was fished out from the Reti Bunder creek in Mumbra-Kalwa area of Thane district on Friday. Mansukh owned a car accessories business, Classic Car Decor near Vandana Talkies and stayed in Vikas Palm Complex at Dr Ambedkar Road in Thane city. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone 1) Avinash Ambure visited the residence of the Hiren family — his wife, Vimala and brother Vinod — and pursued them to take the body for cremation. “The post-mortem was conducted and we have shown the report to the family,” he said without commenting any further. In a related development, a team of Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) surveyed the Reti Bunder area, where the body was recovered. “What we want is complete investigations and the cause of death,” said Devibhai Jain, the President of Thane Vyapari Sangh. “He was a family man, a good person, financially stable and had no addiction,” he added. Family and friends of Mansukh Hiren said that he was a good swimmer and cannot get drowned. Meanwhile, it is speculated that Mansukh wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and his Thane counterpart Vivek Phansalakar on March 2, which could not be independently verified. In the letter, he had reportedly claimed that he was being harassed by police over the recovery of the car. Meanwhile, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh held a review meeting with state Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale. Family friend Sandeep Khambe repeatedly pointed out that Mansukh was a good swimmer and cannot die by drowning. "We have seen that five handkerchiefs have been recovered from his face...this needs to be investigated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/suv-probe-post-mortem-report-of-hiren-inconclusive-958994.html
06-03-2021||West||Centre blames 'fear of isolation' among people for drop in Maharashtra's Covid-19 testing numbers||The fear of living in isolation and the work getting affected rather than the fear of the disease are the factors that led to a drop in Covid-19 testing in Maharashtra, according to a Union Health Ministry report on the state. In their report, the health officials who visited Maharashtra on March 1 and 2, said that even though the coronavirus is spreading to hitherto unaffected areas and most cases are asymptomatic, the people are not forthcoming in getting the tests done. The marriage season has exacerbated the pandemic fatigue because even though the masks are there, barely anyone wears them properly and social distancing norms are completely out. The central team comprising a Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry and two technical experts didn’t rule out the possibility of a virus mutation in the Pune and Amravati regions and noted that efforts to identify such genetic changes in the virus were to be enhanced. In the Nagpur zone, sero-surveillance showed high positivity in the population (50% on average) that may be leading to herd immunity. As a result, the virus may be spreading to the adjacent Amravati region and even towards rural areas where people so far believed that Covid-19 is a disease only of urban areas and were, therefore, not following the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. Pune, one of the hotspots, has requested for support in increasing testing infrastructure (since NIV is hardly testing now) and strengthening a conglomerate of 10 institutions for early detection of mutant strains. Based on the feedback it received, the Central team reported that in the Nagpur region senior doctors and specialists did not actually attend Covid-19 patients, leaving its management to juniors. This affected nuanced critical care such as oxygen therapy and ventilator management. "The sense is that the current wave is less virulent," they wrote in the report. A section of private doctors, BAMS and unqualified quacks which are the first point of contact may not be advising the infected population as per the protocol. "They have to be reached out to, retrained and reoriented regarding protocols," they added. “While the exact causes of the surge are not known - since the behavioural laxity is not specific to Maharashtra - the possible factors are covid inappropriate behaviour due to the lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss outs and super spreaders; and enhanced aggregations due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriage season, the opening of schools and crowded public transport,” the officials reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-blames-fear-of-isolation-among-people-for-drop-in-maharashtras-covid-19-testing-numbers-958995.html
