07-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Sadananda Gowda flays Siddaramaiah for disrupting Assembly session||Launching a tirade against former chief minister Siddaramaiah, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda said that the former has been disrupting the Assembly session. Speaking to reporters at the Mangalore International Airport, he said, "Siddaramaiah is a hypocrite. Let him allow discussions in the Assembly. If the Congress wants a discussion on former minister Jarkiholi's scandal let them do so in the Assembly. The MLAs entered the Well of the House and disrupted the Assembly session." "The investigation into the matter is in progress and it is not right to misguide the process. Let the investigation take its own course. It is not fair on part of Siddaramaiah, who is a former chief minister, to speak irrationally in the Assembly. Can we run the government by listening to someone who is into blackmailing?" he said. "Let the investigation into the matter continue. We will not interfere in it. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is facing charges of corruption. Did we ask for his resignation? Let the inquiry go on," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sadananda-gowda-flays-siddaramaiah-for-disrupting-assembly-session-959106.html
07-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||We fear becoming victims of technology: C P Yogeshwar||Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar on Sunday expressed concern regarding the "misuse of technology ". "We are under the fear of becoming victims of latest technology and graphic," he said. When asked about the recent sex scandal in which Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly involved, Yogeshwar said, "These days, graphic is being misused". Defending six ministers, who approached court seeking injunction against media houses over publishing articles against them, Yogeshwar said, "It is inevitable to approach court to maintain our dignity".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/we-fear-becoming-victims-of-technology-c-p-yogeshwar-959162.html
07-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||750 kg of explosives seized from Yadgir quarry unit||In a joint operation by Kalaburagi-Yadgir Internal Security sleuths and the district police, as much as 750 kg of explosives was seized from a stone quarry unit at Aalahal near Kembhavi in the district on Sunday. The Kembhavi police have booked quarry owner Shantagouda Nadahalli, vehicle driver Moulali and supplier of explosives Ravi Biradar on the charges of supplying and storing unauthorised explosives. Based on a tip-off, the police team pounced on the quarry and seized gelatin sticks weighing 750 kg, 50 pieces of non-electric detonator, 30 boxes of IDL, 80 mm booster and 7 feet of cordex. Yadgir SP Rishikesh Bhagavan Sonawane and Kalaburagi-Yadgir ISD CPI Adeppa Banni visited the quarry following the seizure. In the last week of February, the Kalaburagi police had seized 1,675 kg of explosives from a construction company in Bidar. The police and Mines and Geology officials have cracked down on quarries across the state seizing big hauls of explosives, following the blasts at stone quarries in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur which snuffed out lives of 12 workers, last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/750-kg-of-explosives-seized-from-yadgir-quarry-unit-959311.html
07-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi scandal: Brother Balachandra Jarkiholi seeks CBI probe||Soon after activist Dinesh Kallahalli withdrew the complaint against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, his brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi demanded a CBI probe into the 'honey trap' incident. Speaking to reporters, he alleged that two people had planned the conspiracy to defame Ramesh and force him to step down as minister. "If authorities catch the two, you will find the four below them and others involved," he said. The plan was also to embarrass the BJP ahead of elections in five states, he said, contending that the videos were fake. "I believe that the visuals in the CD are fake. It should be tested to verify its authenticity," he said."Ten ministers of the government and 25 MLAs who met me have urged me to press for a CBI enquiry. I will meet him in the evening, urging him to come out and speak to the media. He should file a complaint against the incident. If he does not, I will file a complaint on his behalf," Balachandra said.  It can be recalled that Ramesh Jarkiholi was forced to resign after a sleaze CD emerged. Dinesh had filed a complaint at Cubbon Park police station accusing the minister of harassing the woman seen in the CD by assuring a job. He alleged that the video was uploaded on YouTube in Russia, three hours before it was released to TV channels. "When Dinesh Kallahalli came to the police station and said he would release a CD, it was already released. It was uploaded three hours prior on YouTube in Russia. According to my information, 17 servers were identified to upload the video. The objective was to release it simultaneously in Karnataka and all over India on YouTube, Facebook and other social media," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-scandal-brother-balachandra-jarkiholi-seeks-cbi-probe-959246.html
07-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Over 33,000 vaccinated on March 6; highest so far||Over 33,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Saturday, the highest number of people vaccinated in a single day since the starting of the inoculation exercise on January 16, officials said. In the age bracket of 60 and above, 17,288 people were vaccinated while in the 45-59 years age group, 2,824 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said. "Today, Delhi witnessed the highest number of vaccinations done so far since the start of the exercise on January 16," he said. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi. Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive had begun in the national capital. "Today, 33,287 people were vaccinated, out of which 17,288 were citizens in the age group of 60 and above," the official said. Two minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were reported on Saturday, he said, adding that the exercise was carried out across 403 sites. On Friday, a total of 27,057 people had received the shots. About 66 per cent of people (13,355) turned up at private facilities and remaining 34 per cent (6757) at government facilities for vaccination, as per the data shared by officials. As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for vaccination, the officials said. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter ID card. On Saturday, second doses were given to 7,132 people, officials said, adding, 3,769 frontline workers and 2,274 healthcare workers were also vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-33000-vaccinated-on-march-6-highest-so-far-959032.html
07-03-2021||National||SCBA decides to reject Supreme Court's SOPs on hybrid physical hearing from March 15||The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) on Saturday night decided not to accept the apex court's standard operating procedures (SOPs) on commencing hybrid physical hearing from March 15. The Supreme Court, which is hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, issued the SOPs on Saturday. "On an experimental basis, and as a pilot scheme, the final hearings/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the courtrooms; all other matters, including those listed on Mondays and Fridays, shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode," said the SOP issued by the apex court. However, the newly-elected executive committee of the SCBA, headed by President Vikas Singh, did not agree to the apex court's SOPs on hybrid physical hearing, saying that the Bar is an "equal stakeholder" in the justice delivery system and the decision has been taken unilaterally and thrusted upon it. According to a resolution issued by SCBA's Secretary Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, "The executive committee has unanimously resolved and decided to not accept the SOPs and directions issued by the top court as it was prepared without taking into confidence the Bar, despite the assurance given to them by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A Bobde in the meeting held on March 1." "It was unanimously agreed that SOP is unilaterally thrusted upon members of the Bar despite the fact that the Bar is an equal stakeholder in dispensation of justice delivery system," the bar body said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/scba-decides-to-reject-supreme-courts-sops-on-hybrid-physical-hearing-from-march-15-959036.html
07-03-2021||National||SOPs outlined for vaccination of 'unregistered' healthcare workers, frontline staff||The Centre has outlined SOPs for vaccination of healthcare workers and frontline staff who could not get registered for it through the Co-WIN app for some reasons, Delhi health department officials said on Saturday. In a March 5 order issued by the Delhi health department, it said the "state has been receiving requests for HCWs and FLWs who could not be registered due to some reasons". The government of India has issued detailed standard operating procedures (SOPs) for vaccination of healthcare workers (HCWs), frontline workers (FLWs) not registered on Co-WIN, it said. The HCWs of a health facility where the Covid vaccination centre (CVC) is located can be vaccinated at the center itself after certification of them being HCWs by the medical superintendent or facility in-charge. They shall be entertained after completion of vaccination of beneficiaries with scheduled appointments, the order said. HCWs of public or private health facilities where the CVC is not located, can be vaccinated at the designated CVCs, upon furnishing proof of their being a healthcare worker in a prescribed format duly signed and stamped by the health facility in-charge. Standalone medical practitioners and paramedics can show their MCI/DMCI relevant council registrations and get vaccinated, it added. For the support staff of the private establishments, hospitals, clinic in-charge will have to certify them being HCWs in the prescribed format, the order said. Vaccination of unregistered FLWs can be done at the designated CVCs upon furnishing proof of their being an FLW in the prescribed format duly signed and stamped by the senior officer deputed by the FLW authority for issuing the certificate. Further, the FLW group shall designate an officer to be present at these dedicated sites for verification of the FLW status. These beneficiaries shall be registered on-site, it said. Over 33,000 beneficiaries received shots of COVID-19 vaccine in the national capital on Saturday, the highest number of people vaccinated in a single day since the starting of the inoculation exercise on January 16, officials said. On Saturday, second doses were given to 7,132 people, the officials said, adding that 3,769 frontline workers and 2,274 healthcare workers were also vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sops-outlined-for-vaccination-of-unregistered-healthcare-workers-frontline-staff-959045.html
07-03-2021||National||Digital media norms can curb media freedom: Editor’s Guild||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) has urged the Union Government to keep in abeyance the recently notified Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021, and conduct meaningful consultation with all stakeholders. Expressing "deep concern" about the notification of the Rules issued under the Information Technology Act, 2000, the EGI said the new rules fundamentally alter how publishers of news operate over the Internet and have the potential to seriously undermine media freedom in India. "They empower the Union Government to block, delete, or modify published news anywhere in the country without any judicial oversight and mandate all publishers to establish a grievance redressal mechanism. Various provisions in these rules can place unreasonable restrictions on digital news media, and consequently media at large," the EGI President Seema Mustafa, General Secretary Sanjay Kapoor and Treasurer Anant Nath, said in a joint statement. "The EGI is concerned that the Government did not consult stakeholders before notifying these far-reaching rules. The government must take note of the fact that in the name of reining in an unfettered social media it cannot overwhelm India’s constitutional safeguards for free media that has been the cornerstone of our democracy", the Guild said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-media-norms-can-curb-media-freedom-editor-s-guild-959075.html
07-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Farmers' protests against farm laws enters 100th day||Hundreds of farmers on Saturday blocked a six-lane expressway skirting the national capital to mark the 100th day of protests against the three farm laws, declaring that their agitation would continue till the reforms are rolled back. Congress described the 100 days of protest as a black chapter in India’s history.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-farmers-protests-against-farm-laws-enters-100th-day-959088.html
07-03-2021||National||'Free at last': Varavara Rao discharged from hospital, released on interim bail||Eminent poet and writer Pendyala Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case, who was recently granted bail by the Bombay High Court, was discharged from a Mumbai hospital Saturday night. The 82-year-old veteran activist and Left-wing ideologue was undergoing medical treatment at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai, where he had been admitted by the Maharashtra government following court orders. Varavara Rao was granted bail on February 22 by a division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising Justice S S Shinde and Justice Manish Pitale. "Free at last! Varavara Rao out of Nanavati hospital 11.45 pm, March 6, 2021,” activist and lawyer Indira Jaising tweeted with a smiling photo of Varavara Rao. In July 2020, he had tested positive for Covid-19 and subsequently recovered. He is also facing several age-related ailments. Over the last year, Varavara Rao's family members — wife P Hemalatha, and daughters P Sahaja, P Anala, P Pavana — had been issuing statements from Hyderabad seeking medical attention for him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-at-last-varavara-rao-discharged-from-hospital-released-on-interim-bail-959097.html
07-03-2021||National||India adds 18,711 new Covid-19 cases, 100 more deaths; total tally at 1.12 cr||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections were recorded above 18,000 for the second consecutive day taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,12,10,799,  the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and the Covid-19 active caseload increased to  1,84,523 which now comprises 1.65  per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has dropped further to 96.95 per cent, the ministry data stated. A total of 18,711 new infections were registered in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,57,756 with 100  daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  On January 29,  18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,68,520 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of  96.95 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,14,30,507 samples have been tested up to March 6 with  7,37,830 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-18711-new-covid-19-cases-100-more-deaths-total-tally-at-112-cr-959105.html
07-03-2021||National||'Stepping up vaccine coverage by May-end will help check Covid-19 cases'||The spread of Covid-19 in the country would remain at low levels if the vaccination coverage is expanded substantially, possibly by inoculating those above 30 years of age and without comorbidities, by end of May, an expert has said. Though there has been a spike in the number of cases in some states, overall they have remained much on the lower side despite elections being held in some states, G V S Murthy, Director of Indian Institute of Public Health here, set up under the aegis of Public Health Foundation of India, said. "A sudden spike in cases has not been seen though civic polls were held in Hyderabad and local body elections took place in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh," he said. The infection is spreading, most probably after those who were leading protected lives got exposed as they moved out of their homes and mingled with others, he said. Citing the seroprevalence reports recently announced in Hyderabad, he said that 54 per cent of the city's population is estimated to have antibodies against Covid-19 (up to 70 per cent in some wards), meaning that many people got infected during the last six months without realising it. Observing that protection stays on for around five to six months if a person is already infected, Murthy said it is a good sign that spikes are not being witnessed. If the vaccination drive gathers pace even among those aged above 30 without comorbidities, it would help check the spread of the virus, he said. "If we can push vaccine coverage to a high level by May, based upon the volume of vaccines available in the country, the situation in India will remain at low levels," Murthy told PTI. After the nationwide vaccination drive covering health professionals and other frontline workers was launched in January, the country had from March 1 started inoculating people aged above 60 and those over 45 with comorbidities, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi taking the first jab that day. Murthy said that while the pandemic might not come to an end immediately, the situation would be under control as there has been an increase in vaccination coverage. As per available information, antibodies (in the infected) existed for about seven months and there is a possibility of them getting it again if the antibodies decline, he said. Since the highest caseload in the country was witnessed during August-September last year, those infected then may face the risk of getting it again by April-May, he opined. Therefore, those above 30 or 40 years of age can be covered if the vaccination drive is stepped up by about the end of May, he said. This can be achieved by allowing the private sector a bigger role in promoting vaccination, he said. The increased vaccine coverage would provide protection to more people and it would also be difficult to infect others, he added. Murthy said that medical management of Covid-19 cases has improved since the beginning of the pandemic with deaths being reduced effectively and that the combination of vaccination and improved medical management would be very beneficial in handling the virus. However, Covid-19 precautions like wearing masks should be continued till the vaccination drive reaches the next stage and also because the efficacy of vaccines would be around 70- 75 per cent, he said. "It is still not time to give up protection like masks. Such a situation may not come this year," he added. The practice of wearing masks would have other benefits like the decline in tuberculosis, pneumonia and infections. "We have to see what is the benefit to society on a bigger scale," Murthy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stepping-up-vaccine-coverage-by-may-end-will-help-check-covid-19-cases-959132.html
07-03-2021||National||PM Modi dedicates 7,500th Janaushadhi Kendra to nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the poor and needy have been able to save Rs 50,000 crore annually due to various health-related measures taken up by his government like providing affordable medicines, healthcare and reducing the prices of medical devices. Modi, who dedicated to the nation the 7,500th Janaushadhi Kendra at North Eastern Indira Gandhi Regional Institute of Health & Medical Sciences (NEIGRIHMS) in Shillong, also said the move to provide affordable medicines through the Janaushadhi scheme is spreading across the length and breadth of the country. In a virtual address at the 'Janaushadhi Week' celebrated across the nation from March 1 to March 7 to create awareness about the 'Janaushadhi' scheme, the Prime Minister said it is helping countrymen living in tribal areas in the North East and the mountainous areas. "Today when the 7,500th centre has been inaugurated, it has been held in Shillong. It is clear from this how much public health centres are expanding in the North East," Modi said. The Prime Minister, who also interacted with people from different parts of the country, further said, "It is clear from my discussion with people who run the Janaushadhi centres at every corner of the country and some of its beneficiaries, that this scheme is becoming a very big companion of poor and middle-class families. This scheme is becoming the medium of both service and employment". Underlining the various steps taken up by his government to make healthcare affordable to the poor and needy, he said prices of essential drugs as well as medical devices such as stents and knee implants have been reduced manifold. "It has led to the saving of Rs 12,500 crore per year for the needy people. The Ayushman Bharat scheme is helping 50 crore people get Rs 5 lakh worth of treatment. Over 1.5 crore people have already taken this benefit. It is estimated that it has led to savings of around Rs 30,000 crore for people. "It means that if we collate the savings being affected by Janaushadhi, Ayushman Bharat and decline in prices of drugs and stents (medical devices) if we only take government schemes in the health sector, then poor and middle-income groups are saving around Rs 50,000 crore per year," the Prime Minister said. Stating that for a long time health was considered to be the only subject of disease and treatment, he asserted that his government considers that the subject of health is not just limited to disease and treatment, but it encompasses the entire economic and social fabric of the country. The effort of the government has been to ensure that no one should be deprived of the benefits of medical science and treatment should be cheap, accessible for the public, he said, adding "with this thinking policies and programmes are being made today" by the government. To promote the Janaushadhi scheme, Modi said the incentive has been increased to Rs 5 lakh from Rs 2.5 lakh, while an additional incentive of Rs 2 lakh incentive for women, SC/ST, and for North East people have been provided to help create the infrastructure. Highlighting India's achievement in the field of pharmaceuticals, he said the country is the world's pharmacy. "Today, free corona vaccine is being administered in government hospitals. The cheapest in the world i.e. only Rs 250 vaccine is being given in private hospitals. The country is proud of its scientists today that we have the Made-in-India vaccine for ourselves and also to help the world," Modi said. To enhance medical education, he said before 2014, where there were about 55,000 MBBS seats in the country. In 6 years, it has been increased by more than 30,000. Similarly, in the PG seats - which used to be at 30,000 - more than 24,000 new seats have been added. The Pradhan Mantri Bhartiya Janaushadhi Pariyojana aims to provide quality medicines at an affordable price. Sales in the financial year 2020-21 (up to March 4, 2021) have led to a total saving of around Rs 3,600 crore for citizens, as these medicines are cheaper by 50-90 per cent than market rates. To create more awareness about 'Janaushadhi', an entire week -- from March 1 to March 7 -- is being celebrated as "Janaushadhi Week" across the nation, with the theme of "Jan Aushadhi -- Seva Bhi, Rozgar Bhi".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-dedicates-7500th-janaushadhi-kendra-to-nation-959134.html
07-03-2021||National||Time to call the bluff, bust myths created by Hindutva groups to demonise Muslims: S Y Quraishi||Declaring that the time has come to bust "myths created by Hindutva groups" to demonise Muslims, former chief election commissioner S Y Quraishi says Islam is not hostile to the concept of family planning and Muslims are the least polygamous among all communities in India. There is also no organised conspiracy by Muslims to overtake Hindus in terms of population and their number can never rival that of Hindus in the country, Quraishi argues in his newly released book “The Population Myth: Islam, Family Planning and Politics in India”. He uses facts and figures to demolish propaganda that he says is reaching a “crescendo”. "If you repeat a lie a hundred times, it becomes the truth," Quraishi added in an interview to PTI on his book. The propaganda, he said, has become “very blatant” and gained traction, and it’s time to challenge the narrative perpetuated against the community over the years. One myth, which most Muslims also believe, is that Islam is against family planning. But that is not so at all, Quraishi said. "A close look at Islamic jurisprudence reveals that Islam is not against family planning at all. On the contrary, it is the pioneer of the concept, a fact that has got blurred over the years because of skewed interpretations of the Quran and Hadith," Quraishi said. "I have argued that the Quran has nowhere prohibited family planning," he added while stressing that there are only interpretations - for or against. Islam, he explained, is supportive of family planning ideas as it expects youth to marry only when they have the wherewithal to support a family. “It lays great emphasis  on the health of mother and  children and the need for proper upbringing," said the former bureaucrat who was chief election commissioner from July 2010 to June 2012. Quraishi argues in his book that family planning is actually not a Hindu-versus-Muslim issue as the two communities have similar statistics and stand “shoulder to shoulder” in the socio-economic indicators that influence family planning behaviour. Their socio-economic conditions are region specific, and that is what determines their fertility behaviours, he asserts. It is true that a Hindu-Muslim fertility differential persists in the demographic reality of India, but this is due to the relative backwardness of Muslims in all factors that determine fertility behaviour -- literacy, income and access to services being some of them. Polygamy is among the myths he has attempted to bust in his book. Hindutva groups have perpetuated the propaganda that Muslims marry  four wives to increase their population with statements such as “Hum Chaar Humare Chalees” and “Hum Paanch Humare Pachchees” which are all “utterly baseless”, Quraishi said. “Trends through three decadal Censuses, from 1931 to 1960, confirm that polygamy cuts across all communities, but is declining among all of them, and, most importantly, is least among the Muslims, as per the only government report on the issue,” he said in a phone interview. In  fact,  Muslim society in India in general views polygamy with great disfavour, he said. "A bigamist is looked down upon as an outsider in his family," he said, adding that polygamy is also statistically not possible in India as the gender ratio (only  924 women per 1,000 men)  does not permit it. The propaganda, repeated and orchestrated, is meant to create doubts and fears in the minds of Hindus. Refrains like ‘Hinduism khatre mein hai’ (Hinduism is in danger), Muslims will increase in number and capture political power, are part of a “deliberate design with the clear intention of driving a wedge between Hindus and Muslims,” Quraishi said. While it is true the proportion of Hindus has come down in 70 years -- from 84.1 per cent to 79.8 per cent -- with corresponding increase in population of the minorities, mainly the Muslims, the Muslim adoption of family planning has been much faster in the last three decades, he said. If Muslims have the highest birth rate, Hindus are a close second, the former CEC pointed out. Even in absolute numbers, Hindus have nothing to fear, Quraishi said, adding that there were 30 crore more Hindus than Muslims in 1951 and the gap increased to over 80 crore by 2011. Nobody has called the bluff of this propaganda, he said. To underscore his argument, Quraishi has added a mathematical model in the book. Quraishi also addresses himself to the issue of women and the notion that Islam treats them badly. Nothing, he said, can be farther from the truth. As early as 14 centuries ago, Islam recognised women as equal partners to men in all spheres of life. Muslim women got property rights 1,400 years ago while women in the rest of the world got it in the 20th century, he said. He also hit out at the argument that Muslims were a vote bank, saying that they would be politically powerful if they were indeed a solid vote bank, “They get crumbs in the name of power. If they were a vote bank, despite being  30 per cent in Bengal and Kerala and 20 per cent in UP and Bihar, they can’t dream of becoming a political force. Instead, all they get is a token ‘minister of minorities’.” The Muslim vote tends to get divided and they do not vote en bloc, he argued. Quraishi says in his book that population stabilisation is now well within sight with 24 of 29 states reaching below the replacement rate of 2.1.   "We need to focus on the four biggest states of the Hindi belt which are pulling us down. If the collective march towards the cherished goal of population stabilisation continues uninterrupted, the country can hope to reap the benefits of demographic dividend and become a global economic super power very soon," he said. He also urged Muslims not to fall prey to the hate propaganda and incitement for a procreation war but adopt family planning proactively in the interest of the community and the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/time-to-call-the-bluff-bust-myths-created-by-hindutva-groups-to-demonise-muslims-s-y-quraishi-959145.html
07-03-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive must increase by sixfold, say health experts: Report||Over 33,000 beneficiaries were given the coronavirus vaccine on Saturday, making it the highest number of people vaccinated in a single day since the beginning of the inoculation drive on January 16. Experts, however, feel that the numbers are too low. “We need to speed up the vaccination drive by at least sixfold. For that, there is a need to increase the number of vaccination centres, the timing of centres, which the Central government has already done, remove the cap on the number of shots each centre can give daily, set up bigger centres at facilities like the 10,000-bed Covid Care Centre that had been set up in Delhi and carry out mass vaccination campaigns, and gradually relax the age criteria for vaccination,” HT quoted Dr SK Sarin, Director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences as saying. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 health workers against a target of 8,117 (53 per cent), were administered the shots at 81 centres across Delhi on day one. As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. Two doses have to be administered four to six weeks apart for both Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield — which are currently being administered in India. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-must-increase-by-sixfold-say-health-experts-report-959149.html
07-03-2021||National||How much liability would pension for divorced daughters of freedom fighters incur: SC to Centre||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre as to how much financial liability will a divorced daughter of a freedom fighter incur if given family pension like an unmarried or a widowed daughter. A bench of justices U U Lalit and K M Joseph posed the question after the Centre told it that if at all the court allows family pension to divorced daughters of freedom fighters besides the unmarried and widowed daughters, then it will incur a financial liability and open a Pandora's box. “How much will be the financial liability? Divorced daughters' cases would be very minimal and thus minimum liability would be incurring. Divorce daughter cases are hardly of any number in the country”, the bench observed. The top court was dealing with a question whether a divorced woman is entitled to her freedom fighter father's family pension like an unmarried or widowed daughter as two different high courts have given contradictory opinions on the issue. The matter was brought before the top court by Himachal Pradesh resident Tulsi Devi (57), who has challenged a high court verdict of last year dismissing her plea for grant of freedom fighter family pension on grounds that there was no provision made in the rules. During the hearing, advocate Dushyant Parashar, appearing for Devi, said the divorced daughter of freedom fighter should be put on a par with the widowed or unmarried daughter. He said that his client's father has sacrificed his life for the country and she cannot be allowed to lead a life of penury in view of no source of income to sustain herself and survive.   Parashar said that a circular of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) dated December 14, 2012 records the intent for extending the benefit to divorced daughters on a par with widowed or unmarried daughters. Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Divan, appearing for the Centre, said the family pension, if at all allowed will incur financial liability and would open up a Pandora's box. She sought some time to file some additional documents on the issue.   The top court granted liberty to both the parties to file additional documents and listed the matter for final disposal in April second week before an appropriate bench.   “Post this matter on a Non-Miscellaneous Day for final disposal in the second week of April 2021, before the appropriate court. In the meantime, the parties are at a liberty to file additional documents,” the bench said in its recent order. On May 28, last year, the top court had agreed to examine the issue after it was pointed out that Punjab and Haryana High Court had said that a divorced woman was entitled for freedom fighter's family pension while the Himachal Pradesh high court had ruled, “No. It was not a bounty”. Devi had said the HP High Court had committed serious illegality by not considering that the petitioner being a divorced daughter was also dependent on ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman’ Pension being given to her late mother after the death of her father. She had contended that an identical case has come forward before the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which in 2016 in a case of Khajani Devi had held that freedom fighter pension scheme shall also be applicable to divorced daughter and she shall be considered as eligible dependent on a par with unmarried or widowed daughter. She had argued through her counsel that the Punjab and Haryana High Court in 2016 case had held that ‘Swatantrata Sainik Samman’ Pension Scheme is intended to honour the valour of those who laid down their lives or suffered for the cause of the country. She had said that when the Centre challenged the Punjab and Haryana High Court order, the top court had on September 27, 2019 dismissed the appeal and refused to interfere with the 2016 verdict. She had submitted that the top court had then agreed with the view of the Punjab and Haryana High Court,saying that its 2016 verdict adopts a progressive and socially constructive approach to give benefits to daughter who was divorced treating her at parity with the unmarried daughter. The top court had then asked her counsel to file the circular issued by the MoD's on December 14, 2012, which includes a divorced daughter in the category of eligible dependents for grant of liberalised/special family pension beyond 25 years. Under the eligibility criteria for dependents for Swatantarta Sainik Samman Pension Scheme, 1980, family include (if the freedom fighter is not alive), mother, father, widower/widow if he/she has not since remarried, unmarried daughters. Tulsi Devi was married in 1980 but after five years of marriage she was turned out of her matrimonial home and her husband married another woman. Since then she has been staying in her parental home dependent on pension received by her father, who was a freedom fighter. Her father Gopal Ram passed away in 2007 and her mother started receiving the family pension. On death bed, her mother Kaushalya Devi wrote a letter to the Prime Minister's Office in January 2018, that after her death, the family pension should be given to her daughter as she had no earning of her own and no one to look after her. The request was denied by the Prime Minister's Office on September 5, 2018. A month later, her mother expired. Aggrieved by the decision of denial of family pension, Tulsi Devi approached the Himachal High Court for grant of family pension, which dismissed her plea in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-much-liability-would-pension-for-divorced-daughters-of-freedom-fighters-incur-sc-to-centre-959156.html
07-03-2021||National||Over 150 Rohingyas living illegally in Jammu sent to ‘holding center’||More than 150 Rohingyas, who escaped persecution in Myanmar, have been sent to a ''holding center' after they were found living illegally in Jammu during a verification process started by the government in the Union Territory (UT). The J&K government started a drive to collect biometric and other details of Rohingyas staying in Jammu on Saturday as part of an exercise to trace foreigners living in the city without valid documents. Officials said on the very first day of the drive over 150 illegal immigrant Rohingyas were traced and later sent to Hiranagar jail in Kathua district, which has been turned into a “holding centre” for the Rohingyas. The process was started on the directions from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) since the verifications were not carried out for over a year now, he said and added the verification process is likely to continue in the coming days. Following prosection in their country, Rohingyas, a Bengali-dialect speaking Muslim minority in Myanmar, entered India illegally through Bangladesh and took shelter in Jammu and other parts of India. Government estimates put their number living in Jammu and Kashmir at 5,700. Myanmar’s security forces are accused of killings, gang-rape and arson during a crackdown that drove more than 730,000 people to flee western Rakhine state for neighbouring Bangladesh after some Rohingya insurgents attacked police posts in August 2017. The central government had filed an affidavit in the Supreme Court in 2017 describing around 40,000 Rohingya refugees living in India as “a security threat” and said they must be deported to Myanmar. Meanwhile, Rohangiyas while talking to reporters said that they are living in Jammu for several years now. “We are living in Jammu since 2012 and reached here from Bangladesh after running out of Burma due to the genocide,” one of them told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-150-rohingyas-living-illegally-in-jammu-sent-to-holding-center-959157.html
07-03-2021||National||49-year-old farmer from Haryana dies by suicide near Tikri border protesting against new farm laws||A 49-year-old farmer from Haryana’s Hisar district on Sunday allegedly hanged himself from a tree, about seven kilometers from the Tikri border protest site, police said. The farmer, who supported the agitation against Centre’s new farm laws, has purportedly left a suicide note, they said. "The victim, Rajbir, hailed from a village in Hisar district. He was found hanging from a tree," Bahadurgarh City police station SHO, Vijay Kumar said over phone. His body was found hanging by some farmers who informed the police. In the suicide note purportedly left behind by Rajbir, it is mentioned that the three farm laws were responsible for him to take the extreme step. He also said that the Centre should fulfil his last wish by repealing the legislations, police said. Last month, a farmer from Jind in Haryana who was also supporting the agitation against the Centre's farm laws had allegedly hanged himself from a tree, merely two kilometres from the Tikri border protest site. Earlier, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He had died during treatment at a Delhi hospital later. In December last, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was "unable to bear the pain of the farmers". Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/49-year-old-farmer-from-haryana-dies-by-suicide-near-tikri-border-protesting-against-new-farm-laws-959174.html
07-03-2021||National||Six states reporting a spike in daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 84.71% of the 18,711 new cases in India||Six states including Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Gujarat are reporting high daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 84.71 per cent of the 18,711 new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 10,187. It is followed by Kerala with 2,791 while Punjab reported 1,159 new cases.  The Centre is continuously engaging with the states and UTs reporting a higher caseload of active cases and those showing a rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. It has deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra and Punjab, which are showing a steep increase in the daily new cases. The other states reporting high daily Covid-19 cases are Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. Eight states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry highlighted. India's total Covid-9 active cases increased to 1.84 lakh (1,84,523) which now consists of 1.65 per cent of the total infections. According to the data, 100 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 87 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (47). Kerala follows with 16 daily deaths. Punjab reported 12 deaths. In the past two weeks, 10 states have not reported any Covid-19 deaths while 12 states reported between 1 and 10 deaths. Nineteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. More than 2 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 3,39,145 sessions, as per the provisional report till Sunday 7 am. These include 69,82,637 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been administered the 1st dose, 35,42,123 HCWs who have been given the 2nd dose, 65,85,752 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 2,11,918 FLWs (2nd Dose), 4,76,041 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 31,23,873 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on Day-50 of the vaccination drive (6th March), more than 14 lakh vaccine doses were given.  Out of which, 11,71,673 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 17,654 sessions for 1st dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 2,53,020 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. The 11,71,673 beneficiaries include 7,45,639 aged over 60 and 1,29,295 aged 45 to 60 with comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-states-reporting-a-spike-in-daily-covid-19-cases-accounting-for-8471-of-the-18711-new-cases-in-india-959179.html
07-03-2021||National||'Covid-19 vaccine rollout 'India’s gift' to the world'||The rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine is "India's gift" to the world in combating coronavirus and will be remembered as a time when the country stepped up in a major way as a global player in innovation, a top American scientist has said. India is called the pharmacy of the world during the Covid-19 pandemic with its vast experience and deep knowledge in medicine. The country is one of the world’s biggest drug-makers and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring coronavirus vaccines. Dr. Peter Hotez, Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) in Houston during a webinar this week said that the two mRNA vaccines may not impact the world's low and middle-income countries, but India’s vaccines, made in collaboration with universities across the world such as BCM and Oxford University, have “rescued the world” and its contributions must not to be underestimated. During the webinar, “Covid-19: Vaccination and Potential Return to Normalcy - If and When”, Dr Hotez, an internationally-recognized physician-scientist in neglected tropical diseases and vaccine development, said that the Covid-19 vaccine rollout is "India's gift' to the world in combating the virus. India’s drugs regulator gave emergency use authorisation to Covishield, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India after securing licence from British pharma company AstraZeneca, and Covaxin, indigenously developed jointly by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research scientists. The webinar was organised by Indo American Chamber of Commerce of Greater Houston (IACCGH). “This is something very special and I see it myself because I'm on weekly teleconferences with our colleagues in India, you make a recommendation, and within days it's done and not only done, but it's done well and with incredible rigor and thought and creativity," Dr Hotez said, stressing that he felt compelled to make this statement because "India's huge efforts in combating global pandemic is a story that's not really getting out in the world." Dr Hotez, considered as the authority on vaccinations, is working on an affordable coronavirus vaccine in collaboration with Indian pharmaceutical companies. There is increasing evidence that vaccines not only “interrupt symptomatic illness and keep you out of the hospital” but halts asymptomatic transmission as well. However, the troubling news is that the vaccines work well against the UK B.1.1.7 variant, which is now accelerating across the US, but doesn’t work quite as well against the variant coming out of South Africa. It is likely that all the vaccines will require a booster for two reasons: the durability of protection for the vaccines is unknown and to create an added immune response that's better tailored towards the South African variant. Consul General of India in Houston, Aseem Mahajan, along with a distinguished panel of doctors participated in this webinar, that tracked the possibilities of a return to some semblance of normality due to the accelerated roll out of vaccines across the country. Appreciating Dr. Hotez for commending India’s efforts in getting vaccines to the world, Consul General Mahajan, said, “in keeping with “our tradition of sharing with the world,” India has exported vaccines to many countries across the world. India has provided 56 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines under grants assistance to a number of countries. The vaccines were sent to Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles. There has also been a boost in the collaborative medical partnerships emerging between the US and India during this pandemic. In addition, India is one of the fourth largest destinations in Asia for medical devices manufacturing and many US companies have expressed interest in collaborating on this front," Mahajan said. IACCGH Founding Secretary/Executive Director Jagdip Ahluwalia said that “India's response to the Covid crisis, as acknowledged by Dr Hotez, falls in line with Chamber’s vision. Since its inception, 21 years ago, that India would be a future global player in key areas like technology, medicine, manufacturing and international trade. This belief has been proved time and again particularly in the last decade."   Chamber President Tarush Anand expressed pride that India has risen to this global challenge by leveraging the brilliance of its scientific community and extensive manufacturing capabilities in the most efficient manner to help the world recover from a deadly pandemic. Describing vaccines as “one of the highest expressions of science in pursuit of humanitarian goals,” Chief Radiation Oncology Officer and moderator Dr Vivek Kavadi noted that over 28 million people had contracted the virus in the US and more than half a million Americans had tragically died. Lives and businesses had been upended but the breakthrough on the vaccine front has been one reason for cautious optimism. More than 73 million vaccine doses have been administered to date, 15 per cent of the population has received 1 dose while 7 per cent have received both doses, Dr Kavadi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-india-s-gift-to-the-world-959191.html
07-03-2021||National||Sex ratio among tribals better than general population: Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday said people can learn a lot from tribal communities where there was no gender-based discrimination and as a result, the sex ratio among them was better than the general population. Addressing a state-level 'Janjatiya Sammelan (tribal meet)' here in Madhya Pradesh, Kovind said in tribal societies, groups are given importance over individuals and cooperation is encouraged instead of competition. "We can learn a lot from our tribal brothers and sisters. In tribal communities, stress is laid on unity- basedsocieties," he said. "There is no discrimination between men and women, and that is why the sex ratio in these communities was better than the general population," he added. As part of their lifestyle, tribals give the highest respect to nature, Kovind said. He said the lifestyle of tribals is simple where hard work is appreciated. To connect to the roots of humanity, people should adapt the values followed by tribals in their lifestyle, the president said. He also said that tribal communities are treasure troves of traditional knowledge. "I have been told that the Baiga tribe, which is one of the most backward tribes in Madhya Pradesh, has immense knowledge of traditional medicine and health care," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sex-ratio-among-tribals-better-than-general-population-kovind-959202.html
07-03-2021||National||Junk your old car and get 5% rebate from automakers on new purchase||There is good news for consumers who are going to junk their old vehicles and buy a new one under the Vehicle Scrapping Policy as automakers will give a 5 per cent rebate on the new purchase, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has said. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22 provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. "Automobile manufacturers will provide about 5 per cent rebate on new car purchases" to the consumers in lieu of scrapping of the old, Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Gakdari told PTI. "There are four major components of the policy...Apart from rebate, there are provisions of green taxes and other levies on old polluting vehicles. These will be required to undergo mandatory fitness and pollution tests in automated facilities. For this automated fitness centres would be required through out in the country and we are working in that direction," Gadkari said. Automated fitness tests will be set up under public private partnership (PPP) mode while the government will assist private partners and state governments for scrapping centres, he said. Driving such vehicles that fail to pass automated tests will attract huge penalties and also be impounded, the minister said. This policy is going to be a boon for the automobile sector, making it one of the most profitable sectors which in turn would generate huge employment, the minister said. The policy is touted as a major step to boost the Indian automobile sector, reeling under the adverse impact of the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said it would lead to a 30 per cent boost to the Indian automobile industry turnover to Rs 10 lakh crore in the years to come from the present about Rs 4.5 lakh crore. Gadkari said: "Automobile industry turnover which is Rs 4.5 lakh crore at present is likely to swell to Rs 10 lakh crore in years to come with India becoming an automobile hub." The export component of this which at present is Rs 1.45 lakh crore will go up to Rs Rs 3 lakh crore, he said and added that once the policy comes to practice availability of scrapped material like steel, plastic, rubber, aluminium etc will be used in manufacturing of automobile parts which in turn will reduce their cost by 30-40 per cent. He said the policy will give a boost to new technologies with better mileage of vehicles besides promoting green fuel and electricity and cut on India's huge Rs 8 lakh crore crude import bill which is likely to increase to about Rs 18 lakh crore. "This policy will result in increase in vehicle demand which in turn would boost revenue. Also, ancillary industries would come up in large numbers thriving on junk vehicles," the minister said. The minister said initially about one crore polluting vehicles would go for scrapping. Of this an estimated 51 lakh will be light motor vehicles (LMVs) that are above 20 years of age and another 34 lakh LMVs that are above 15 years. It would also cover 17 lakh medium and heavy motor vehicles, which are above 15 years, and currently without valid fitness certificates, he said. It will give a boost to 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign, he added. Listing the advantages of scrapping, the Road Transport and Highways Ministry had earlier said that an old four-seater sedan will result in a loss of Rs 1.8 lakh in five years while for a heavy vehicle it comes to Rs 8 lakh for a period of three years. "Structure and framework of scrapping policy is under work and green tax has already been notified. Many states have notified in ineffective way ....We want to advise the state governments through notification under Motor Vehicles Act to consider imposing green tax on older vehicles which cause more pollution," Road Transport and Highways Secretary Giridhar Aramane had said last month. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had said that details of the scheme will be separately shared by the ministry. Gadkari had said the policy will lead to new investments of around Rs 10,000 crore and create as many as 50,000 jobs. These vehicles are estimated to cause 10-12 times more pollution than the latest vehicles. The government had earlier said it plans to impose green tax on old polluting vehicles soon in a bid to protect the environment and curb pollution while vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and those running on alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol and LPG will be exempted. The revenue collected through the green tax will be utilised for tackling pollution. Under the scheme, transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged green tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10-25 per cent of road tax, as per green tax proposal sent to states for consultations after cleared by the ministry. Industry experts said the policy will provide a fillip to the Indian government's efforts to position India as a global automobile manufacturing hub, as well as benefit global automakers with manufacturing industries in India, including Japanese giants Suzuki, Toyota, Nissan, amongst others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/junk-your-old-car-and-get-5-rebate-from-automakers-on-new-purchase-959213.html
07-03-2021||National||Parliament's Budget Session resumes under shadow of Assembly polls||The second part of Parliament’s budget session begins on Monday with key opposition leaders busy campaigning in the elections to four states and a union territory. Key opposition players such as Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, his deputy Gaurav Gogoi, Trinamool Congress leaders will be busy campaigning in West Bengal and Assam. Elections to West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry are scheduled for March-April, campaigning for which is heating up every passing day. Congress’ parliamentary team comprises leaders from Kerala and Tamil Nadu, including K Suresh, Manickam Tagore, Jothimani who are at the forefront of raising issues in the Lok Sabha. Congress President Sonia Gandhi chaired a strategy meeting of the parliamentary party on the eve of the resumption of the Budget Session and gave directions to ensure that issues concerning the common man were raised in both the Houses of Parliament. “We have given adjournment notices in both the Houses of Parliament on the issue of increase in the prices of petroleum products and plan to raise the issue aggressively on the first two days,” Kodikunnil Suresh, chief whip of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, told DH. He said the opposition has not demanded curtailment of the Budget Session on account of assembly elections and neither has he heard of any such plans from the government. The Budget Session is scheduled to continue till April 8. The main focus of the government in the second part of the session is to get the various demands for grants for the year 2021-22 passed along with the Finance Bill which carries various tax proposals. Besides the Finance Bill, the government has listed various bills such as the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, Electricity (Amendment) Bill, Crypto currency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill for the Budget Session which will continue till April 8. The first part of the Budget session started on January 29 with the President's address to joint sitting of both houses of Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliaments-budget-session-resumes-under-shadow-of-assembly-polls-959222.html
07-03-2021||National||29% of Indian women face molestation in public places: Survey||Public places continue to remain unsafe for women with a new survey showing that 29% of them have faced molestation or sexual advances in public places at least once and 9% multiple times but only one in four managed to get an FIR registered or complaint filed against culprits. Conducted by LocalCricles on the eve of International Women's Day, it also said that trains, stations, public gatherings and streets are top locations where Indian women have experienced molestation or sexual advances. According to the survey, 20% of the 8,347 respondents said “myself and, or one or more of my family members have experienced it once or twice” while 9% have faced it multiple times, taking the total number of respondents who experienced molestation to 29%. Around 17% said they were unsure if women in their family had faced molestation or sexual advances with the survey report saying that the actual number of women facing sexual advances and molestation in public places might be much more, as many women might have chosen not to tell their families about the episode.  Though the number of women facing such trouble are high and when it comes to filing police complaints, the numbers are dismal. Only 23% of those who faced molestation or sexual advances filed a police complaint. In what could be described as police insensitivity, the survey said 15% told that they tried hard to file an FIR but investigators did not register it or take any action while 3% said police "did not register an FIR or police complaint but the culprits were beaten up or harassed by police”. Another 3% said that “public around me went after them but no complaint or FIR was filed” while 18% said that “thrashed them on the spot but did not file a complaint or FIR”. According to the survey, 15% said they “decided not to register an FIR or police complaint”, while 23% “took no action.”  A 2018 survey revealed by Indian National Bar Association indicated that 68% of victims of sexual harassment don't report fearing consequences. "The more women and their families tolerate, the more it happens. Sexual advances and men trying to molest is not a trivial issue; however, it is often a 'just ignore' attitude of the victim and more so their families due to various reasons including dealing with courts and the social harassment, that perpetrators continue to do what they have been doing," the survey report said. Asked about the public places where most incidents take place, 23% said train or railway stations, 20% said public gathering, 17% said local train or metro or its stations, 17% said streets, 10% said markets and 7% religious places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/29-of-indian-women-face-molestation-in-public-places-survey-959231.html
07-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: MI to face RCB in IPL 2021 opener||In your evening news brief, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused Mamata Banerjee of resorting to dynasty politics; actor Mithun Chakraborty joins the BJP; 5% rebate from automakers for junking old vehicles and buying new ones; Mumbai Indians to face Royal Challengers Bangalore in IPL opener.   Here is the top news of March 7, 2021: Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a frontal attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday. Addressing a gathering at BJP’s mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata, the Prime Minister accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo for working in the interest of “a single bhatija”’ and for the youth of Bengal. He also accused Mamata of resorting to dynasty politics "like the Congress".   Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty joined the BJP on Sunday at Brigade Parade Ground here, where Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to address a rally later in the day. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat had met the actor at his Mumbai residence last month setting off speculation that he might join the BJP. Chakraborty, a former Rajya Sabha member of the TMC, had quit the Upper House in 2016 after his name surfaced in Saradha Ponzi scam.   There is good news for consumers who are going to junk their old vehicles and buy a new one under the Vehicle Scrapping Policy as automakers will give a 5 per cent rebate on the new purchase, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari has said. The voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget for 2021-22 provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years.   The BCCI on Sunday announced the schedule for IPL 2021 which is set to begin on April 9 and end on May 30 with matches across six venues -- Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Delhi and Kolkata. Each team will play at four venues during the league stage and no team will get to play at home. Defending champions Mumbai Indians will face Royal Challengers Bangalore in the tournament opener in Chennai on April 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-mi-to-face-rcb-in-ipl-2021-opener-959234.html
07-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine rollout by India has 'rescued the world' from pandemic: Top US scientist||The rollout of the Covid-19 vaccines by India in collaboration with leading global institutions has "rescued the world" from the deadly coronavirus and the contributions by the country must not be underestimated, a top American scientist has said. He said India is called the pharmacy of the world during the Covid-19 pandemic with its vast experience and deep knowledge in medicine. The country is one of the world’s biggest drug-makers and an increasing number of countries have already approached it for procuring coronavirus vaccines, he went on. Dr Peter Hotez, Dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at Baylor College of Medicine (BCM) in Houston during a recent webinar said that the two mRNA vaccines may not impact the world's low and middle income countries, but India’s vaccines, made in collaboration with universities across the world such as BCM and the Oxford University, have 'rescued the world' and its contributions must not be underestimated. During the webinar, 'Covid-19: Vaccination and Potential Return to Normalcy - If and When, Dr Hotez, an internationally-recognised physician-scientist in neglected tropical diseases and vaccine development, said that the Covid-19 vaccine rollout is 'India's gift' to the world in combating the virus. India’s drugs regulator gave emergency use authorisation to Covishield, produced by Pune-based Serum Institute of India after securing licence from British pharma company AstraZeneca, and Covaxin, indigenously developed jointly by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Indian Council of Medical Research scientists. The webinar was organised by Indo American Chamber of Commerce of Greater Houston (IACCGH). “This is something very special and I see it myself because I'm on weekly teleconferences with our colleagues in India, you make a recommendation, and within days it's done and not only done, but it's done well and with incredible rigor and thought and creativity," Dr Hotez said, stressing that he felt compelled to make this statement because "India's huge efforts in combating global pandemic is a story that's not really getting out in the world." Dr Hotez, considered as the authority on vaccinations, is working on an affordable coronavirus vaccine in collaboration with Indian pharmaceutical companies. There is increasing evidence that vaccines not only “interrupt symptomatic illness and keep you out of the hospital” but halts asymptomatic transmission as well, said Hotez However, the troubling news is that the vaccines work well against the UK B.1.1.7 variant, which is now accelerating across the US, but doesn’t work quite as well against the variant coming out of South Africa. It is likely that all the vaccines will require a booster for two reasons: the durability of protection for the vaccines is unknown and to create an added immune response that's better tailored towards the South African variant. Consul General of India in Houston, Aseem Mahajan, along with a distinguished panel of doctors participated in this webinar, that tracked the possibilities of a return to some semblance of normality due to the accelerated roll out of vaccines across the country. Appreciating Dr. Hotez for commending India’s efforts in getting vaccines to the world, Consul General Mahajan, said, “in keeping with “our tradition of sharing with the world,” India has exported vaccines to many countries across the world. India has provided 56 lakh doses of coronavirus vaccines under grants assistance to a number of countries. The vaccines were sent to Sri Lanka, Bhutan, Maldives, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar and Seychelles. There has also been a boost in the collaborative medical partnerships emerging between the US and India during this pandemic. In addition, India is one of the fourth largest destinations in Asia for medical devices manufacturing and many US companies have expressed interest in collaborating on this front," Mahajan said. IACCGH Founding Secretary/Executive Director Jagdip Ahluwalia said that “India's response to the Covid crisis, as acknowledged by Dr Hotez, falls in line with Chamber’s vision. Since its inception, 21 years ago, India would be a future global player in key areas like technology, medicine, manufacturing and international trade. This belief has been proved time and again particularly in the last decade." Chamber President Tarush Anand expressed pride that India has risen to this global challenge by leveraging the brilliance of its scientific community and extensive manufacturing capabilities in the most efficient manner to help the world recover from a deadly pandemic. Describing vaccines as “one of the highest expressions of science in pursuit of humanitarian goals,” Chief Radiation Oncology Officer and moderator Dr Vivek Kavadi noted that over 28 million people had contracted the virus in the US and more than half a million Americans had tragically died. Lives and businesses had been upended but the breakthrough on the vaccine front has been one reason for cautious optimism. More than 73 million vaccine doses have been administered to date, 15 per cent of the population has received 1 dose while 7 per cent have received both doses, Dr Kavadi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-rollout-by-india-has-rescued-the-world-from-pandemic-top-us-scientist-959235.html
07-03-2021||National||Beat defiant officers with bamboo sticks, says BJP's Giriraj Singh||Senior BJP leader and Union Minister Giriraj Singh stirred a fresh row after he asked his supporters to beat officers who do not listen to their grievances with bamboo sticks. “Dono haath se baans uthaiye, aur aise officer ki pitai kijiye (Pick up the bamboo stick and thrash such officers)," said Giriraj, when someone complained to him that officers in Bihar do not listen to common man’s woes. Giriraj was addressing a gathering at a government function in Begusarai, his Lok Sabha constituency. On Sunday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar took umbrage at the use of such language by a Union Minister. Strongly disapproving of such bawdy language, Nitish said, “Is it justified to talk of ‘pitai’ (thrashing) of officers?. Go and ask Giriraj?” Singh on Saturday said that it’s the people who elect MPs, MLAs and ward councillors. “It’s the ‘janata’ (people) who are the most powerful person in a democracy. And if officers do not listen to them, then thrash such officers with bamboo sticks,” he said. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav slammed Nitish Kumar for not taking action against the BJP leader for his unwarranted utterances. “Union Minister Giriraj Singh is saying that there is complete chaos and anarchy in Bihar. Officers do not listen to anyone. Such officers should be beaten up with bamboo sticks... The Chief Minister appears to be quite weak... The Nitish regime, which lodges FIR against journalists for raking up government misdeeds, rewards such ministers,” tweeted Tejashwi in Hindi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/beat-defiant-officers-with-bamboo-sticks-says-bjps-giriraj-singh-959250.html
07-03-2021||National||We are in the endgame of Covid-19 pandemic in India: Vardhan||"We are in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic in India" and to succeed at this stage, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said, politics should be kept out the Covid-19 vaccination drive. He said people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time. Speaking at the Delhi Medical Association's (DMA's) 62nd Annual Delhi State Medical Conference (MEDICON 2021) in collaboration with Dharamshila Narayana Hospital on Sunday, Vardhan said over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots have been administered so far and the vaccination rate has been increased to 15 lakhs per day.  "Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of Covid-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy. Based on the initial results, these Made in India vaccines have shown some of the lowest adverse events following immunization (AEFI) anywhere in the world," he said. Vardhan asserted that today children in the entire world need to be vaccinated against poliomyelitis only because Pakistan and Afghanistan failed to eradicate this disease from their respective countries, the statement said. "Similarly, India cannot be safe from coronavirus and Covid-19 if rest of the world continues to be unsafe, which is why it is essential to curb Covid-19 vaccine nationalism.  "If poor and underdeveloped countries continue to harbour the novel coronavirus, we shall not be able to ensure safety for all. A fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine is the biggest need of the hour," he said. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India, has emerged as the world's pharmacy, and it supplied 5.51 crore Covid-19 vaccines to 62 different countries, he said. "At a time of global crisis, under the leadership of Modi Ji, India has emerged as an example to the world in international cooperation," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "It was Modi ji's insistence that Covid-19 vaccines should be provided with no strings attached, and the countries without the vaccine supply should not be taken advantage of at the time of a global humanitarian crisis," he said. Looking at the possibility of eradication of Covid-19 in India,  Vardhan said, "We are in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, and to succeed at this stage, we need to follow 3 steps: Keep politics out of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, trust the science behind Covid-19 vaccines, and ensure our near and dear ones get vaccinated on time.” The government has already involved private players in Covid-19 vaccination, and if hospitals want, they can conduct vaccination 24x7, the minister said. "My request to everyone is that just like people embraced 'Jan Andolan for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour', they should embrace Jan Andolan for Covid-19 vaccination and get all Covid-19 vaccine shots whenever they are eligible," he said.  Delhi Medical Association (DMA) honoured Vardhan for his contribution to the medical fraternity and outstanding service and exemplary work during the Covid-19 pandemic, the health Ministry said in a statement.  Healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers, not just in this room, but across India, rose to the occasion and sacrificed not only their time with family, but also their own mental, physical and emotional health for this beloved nation, Vardhan said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/we-are-in-the-endgame-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-union-health-minister-vardhan-959251.html
07-03-2021||National||CPM, BJP vying for limelight over early reconstruction of Kochi flyover||The Palarivattom flyover in Kochi city, which was in the news over its poor construction quality and subsequent arrest of a minister for the corruption in construction, is now emerging as a poll campaign topic in Kerala. After the reconstruction of the flyover was completed in five months against the targeted time of 18 months and was opened for traffic on Sunday, the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) is highlighting the swift completion of the reconstruction as an achievement, while the BJP is highlighting it as the achievement of 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, who recently joined the BJP, as Sreedharan was directly heading the reconstruction work in his capacity as Delhi Metro Rail Corporation principal advisor. The inauguration function on Sunday had to be limited to an informal affair due to the model code of conduct. But it witnessed both the LDF and the NDA workers staging demonstrations staking the claims. The fly-over on NH-66 was reconstructed at a cost of Rs 42 crore and commissioned in October 2016. But it had to be closed in 2019 May following safety concerns. Earlier when there were different opinions on whether the flyover had to be reconstructed or only required strengthening, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had given weightage to E Sreedharan’s opinion highlighting his expertise. However, while announcing the reopening of the flyover, he avoided Sreedharan's name but hailed DMRC and the labour firm Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society that carried out the work. On Sunday when the flyover was reopened, Vijayan shared the picture of the workers on the flyover, thanking them. However, Public Works Minister G Sudhakaran, who made the first trip on the reconstructed bridge on Sunday, did not shy away from naming Sreedharan. He said that the swift completion of the flyover reconstruction was the outcome of the joint efforts of the DMRC team headed by Sreedharan, ULCC and the government. Recently BJP Kerala president K Surendran had highlighted the reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover ahead of time when he announced Sreedharan as BJP's chief ministerial candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpm-bjp-vying-for-limelight-over-early-reconstruction-of-kochi-flyover-959255.html
07-03-2021||National||China wants to restart boundary talks, India insists on completely ending LAC stand-off first||China on Sunday suggested return to the table of negotiation to settle its boundary dispute with India, although the two nations could not yet completely resolve the 11-month-long military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “The truths of the border clashes last year are clear. What happened (along the LAC over the past few months) again proves that initiating confrontation will not solve the problem, and that returning to peaceful negotiation is the right way forward,” Chinese Foreign Minister, Wang Yi, said. He subtly reiterated Beijing’s allegation that the Indian Army personnel had been responsible not only for the violent clash between the soldiers of the two nations in Galwan Valley on June 15, 2020, but also for the stand-off with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) all along the LAC. China and India need to help each other succeed, instead of undercutting each other, and they should strengthen cooperation instead of harbouring suspicion at each other, Wang said while addressing a news conference in Beijing. “China and India are each other's friends and partners, not threats or rivals." His suggestion for restarting negotiation to settle the disputed boundary between the two nations came just two days after India made it clear to China that completing the mutual withdrawal of troops from the remaining “points of friction” along the LAC was a pre-requisite to set the stage for progress in bilateral relations. Wang said that China remained committed to resolving its boundary disputes with India “through dialogue”, but was also firmly determined to safeguard its sovereignty and interests. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA last month withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May in 2020 and had taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past 11 months. The senior military commanders of the two sides started a discussion for withdrawal of troops from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, but could not yet work out a mutually acceptable plan. His suggestion for restarting negotiation to settle the disputed boundary between the two nations came just two days after India made it clear to China that completing mutual withdrawal of troops from the remaining “points of friction” along the LAC was a prerequisite to set the stage for progress in bilateral relations. Wang said that China remained committed to resolving its boundary disputes with India “through dialogue”, but was also firmly determined to safeguard its sovereignty and interests. The Indian Army and the Chinese PLA last month withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May in 2020 and had taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past 11 months. The senior military commanders of the two sides started discussion for withdrawal of troops from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, but could not yet work out a mutually acceptable plan. Wang on February 25 last spoke to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar over the phone. They reviewed the situation along the LAC. Jaishankar told the Chinese Foreign Minister that the dispute over the India-China boundary might take time to resolve, but disturbance of peace and tranquillity in border areas would have “a damaging impact” on the relationship between the two neighbouring nations. New Delhi’s envoy to Beijing, Vikram Misri, too recently met China’s Vice Foreign Minister, Luo Zhaohui in Beijing and stressed that “maintaining peace and tranquillity in border areas had always been the basis for development of bilateral relations”. Wang, however, said on Sunday that China’s boundary dispute with India was a left-over from history, but not the whole story of the relations between the two neighbouring nations. He said that both sides should “properly manage differences” and “strengthen cooperation to create favourable conditions for the settlement of the boundary issue”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-wants-to-restart-boundary-talks-india-insists-on-completely-ending-lac-stand-off-first-959260.html
07-03-2021||National||CK Ranganathan elected chairman of CII-SR, Bharat Biotech co- founder Suchitra K Ella deputy||Noted industrialist and chairman of the city-based fast moving consumer goods major CavinKare Ltd C K Ranganathan has been elected chairman of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Southern Region, for 2021-22. Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International co-founder Suchitra K Ella was elected as deputy chairperson on Saturday, a release from the industry body said here. Popularly known as 'CKR' among industry circles, Ranganathan has been associated with the trade body in various capacities, including the deputy chairman of CII, SR and head of CII Tamil Nadu counciland Foodpro 2017, it said. Ella was the past chairperson of CII Andhra Pradesh and also the national council member and the past national chairwoman of CII IWN (Indian Women Network) from 2015-18, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ck-ranganathan-elected-chairman-of-cii-sr-bharat-biotech-co-founder-suchitra-k-ella-deputy-959264.html
07-03-2021||National||Sikh fighter pilot Hardit Singh Malik's memorial in UK to honour Indians who fought in World Wars||The design for a sculpture of an early 20th century Sikh fighter pilot, cricketer and golfer from Oxford University has been approved for a new memorial to be erected in the England port city of Southampton in memory of all Indians who fought in the World Wars. Hardit Singh Malik first arrived in the UK in 1908 as a 14-year-old to Balliol College at the University of Oxford and went on to become a member of the Royal Flying Corps during World War I. As the first Indian and turbaned pilot with a specialised helmet, he became famous as the "Flying Sikh". “As such the statue to the legendary World War I hero, Hardit Singh Malik, the world’s first Royal Flying Corps (now the Royal Air Force) Sikh, turbaned fighter pilot will be emblematic for the broader Sikh contributions in the British armed forces of World War I and II, with Malik’s extraordinary accomplishments as a ‘touchstone’ for the whole Sikh community and other of its lesser-known heroes,” notes the One Community Hampshire & Dorset (OCHD) organisation behind the campaign for the memorial, which was approved by the Southampton City Council last year. Malik also played cricket for Sussex and was also the Indian Ambassador to France after a long and distinguished career in the Indian Civil Service. But it is as a fighter pilot during 1917-19 that he is best known. “I am truly overwhelmed by the striking beauty and power of the exceptional design of the memorial, which captures the spirit and endeavour of this great RAF fighter pilot, Hardit Singh Malik, so well. It gives me great happiness to learn that the design is approved by the community,” said Lord Rami Ranger, Chairman of the British Sikh Association and Chief Patron of OCHD. “This project certainly speaks for itself; strongly furthering community cohesion and integration, and testifying to the major contribution our Sikh and broader ethnic minority communities make to our country, as we live in such a vibrant multicultural society here in Southampton,” said Pritheepal Singh, OCHD CEO and Director. The memorial will be created by English sculptor Luke Perry, who is associated with other memorials such as the “Lions of the Great War” monument in Smethwick in the West Midlands region of England, which depicts a turbaned Sikh soldier to honour the sacrifices made by millions of South Asian service personnel who fought for Britain in the World Wars. His design for the latest memorial was finalised earlier this month and also received the backing of the Council of Southampton Gurdwaras. “Monuments such as this are a vital part of the fight for equal representation. These artworks are long overdue thanks and recognition to the communities from around the world who have supported Britain in its past and continue to do so in vital roles, not just in the armed forces but our health care and every aspect of modern life,” said Perry. “The public statue of Hardit Singh Malik embodies the spirit of inclusivity — representing the will to ‘breaking the glass ceiling’ at the intersection of two World Wars and minority enrolment in the RAF: a significant feat for an Indian at the time,” added Dr Sanjukta Ghosh, Artistic Director at the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS) South Asia Institute and OCHD Advisor. An online Go Fund Me fundraiser is also inviting funds for the memorial, the unveiling of which is expected to be accompanied by educational resources, a book and a documentary covering several educational themes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-fighter-pilot-hardit-singh-maliks-memorial-in-uk-to-honour-indians-who-fought-in-world-wars-959296.html
07-03-2021||National||APJ Kalam's elder brother dies at 104||A P J Mohamed Muthu Meera Maraikayar, elder brother of late President A P J Abdul Kalam, passed away at his residence on the tiny island of Rameswaram in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. He was 104. Maraikayar, who turned 103 in November, breathed his last at 7.30 pm due to an age-related illness. “He was 104. He was very weak for the past few months and he was battling an eye infection for the past few weeks,” Sheikh Salim, Maraikayar's grandson, told DH. Maraikayar was Kalam's elder brother. In his interactions with close friends, Kalam used to talk fondly of his elder brother and had wished to celebrate his centenary year. However, he passed away in 2015 at the age of 83. Maraikayar will be buried on Monday in Rameswaram, Salim added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apj-kalams-elder-brother-dies-at-104-959314.html
07-03-2021||National||PM Modi to inaugurate ‘Maitri Setu’ between India and Bangladesh on March 9||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday inaugurate the 'Maitri Setu' between India and Bangladesh -- a bridge built over the Feni river, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said. He will also inaugurate and lay the foundation stone of multiple infrastructure projects in Tripura during the event, it said. Prime Minister Modi will inaugurate the ‘Maitri Setu’ between India and Bangladesh on March 9 at 12 noon via video conferencing, the PMO said in a statement. The bridge ‘Maitri Setu’ has been built over the Feni river which flows between the Indian boundary in Tripura and Bangladesh. The name ‘Maitri Setu’ symbolizes growing bilateral relations and friendly ties between India and Bangladesh, the PMO said. The construction was taken up by the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd at a project cost of Rs 133 crore, it said. The 1.9 km long bridge joins Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh. It is poised to herald a new chapter for trade and people to people movement between India and Bangladesh, the PMO said. With this inauguration, Tripura is set to become the ‘Gateway of North East’ with access to Chittagong Port of Bangladesh, which is just 80 Kms from Sabroom, it said. Prime Minister Modi will also lay the foundation stone for setting up an Integrated Check Post at Sabroom. It will help ease the movement of goods and passengers between the two countries, provide new market opportunities for products of North East states and assist seamless movement of passengers to and from India and Bangladesh, the PMO said. The project is being taken up by the Land Ports Authority of India at an estimated cost of about Rs 232 crore, the statement said. The prime minister will also lay the foundation stone of National Highway (NH)-208 connecting the Unakoti district headquarters at Kailashahar with the Khowai district headquarters. It will provide an alternative route to the NH-44. The 80 km NH-208 project has been taken up by the National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited at a cost of Rs 1,078 Crores. Prime Minister Modi will also inaugurate state highways and other district roads, developed by the state government with a financial outlay of Rs 63.75 crore, the statement said. They will provide all-weather connectivity to the people of Tripura, it said. Modi will also inaugurate 40,978 houses constructed under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban), completed with the financial outlay of Rs 813 Crores. He will inaugurate the Integrated Command and Control Centre built under Agartala Smart City Mission, according to the statement. Prime Minister Modi will also lay the foundation stone for the development of a Multi-Level Car Parking and Commercial Complex at the Old Motor Stand. It will be developed at an investment of about Rs 200 crore. He will also lay the foundation stone for widening of the existing road from Lichubagan to the airport from two lanes to four lanes. The work is being implemented by the Agartala Smart City Mission at a project cost of about Rs 96 crores, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-inaugurate-maitri-setu-between-india-and-bangladesh-on-march-9-959326.html
07-03-2021||National||NTPC announces recruitment drive for women||In view of assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory, the curtailment of Budget Session of Parliament is on the cards with parties across the aisle in agreement on this idea, sources said on Sunday. It is yet to be decided for how many days the session will be curtailed, but there are suggestions to curtail it by almost two weeks, the sources said, adding that the final call could be taken in the floor leaders' meeting on Monday. Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha Secretariat has made arrangements for the vaccination of parliamentarians in the Parliament premises. After the vaccination drive, the Parliament might also witness simultaneous sitting of both Houses from 11 am, they said. At present due to Covid-19 pandemic, the parliament sits in two shifts -- Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening. The second half of the budget session was scheduled to be held from March 8 to April 8. Elections are being held in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ntpc-announces-recruitment-drive-for-women-959327.html
07-03-2021||National||Curtailment of Parliament session on cards amid Assembly polls in various states||In view of assembly elections in four states and one Union Territory, the curtailment of Budget Session of Parliament is on the cards with parties across the aisle in agreement on this idea, sources said on Sunday. It is yet to be decided for how many days the session will be curtailed, but there are suggestions to curtail it by almost two weeks, the sources said, adding that the final call could be taken in the floor leaders' meeting on Monday. Meanwhile, the Lok Sabha Secretariat has made arrangements for the vaccination of parliamentarians in the Parliament premises. After the vaccination drive, the Parliament might also witness simultaneous sitting of both Houses from 11 am, they said. At present due to Covid-19 pandemic, the parliament sits in two shifts -- Rajya Sabha in the morning and Lok Sabha in the evening. The second half of the budget session was scheduled to be held from March 8 to April 8. Elections are being held in Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/curtailment-of-parliament-session-on-cards-amid-assembly-polls-in-various-states-959330.html
07-03-2021||National||Testing time for BJP in Haryana, Uttarakhand||The BJP governments in Uttarakhand and Haryana appear to be on tenterhooks amid talk of leadership change in the hill state and due to the prolonged farmers’ agitation respectively. A flurry of meetings over the weekend in Dehradun fuelled speculation about a possible leadership change in Uttarakhand, while in Haryana the BJP-JJP coalition government faces a no-confidence motion on Tuesday amid rumblings within the coalition over the farmers’ protests against agricultural reforms. The BJP high command rushed emissaries to Dehradun on Saturday afternoon to hold separate meetings with party MLAs, triggering buzz about the ouster of Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who completes four years in office on March 18. BJP Vice President and former Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Raman Singh and BJP in-charge of Uttarakhand Dushyant Kumar Gautam reached Dehradun on Saturday afternoon when all the MLAs were 250 km away in Gairsain, the summer capital of the state, for the Assembly Session. “The open war for power in Uttarakhand paints a worrisome picture. The BJP had poached some leaders from the Congress, they are now creating trouble for the BJP. The BJP will reap what it has sown,” former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Harish Rawat said. Nine Congress MLAs had rebelled against Harish Rawat in 2016 and later joined the BJP. Rawat had survived the rebellion but lost the elections in 2017. Congress rebels contested and won the elections as BJP candidates and bagged ministerial berths. Uttarakhand BJP President Bansidhar Bhagat dismissed talk of leadership change in the state and said that the flurry of meetings was for planning programmes to commemorate the fourth anniversary of the formation of the government. “There is no question of instability. Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat will complete five years in office,” Bhagat told DH. In Haryana, Chief Minister Manohar Lal faces a no-confidence motion which would be moved by the Congress on Tuesday. “Discussion and voting on the no-confidence motion will take place on March 10. It will reveal which MLAs are in favour of the farmers and who are supporting the anti-farmer government,” former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said. Haryana Assembly has an effective strength of 88 with the BJP as the single-largest party with 40 MLAs and its coalition partner JJP 10 MLAs. Five independent MLAs also support the government. The Congress has 31 MLAs and the support of two independent MLAs. There are two vacant seats in the Assembly. The farmer's protest against the three farm laws has caused unease among a section of the JJP MLAs, amid pressure from the agitating farmers to vote against the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/testing-time-for-bjp-in-haryana-uttarakhand-959341.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu election: Congress seals deal with DMK; to get 25 assembly seats and one RS seat||Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), leader of the Opposition alliance in Tamil Nadu, on Sunday clinched their seat-sharing deal under which the national party will get to contest 25 assembly constituencies in the April 6 election.  Congress will also contest the by-elections to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant due to the death of incumbent H Vasanthakumar. Congress and BJP will be locked in an intense battle for the Lok Sabha seat.  Congress president Sonia Gandhi and DMK President M K Stalin spoke over the phone on Saturday night and agreed on the numbers. “M K Stalin also assured Sonia Gandhi that the DMK will give one Rajya Sabha seat to the Congress after the assembly elections,” a source in the know told DH.  The telephonic conversation took place after an amicable solution was arrived at during a meeting between AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao, and DMK MP Kanimozhi on Saturday night.  “DMK's final offer was 24 seats as per the formula of three assembly seats for one Lok Sabha seat won by the Congress in 2019. We sought one more seat to make it 25, and it was agreed to,” a senior Congress leader told DH.   The seat-sharing agreement was signed on Sunday morning between Stalin and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri in the presence of Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu. The agreement preceded a meeting that the aforementioned two Congress leaders had with Stalin late Saturday night during which election strategist Prashant Kishor is also believed to have been present.  “We have signed the seat-sharing deal with DMK and we will be contesting in 25 Assembly seats. In the spirit of cooperation, we have signed this deal because the country is facing a big threat today, not just in terms of ideological battle but also to save democracy,” Rao told reporters.  “We have seen how BJP is running the country through dictatorship toppling governments, destroying democratic institutions and using its power to destabilise and finish off opposition parties. The BJP's agenda in Tamil Nadu is also the same and they want to finish off the AIADMK by aligning with the party,” he added.  The sealing of the deal comes after three rounds of official talks and several rounds of unofficial talks between the two parties. As the DMK refused to allot 30 seats as sought by the party, leaders of the Congress engaged in hectic consultations for three days in Chennai during which some even suggested that “self-respect” is  more important than alliance.  Congress, which had contested in 41 assembly seats and won 8 in 2016 election, was upset with DMK's initial offer of 18 seats. Not just local Congress leaders, former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram also spoke in favour of the party continuing in the DMK-led alliance to keep the AIADMK and BJP out of power in Tamil Nadu.  “Majority of the local leaders, though upset with the numbers offered by DMK, were of the opinion that the alliance should continue in the interests of the state. The High Command went by the opinion of the TNCC,” another leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-election-congress-seals-deal-with-dmk-to-get-25-assembly-seats-and-one-rs-seat-959037.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Farmers' agitation will continue till three farm laws are withdrawn: Rakesh Tikait||Farmer leader Rakesh Tikait has said that their agitation will continue till the three contentious agriculture laws are withdrawn. He was speaking in Ramrajn town here to mark the completion of 100 days of farmers' protests at the Delhi borders against the central farm legislations. The farmers are demanding a complete withdrawal of the three farm laws and the agitation will continue till the government meets our demands, Tikiat said on Saturday. On the occasion, he flagged off a tractors' rally, which, he said, will travel across districts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and will reach the farmers' protest site in Ghazipur on March 27. Meanwhile, Union minister and Member of Parliament from Muzaffarnagar Sanjeev Balyan said the three agri laws will be beneficial for the farmers. If a single farmer's land is taken away due to the farm laws, I will resign as an MP. The laws were enacted in accordance with the wishes of the farmers, he said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-agitation-will-continue-till-three-farm-laws-are-withdrawn-rakesh-tikait-959122.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Driverless taxi pods in consideration for Noida Airport connectivity||Driverless personal rapid transport (PRT) or pod taxis could be considered for last-mile connectivity of passengers commuting to and from the upcoming Noida International Airport, BJP leader and Jewar legislator Dhirendra Singh said. The hi-tech pod taxis, which are used in several western countries, are cost-effective, pro-environment and convenient, Singh said, a day after meeting with representatives of Ultra PRT, a company that specialises in taxi pods. Singh, in whose constituency the Greenfield airport is coming up, said Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has been apprised of the idea of having taxi pods for connectivity between Jewar and Greater Noida. “The chief minister's thrust is on having a futuristic mode of transport and taxi pods can be more viable on this route than a metro train because they are environment friendly, cost-effective and provide last-mile connectivity,” he told PTI. “The accident rate in pod taxis is zero. There is no carbon emission as they are battery-operated. With pre-fabricated construction, the facility could be set up on the route in a period of two months. One taxi can have five to six passengers, so that makes it more viable than even buses which run with empty seats,” he added. Ultra PRT's CEO, India and the Middle East, Nitin Kumar said the construction cost of the system for pod taxis would cost five times less than it does in creating a metro or train route. “These self-driven pod taxis run on battery or hydrogen and are environment friendly. They occupy less space and hence are naturally suitable for Indian cities and have viability in future also,” Kumar said. Singh said besides the airport, a film city is coming up in Jewar along the Yamuna Expressway. A heritage city till Vrindavan is being developed while several multinational companies are also planning facilities in the region, which makes the option of having pod taxis practical for commutation, he added. According to Ultra PRT's estimates, construction of one kilometre route for pod taxis could cost around Rs 40 crore to 45 crore against Rs 135-150 crore for Light Rail Transit (metro train), Rs 250-350 crore for Mass Rapid Transport, and Rs 40-45 crore for Bus Rapid Transport (for the bus). Development work for the first phase of the Noida International Airport in Jewar is underway. The Greenfield airport is being developed in four phases and billed to be the biggest when completed with five or six runways spread in an area of 5,000 hectare, according to project officials. Swiss-developer Zurich International Airport AG is developing the airport at an estimated cost of Rs 29,560 crore, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/driverless-taxi-pods-in-consideration-for-noida-airport-connectivity-959131.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Actor Mithun Chakraborty joins BJP at PM Narendra Modi's rally in Kolkata||Veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty joined the BJP on Sunday at the saffron party’s mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. One of the biggest stars in Bollywood and Bengali film industry, Chakraborty said that he will always be by the people’s side indicating that he has returned to politics for the long run. “Today is like a dream for me. One day I dreamt of being successful in life and helping the poor, but I never imagined that I would be sharing the dais with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the biggest leader of the world’s largest democracy,” said Chakraborty. He also said that he considers all those living in Bengal as Bengali and is proud to be a Bengali. Referring to himself as “Dada” ( elder brother) he urged the people not to lose faith in him saying that he will always be by their side. “My name is Mithun Chakraborty and I do what I say. Have faith in your Dada. I will always be with you,” said Chakraborty . Speaking at the sidelines of the dais, the former Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP also said that joining the TMC was a “bad decision.” “I don't want to make any negative comments about anyone. I will not make any negative comments on the Trinamool Congress. I think it was my bad decision. Good or bad it was all mine. I joined the BJP because I saw a ray of hope. Today the Prime Minister strongly said that he wants to work for the people,” said Chakraborty, “All my activities are aimed at helping the poor. Ever since I was 18 years old, it has been my dream to help the poor. Perhaps it has drawn the limelight because I am a film star but my aim is still the same. I think this time I will be able to do something,” he added. Chakraborty had resigned as a TMC MP in 2016 and withdrew from politics citing health reasons after his name cropped up in the Saradha ponzi scam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/actor-mithun-chakraborty-joins-bjp-at-pm-narendra-modis-rally-in-kolkata-959147.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Second part of Parliament's Budget session from March 8||The month-long second part of the Budget session of Parliament begins on March 8 in the middle of a high octane campaign for assembly elections in four states and one UT. The main focus of the government in the second part of the session is to get the various demands for grants for the year 2021-22 passed along with the Finance Bill which carries various tax proposals. Besides these mandatory agendas, the government has listed various bills for passage in the session which concludes on April 8. Some of the bills listed by the government include the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (Amendment) Bill, National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, Electricity (Amendment) Bill, Crypto currency and Regulation of Official Digital Currency Bill. The part two of the session is taking place at a time when political parties have their focus on elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala and Puducherry. The elections would take place in March-April. Senior leaders of various parties, especially the regional ones, are likely to skip most of the House sittings to focus on campaigning. The first part of the Budget session started on January 29 with the President's address to joint sitting of both houses of Parliament. The address was boycotted by over 20 opposition parties, including the Congress, in support of the demand of the protesting farmers for the repeal of the three farm laws. The Union Budget was tabled on February 1. Thereafter, House proceedings were washed out for four consecutive days over the opposition's demand for separate discussion on farm issues. To compensate the session's lost time, the House sat till midnight for several days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/second-part-of-parliaments-budget-session-from-march-8-959159.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||We will fight for farmers whether it is for 100 days or 100 years: Priyanka Gandhi||Continuing her tirade against prime minister Narendra Modi, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday accused him of 'humiliating' the farmers by calling them 'parasites' and exhorted the farmers to take their protest to every village in the country. She also vowed to continue to extend support to the farmers' protest against the new farm laws. ''We will keep supporting you (farmers) whether its 100 days or 100 years,'' Priyanka said while addressing a 'Kisan mahapanchayat' in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut district, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow. Priyanka, who reached the venue of the 'mahapanchayat' at Kaili village in the district riding a tractor, said that the prime minister could have cleared the dues of the cane farmers with the money he spent on buying planes for himself. ''The farmers were humiliated...they were called parasites....no member of the ruling party stood, when Rahul Gandhi asked for observing silence over the deaths of farmers,'' she said. The Congress leader said that the new farm laws would force the government 'mandis' to close. ''Private mandis will remain open....the minimum support price (MSP) system will also be abolished...the farmers will be forced to sell their produce to the industrialists,'' Priyanka said. She also likened the new farm laws to the laws enacted by the British regime to exploit the people. It was the fifth 'kisan mahapanchayat' to be addressed by the Congress leader. She had earlier addressed similar meetings of the farmers at Saharanpur, Bijnore, Muzaffarnagar and some other places in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-will-fight-for-farmers-whether-it-is-for-100-days-or-100-years-priyanka-gandhi-959200.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||Lotus is about to bloom in West Bengal because of mud created by TMC: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched a frontal attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday. Addressing a gathering at BJP’s mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata, the Prime Minister accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo for working in the interest of “a single bhatija”’ and for the youth of Bengal. He also accused Mamata of resorting to dynasty politics "like the Congress". The Prime Minister further said that the reason behind the rise of the BJP in Bengal is the "corruption and appeasement politics of Mamata’s party". “People of Bengal voted you to power due to their faith in you as their Didi. But why did you confine yourself to the role of being the ‘bua’ (aunt) of a single bhatija (nephew)? Instead of fulfilling the dreams of lakhs of ‘bhatijas’ in Bengal, you got preoccupied with satisfying the greed of one ‘bhatija’,” said Modi. “You (Mamata) cannot come out of the ‘bua-bhatijavad’ tradition of the Congress against which you once rebelled,” he added. Accusing the TMC supremo of blocking the Central projects in Bengal, the Prime Minister said that “Didi is determined not to work for people and neither allow anyone else to work.” Taking a dig at Mamata’s decision to contest from the Nandigram Assembly constituency instead of her current constituency in Bhabanipur, the Prime Minister said that instead of heading for Bhabanipur, her "scooty suddenly turned towards Nandigram". “’Instead of going to Bhabanipur, your scooty suddenly turned towards Nandigram. I don’t want anyone to get hurt. But since it has been decided that the scooty will tumble in Nandigram, then what can I do?,” said Modi. He was taking a jibe at Mamata's recent move to protest against fuel price hike by going to the State Secretariat riding pillion on an electric scooter. Modi also took a veiled dig at Mamata for allegedly calling him, “demon and a gunda.” “Eto rag keno Didi? (Why are you so angry Didi?) If the lotus is blooming in Bengal it is because of the mud created by the rampant corruption of your party,” said Modi. He also said that TMC leaders have resorted to so many scams that “a corruption Olympic” can be held on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lotus-is-about-to-bloom-in-west-bengal-because-of-mud-created-by-tmc-pm-modi-959207.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||H D Kumaraswamy hits out at attempts to bring petroleum products under GST||Including petroleum products under GST will be a death knell to the finances of the state government, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Sunday. Urging Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to oppose such proposals by the Centre, he demanded that the Modi government reduce duties on petroleum products, before asking the states to do so. There is a systematic ploy by the Central government to include petroleum products under the ambit of GST by using people's anger against fuel price rise. "If petroleum products come under GST, it will be a death knell to the states," he said. Taking a dig at the Centre for asking states to reduce excise on fuel, the JD(S) leader said that Centre should reduce its tax on petrol and diesel, if it was concerned about people's plight. "Many states have already opposed the decision to bring petroleum products under GST. Chief Minister Yediyurappa must also disapprove the proposal and should resist it from now itself. Or else, the GST noose will haunt us," he said. The former CM noted that cess on fuel was one of the major sources of revenue for the states, hit by inadequate distribution of GST compensation and devolution of funds. "Thousands of crores are pending from the Centre. State governments are tired of asking for the arrears. The plight of the states will be miserable if petroleum revenue is handed over to the Centre," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/h-d-kumaraswamy-hits-out-at-attempts-to-bring-petroleum-products-under-gst-959208.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||1975 Emergency an outdated issue, should be buried: Sanjay Raut||Terming the 1975 Emergency an outdated issue, which needs to be permanently "buried", Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut targeted the Centre saying that the prevailing situation in the country is such that one can say the Emergency period was better. In his weekly column 'Rokhthok' published in the party mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut who is the executive editor of the daily, questioned Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's move of expressing regret over the Emergency imposed by his grandmother and former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. "People of India punished Indira Gandhi for her decision to impose Emergency. They taught her a lesson but later forgave her by bringing her back to power. Emergency is an outdated issue. Why rake it up again and again?... The issued should be permanently buried," he said. Raut described Rahul Gandhi as a straightforward and simple person, who casually spoke about the past incident. "His comments triggered a debate on the issue once again. The 1975 Emergency was imposed under unprecedented circumstances. The present generation in politics and media have no inkling about the past and were not at all affected. The prevailing situation in the country is such that one can say that the 1975 Emergency was better," he said. Raut said the recent Income Tax department raids on filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, actress Tapsee Pannu came when they spoke against the government's policies. He added that the Washington Post (an American newspaper) has raised question marks over the "undeclared Emergency" under the Modi government as it talked about the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi on sedition charges. "Political control over media houses, political strategies to win elections and break the opposition, defying constitutional norms - all these things are just the same even now as what happened in 1975. Indira Gandhi's place has been taken by Narendra Modi," he wrote. The Sena MP added that Indira Gandhi had expressed regret over the excesses committed during that period and promised that there will be no Emergency in future. "She was firm that the step had to be taken against the prevailing backdrop where provocation was done in an attempt to create anarchy. She was of the view that Emergency was imposed because democracy was derailed," Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/1975-emergency-an-outdated-issue-should-be-buried-sanjay-raut-959215.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi peddling lies to mislead voters, says West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||Launching a fresh tirade against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday said he was "peddling lies to mislead the voters" in the poll-bound state. Banerjee, addressing a rally here following her protest march over LPG price hike, said the prime minister made many "empty" promises over the years, and people no longer trust him. She sought to know "why the PM has not yet deposited Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of every citizen, as promised by him before 2014 Lok Sabha polls". "You have made many empty promises. People will not accept your falsehood every day. We demand you make LPG cylinder affordable to every citizen of the country. You have made LPG cylinders inaccessible for the common man," Banerjee said in her address. The CM also said that Modi should be "ashamed of his habit of telling lies". "He gives speech in Bangla, but the script in always written in Gujarati, and kept under a transparent sheet of glass before him. He just pretends that he knows Bangla well," she said. "Your party had vandalised Vidyasagar's bust. Your party dishonoured Birsa Munda. Your party wrongly said Rabindranath Tagore was born in Santiniketan. This shows your depth of knowledge about Bengal and its culture," she said. Asking people to raise their voice against the "riot- mongering BJP," Banerjee said, "People of Bengal, who had been living in peace casting aside barriers of community and language, would come under grave threat if a divisive force such as the saffron party comes to power in the state." Earlier in the day, the PM, during his mega rally in Kolkata, accused Banerjee of "betraying and insulting" the people of the state who trusted that she will bring about a change after the Left rule. "Bengal chose you in role of 'Didi' (elder sister) but you preferred being 'bua' (aunt) to your 'bhatija' (nephew Abhishek Banerjee)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-peddling-lies-to-mislead-voters-says-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-959228.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||BJP wants to impose 'company rule' in India, says Samajwadi Chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party Chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday equated the BJP regime with the British rule, alleging that the party wanted to impose a 'company rule' in the country. “There is no possibility that income of farmers is going to double. The truth is that whatever income farmers had also ended. The BJP wants to force a company rule in the country the way British captured India with the East India Company,” Akhilesh said in a statement here. Mentioning the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws, Akhilesh said, “When thousands of farmers are raising an issue, the government should resolve it but the BJP government has forced its laws against farmers’ will.” Farmers are apprehensive that they will turn labourers after the new laws are implemented, Akhilesh said. Due to a stubborn attitude of the BJP, social workers of various countries have also supported the farmers’ agitation in the country, he said. “Time magazine has devoted its cover page to women farmers, who are participating in the agitation fearlessly,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wants-to-impose-company-rule-in-india-says-samajwadi-chief-akhilesh-yadav-959271.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee hits back at Modi, says ‘parivartan’ will be at the Centre, not Bengal||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday hit back at Prime Minister Narendra Modi hours after his attack on her by saying that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) will remain in power in Bengal and “parivartan” (change) will take place at the Centre. Addressing a TMC rally at Siliguri in north Bengal, the Chief Minister also accused Modi of coming to Bengal only to resort to “falsehood and smear campaign”. “You will never be able to bring ‘parivartan’ in Bengal. The TMC will remain in power in Bengal. But there will be ‘parivartan’ at the Centre,” said Banerjee, adding that the BJP will “draw a blank” in the Assembly elections in all the poll-bound states. The TMC supremo said that before coming to the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata to make baseless allegations against her party and her government, the Prime Minister should answer the people on the rising LPG and fuel prices. Accusing the Prime Minister of making “false promises”, Banerjee said that he was trying to mislead voters with falsehood and people will not be fooled by him every time. “How can he (Modi) lie so much? At least have some respect for the Prime Minister’s post...You are always making false promises. People will not be fooled for long. You should be ashamed of your lies. We demand that you make LPG prices reasonable again,” said Banerjee. “The people of Bengal will not forgive him,” she added. Launching a fresh attack on PM Modi, Banerjee said that when the Covid-19 cases were rising in the country, he got scared and was sitting at home while she was on the streets,  inspecting hospitals and helping people. “Now they are putting big photos of the Prime Minister on Covid-19 vaccination cards. These are all jumlas,” said Banerjee. She further alleged that the Centre was selling Air India, Indian Railways and Coal India and also added that there was corruption in the Centre’s Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. “Before elections, Modi shows Ujjwala and after elections, there is nothing but jumla from him,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-hits-back-at-modi-says-parivartan-will-be-at-the-centre-not-bengal-959275.html
07-03-2021||National Politics||BJP, RSS and some Mahasabha elements are 'merchants of hatred', says Digvijaya Singh||Veteran Congress leader Digvijaya Singh on Sunday accused the BJP, RSS and "some elements" of Akhil Bharatiya Hindu Mahasabha of being "merchants of hatred". The BJP, however, hit back saying that the party and the Sangh Parivar does not need any certificate from Singh. It said that several statements made by the Congress leader showed that he supported "extremists". "Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and some elements of Hindu Mahasabha are opposed to the tradition of communal harmony and its culture. They are merchants of hatred. They engage in violence by spreading hatred," Digvijaya Singh told reporters in Indore when asked about Hindu Mahasabha's proposed Gwalior-Delhi vehicle rally. He said this is the same ideology that led to the assassination of Mahatma Gandhi. Singh criticised the Mahasabha over the vehicle rally that is to be held on March 14 to inform people about the lives Mahatma Gandhi's assassin Nathuram Godse and co- conspirator Narayan Apte. Reacting to his statement, state BJP spokesperson Umesh Sharma said, "We do not need any certificate about the BJP and the Sangh Parivar from Digvijaya Singh. Many of his statements show that his mentality is pro-Muslim and he always supports extremists."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rss-and-some-mahasabha-elements-are-merchants-of-hatred-says-digvijaya-singh-959288.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||AAP belongs to Dalits and all those who have no one to fall back upon: Arvind Kejriwal||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) belongs to Dalits and all those who have no one to fall back upon, party convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said at an event on Saturday. Inaugurating the premises of the Rashtriya Shoshit Parishad at Tughlaqabad Institutional Area here, he alleged it was a "conspiracy" of political parties to deprive the financially weak of education in the last 70 years so that the Dalits remain poor and the rich become richer. "In the last six years, we have brought about a revolution in the education sector in Delhi. We have worked to fulfil the dream of Baba Saheb Ambedkar who always said that education is the key for the Dalit community to equate with the rest of society," the chief minister said. Political parties seek votes from the poor and downtrodden during the elections but serve the interests of the rich after coming to power, he alleged. "I consider myself fortunate that the Dalit community is with me. The Dalit community has accepted the Aam Aadmi Party. It is your party, it is the party of Dalits, the poor, the oppressed, and it is a party of those who have nobody else." Kejriwal detailed various schemes launched by his government to help the poor and the needy in Delhi, including 'Jai Bheem' coaching scheme for those preparing for competitive exams, and hiring sewer cleaning machines operated by sanitation workers. "We have launched a scheme -- Jai Bheem Mukhyamantri Pratibha Vikas Yojana -- to financially support Dalit students who want to take coaching for competitive examinations such as IAS, IPS, engineering and medical entrances at any private coaching institute," he said. The chief minister said the Delhi Jal Board has started a scheme under which 200 sanitation workers operate sewer cleaning machines that are hired by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-belongs-to-dalits-and-all-those-who-have-no-one-to-fall-back-upon-arvind-kejriwal-959034.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh first state to vaccinate over 20 lakh people: Govt||The Uttar Pradesh government on Saturday said the state has become the first in the country to have administered more than 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccines. So far, 20,14,589 vaccines have been administered, the government said in a release. Vaccination of people aged above 60 and those between 45 and 59 who are suffering from comorbidities is continuing across the state in private and district hospitals, and medical colleges, it said. Having administered 14,85,447 first and 5,29,142 second doses of the vaccine, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state to cross the 20-lakh mark, it said. On Saturday, 346 vaccination sessions were conducted in the state in which both vaccines -- Covishield and Covaxin -- were administered, the release said. According to the information received, 22,984 beneficiaries had been vaccinated till 8 pm, it said. The nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19 was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers receiving the vaccine shots. Frontline workers started getting vaccinated from February 2. Administration of the second dose of the vaccine began on February 13. The second phase of the drive to vaccinate people aged above 60 and those between 45 and 59 who are suffering from comorbities commenced on March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-first-state-to-vaccinate-over-20-lakh-people-govt-959038.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||J-K: ACB registers FIR in Rs 1,000-cr loan default case, raids conducted||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on Saturday registered a case against the top officials of Jammu and Kashmir Cooperative Housing Corporation (JKCHC), including its former managing director, in a Rs 1,000 crore loan default case, officials said. Searches were conducted after obtaining warrants from the court at the residential premises of JKCHCL chairman and MD Brij Bhushan Sharma, office premises of JKCHCL and of JK Housing and Tourism Society and Corporation being operated by Sharma, officials said. A preliminary enquiry was registered on the basis of a complaint received from the general administrative department to look into the allegations of JKCHCL, which was registered in the year 1982 by the then registrar of Jammu and Kashmir cooperative societies to provide housing facilities to the public, they said. It had defaulted in repayment of a loan amounting to Rs 40.63 crore raised from HUDCO. The Jammu and Kashmir administration was the guarantor and 70 per cent of the capital was owned by the government, officials said. The complaint stated that in 2017, Rs 90 crore was outstanding against the corporation. HUDCO had blacklisted the government till liquidation of the outstanding loan and no further loan facilities were granted for execution of various projects in Jammu and Kashmir. The enquiry further revealed that JKCHC availed around 27 loan facilities from HUDCO between 1991 and 2001 for the acquisition and development of lands for constructing housing colonies in Jammu and Kashmir, they said. The prominent colonies are Kud Housing Colony, Davik Housing, Kalu Chak , Swarn Vihar, Tawi Vihar Housing Colony, Swarn Vihar and Peer Bagh Housing Colony. JKCHCL defaulted in payment in the loan and as of 2020, approximately Rs 1,006 crore was outstanding for repayment to HUDCO, officials said. The enquiry has also revealed that the chairman, managing directors and other officials who were at the helm of affairs in JKCHC had misappropriated loan amount to the tune of Rs 23.12 crore, they said.  It was found that there has been an illegal modification in the norms and bye-laws of JKCHCL and encroachment upon government and community land for the development of housing schemes which were later sold off for a profit, officials said. Subsequently, an FIR was registered on the basis of the omissions and commissions disclosed during the enquiry on the part of former chairman and MD Brij Bhushan Sharma and other officials of the management of the JKCHC and unknown officials of the government, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/j-k-acb-registers-fir-in-rs-1000-cr-loan-default-case-raids-conducted-959044.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi among top 3 states with most contaminated sites||The national capital stands third on the list of states and Union territories with most contaminated sites, according to the Central Pollution Control Board data. There are 112 sites in India contaminated by toxic and hazardous substances. Besides, there are 168 sites that may be contaminated but require investigation and confirmation, as per the CPCB. Odisha tops the list with 23 contaminated sites, followed by Uttar Pradesh (21) and Delhi (11).   Bhalswa and Ghazipur landfill sites, industrial areas at Jhilmil, Wazirpur, New Friends Colony, Dilshad Garden and Lawrence Road are among the 11 contaminated sites in Delhi. Also, there are 12 “probably contaminated sites” in the national capital. According to the Union Environment Ministry, 'Contaminated Sites' are delineated areas in which the “constituents and characteristics of the toxic and hazardous substances, caused by humans, exist at levels and in conditions which pose existing or imminent threats to human health and the environment”. Contaminated sites may include production areas, landfills, dumps, waste storage and treatment sites, mine tailings sites, spill sites, chemical waste handler and storage sites located in various land uses. 'Probably Contaminated Sites' are areas with alleged but not scientifically proven presence of such contaminants or substances. Remediation work has been started to clean up 14 contaminated sites in 7 states on the directions of the National Green Tribunal. These states include Gujarat, Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. Remediation of contaminated sites involves cleaning of contaminated media -- soil, groundwater, surface water and sediments -- by adopting various in-situ or ex-situ clean-up technologies up to a predefined remediation target levels for each identified constituent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-among-top-3-states-with-most-contaminated-sites-959135.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Officials don't listen to you? Beat them up with bamboo sticks: Giriraj Singh to Begusarai residents||Union minister Giriraj Singh has advised the people of his Begusarai Lok Sabha constituency in Bihar to "beat up with bamboo sticks" those officials who appeared insensitive to their concerns. The firebrand BJP leader, who has a reputation of shooting from the hip, made the remark on Saturday while addressing a function organised by an agriculture institute in Khodawandpur near here. The minister, who holds fisheries, animal husbandry and dairy farming portfolios, rued that he frequently receives complaints from common citizens that officials concerned often paid little heed to their complaints. "I say to them, why do you come to me for such small things. MPs, MLAs, village mukhiyas, DMs, SDMs, BDOs... these are all under obligation to serve the people. If they do not listen to you, pick up a bamboo stick with both hands and give a crushing blow on their head," Singh said. "If even that does not work, then Giriraj shall throw his weight behind you," he said, evoking applause from the crowds even as dignitaries sharing the dais squirmed in their seats. A BJP leader in the Bihar capital, speaking on condition of anonymity, said, "Giriaj Singh is a mass leader who has to be responsive towards public anger. We should take his statement figuratively, not literally."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/officials-dont-listen-to-you-beat-them-up-with-bamboo-sticks-giriraj-singh-to-begusarai-residents-959142.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||UP farmers face days-long line just to get sugarcane weighed||As thousands of farmers lay siege to Delhi borders for over 100 days demanding the repeal of three contentious farm laws, those staying back in Western Uttar Pradesh have to endure a different kind of long wait -- at times for multiple days just to get weighed quintals of sugarcane lying in tractor-trollies on their way from farms to mills. Some pass their time chit-chatting about the ongoing protests, others while smoking bidis or cigarettes, but all of them sound worried about loads of sugarcane drying under a scorching sun, while Punjabi and Haryanvi songs continue to blare out loudly, either from their mobiles or small speakers fitted in their vehicles. Also, problems for them are much more beyond the three laws that have been in limelight due to the protests at the national capital borders. Almost a hundred tractor-trollies, each loaded with 300 quintals of sugarcane on an average, can be seen parked in a barren field near the Bhopada weighing scale in Budhana tehsil here, barely two kilometres from the Dhampur sugar mill -- the final destination of the load and their carriers after a days-long 'weighing' halt. Some drivers, many of them farmers with small landholdings, even have arrangements made for sleeping on cots fitted under their 'trollas' (customised and bigger trolleys used to transport sugarcane). "It has been two days since I am waiting at this weighing scale and looks like it will take me another two days for my work to be done so that I can take my stock to the sugar mill," Rohit Balyan, who hails from Kutba village, told PTI. "The exhausting long wait at weighing scales hurts farmers because the sugarcane load starts drying up under the sun and by the time one's turn comes for measurement, the weight comes down a bit,” the 21-year-old Balyan said while lighting up a cigarette borrowed from a friend waiting next in the queue. A sugar mill official in Muzaffarnagar, which is widely known as the 'sugar bowl' of India and also has Asia's larges gur mandi (jaggery market), told PTI the weight loss during the waiting time is only a few kilogrammes, but farmers argue this loss means a lot to them because their earnings go down by thousands of rupees. Farmers also claim that sugar mills are procuring sugarcane at Rs 325 per quintal, lower than the government-fixed minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 385. "We are not getting the MSP and then we have to wait here for days at the weighing scale. The sugarcane starts drying up after a couple of days and this means a reduction in weight and money for us," said Anuj Tomar, who hails from Kakda village. Tomar, 25, said he has been standing in the queue for days with sugarcane produced in his family's 27-bigha land. Among those waiting at the weighing scale are also people who do not own land but are engaged in transporting sugarcane from farms to sugar mills after getting the yield measures at weighing scales. For them also, the loss of time during a peak work season means loss of money. Harsoli village resident Mukeem, 35, said he uses his tractor-trolla for the transport work like many others in the region, who are typically paid nearly Rs 12 per quintal of sugarcane from the mills. "It has been three days since I am standing here. I have got more than 300 quintals of sugarcane loaded on my trolla. If we get it measured quickly, then I can do more rounds and make more money," Mukeem said. He is also upset over an order of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that calls for phasing out old tractors in the National Capital Region (NCR). Muzaffarnagar, which thrives on sugarcane production, is among the areas affected by this order. "How are we supposed to phase out our tractors just because they are 15 or 20-years old. They are working fine for us. The price of diesel has gone up sharply in the last 10 years. The rate we get for transportation is still the same but nobody is bothered about these issues,” he said. Also waiting for two days at the weighing scale are Raju Tyagi, 23, from Osika village and 23-years-old Saleem from Kethal village, both of whom strongly support protesting farmers' demand for a legal guarantee on the MSP and repeal of the three contentious agriculture laws. Transporting sugarcane is a seasonal work both Tyagi and Saleem take up and are mightily upset over the long delays at weighing scales. "I hope that one day the government will consider our issues also," Saleem said. According to the Muzaffarnagar administration estimates, more than 40 per cent of the district's population is engaged in agriculture with sugarcane farming topping the chart. Sugar mill officials say much of the problem related to sugarcane farming in the region is due to the surplus yield of sugarcane and the limited production capacity of the mills. "There are eight sugar mills in Muzaffarnagar alone. The one in Khatauli is the biggest in Western Uttar Pradesh and has a purchasing capacity of 1,30,000 quintals a day," a sugar mill official said, requesting anonymity. "Farmers in the region mostly grow sugarcane and wheat. While wheat is mostly grown for personal consumption, they sell sugarcane to mills because of the MSP on it. That leads to sugar being in surplus, which in turn results in various problems related to it," the official said. A measure to check these problems can only be policy-driven by the government, the official suggested, adding there should be an upper limit for farming of sugarcane. "Farmers here are growing sugarcane on 90 per cent of their lands. If that is reduced to say, 60 per cent, and farmers are asked to grow other crops also, then a solution could be in sight," he told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-farmers-face-days-long-line-just-to-get-sugarcane-weighed-959151.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand: BJP core committee's sudden call for a meeting fuels rumours about major changes to government||A sudden meeting of the Uttarakhand BJP's core committee has fuelled speculations about some major changes in the government. The meeting, held on Saturday evening, was presided over by BJP's national vice president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, who arrived here on Saturday afternoon. Singh was accompanied by state BJP in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam. The unscheduled meeting with the members of the core group came at a time when the budget session of the state assembly was underway in Gairsain. The BJP MLAs were called back from Gairsain to the state capital in view of the core committee meeting held amid ongoing speculations in the media about a cabinet expansion. The sudden meeting of the core committee for which Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had to fly back to Dehradun in a hurry from Gairsain assumed significance. Core group members -- Rajya Sabha member Naresh Bansal, Tehri MP Mala Rajya Lakshmi Shah, former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat, state BJP general secretary Ajeya Kumar, among others -- attended the meeting, which went on for over two hours. Raman Singh talked separately to each member of the core group to get a feedback from them. He also went to the chief minister's official residence where around 40 party MLAs had gathered. He also visited the RSS office here after the core committee meeting. Another member of the core group Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank also met Singh at Jollygrant airport late in the evening. The urgency with which the developments took place gave rise to speculations that a leadership change was likely in the state. However, state BJP president Bansidhar Bhagat said the core group meeting discussed celebrations to be held in 70 assembly constituencies in the state on March 18 to mark the completion of the BJP government's four years in office. He said there was no leadership change likely in the state and there was no resentment among party MLAs. However, party sources said nothing could be said for sure at the moment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-bjp-core-committees-sudden-call-for-a-meeting-fuels-rumours-about-major-changes-to-government-959160.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Omar Abdullah targets BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari over the latter's Kashmir remarks||Regional National Conference (NC) leader and former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah on Sunday mocked BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari over his remarks that West Bengal would become Kashmir if TMC returned to power, calling it “stupid” and “tasteless. ” Referring to the scrapping of Article 370, which had given special status to the erstwhile state, Omar took a jibe at the BJP saying that the party claims Kashmir has become paradise after the 370 abrogation.   On Saturday, Adhikari, whom the BJP has fielded from Nandigram seat against West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee,  said, “If they (Trinamool Congress) come back to power, West Bengal will become Kashmir.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-targets-bjp-leader-suvendu-adhikari-over-the-latters-kashmir-remarks-959161.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Man attaches toilet pipeline to drinking water tank at Madhya Pradesh railway station||A railway station master was placed under suspension in Madhya Pradesh's Mandsaur district after an outsourced sanitation worker attached a toilet pipeline to the tank containing drinking water, an official said on Sunday. The incident happened on March 1 in Garoth station, which falls under the railway's Kota division, said Senior Divisional Commercial Manager Ajay Kumar Pal. "A sanitation worker from a private firm attached a toilet pipeline to the drinking water tank, which was thoroughly cleaned after the error and tested for potability. Station master Chauthmal Meena was placed under suspension and the sanitation worker was removed from duty," Pal informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-attaches-toilet-pipeline-to-drinking-water-tank-at-madhya-pradesh-railway-station-959178.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Army converts bus stand to 'street library' for Jammu and Kashmir children||In a novel initiative, the Army has converted a dilapidated bus stand in a village in South Kashmir into a 'street library' to help students of neighbouring areas to prepare for competitive exams and higher studies. The library which was set up in the last week of February by the 18 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army has become an instant hit among the students of Ranipura, Chittisigpura, Kejrival and Devipora villages, officials said. Seeing students of higher classes getting engrossed in books, the younger lot from primary classes surrounded Lt Col Rohit Jha, Commanding officer of the 18 RR, which comes under the Victor Force that looks after South and central Kashmir, and demanded that some story books be kept for them too. A pleasantly surprised Lt Col Jha immediately ordered some comics having a social message and books which can increase their knowledge, officials said. The 'street library' opens early in the morning and within no time, children are seen flocking to the bus stand and other story books which have been donated by 2-Sector Headquarters of the Rashtriya Rifles, a forced carved out of the army for fighting terrorism in the hinterland. The bus stand located at Devipora-Chittisingpora junction in Anantnag district has now virtually become a hub of knowledge which is often flocked by youngsters appearing for competitive exams and higher studies. The army unit has also tied up with 'Books of India' society which has agreed to supply some books for the cause. The Army said it is not only about reading, books can also be used to relax minds of students. In order to help students, they have also kept a 'book jar', from where children pick up a slip of paper and take out a book ranging from realistic fiction to science and historical fiction or romance to fantasy or mystery books. The 'street library' showcases India-2020 of late President A P J Abdul Kalam and compilation of Khalil Gibran or the world's greatest short stories. The bus stand was burnt down by miscreants in 2016 and a quote of famous American writer Sidney Sheldon was an inspiration for setting up the 'street library'. "Libraries store the energy that fuels the imagination. They open up windows to the world and inspire us to explore and achieve, and contribute to improving our quality of life." The Army plans to open more such street libraries in the near future to help the youth achieve the power of knowledge and look out for their better future. The 'street library’ has a notice board to announce new arrivals of books besides pasting Quick Response or QR code of national level entrance exams and a guide on how to be a part of the Army. The officials said that some students have also started demanding some books which the Army tries to procure the market or through some NGO.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-converts-bus-stand-to-street-library-for-jammu-and-kashmir-children-959185.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||India's first forest healing centre comes up near Ranikhet in Uttarakhand||The country's first forest healing centre based on the concept of making people healthy by bringing them into direct contact with nature was opened to the public on Sunday at Kalika near Ranikhet, an official said. Signboards on either side of its slopey entrance advise visitors to hug trees, walk barefoot on the grass, lie on their back and gaze at the swaying trees or the ever changing sky above to soothe their senses. Cute little wooden structures called tree platforms have been built for the purpose of providing visitors a perfectly natural ambience to meditate.   Drawing inspiration from the Japanese technique of forest bathing  (shinrin - yoku), the healing centre has been developed by the research wing of Uttarakhand Forest Department after a detailed study of the revitalising impact of forests on human health, Chief Conservator of Forest Sanjiv Chaturvedi said. Spread over an area of around 13 acres, the centre was inaugurated by noted environmentalist from Ranikhet Joginder Bisht. The visitors can indulge in several activities at the centre including forest walking, tree hugging, forest meditation and sky gazing.  It has been found that because of typical molecular vibration patterns of trees, tree hugging has a very beneficial impact on increasing the level of feel good hormones in the body like oxytocin, serotonin and dopamine, Chaturvedi said. The healing centre has been established in a pine dominated forest as it has been found in various studies that conifers like pine trees emit certain oil compounds to safeguard themselves from various microbes & pathogens, which are called phytoncides, he said. It has been found in various researches that these compounds help to multiply natural killer cells in our blood, which help in fighting infections and cancerous growth and enhance overall immunity, he said. It has also been found in various researches that these compounds have a very positive impact on decreasing level of stress hormones and have a relaxing effect, he said. The forest healing centre maintains a register in which visitors can share their experiences. The signboards also advise visitors to leave behind phones, cameras or any other distractions to feel the sensations a direct contact with nature sends to the brain, Chaturvedi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indias-first-forest-healing-centre-comes-up-near-ranikhet-in-uttarakhand-959188.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||3-year-old girl dies after doctors allegedly discharge her without stitching up her wounds||The United Medicity Hospital, a private hospital in Prayagraj, allegedly sought Rs 5 lakh for the surgery, of which the parents paid only Rs 2 lakh, seeking more time to pay the rest. The hospital has denied these allegations, calling them 'baseless'. It further alleged that the family only paid an amount of Rs 6,370 against the actual amount of Rs 1.25 lakh. "We have all the receipts and documents. We did not hand over the minor with open cuts," the PRO of the hospital said. The girl was first admitted to the hospital at the beginning of February and then was discharged a week later. The family took her back as the pains persisted, and surgery was performed on February 24, according to the girl's uncle, Sunil Mishra. He added that they took the girl to another private hospital to stitch up her wounds, but the doctors there asked them to take the minor back to United Medicity, which allegedly refused to admit the child. The girl died at home on March 4. "We protested at the gate of the hospital (on March 5). We have also submitted our complaint to the police station and spoke to the Prayagraj district magistrate. We want action against the hospital," Mishra is quoted as saying in the report. District Magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswani and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) have taken cognisance of the matter. The former has constituted a 2-member committee to investigate the matter, as per the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-year-old-girl-dies-after-doctors-allegedly-discharge-her-without-stitching-up-her-wounds-959209.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||'Sticky bombs': Security forces redraw SOPs; ask public not to leave vehicles unattended||Suspecting that 'sticky bombs' may have entered the valley, security forces are redrawing their standard operating procedures and also advising general public not to leave their vehicles unattended, officials said on Sunday. In the middle of last month, the Jammu and Kashmir police recovered an arms consignment consisting of a Improvised Explosive Device (IED) with an in-built magnet which could be placed on any vehicle and exploded with the help of a timer or a remote. The magnetic IEDs, known as 'sticky bombs', have found their maximum use in war-ravaged Afghanistan where Taliban used them against US-led allied forces and in Iraq and Syria where IS terrorists have triggered them against the government forces. The 'sticky bombs', dropped by terrorists sitting across the border in Pakistan using drones, were recovered in Samba sector of Jammu region along the International Border on February 14. Immediately after their recovery, a video originated from across the border on social media which gave step by step instructions about its usage and triggering mechanism, a development which took the security agencies back to the drawing board for redrawing its Standard Operating Procedures (SoP) for their movement. The video issued in the name of People's Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF), believed to be a shadow outfit of the banned Lashker-e-Taiba terror group, explained about magnetic bombs and its damage capabilities. The video, originally used in Afghanistan training modules, has been given a voice over in Kashmiri language explaining how to use this bomb for more and effective damage of the target, the officials said. The security forces, since the recovery of the 'sticky bombs', have instructed their formations and general public at large not to leave their vehicle unattended, the officials said. In India, 'sticky bombs' were used by suspected Iranian terrorists in February 2012 to injure the wife of an Israeli diplomat. The development comes two years after a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist carried out a sensational attack when he rammed an explosive-laden vehicle into a bus carrying security forces that left 40 CRPF personnel dead. In response, India had carried out an air strike on terror camps located across the border. Sticky bombs, which were also used by the British forces during World War II, can be put on any vehicle and detonated through a remote control or an in-built timer, the officials said. This is yet another significant recovery after security forces found three Point Detonating (PD) fuses, used by the Pakistani army in their 82 mm mortar shells, from a terrorist in North Kashmir. About the PAFF, the officials said that changing names has been an age-old modus operandi of Pakistan's external snooping agency ISI to divert the attention of the international community and label the unrest in Jammu and Kashmir as indigenous.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sticky-bombs-security-forces-redraw-sops-ask-public-not-to-leave-vehicles-unattended-959220.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||International Women's Day: Women to take centre stage at farmers’ protest sites at Delhi’s borders on March 8||From managing the stage, food and security to sharing tales of their struggles, and the significance of taking part in the farmers’ agitation, thousands of women farmers, students and activists will take over key roles at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites at Delhi's borders on International Women's Day on Monday. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country’s farming sector, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage and all the space under the sky to acknowledge the “big but unrecognised” part of the farming community. Thousands of women farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, will congregate at Delhi’s borders on Monday and the day will be entirely dedicated to women farmers, activists and students, farmer leaders said. Marked annually on March 8, International Women's Day (IWD) is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity. “To celebrate women's day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites,” senior farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told PTI. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over three months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture. On the occasion of International Women’s Day, around 15,000 women farmers along with college principals, teachers and social workers will join the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri borders, the organisers said. “Women are a big part of the farming community but they don't get recognised. In fact, they work more than the men. Approximately 10,000 women from different parts of Punjab and Haryana will come to the borders to be part of the women's day program,” farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said. Sandhu said they have also asked women farmers to join the different protest sites in Punjab and Haryana on the occasion. Women protesters will talk about their rights, struggles and significance of participation in the movement at the two stages at Tikri border, one of the organisers said. “...Women will be taking over security roles at Singhu border. Hundreds of women from different parts of Punjab are coming in vehicles and will join us at the borders tomorrow. We are expecting a gathering of around 15,000 people at Tikri and 4,000 people at Singhu to mark International Women's Day,” said Jagmohan Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Punjab. Farmer leader of Krantikari Kisan Union Avtar Singh Mehma also said that stage management at all borders will be done by women on the occasion of International Women’s Day. “Those delivering speeches on the stage will also be women, whether they are from a student organisation, a farmer organisation or simply an organisation doing social work,” Mehma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/international-womens-day-women-to-take-centre-stage-at-farmers-protest-sites-at-delhi-s-borders-on-march-8-959244.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||'Pawri nahi ho rahi hai' says Delhi Police after seizing 24 'hukkas' from restaurant||The Delhi Police on Sunday seized 24 'hukkas' after it raided a restaurant-cum-bar here and then joined the "pawri ho rahi hai" meme fest on social media, saying "Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain.. Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai." The meme set the social media on fire after it surfaced online with Dananeer Mobeen, a Pakistan-based Instagram influencer, speaking in a heavily-accented tone as she stood partying with some friends with their car parked on a road. "Ye humari car hai, ye hum hain aur ye humari pawri (party) ho rahi hai," she says in the social media post, which has now transcended the country's borders for its fun quotient. From his official handle on Twitter, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Prashant Gautam said, "Yehe Hum hain..Yehe Hooke Hain.. Aur ab Pawri nahi ho rahi hai. "PS- Some Pawris are not only injurious to health they are illegal too. Seized 24 Hooka from Rajouri Garden area," he tweeted and tagged photos of the seized 'hukkas'. A senior police official said during patrolling duty, sub-inspector Prakash Kashyap along with head constable Suresh raided the restaurant-cum-bar in west Delhi's Rajouri Garden area after receiving information that 'hukkas' were being served to customers, they said. "The police team found that Covid-19 protocols were also not being followed. There were no screening machines or sanitizers at the restaurant. The customers were also found to be smoking 'hukkas'," the senior police officer said. A case has been registered under the IPC section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant sections under COTPA prohibiting smoking in public places, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pawri-nahi-ho-rahi-hai-says-delhi-police-after-seizing-24-hukkas-from-restaurant-959249.html
07-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh orders immediate action on seven-point 'Agenda 2022'||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday directed all state departments to move aggressively for the realisation of the 7-point 'Agenda 2022' unveiled by him recently. The agenda, aimed at ensuring total protection of people and their properties in an environment of peaceful co-existence conducive to saving the lives and livelihood of all Punjabis against all odds, is centred around citizen welfare through a holistic focus on overarching development of the state, an official statement said. The overarching goal of the agenda is to ensure the development of a “Kaamyab & Kushal Punjab”, it said. “With a record-breaking 84.6 per cent of the manifesto commitments already accomplished and the promise of fulfilling the remaining in the next one year, the CM directed all ministries and departments to move aggressively and proactively to push for the realisation of the 7-point Agenda 2022,” the statement said. The futuristic agenda is designed to meet the aspirations of the people of Punjab, Singh had announced in the Vidhan Sabha on Friday. The Punjab assembly polls are due for early next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-chief-minister-amarinder-singh-orders-immediate-action-on-seven-point-agenda-2022-959268.html
07-03-2021||Opinion||Comfort viewing: 3 reasons I love ‘Courage the Cowardly Dog’||By Maya Phillips, In another life I would have written a book called “Of Monsters and Mutts.” Why? Well, I can’t help my love for scaredy-cat canines who are bedeviled by the scary and supernatural. As a child, I gleefully watched every incarnation of Scooby-Doo I could find, including the original “Scooby-Doo, Where Are You!” TV series. So when “Courage the Cowardly Dog” appeared on Cartoon Network in 1999, I was already primed. But it wasn’t love at first sight. When Courage debuted in an animated short three years earlier, I was only about 5 years old. In it, Courage, who lives in the middle of nowhere with a kind but oblivious old woman and her miserable farmer husband, tries to alert his owners that they are under attack by a red-eyed, laser gun-toting alien chicken. It doesn’t go so well for the farmer. I was terrified. That short, created by John R. Dilworth as part of Cartoon Network’s “What a Cartoon!” showcase, was nominated for an Oscar, and the network greenlighted a full series, which ran for four seasons. One of Cartoon Network’s early original series, “Courage” mixed horror with dark absurdist humor, giving it an eclectic appeal for preteen and teen viewers. Having recovered from nightmares of nefarious poultry, I later came to appreciate the show’s brutal and surreal comedy and even found it a comfort — one of the shows I reflexively put on in the background for years. This year, HBO Max added “Courage” to its streaming roster, and I’m grateful for the distraction. But revisiting “Courage” now, decades later, I can better appreciate all the ways the series distinguished itself in my childhood TV lineup, and the emotional depth beneath its gothic absurdity. The pop culture references Don’t you love a good parody? “Courage” playfully ripped off themes, characters and storylines from various regions in the cultural landscape: horror movies, mythology, classic literature and Broadway. Some of the references I got as a kid: the recurring character, Benton Tarantella, a jeering satire of Quentin Tarantino who’s obsessed with capturing the horrors of humanity with a crude, sensationalist flair; the episode “Demon in the Mattress,” one of my favorites, which was a parody of the “Exorcist”; and the episode “The Hunchback of Nowhere,” an affectionate translation of Victor Hugo’s “The Hunchback of Notre Dame.” (It was another seven or eight years before I read Hugo’s beautifully bleak novel, but the 1996 Disney film gave me enough context.) But rewatching the series now, I see references to Sondheim in a rhyming episode about a crazy barber; to the Greek myth Leda and the Swan in an episode about an amorous goose god; and to Herman Melville in an episode about a quest to find a “sand whale.” Even Shakespeare and H.G. Wells touch down in episodes of “Courage” — a literary and horror fan’s dream. The aesthetic and tonal variety In many ways “Courage” is a sportive grab bag of modes and forms. There’s its unpredictable mix of standard animation and CGI. There’s its medley of characters — conniving French ducks and butcher pigs and sneaky cats — along with the occasional human face, uncannily rendered among these animated characters. (Witness, for example, the eyeless, black-lipped floating head of the harvest moon spirit, played by Fred Melamed.) And then there are the locales: Courage mostly fights the supernatural in his little desert town, but he also ventures out to the ocean, into space, into Manhattan and into a dystopian future ruled by banana people. (Even the characters’ accents, which unfortunately veer into the stereotypical for the characters of color, are all over the place.) But it’s this kind of variety in the show’s visuals and character styles that make it surprising, and, at times, patently scary. The landscape shots of Courage’s farmhouse home are often stunning — backlit with warm yellows and oranges or darkened with mystical violets and azures, the moon hanging low and casting shadows. The show had a remarkable handle on bold, synesthetic color palettes to evoke the horror or absurdity or tranquility of a situation. But as beautiful as these animated scenes are, there are also plenty of moments of the grotesque: characters and objects with purposely uneven or asymmetrical designs, scenes with projectile ectoplasm and rotting parts and disembowelment. Even Courage’s large spectrum of scream-styles captures the show’s dedication to variety: He gasps, rolls out his tongue onto the floor, pops out his eyes “Looney Tunes” style and once even collapses from a sudden heart attack. It’s cruel but also comedic, and it’s indicative of the final reason I love “Courage the Cowardly Dog.” The pathos It would have been so easy to make this show a vehicle for juvenile laughs and scares, but “Courage” also frequently took the viewer to a place of pathos. Its view of humanity was often bleak: Many characters are often outcasts, or unstable or lost, and the horrors that shadow them are the results of vice or misfortune. Not every antagonist is a villain to be vanquished; some Courage just helps along. The episode “Magic Tree of Nowhere,” one of the most heartbreaking of the series, shows a perverse version of Shel Silverstein’s “The Giving Tree.” The tree, which speaks, grants wishes and has an eerie human face, is a gift that Eustace, the farmer, grows to resent because it is a better provider than he is. Courage, in turn, must take on the Sisyphean task of protecting it, even though the tree knows it will be in vain. Eustace often abuses Courage and frequently ends up being the final landing pad of an episode’s catastrophe, punished for his selfishness, pettiness or greed. But even he is given emotional dimension in episodes like these. In others we learn that his abusive mother had a lot do with why he became the miserable curmudgeon he is. Of course, Courage is the heart of the show, resignedly muttering, “The things I do for love” whenever he is about to march once more unto the breach. That’s the ultimate comfort: seeing a fictional world full of horror where, despite his fear, a tiny pink beagle always manages to overcome it and single-handedly save the day. No offense to Scooby and his snacks, but Courage doesn’t need to be bribed or coerced to act, and he doesn’t resolve his frightening predicaments because of selfishness or a hero complex. He does so out of empathy and love, and whatever monsters he faces can never measure up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comfort-viewing-3-reasons-i-love-courage-the-cowardly-dog-959066.html
07-03-2021||Opinion||Pfizer vs Moderna vs J&J: The one Covid-19 vaccine efficacy number that truly matters||By Faye Flam, Something sounds fishy when public health experts advise us to take whatever vaccine is available even though some vaccines show much more promising efficacy numbers than others. And it’s understandable that people would want to shop for the best vaccine. Americans are accustomed to the idea of consumer choice in pharmaceuticals — why else would US have so much direct-to-consumer drug advertising? But cut through the noise and there’s only one thing that really matters: all three FDA-authorized vaccines seem to work equally well — close to 100% — at preventing hospitalization and death. That message has gotten diluted in the reporting around the efficacy numbers for different vaccines. The efficacy numbers associated with the Moderna and Pfizer vaccines came in at around 95%, while the newly approved Johnson & Johnson vaccine has shown a less impressive 72% in the US, and even lower in other countries. As risk communication expert Peter Sandman says, people remember from school that 95% usually earns and A, and 72% a C at best. The problem is that numbers most touted to measure “efficacy” measure various degrees of symptoms plus a positive test — criteria that vary some from trial to trial. They don’t measure what’s most important: protection against hospitalization and death. And on that score, all three vaccines are outstanding. So public health experts are justified in suggesting people take the first vaccine available. People aren’t only worried about dying from Covid; they’re also worried about getting so-called long Covid and transmitting the disease to others even after they’re vaccinated. There’s no data one way or the other one whether vaccination cuts the risk of long Covid for those who get sick, but all the vaccines appear to reduce the number of people who get mild illness or asymptomatic cases, and thereby probably reduce transmission. While the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines work the same way, Johnson & Johnson’s vaccine works through a different mechanism. The first two use messenger RNA, and the latter uses DNA, which is ferried to the nucleus of cells with a different kind of virus, called an adenovirus, modified so it can’t replicate itself and cause disease. All three vaccines have good safety data, and all of them prompt the body to produce T-cells, which retain a sort of memory of the protein and attack it. One reason for the seemingly stark difference in efficacy numbers is that the clinical trials were held in very different groups of people. The Johnson & Johnson trial enrolled more people with hypertension, diabetes and HIV, as well as more people over 60, says University of California infectious disease doctor Monica Gandhi. Johnson and Johnson’s results also came from testing people in South Africa and Latin America at a time when new variants of the virus were already rampant. The important thing to note, says Gandhi, is that nobody who got the vaccine in the clinical trials — for any of the shots — was hospitalized for Covid-19. None of them died. None even got a severe enough case to require medical intervention at all. The absence of hospitalizations and deaths in the Johnson and Johnson trial looks even more impressive given that the volunteers included people who were more vulnerable to dying from the virus. Gandhi says she’d advise her own 80-something parents to get that shot if it was the first one available. Earlier this year, Yale University epidemiologist Robert Hecht had told me in an interview that he thought more lives could be saved by vaccinating people in so-called hot spots where there was an unusually high burden of disease. I called him back and asked whether the single-shot advantage of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine might make it a good choice for those places. He agreed it would, but worried about the perception that it’s an inferior vaccine, which could incite outrage about racial or socioeconomic injustice. Other experts are also wrestling with this question, since the Johnson & Johnson vaccine is cheaper than the other approved shots, delivered in a single dose, and requires only ordinary refrigeration rather than ultra-cold storage. That would make it a practical choice for vaccinating homeless people, and those in hard-to-reach rural areas, but again, experts are wrestling with the perception of inequality. That concern isn’t justified, given a proper interpretation of the data. Even the perception of unfairness, though, could be harmful. Giving people the ability to vaccine-shop might help more hesitant people feel more in control and less coerced — but also inadvertently prolong the pandemic. Getting the one-shot vaccine out as fast as possible and focusing on virus hot spots would save lives and hasten a return to some level of normal life. It’s now up to the public health community to send out a clearer message and get the public on board. The most important numbers here aren't 95% or 72%, but 0%: the number of vaccinated people who've died from the virus. When that's the emphasis, the message to get the first available vaccine makes a lot more sense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/pfizer-vs-moderna-vs-jj-the-one-covid-19-vaccine-efficacy-number-that-truly-matters-959127.html
07-03-2021||South||Congress to contest 25 seats in Tamil Nadu in DMK-Congress seat sharing pact||Congress and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), leader of the Opposition alliance in Tamil Nadu, on Sunday clinched their seat-sharing deal under which the national party will contest 25 assembly constituencies in the April 6 election. Congress will also contest the by-elections to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat, which fell vacant due to the death of incumbent H Vasanthakumar due to Covid-19. The Congress and BJP will be locked in an intense battle for the Lok Sabha seat. The seat-sharing agreement was signed between DMK President M K Stalin and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) chief K S Alagiri in the presence of  Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu. The agreement preceded a meeting that the aforementioned two Congress leaders had with Stalin late Saturday night during which election strategist Prashant Kishor is believed to have been present. “We have signed the seat-sharing deal with DMK and we will be contesting in 25 Assembly seats. In the spirit of cooperation (we have signed this deal) because the country is facing a big threat today not just in terms of ideological battle but also to save democracy,” Rao told reporters. “We have seen how BJP is running the country through dictatorship toppling governments, destroying democratic institutions and using its power to destabilise and finish off opposition parties. The BJP's agenda in Tamil Nadu is also the same and they want to finish off the AIADMK by aligning with the party,” he added. The sealing of the deal comes after three rounds of official talks and several rounds of unofficial talks between the two parties. As the DMK refused to allot 30 seats as sought by the party, leaders of the Congress engaged in hectic consultations for three days in Chennai during which some even suggested that “self-respect” was more important than alliance. Congress, which contested in 41 assembly seats and won 8 in 2016 election, was upset with DMK's initial offer of 18. However, the amicable solution was arrived at during a meeting between AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao, and DMK MP Kanimozhi on Saturday night. “DMK's final offer was 24 seats as per the formula of three assembly seats for one Lok Sabha seat won by the Congress in 2019. We sought one more seat to make it 25, and it was agreed to,” a senior Congress leader told DH. “Of course, we got the number approved from Delhi,” he added. Not just local Congress leaders, former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram also spoke in favour of the party continuing in the DMK-led alliance to keep the AIADMK and BJP out of power in Tamil Nadu. “Majority of the local leaders, though upset with the numbers offered by DMK, were of the opinion that the alliance should continue in the interests of the state. The High Command went by the opinion of the TNCC,” another leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-to-contest-25-seats-in-tamil-nadu-in-dmk-congress-seat-sharing-pact-959117.html
07-03-2021||South||No matter what you do, Kerala will not blame us: CM Vijayan attacks Centre over gold smuggling case||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan attacked the BJP-led Centre and said that the people of Kerala would not blame him even after the opposition linked his name with the Kerala gold smuggling case. He said in his Twitter handle, "All I have to say to the BJP and the agencies that dance to their tunes is this - We are not the kind of people you are accustomed to dealing with. We are different. No matter what you do, this land will not blame us. Our lives are open books, and you will soon realise it." He alleged on Saturday that Customs Commissioner in Kerala is trying to help the Opposition parties in Kerala during the upcoming Assembly election as allegations poured in against the LDF government and the CM. He also alleged that gold smuggling using diplomatic baggage, in which the Speaker, some MLAs and the CM himself are under scanner, started after BJP leader from Kerala V Muraleedharan became Minister of State for External Affairs. Vijayan was reacting to an affidavit filed by Customs before the Kerala High Court on Friday stating that gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh had named Vijayan, Kerala Assembly Speaker and three ministers in her confidential statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-matter-what-you-do-kerala-will-not-blame-us-cm-vijayan-attacks-centre-over-gold-smuggling-case-959165.html
07-03-2021||South||Amit Shah exudes confidence of NDA 'coalition government' in Tamil Nadu post April 6 polls||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched his party's campaign for the April 6 Lok Sabha bypoll in Kanyakumari and exuded confidence that the party would not only win in here, but the NDA in Tamil Nadu would emerge victorious in the Assembly elections also next month. Launching his "Vetri Kodi Eandhi" (Carrying the flag of victory) campaign from Suseendiram in this district, he said he was confident that a coalition government of the NDA will come to power in the state after the April 6 assembly polls. The party has fielded former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan for the Lok Sabha bypoll, necessitated due to the death of Congress MP H Vasantha Kumar last year due to Covid-19. Kicking off his party's campaign with Radhakrishnan and senior state BJP leaders in tow, Shah said he visited 11 houses to "convey Prime Minister Narendra Modi's message." "We have started the campaign to take the BJP's Lotus symbol door-to-door," he said and appealed to the public and the voters to elect Radhakrishnan as the party "needs him." "I am sure about the outcome (of the polls), looking at the excitement of the people" both in Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat as well in the Assembly polls, he said, implying that the NDA would emerge victorious in the hustings. "I am confident that a coalition government of AIADMK-BJP-PMK will be formed (after the Assembly polls)," he added. The BJP senior distributed pamphlets, interacted with people and also took pictures with some of them. The ruling AIADMK and the BJP in Tamil Nadu had on Friday clinched a seat-sharing deal, with the former, the lead partner, allocating 20 Assembly seats for its saffron ally and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat. BJP has nominated Radhakrishnan from here. Though he won from the same segment in 2014, he lost to Kumar five years later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-exudes-confidence-of-nda-coalition-government-in-tamil-nadu-post-april-6-polls-959167.html
07-03-2021||South||Raids on two TN groups: I-T department unearths undisclosed income of Rs 1,000 crore||Income Tax sleuths have found undisclosed income of over Rs 1,000 crore and seized unaccounted cash of Rs 1.2 crore from two Chennai-based groups – a bullion trader and a jewellery chain spread across India --  during recent raids at their premises. The searches were carried out at 27 premises belonging to the two firms in Chennai, Coimbatore, Mumbai, Madurai, Thrissur, Nellore, Indore, Jaipur, and Tiruchirapalli on March 4. During the searches, it was found that the two companies have evaded tax to the tune of Rs 1,000 core and the teams seized Rs 1.2 crore in cash from their premises. The evidences found in the premises of the bullion trader revealed that there were unaccounted cash sales; bogus cash credits from its branches, cash credits in dummy accounts in the guise of advance for purchases, unexplained cash deposits during the demonetization period, bogus outstanding sundry creditors, and huge unexplained stock variations, the Income Tax department said. Officials said the jewellery retailer claimed wrongful bad debts and inflated wastages in conversion of old gold to fine gold and jewellery making to evade tax. “The evidences found in the premises of the jewellery retailer revealed that the taxpayer received and repaid cash loans from local financiers; had given cash loans to builders and made cash investments in real estate properties,” the I-T department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/raids-on-two-tn-groups-i-t-department-unearths-undisclosed-income-of-rs-1000-crore-959168.html
07-03-2021||South||Women's day holiday declared for women government employees in Telangana||The Telangana government on Sunday declared a holiday for allwomen government employees in the state on the occasion ofInternational Women's Day on March 8. The Telangana government declared Special Casual Leave on March 8 for all the women employees in the state as it is being celebrated as 'International Women's Day', a Government Order said. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao also extended theirwishes and greetings to all the women of the state. International Womens Day is an occasion to celebrate and emulate the success of women in different walks of life, theGovernor said, according to a release from Raj Bhavan. "Our heritage, culture, and traditions for centuries respect and honour women and worship them as the personification of Goddess Shakti," she said. "It is high time that we truly imbibe and implement the spirit of gender equality and promote women in decision- making in all spheres of life for a more equitable, and inclusive world, the Governor said. She further said, "Let us all resolve and work for the all-round development of women and gender equality in true spirit of the International Women's Day-2021 theme- "Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world." Rao said women play a key role in the development and are competing with men in all the fields and are excelling. Women, who constitute 50 per cent of the population, would do wonders if they were given a chance, Rao said, according to a release from his office. Rao said the Telangana government was taking a slew of measures to take women on the path of development and progress besides there are several schemes and programmes launched to empower women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womens-day-holiday-declared-for-women-government-employees-in-telangana-959256.html
07-03-2021||South||Congress, DMK begin seat-sharing talks in Puducherry ahead of assembly polls||Congress, leader of the alliance in Puducherry, and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) on Sunday decided to continue their alliance for the April 6 Assembly elections by launching the first round of talks to arrive at a seat-sharing deal. Former Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, Puducherry Congress chief A V Subramanian, Puducherry Congress MP V Vaithilingam met with a DMK delegation led by party convenor in the Union Territory, S P Sivakumar, and others, hours after the two parties clinched their seat-sharing deal in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Congress and DMK fought the 2016 Assembly election in an alliance and won 15 and two seats each respectively. However, the Congress government led by Narayanasamy lost its majority just a few days before the Assembly elections were announced after five Congress legislators and one from DMK resigned their posts. “We held preliminary discussions and exchanged our views. We will continue our discussions and arrive at a final agreement in the next few days,” Narayanasamy told reporters after the meeting. The meeting assumes significance as it comes just two months after the Puducherry unit of DMK appealed to the leadership to allow the party to contest all 30 seats in the UT. Sources said the two parties will iron out all differences, if any, in the next few days and finalise the seat-sharing pact. The Congress and DMK combine will face tough competition from a resurgent N R Congress, the principal Opposition party in the UT, which is likely to face the elections alone. BJP's efforts to have a tie-up with N R Congress is yet to fructify.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-dmk-begin-seat-sharing-talks-in-puducherry-ahead-of-assembly-polls-959258.html
07-03-2021||South||Amit Shah campaigns in Kanyakumari for Lok Sabha bypoll||Attaching importance to the bypoll to the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency where the BJP will be pitted against the Congress, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday held roadshows seeking votes for party candidate Pon. Radhakrishnan, who lost the seat in 2019. Shah, who offered prayers at the famous Thanumalayan Temple in Suchindram in Kanyakumari district, distributed pamphlets to people in the town and other adjoining areas seeking votes for Radhakrishnan, a former Union Minister of State. Radhakrishnan, who was the lone BJP MP in Tamil Nadu after winning the Kanyakumari seat in 2014, lost the 2019 elections to Congress nominee H Vasanthakumar, who succumbed to Covid-19 in August 2020. The bypoll will again witness a fierce contest between the BJP and the Congress, which is yet to announce its candidate. “We have begun our campaign to take the BJP's lotus symbol door-to-door. I appeal to the people to elect Radhakrishnan and send him to Delhi to strengthen the voice of Tamil Nadu. I am convinced about the outcome of the polls looking at the excitement of the people,” Shah said. He was speaking after launching the BJP's door-to-door campaign 'Vetri Kodi Eandhi Tamizhagam Velvom' (Will Win Tamil Nadu carrying the flag of victory) campaign by visiting 11 homes in Suchindram. The party, which lost all five seats it contested in 2019, feels a victory in the bypoll to be held on April 6 along with the Assembly elections will strengthen its efforts to make inroads into Tamil Nadu. Besides, Kanyakumari is one of the districts where the BJP machinery is strong. The senior BJP leader also exuded confidence that the AIADMK-BJP-PMK combine will form a majority government in Tamil Nadu after May 2, when the result of the votes polled on April 6 will be announced.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-campaigns-in-kanyakumari-for-lok-sabha-bypoll-959266.html
07-03-2021||South||Ready to take up any responsibility, says 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan||'Metro Man' E Sreedharan on Sunday said he was ready to take up any responsibility given to him by the BJP, which he had recently joined. Speaking at a rally being attended by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, here at Shangumugham, Sreedharan said he wanted to utilise his energy for the state of Kerala. "For the last 67 years, I was a government servant. Many people have asked me why I ventured into politics after these many years. For 67 years, I worked as part of many projects for this country." "I am still energetic and want to utilise my energy for the state of Kerala. Whatever responsibility is given to me I will take it up with all courage and energy," Sreedharan said at the concluding function of Vijay Yatra taken out by BJP state President K Surendran from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram, ahead of the April 6 assembly polls. Shah also wrapped a shawl aroundSreedharan welcoming him into the party fold. The 'Metro Man', who is all set to contest the assembly polls on a BJP ticket, had recently resigned from the post of DMRC's Principal Advisor. Sreedharan (88), now a member of the BJP state Election Committee, said he has requested the party leadership to field him from a constituency not far from his residence in Ponnani in Malappuram district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ready-to-take-up-any-responsibility-says-metro-man-e-sreedharan-959273.html
07-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls: Unrest brewing in CPM over moves to field wives, deny seats to ministers||Unrest is brewing in the Kerala CPM over the reported moves to field wives of party leaders and to deny seats to some prominent leaders of the party, including several ministers, in the coming assembly polls. Even posters and social media posts criticising the decisions have appeared. The major criticisms are against fielding Law Minister A K Balan's wife P K Jameela in the Tarur constituency in Palakkad district, which is now represented by Balan in the Assembly. Posters appeared in the district flaying the move, following which party leaders clarified that no decision to field Jameela, who is a former director of Kerala health services, has been taken yet. Reports of denying seats to at least five ministers, including Finance Minister Thomas Isaac and Public Works Minister G Sudhakaran, citing the party norm of only two terms as MLAs, as well as senior leader P Jayarajan in Kannur had also triggered criticism from within the party. Strong criticisms are being raised against the party leadership in some social media groups believed to be that of party workers. Setback over deep-sea trawler deal too In a further setback to the ruling Left Democratic Front, a forum of the Catholic churches in the state attacked the LDF government’s move to enter into a deal with a US firm for building 400 deep-sea trawlers. A meeting of the Latin Catholic regional council on Sunday observed that the LDF government initiated a move that could have hit the livelihood of the traditional fishermen and the political leadership is now trying to put the blame on the bureaucracy for the decision. The stand of the Latin Catholic church that represents a major section of the fishermen community in the state might affect the poll prospects of the LDF in the coastal areas. Of the 140 odd constituencies in Kerala, at least fifty are entirely in coastal areas or connected to those areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-unrest-brewing-in-cpm-over-moves-to-field-wives-deny-seats-to-ministers-959284.html
07-03-2021||South||Given the chance, BJP will make Kerala number 1, says senior BJP leader Amit Shah||Attacking the Congress-led UDF and CPM-led LDF for being 'more focused on scams than the state's progress', Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday urged people to give the BJP a five-year chance to make the state number one in all sectors. Shah was addressing a public event in Thiruvananthapuram which marked the culmination of the saffron party's statewide 'Vijay Yatra' march led by party state President K Surendran. The Union Minister listed out the Centre's development initiatives for Kerala and said that the BJP aims at making a new Kerala that is self-reliant.  Shah also praised 88-year-old 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, who recently joined the BJP, by highlighting the completion of the challenging Konkan rail project and his willingness to contribute for the development of the nation even at this age. He, however, did not make any remark projecting him as the party's chief minister candidate. The Union Home Minister strongly criticised the Pinarayi Vijayan government over its alleged links with the accused in the gold smuggling case even as he was silent on Vijayan's criticism against the central agencies. He asked Vijayan to clarify if his office was used by the smuggling accused and if the gold smuggling accused was appointed to a government agency based on fake documents. Talking about the Sabarimala women's entry issue, Shah said that the BJP's opinion was that the management of the temple should be as per the wishes of the devotees and not that of the government. He also flayed the state government over the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and also said that it was due to its mismanagement that over 500 lives were lost in the flood and calamities. Shah even accused the Congress of not having any ideology as it was contesting against the CPM in Kerala but is an ally of the party in the other states. Bringing up vote bank politics, Shah said that in Kerala and West Bengal, the Congress is in alliance with Muslim parties, while it is in alliance with Shiv Sena in Maharashtra. The LDF and the UDF are engaged in tie-ups with communal outfits aiming at vote banks, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/given-the-chance-bjp-will-make-kerala-number-1-says-senior-bjp-leader-amit-shah-959289.html
07-03-2021||South||DMK President Stalin releases '10-year vision' for Tamil Nadu||Identifying seven key areas, including ensuring social justice, that need to be focused on to “reclaim” Tamil Nadu, DMK President M K Stalin on Sunday presented his “10-year vision” for the state by promising a slew of things, including Rs 1,000 a month as “rightful pay” for homemakers and generation of 10 lakh jobs every year. Addressing a massive public rally in Tiruchirappalli, the central Tamil Nadu city historically significant for the DMK, Stalin vowed that the government that will be formed after the April 6 election will be that of the party's and gave an assurance to people that it will not be a dispensation of just a political party but of the “entire Tamil race.” In his address during which he identified seven areas that the DMK government if voted to power will focus on, Stalin also reaffirmed that a party-led alliance was stitched together on “ideology” and not just to fight elections. He also said the seat-sharing talks with alliance partners were nearing completion. The seven areas identified are growing opportunities and a prosperous Tamil Nadu, increasing the yield and making the farmer happy, unlimited water for all, high-quality education and health for all, better town and country planning, urban development and social justice – a Tamil Nadu for everyone. “The government that we form after the results are declared on May 2 is not just the government of a party. It will be a government of the entire Tamil race. It is the duty of everyone to help me in fulfilling the promises that I have made here today,” Stalin told the public rally. Accusing the AIADMK government of “ruining” Tamil Nadu in the past ten years, Stalin also took a dig at the ruling party on corruption. In his vision for the state, Stalin said over the next ten years, the goal would be to achieve double-digit growth that will exceed Rs 35 lakh crore, increase the per capita income to Rs 4 lakh, and generate 10 lakh jobs every year to halve the unemployment rate. “To lift one crore people from abject poverty and make Tamil Nadu the first state in India that will not have even a single person below the poverty line. To increase the consumption of water per individual from nine lakh litres to 10 lakh litres a year,” he said. Harping on social justice, Stalin said all homemakers will get Rs 1,000 a month as “rightful pay”, promised to double the scholarship amount for SC, ST and OBC students and gave an assurance that manual scavenging will be abolished once and for all. He also said the aim was to triple the percentage of gross state domestic product (GSDP) on education and healthcare from 1.9 per cent and 6 percent respectively and to reduce the school student drop-out rate from 16 per cent to 5 per cent. Establishing model schools and hospitals in all panchayat unions, doubling the number of doctors, nurses, paramedics, and other graduates increasing the percentage of households that possess drinking water connection from 35 to 75 by providing tap water facilities to an additional 36 lakh households and to implement the solid waste management system in all urban areas are some of the other promises. Stalin also promised to increase the percentage of concrete houses in rural areas from 57 to 85 per cent by constructing another 20 lakh houses and providing drinking water connections to every household in the villages. Besides roads that brave all seasons, Stalin also promised broadband connection in all villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-president-stalin-releases-10-year-vision-for-tamil-nadu-959307.html
07-03-2021||South||Sri Lankan fishing boats suspected to be involved in drug peddling from Pakistan intercepted||Three Sri Lankan fishing boats were intercepted by the Indian Coast Guard off Lakshadweep the other day for suspicious activities in Indian territorial waters. The boats were suspected to be involved in smuggling narcotic drugs received from a Pakistan boat. The 19 crew members in the boats were kept in custody and investigation by various central agencies was underway. The incident occurred on March 5. According to an official statement, the crew members of one of the boats confessed that 200 kg heroine and 60 kg hashish were received from a Pakistan boat. Those were dumped in the sea when the Indian Coast Guard patrol team was spotted. An unauthorised communication equipment in the boat was also dumped in the sea.  The boats were brought to Vizhinjam harbour on Sunday for rummaging and detailed joint interrogation by concerned security agencies. The intercepted boats were Akarsha Duwa, Chathu Rani and Chathu Rani 08.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lankan-fishing-boats-suspected-to-be-involved-in-drug-peddling-from-pakistan-intercepted-959321.html
07-03-2021||South||Puducherry PCC working president expelled by Cong, joins AINRC||Working president of Congress in Puducherry A K D Arumgham was expelled from the party on Sunday even as he joined the opposition AINRC with just weeks left for the assembly elections in the union territory. The Pradesh Congress Committee got information that Arumugham had been making efforts to join "some other party" and hence, he was expelled from primary membership and also relieved from all party responsibilities with immediate effect, PCC President A V Subramanian said in a release. Meanwhile, Arumugham called on AINRC founder and former chief minister N Rangasamy and joined the party, it was announced. Arumugham is the latest to desert the party, which lost its government last month after a spate of resignations by its MLAs, several of whom have joined the BJP. Elections to the 30-member Puducherry assembly is to be held on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-pcc-working-president-expelled-by-cong-joins-ainrc-959332.html
07-03-2021||State||With 30 multiple-choice questions, SSLC a breeze||Students preparing for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate Examinations (SSLC) can heave a sigh of relief as the Department of Public Instruction has decided to go easy on question papers. Considering the fact that most of the academic days were lost due to the Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown and long closure of schools, and difficulty in accessing online classes, the department has decided to provide at least 30 questions carrying one mark. This decision will help students easily secure passing marks as they have to secure 28 marks in theory and 20 in internal assessment to sail through the board exams. In the previous year, the multiple-choice/one mark questions were for 20 marks, which has been increased to 30 this year. Officials from the department confirmed this to DH and said, “It is true that the number of multiple-choice questions has been increased to 30 this year. To attempt more application-based questions, children need more time for preparation. This year, considering the pandemic situation and fewer academic days, we have taken this decision.” The theory examination will be conducted for 80 marks and an internal assessment for 20 marks for core subjects and other language subjects except for the first language. The first language will be conducted for 125 marks where theory will be for 100 marks and internal assessment for 25 marks. With this change in the mode of framing, there will be a decrease in the number of descriptive questions. However, officials said that except for the increase in the number of one mark/multiple-choice questions, there will not be any changes in the quality or pattern. The model question papers have already been sent to schools and also uploaded on the website of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board for the benefit of students. Speaking to DH, H K Manjunath president of Karnataka High School Assistant Masters Association said, “This was needed this year as students are under pressure. The lack of offline classes has dented their confidence.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/with-30-multiple-choice-questions-sslc-a-breeze-959033.html
07-03-2021||State||Noted Kannada poet Lakshminarayana Bhatta passes away at 85||Noted Kannada poet, eminent academic and critic Prof N S Lakshminarayana Bhatta passed away on Saturday morning in Bengaluru due to age-related illness. He was 85. Known as 'NSL' in literary circles and the music world, Lakshminarayana was born in Shivamogga in 1936. A former dean and Kannada professor at Bangalore University, his poems gave a new direction to 'sugama sangeeta' (Kannada light music). Achieving a blend of tradition and modernity in his poems, he was one of the finest poets of modern Kannada literature (Navya tradition) with a fondness for children's literature. His poems, composed and sung by noted musicians like C Ashwath, Shivamogga Subbanna and Mysore Ananthaswamy, have become popular songs. He also translated the famous 50 sonnets of William Shakespeare (Suneeta), 50 poems of Irish poet William Butler Yeats (Chinnada Hakki) and several other prominent English writers into Kannada. Lakshminarayana also served as a visiting faculty in several US universities. His anthology of poems, including those popular as Kannada music albums,  such as 'Nilanjana', 'Deepika', 'Bhava Sangama', 'Baro Vasantha', 'Madhuri', 'Mandara' have been widely talked about. A recipient of Sahitya Academy and many other awards, Lakshminarayana's works include 'Mrichhakatika', 'Espeet Raja', 'Twelfth Night', 'Jagannatha Vijaya', 'Mudra Manjusha' and 'Comprehensive History of Kannada Literature' among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/noted-kannada-poet-lakshminarayana-bhatta-passes-away-at-85-959052.html
07-03-2021||State||Day after testing Covid-19 positive, 15 kids show no infection||In a relief to students and the Kalaburagi district administration, the 15 students who had tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, tested negative for the virus on Saturday. Throat swabs of 20 children of the government high school in Kalagi were collected on March 1 and the results of the 15 samples came back positive on Thursday. Suspecting something amiss, officials collected fresh samples of the “infected” students on Friday. The results on Saturday showed they were negative. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Dr Rajashekhar Maali told DH that 172 samples including those of teachers, students and cooks were collected on Friday and all tested negative for the virus on Saturday. “When the viral load is high, the report shows positive and when the load is less, the report comes negative. There are chances of the virus dying due to the time gap between the day the virus is contracted and the day the test is carried out,” he explained. Chances of swab contamination during collection seem bleak. If the swabs are contaminated, everyone should test positive, the DHO clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/day-after-testing-covid-19-positive-15-kids-show-no-infection-959064.html
07-03-2021||State||PM lauds Mangaluru doctor’s initiative to install ECG machines at Jan Aushadhi centre||Dr Padmanabha Kamath, Professor and Head of the Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College Hospital, Mangaluru took part in the interaction with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a part of Jan Aushadhi Divas or Generic Medicine Day, held at a ground near community health centre in Brahmavar in Udupi. Expressing happiness after interacting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Dr Kamath said “I am delighted and happy. Prime Minister has understood the whole concept of how the Jan Aushadhi scheme is becoming a Jan Upyogi scheme.” In his tweet, Dr Kamath said “Today was the day.. and I spoke my heart out at the Janaushadhi diwas award function interacting with our beloved PM.” During his interaction, Dr Kamath said “I have been the part of Jan Aushadhi abhiyan for the last three years. When I noticed people in rural areas were losing their lives due to delay in diagnosis, we under the initiative of  Cardiology at Doorstep (CAD) started Kayakalpa to install ECG machines in  Jan Aushadhi centres. These centres in rural areas remain open till late night. Through the ECG machines, several heart attacks have been diagnosed and thus helped in saving lives. The ECG machines have been installed 20 Jan Aushadhi centres in six districts in Karnataka. I am also part of the theme "Jan Aushadhi -- Seva Bhi, Rozgar Bhi,” he said. He explained how he helped a youth to set up a Jan Aushadhi centre in Mangaluru where in ECG machine has been installed. “People were wondering why I was associated with the Jan Aushadhi and installing ECG machines, in the beginning. Over a period of time, people who were critical are silent.” Lauding Dr Kamath for installing ECG machines in Jan Aushadhi centres, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said “your innovative thinking has helped many. It shows your service oriented mindset. I am happy to interact with you.” Dr Kamath said “initially I was told to speak for one and a half minute. Later, I was given three and a half minute to speak.”The tweet of Narendra Modi said “Dr Kamath from Mangaluru emphasised on two things:  His own work to help solve heart-related ailments. How the Jan Aushadhi scheme is fast becoming a Jan Upyogi scheme and giving a life of dignity to many people.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pm-lauds-mangaluru-doctor-s-initiative-to-install-ecg-machines-at-jan-aushadhi-centre-959199.html
07-03-2021||State||Karnataka government moves SC against sidestepping of 1950 accession treaty||The Karnataka government has approached the Supreme Court against a High Court judgment that declared the ownership of 1561.31 acres of land at Mysuru in favour of 'Maharaja of Mysore' against accession treaty of 1950 and the British government's decision of 1881-1883 declaring the area as 'Kharab' land meant for public purpose. In its special leave petition, the state government questioned the validity of the High Court's division bench order of December 15, 2020, saying it overlooked the fact that questions viz - who is the owner of the land and whether the land in question is 'Kharab' or not -- need to be answered independently.  A bench of Justices U U Lalit and K M Joseph, which took up the matter on March 5, allowed senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for the Karnataka government, three weeks time to place on record all documents, including those related to the accession agreement of January 23, 1950. The court posted the matter for consideration on April 12. Senior advocate Basava Prabhu Patil and advocate Nishanth Patil, appearing for residents of Kurubarahalli Village, Vasanthi Hegde and others agreed to await the top court's decision in the matter. In its petition, the state government through advocate V N Raghupathy contended that the lands in Kurubarahalli Village were classified as B- Kharab land in the Survey held during the British government in the year 1881-1883. Even in the resurvey held in the year 1921, the said lands were classified as such only. "The High Court by mixing and clubbing the issue of ownership of with the issue of its classification as Kharab and declaring that from ownership itself the status of Kharab is decided; has committed grave mistake resulting in miscarriage of justice and passing of erroneous orders," it said. In fact, there are lakhs of RTCs (Record of Rights) in Karnataka where the survey number is private but, at the same time, has Kharab classification, it added. Out of the total extent of 1563.31 acres, more than 600 acres of land comprised government and public properties such as lakes, forest land, State Administrative Training Institute (ATI), State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Mounted Police, Jockey quarters, roads, zoo, horse park, racecourse, Lalith Mahal Palace, helipad, Shooting range, Masjid, Motor section of the Police department, public lakes such as Karanji, and Tavarekatte. Kurbaralli land also contains two villages such as Tavarekatte village and Kurbaralli village where the public is residing and government schools, Government PU College, Anganwadi kendras etc, are functioning, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-moves-sc-against-sidestepping-of-1950-accession-treaty-959221.html
07-03-2021||State||Data shows steady surge in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka||The state’s Covid-19 numbers are on a definite rise since the start of the month. As per official data, the state recorded 3,764 new Covid-19 cases since March 1. This represents a percentage increase of 36.7 over figures reported 30 days ago. But the largest increases during this period have been in Bengaluru Urban, which recorded 2,388 cases since March 1. This represents a jump of 63.8% since four weeks ago. In fact, Bengaluru Urban’s sharp seven-day rise in numbers has been the highest since 4 to 10 January, when the number of cases was declining. At that time, 2,924 cases were recorded.  Testing has gone up in the last one week. Over 5 lakh tests were conducted since March 1. On Sunday, 622 cases were recorded across Karnataka, out of which 63% (389 infections) were found in Bengaluru Urban. The next highest numbers were 34 cases found in Kalaburagi district. Udupi district registered 30 cases followed by Tumkuru district 25 and Bidar 24.  As many as 351 Covid-19 patients, including 175 from Bengaluru Urban, were discharged post recovery on Sunday. Three new deaths were also recorded. All of the fatalities were males in their seventies. Two had died on March 3, a week after being diagnosed with the disease. The last had died on March 4, within 24 hours of being diagnosed. All of the deceased had late-stage symptoms of the disease, in addition to comorbidities such as diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/data-shows-steady-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-karnataka-959320.html
07-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi sex scandal: Somashekar says more ministers may seek injunction||An Additional City Civil and Sessions Court on Saturday granted temporary injunction restraining media houses from publishing content against six cabinet ministers, even as a few more ministers are likely to seek a similar legal refuge.  Somashekar told reporters there was a concerted effort to defame all the “rebel MLAs” who had joined BJP in 2018. Somashekar said they moved the court as a forethought. “Five or six more ministers will approach the court. We were informed about an organised attempt to create chaos during the upcoming legislature session, by releasing defamatory material against all of us. We believe this is orchestrated by those who hold us responsible for bringing down the coalition government. Such instances of defamation can undo our political career built over decades of hard work,” he said.  Defending their move, Health Minister K Sudhakar said the Jarkiholi scandal pointed towards a larger political vendetta. “These are hit-and-run defamation instances. By the time the inquiry is completed, the person’s image is already tarnished and the complainants abscond. We need to put an end to this unethical culture.”  However, it seems that the BJP leaders are divided over the ministers seeking refuge in an injunction. Many BJP leaders chose to maintain a distance from the issue calling it their  personal decision. Conspiracy, says Yogeeshwar Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar alleged on Saturday that the Jarkiholi scandal was a larger political conspiracy. "This is orchestrated by vested interests in Kanakapura and Belagavi. They will have to face the consequences in future," the minister said. It was Jarkiholi who lobbied for his induction into the cabinet.  TV channel moves caveat Meanwhile, a private TV channel moved a caveat requesting the court not to pass orders on the interlocutory application without hearing on the caveat. However, the court said it cannot consider the caveat since the orders on the IA were dictated and made ready.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-sex-scandal-somashekar-says-more-ministers-may-seek-injunction-959039.html
07-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget: CM B S Yediyurappa has to get his 'fundas' right amid funds crunch||Faced with a mammoth financial challenge, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will present the budget for the 2021-22 fiscal on Monday. His budget speech — Karnataka Vikasa Patra 2021 — will begin at 12.05 pm and the budget size is expected to be slightly larger than the Rs 2.35 lakh crore presented in the previous fiscal. Though new schemes could be offered as lip service to continue the budgetary tradition of big ticket announcements, committed revenue expenditure of the government is expected to cross the 90% mark. “This will leave less than 10% of the funds for development projects or welfare schemes,” sources said. Yediyurappa will have to come up with some innovative measures to increase revenue, despite the economy being on a downswing following the Covid-19 pandemic. He will be under pressure to improve the growth trajectory. The state will also face a major challenge adhering to the parameters of the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act. The Opposition has already cornered the government with queries on the source of budgetary funding, accusing the BJP government at the Centre of delaying release of funds to the state. Apart from massive differences in budgetary outlays and actual release of funds to the state, the Centre has also dragged its feet over release of grants of centrally sponsored schemes and projects, affecting development activities. The CM is expected to prioritise agriculture, women and child welfare, health and tourism sectors in the budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-has-to-get-his-fundas-right-amid-funds-crunch-959319.html
07-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No complaint against officials without verification: Karnataka Govt||Government departments are now barred from filing complaints against officials and other government servants based on anonymous complaints. What's more? A complaint can be registered against an official only after verifying the credentials of the complainant. This is according to a circular issued by Chief Secretary P Ravikumar on March 5. "Cases against government officials/employees, in some cases, are due to personal animosity, jealousy or due to prejudice," the circular said, noting that complaints lacking supporting information and documents have affected the "fair and fearless discharge of their duties." A petition by Karnataka State Government Employees Association to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had highlighted that many were using false names and addresses to file complaints against government officials, resulting in unnecessary inquiries against them. Following the petition, the CM had issued directions to stop such complaints, the circular said. "When a complaint is received, primary investigation can be ordered only after verifying the name and address of the complainant, and if the supporting documents submitted by the complainant prima facie indicated wrong-doing," it said. According to sources, the order could affect whistleblowers as there was no provision to ensure that the details of the complainant is kept confidential. "Moreover, in many cases involving government tenders, most of the complainants are other contractors who feel hard done by. Such measures prevent them from filing anonymous complaints, as they can't risk coming out in the open and hurting their future prospects," sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-complaint-against-officials-without-verification-karnataka-govt-959322.html
07-03-2021||West||Surat court acquits 122 persons accused of being SIMI members||A court in Gujarat's Surat on Saturday acquitted 122 persons arrested under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for participating in a meeting organised here in December 2001 as members of the banned outfit Students' Islamic Movement of India (SIMI). The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate A N Dave acquitted 122 persons arrested for being members of the banned outfit SIMI, giving them the benefit of doubt. Five other accused had died during the pendency of trial. In its order, the court said that the prosecution failed to produce "cogent, reliable and satisfactory" evidence to establish that the accused persons belonged to the SIMI and had gathered to promote the activities of the banned outfit. The court said the accused persons cannot be held guilty under the UAPA. As many as 127 persons were arrested by Surat's Athwalines police on December 28, 2001 under various sections of the UAPA for allegedly being members of the banned outfit SIMI and organising a meeting at a hall in city's Sagrampura to promote and expand the organisation's activities. The central government had through its notification dated September 27, 2001 banned SIMI. The accused belonged to different parts of Gujarat as well as from Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. In their defence, they said they did not belong to the SIMI and had gathered there to participate in a seminar organised under the banner of All India Minority Education Board. They said they were in the city for religious and educational purposes to take part in a seminar in a peaceful manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surat-court-acquits-122-persons-accused-of-being-simi-members-959068.html
07-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: 4 shops gutted in fire in Thane, no casualty||Four shops were gutted in a fire in a shopping complex in Maharashtra's Thane city early Sunday morning, a civic official said. No casualty was reported, he said. The fire broke out in the shopping complex located in Noopur building at Lokpuram in Pawar Nagar area around 5 am, Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell (RDMC) chief Santosh Kadam said. Four shops, including a mini-supermarket, a stationery store and a boutique, were completely destroyed in the blaze, he said. A fire engine and a team of the RDMC rushed to the spot and the flames were doused within an hour, he said. No one was injured in the fire, the official said. A probe was underway to ascertain the cause of the blaze, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-4-shops-gutted-in-fire-in-thane-no-casualty-959115.html
07-03-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray-led government to table Maharashtra Budget on March 8||Notwithstanding the economic slump in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, mounting debts and shortfall in revenue collection, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government’s second Budget is expected to focus on resource mobilisation, beefing up health facilities and carry forward social initiatives and boost infrastructure. Besides, it is to be seen how the Uddhav Thackeray-government gives some sort of relief to the people of Maharashtra from the rising petrol, diesel and LPG prices – when it tables the Budget for the year 2021-22 in the Legislature on Monday. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, has given the final touches to the Budget which will be presented on March 8. For the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government, which had targeted the Narendra Modi-government for the rising petrol, diesel and LPG prices, addressing this issue is a major challenge. Maharashtra Congress President Nana Patole and his Mumbai counterpart Bhai Jagtap and the party MLAs rode in cycles to the Vidhan Bhavan complex.  Patole had also questioned why celebrities like Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay Kumar, are now quiet though they had targeted the erstwhile Dr Manmohan Singh-led UPA government for price rise. These were, however, described as a “publicity stunt” by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, petrol now costs Rs 96-97 per litre (approx) and diesel costs Rs 88 per litre (approx). The state government recovers 25% VAT on petrol and 21% VAT on diesel in Maharashtra. In addition, the government also charges an additional cess of Rs 10.20 per litre on petrol and Rs 3 per litre on diesel. Last week, when Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, addressed the joint session, he mentioned the revenue shortfall. “Out of the revenue collection target of Rs 3,47,456 crore, the State has collected just Rs 1,88,542 crore at the end of January 2021. This is 35 per cent less than the budgetary estimate and 21 per cent lower than the collection in the same period in the previous year.” The Economic Survey for 2020-21 reflects that Maharashtra’s debt stock has crossed a whopping Rs five lakh crore. The debt stock currently stood at 5,20,717 crore (budget estimates) while the interest payment due was Rs 35,531 crore. In 2019-20, the debt stock stood at Rs 4,64020 crore (revised estimates), the interest due was Rs 34,173 crore. The debt stock of Rs 5,20,717 crore, which is 19.6 per cent of GSDP, well within the limit – 25 per cent of the GSDP – as per  Fiscal Policy Strategy Statement 2020-21. The Economic Survey said that the State’s economy is expected to grow by minus 8 per cent during 2020-21 – a similar growth to what the Indian economy is expected to grow. Maharashtra’s Agriculture and allied activities to grow by 11.7%; Industry by minus 11.3% and Services by minus nine per cent in 2021. The revenue receipts of the State are Rs 3,47,457 crore for 2020-21 (BE) as against Rs 3,09,881 crore during 2019-20 (RE). The tax and non-tax revenue (including central grants) as per 2020-21 (BE) are Rs 2,73,181 crore and Rs 74,276 crore respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-led-government-to-table-maharashtra-budget-on-march-8-959119.html
07-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare: Car, gelatin sticks found near Antilla sent for forensic test||Mumbai Police have sent for forensic analysis the car and gelatin sticks found in it near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month, officials said on Sunday. The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina in Mumbai will check the car for any blood stain, hair or any other clue to help identify the person who drove it and those present in the vehicle when it was parked near Ambani's residence, an official said. The lab will submit its report to police in a week, he said. The car, a Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near 'Antilia', Ambani's multi-storey residence in south Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The vehicle and the gelatin sticks were sent to the forensic lab on Friday, an FSL official said. The lab will find out what was the percentage of gelatin in the sticks, the official said. The FSL, with the help of experts, will also try to find out if the chassis number of the car was changed, to help identify the real owner of the vehicle and in whose name it was registered, he said. The forensic lab has taken the case on priority and will submit its report in a week, the official said. The FSL's general analytical division, and the DNA and physics departments will work on the case, he added. Automobile accessories dealer Mansukh Hiren (46), who was in possession of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday morning. Prior to his death, Hiren had said in a statement recorded by police that when he was on the way from his shop in Thane to Crawford Market in south Mumbai for some work on February 17, the vehicle's steering got jammed. He left the car on service road in Vikhroli and took a cab, he said. After finishing work, he met a friend and returned to Thane in his car, he told police. The next day he found that the Scorpio was missing and lodged a police complaint, Hiren had told the media. While the police had maintained that Hiren owned the car, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said in the state Assembly on Friday that he was not the owner. The real owner had handed it over to Hiren for some interior work, Deshmukh said. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has taken over the probe into the entire matter. The viscera of Hiren has also been sent for forensic analysis, police said on Saturday. The autopsy report of Hiren reserved the opinion on the cause of death, officials earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-car-gelatin-sticks-found-near-antilla-sent-for-forensic-test-959144.html
07-03-2021||West||Karachi Bakery owner says they will never change name or leave Mumbai: Report||The owners of the iconic Karachi Bakery, embroiled in several controversies over having `Karachi' in its name, have come out with a response over the shuttering of its Mumbai store. "Our lease agreement expired in Mumbai, which is why we shut the store. We are searching for new places and will come back once that is found. The brand is not leaving Mumbai,” Ramani told the publication. “The controversy saddened us but we have to carry our legacy forward. I used to go to the store after school ever since I was nine years old. We have emotional ties with the brand," Ramani added In November 2020, Haji Saif Shaikh, a local leader of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, had sent a legal notice to the owner, saying that the word Karachi hurts sentiments of ordinary Indians and the Indian Army because it is a Pakistani city. The bakery should be renamed and the signboard should be in Marathi, he had demanded. In its response, the bakery owner said it was established by a Sindhi-Hindu family which migrated from Pakistan, and the brand is now recognized globally. They did not use the name Karachi to hurt the feelings of Indians. In fact, bakery founder Khanchand Ramani had experienced violence by pro-Pakistan elements during Partition, it said. Being a "victim of violence espoused by Pakistan", they can never make any statement or do anything that can hurt feelings of fellow Indians, the bakery said. "It is incorrect to suggest that my client (bakery owner) has disrespected the sacrifice of our soldiers. The bakery has always been Indian and will continue to do so. Therefore, every allegation questioning my client's loyalty towards India is incorrect and unwarranted," the reply said. In the same month, a local Shiv Sena worker had demanded that the owner should drop `Karachi' from its name because of its Pakistani connection. He had further told the owner that he will give him time to rename the shop. In his post on Facebook, he added that the word Karachi should be dropped from all signboards in 15 days. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut later tweeted that Karachi Bakeries and Karachi Sweet Shops are operating in Mumbai for the last 60 years, and "they have nothing to do with Pakistan". Controversy's child Controversies surrounding its name are certainly not new to the bakery which was founded in Hyderabad in 1953 and now boasts over 20 outlets across cities like Chennai, Bengaluru and Delhi, apart from Hyderabad itself. Following the Pulwama attack in 2019, the spotlight fell on Karachi Bakery in Ahmedabad and Bengaluru where the management of the two stores was told by vigilantes to hide ‘Karachi’, Pakistan’s buzzing commercial centre, from their signboards. Forced to show their Indianness, they also put up a tricolour along with posters reading that the brand was established in 1953 by a Sindhi, Khanchand Ramnani, who migrated to India after Partition and is "absolutely Indian by heart". (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/karachi-bakery-owner-says-they-will-never-change-name-or-leave-mumbai-report-959169.html
07-03-2021||West||1 injured as Gujarat cop opens fire during clash, 2 hit by sword||One person was injured after a constable allegedly opened fire while two others were attacked by a sword during a clash over a dispute between two groups in Ahmedabad, police said on Sunday. The incident took place in Vatva locality here on Saturday evening, Vatva police inspector H V Sisara said. He said a man and a woman of the same community eloped about three weeks back. Later, the woman's relatives attacked and injured family members of the man, he said. Four persons were also arrested in that connection and later released on bail, the official said. The constable, who is a relative of the man who eloped, and some others had a clash with the woman's relatives on Saturday. The constable allegedly fired a bullet which hit a person on his back, the official said. The victim was admitted to a city hospital and his condition was stable, he said. Besides, two others were hit by a sword during the clash and they were reported to be out of danger, he said. The constable and five other accused fled after the incident and efforts were on to nab them, the official said, adding that a case was registered against them under various sections, including attempt to murder and rioting. The constable was posted at the city's Gomtipur police station, but had not reported on duty for the past five months, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1-injured-as-gujarat-cop-opens-fire-during-clash-2-hit-by-sword-959175.html
07-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren wrote to Maharashtra CM alleging harassment by cops, media||Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the car that was found with explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, in a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister and Home Minister had alleged that he was being harassed by police and media. He had also claimed that inspite of being a victim, he was treated as an accused. The car, a Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near 'Antilia', Ambani's multi-storey residence in south Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Hiren (46) was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday morning. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has taken over the probe into the entire matter. A letter dated March 2, purportedly written by Hiren and addressed to CM Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and police commissioners of Thane and Mumbai, surfaced on Saturday. The letter had the receiving stamp of the "Commissioner of police, Brihanmumbai" dated March 3. In the letter, Hiren claimed he was being harassed despite not having any knowledge about the culprits, who not only "stole his vehicle but also misused it". "I have already given my explanation and statements about how the vehicle was stolen, and I am being victimised andsuffering harassment by police and news reporters," Hiren said in the letter. He sought protection and intervention of the authorities to whom the letter was addressed. In the letter, Hiren said he had lodged an FIR with Vikhroli police on February 18 about his missing vehicle. "On February 25,policemen from the ATS told me that the vehicle was found near Ambani's house with explosives. I was interrogated and they left," he said in the letter. Officials from Ghatkopar police questioned him again on February 26, he said. Later, officials from Vikhroli police questioned him and detained him at the police station till the next day early morning, after which he was dropped at his houseon February 27, he said in the letter. Hiren mentioned that he also got calls from Vikhroli and Ghatkopar police stations the same day. On March 1, he was called by the Nagpada ATS, he said. Hiren also said he was interrogated by (Mumbai police officer) Sachin Vaze at the Crime Intelligence Unit's (CIU) office and asked the same questions. He also claimed that he was questioned by "NIA officers and by Joint CP Bhamre". "The interrogation by various agencies disturbed my peace of mind. Inspite of being a victim, I am treated as an accused. I have also beenreceiving calls from media houses who have been harassing me and my family," he said. Hiren in the letter also requested for necessary legal action into the matter. The viscera of Hiren has also been sent for forensic analysis, police said on Saturday. The autopsy report of Hiren reserved the opinion on the cause of death, officials earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-wrote-to-maharashtra-cm-alleging-harassment-by-cops-media-959186.html
07-03-2021||West||Stay to basics of surveillance, Centre suggests Maharashtra over Covid-19 situation||Amid a recent surge of Covid-19 cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and other urban Centres, the Centre has asked the Maharashtra health administration to stick to the basics of surveillance, contact tracing and testing. “Don't let the guard down: stay to the basics of surveillance, contact tracing and testing. Micro plan and ensure strict compliance of protocols. Strengthen teams to ensure meticulous home quarantine, do focussed testing of 100% population in hotspot areas repeated at five days, and isolate positives to check spread,” according to the report of the Central team that visited the state on 1-2 March. The Centre has asked for a massive Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign. “Massive IEC Campaign and collective behavioural change and influencing for Covid-appropriate behaviour is needed,” the report states. “Those who are opinion makers - some political leaders, some doctors - they may themselves not be following these. Renewed effort at motivation, communication, engagement with opinion makers and strict enforcement is a must. Media orientation/engagement will be useful,” it said, adding that the ‘Me Jababdar’ campaign needs to be strengthened. The Centre has asked District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners and Police Commissioners to “lead from the front proactively” to enhance coordination, the report said, pointing out that: “What needs to be done is fairly known.... ‘getting it done’ is what is required now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stay-to-basics-of-surveillance-centre-suggests-maharashtra-over-covid-19-situation-959190.html
07-03-2021||West||Doctors should prescribe generic medicine to help poor patients: Prakash Javadekar||Doctors should prescribe generic medicines to help poor people, Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting Prakash Javadekar said on Sunday. “Except for complicated disease where there is need for specific formulas, for other ailments the use of generic medicine should be encouraged,” Javadekar said speaking on the occasion of the third Jan Aushadhi Diwas in Pune, where he announced to start a campaign for doctors to popularise the use of generic medicine in the country. Javadekar visited a Pradhanmantri Bhartiya Jan Aushdhi Kendra in Kothrud, Pune and attended Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s live telecast interaction from Shillong. He also interacted with the doctors and beneficiaries at the centre.  Javadekar said that PM Modi has launched the world's biggest Health Insurance scheme which is helping 50 crore Indians. “The cost of medicines at these Jan Aushadhi stores is 60 to 70 per cent cheaper than market price. The prices of over 500 medicines have been reduced,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/doctors-should-prescribe-generic-medicine-to-help-poor-patients-prakash-javadekar-959192.html
07-03-2021||West||Maharashtra cannot afford to let go of Nanar refinery project: MNS Chief Raj Thackeray writes to CM Uddhav Thackeray||In a politically significant development, MNS President Raj Thackeray has shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to ensure that the super-refinery project in the coastal Konkan belt does not go out of the state. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena was earlier opposed to the project and had come out in support of locals who were against it. “Sometime ago, I read that a major international project was passed onto Bengaluru and the Maharashtra state government was trying its best to get it back. This piece of news was rather heartbreaking. The other states are in a cut throat game of snatching projects out of Maharashtra. In such trying times, Maharashtra should not let go off the ‘Ratnagiri Rajapur Refinery’ project. This is a massive project of nearly three lakh crore. We surely cannot afford to lose this project to another state (sic),” Raj wrote to his estranged cousin CM Uddhav who is also the president of the Shiv Sena. Raj also sent similar letters to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. The project is commonly referred to as the Nanar project.  The Shiv Sena has been opposing the Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Ltd (RRPCL) project which was put on hold in 2019. The scrapping of the project was one of the conditions put forward by the Shiv Sena for a tie-up with the BJP ahead of Lok Sabha and Vidhan Sabha polls. The then government, led by BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, had later proposed to shift the project to Raigad where the City and Industrial Development Corporation (CIDCO) is planning an industrial township. Speaking about the Konkan region, Raj, in his letter, said, “Whilst nature has bestowed so much natural beauty to the Konkan region, this region also stands out as a cultural seat and most of our outstanding personalities that are the true treasures of our country are from this region. In most of my speeches, I have gone on record to state, that if one maps out the geographic boundaries of the Konkan coastline, then this region has gifted us 7 Bharat Ratnas, out of these 4 are from Dapoli itself.” According to him, although the region was gifted, Konkani youths find themselves lost and in a dismal state of mind. For jobs and their daily livelihood, they have to turn towards Mumbai and Pune. In actuality, tourism can change this entire scenario. However, this thought process was not carried through methodically. There was a ray of hope that a big project would come and turn things around, unfortunately it did not materialize, he added.  "Presently, there is one opportunity knocking at the door. The Coronavirus backdrop has altered our perspective and the real context of situations. There is a serious contest on to get investments into states and the country,” Raj said. “The present situation is such that Maharashtra cannot afford to let go off any new project or a project that can bring in foreign investments. If we let this happen, we will lose our status of being a pioneer state in the industrial growth of our country. Today, the entire state of affairs have undergone a huge change after coronavirus and the subsequent lockdowns. So many of our youth stand unemployed. Our system and governance is facing a tremendous financial strain. Now is the time to safeguard our state, we need to change our perspective and look at the industrial sector and projects in a new light (sic),” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cannot-afford-to-let-go-of-nanar-refinery-project-mns-chief-raj-thackeray-writes-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-959214.html
07-03-2021||West||Congress' Chavda blames Namaste Trump event for outbreak in Gujarat||Gujarat Congress chief Amit Chavda claimed in the state Assembly that the Vijay Rupani government had ignored coronavirus outbreak warnings from the WHO as well as the Centre and had gone ahead with the mega event welcoming then United States President Donald Trump here. The event, organised in the stadium in Motera here, was held on February 24 last year and over a lakh people attended. "Following the COVID-19 outbreak in China, the World Health Organization had declared a health emergency on January 30 last year and had issued warnings to all countries. The Union government asked states not to hold large gatherings. Despite this, the Gujarat government organised Namaste Trump," Chavda said in the Assembly on Saturday. He was speaking on the motion of thanks after Governor Acharya Devvrat's address in the House. "When the government was supposed to warn the people about the outbreak, it went ahead and organised an event like Namaste Trump to satisfy the party's political ambitions," Chavda, MLA from Anklav in Anand district, alleged. Refuting the allegations, Gujarat BJP spokesperson Yamal Vyas said, "There is no connection between the Namaste Trump event and the spread of the virus. While the event was organized in February, the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in March." Gujarat reported its first set of Covid-19 cases, in Rajkot and Surat, on March 20, and, as on Saturday, has an infection tally of 2,72,811, including 4,414 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-chavda-blames-namaste-trump-event-for-outbreak-in-gujarat-959225.html
07-03-2021||West||Mukesh Ambani case: Anti-Terrorism Squad formally takes over Ambani SUV case||The Scorpio SUV and the gelatin sticks recovered near the residence of businessman Mukesh Ambani has been sent for forensic examination as the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) formally took over the probe. On Saturday evening, after state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh held a meeting with Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale, the government wrote to Additional Director General of Police Jai Jeet Singh, who heads the ATS to take over the investigations. On Sunday, the Mumbai Police sent the SUV and 20-odd gelatin sticks to the forensic science laboratory in Kalina for detailed examination. In the letter addressed to Singh, home department’s Deputy Secretary Ramesh Manale has mentioned both the cases—the recovery of the car and gelatine sticks outside Antilia, the home of Ambani, and the death of Mansukh Hiren, the prime witness in the case who owned the car. “The probe must start immediately and the report be submitted to the government at the earliest,” the letter states. The FSL will also try to find out if the chassis number of the car was changed, to help identify the real owner of the vehicle and in whose name it was registered. It may be recalled, Deshmukh, while making a statement in Maharashtra Legislature, last week, had claimed that the car belonged to one Sam Peter Newton, who had given the car to Mansukh Hiren’s automobile spare-parts company for interior refurbishment – as the original owner was not able to pay up for the work done. However, this was contested by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who had said Mansukh Hiren in his statement to the police had said he had purchased the car from Newton. What is more surprising is that days before he died, Mansukh Hiren had written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deshmukh and the Mumbai and Thane police chiefs, saying that he was being harassed. “I have already given my explanation and statements about how the vehicle was stolen, and I am being victimised and suffering harassment by police and news reporters," Hiren said in the letter and pointed out that he had been questioned by the Vikhroli and Ghatkopar police stations, Crime Intelligence Unit and Nagpada unit of ATS and also NIA. "The interrogation by various agencies disturbed my peace of mind. Despite being a victim, I am treated as an accused. I have also been receiving calls from media houses who have been harassing me and my family," he said. The letter and tracing the original owner of the car are also matters of the investigation. The family, friends and fraternity of Hiren Mansukh had stated that he was a good swimmer and could not have died by suicide, besides, he was financially sound, had no addictions or vices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mukesh-ambani-case-anti-terrorism-squad-formally-takes-over-ambani-suv-case-959238.html
07-03-2021||West||One year on, rising Covid cases still a concern in Maharashtra||A year after the coronavirus was first detected in Maharashtra, there remain a significant number of cases in the state, prompting strict measures from the Centre and the state governments to control the virus and speed up the vaccination drive. The first positive case in Maharashtra was detected in Pune on March 9, 2020, when a couple with a travel history to Dubai tested positive. The first death was reported on March 17, 2020, in Mumbai when a 64-year-old man, with a travel history to Dubai, succumbed to the virus. The cases in Maharashtra were brought under control between September and October 2020 with stringent lockdown measures, but since February, cases have been on the rise again. Last Friday and Saturday, the state recorded 10,000-plus cases for the first time since October. Barring the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), which is a hot-spot; cities like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati went under lockdown again to curb the spread of the virus. Maharashtra now has 92,000-plus cases. The state now has a progressive total of 20-lakh plus cases and over 52,000 deaths. When the pandemic broke out in the state, there were two testing centres, whereas now there are over 500. The pandemic was the first big challenge for the new Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Thackeray has repeatedly interacted with people of the state through webcast urging people to wear masks, wash and sanitize hands and maintain physical distancing. During the year, he also launched two ambitious scheme — ‘‘Majhe Kutumb, Majhi Jababdari’ (My Family, My Responsibility) and ‘Me Jababdar (I am Responsible)’ — which found mention in Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s address to the joint session. “While the exact causes of surge are not known as laxity in Covid behaviour is not specific to the State, the possible factors are: Covid inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue; miss outs and super spreaders and enhanced aggregations due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriage season and opening of schools, crowded public transport,” the Centre’s report about the surge in Maharashtra states. The virus is spreading to hitherto unaffected areas and most cases are asymptomatic. People are not strictly following quarantine or getting tested. The sense is that the current wave is less virulent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/one-year-on-rising-covid-cases-still-a-concern-in-maharashtra-959239.html
07-03-2021||West||Gujarat Congress didn't give me any work in local body polls; even opinion not sought, says working President Hardik Patel||Gujarat Congress working President Hardik Patel on Sunday slammed the functioning of the state unit after the party's humiliating defeat in the local body elections, claiming that no work was given to him in the polls and his opinion was also not sought for ticket distribution. He, however, also dismissed speculation about leaving the Congress in the future and said he would remain in the party and carry out whatever responsibility he is given. In an interview with PTI, Patel also raised questions over the understanding of the party's central leadership of Gujarat and said the Congress has failed to struggle as an opposition in the state. In order to strengthen the party, the high command has to understand Gujarat, he said. Patel also argued that the legislators have to be kept away from the work of the organisation. The comments by Patel, who was the face of the Patidar quota agitation in 2015, came days after the BJP won all 31 district panchayats, 74 out of 81 municipalities and also trounced its main rival Congress in 231 taluka panchayats. The success followed the BJP's clean sweep in elections for six municipal corporations in the first phase last month. The Congress could not even open its account in the Surat Municipal Corporation. Following the party's debacle, Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani sent their resignations to the party leadership. When asked about the reasons for the party's defeat, Patel said, "We have failed to win the public's trust. The struggle which we should have undertaken as an opposition, we have failed in that. The public feels that the Congress did not do its job as an opposition and that is why the Aam Aadmi Party got votes in many places." "In Surat, people from our movement had asked for only two tickets. The party did not even give that. Just because of those two seats we lost all the 36 seats there," he said. It is worth noting that in the last civic elections, the Congress had won more than 30 seats in the Patidar-dominated areas of Surat. Without naming any leader, Patel claimed, "I am the working president and I had no role in ticket distribution. I was told that the working president has no role in it. Nevertheless, I held several meetings on my own. I was not given any programme or work by the Pradesh Congress Committee." "Preparations for the local body elections had been going on for three months. Not even once in three months have I been told that you have to do this work. Tickets were distributed in more than 5,000 seats, but not even for one seat, I was asked to give my opinion. Even in Patidar-dominated areas, my opinion was not taken," he said. Asked about the resignation of Amit Chavda from the post of state president and Paresh Dhanani from the post of the leader of opposition, Patel said, "If I were also the president, I would have taken responsibility. They have resigned, but the responsibility lies with everyone." "Now everyone has to work hard," he added. Asked if the Congress high command did not take necessary steps in time, Patel said they have to understand Gujarat, and give importance to it. "We have not been in power in the state for 30 years. If we do not understand Gujarat, young workers like us will be left disappointed. The party is slumping day by day and no one is paying attention," Patel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-congress-didnt-give-me-any-work-in-local-body-polls-even-opinion-not-sought-says-working-president-hardik-patel-959269.html
07-03-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 case tally crosses 11,000-mark||Days before the Maharashtra government reviews the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the fresh cases crossed the 11,000-mark on Sunday. During the last 24 hours, 11,141 cases and 38 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 22,19,727 and 52,478, respectively. There has also been a steep rise in the cases in Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). While Mumbai recorded 1,361 cases and 4 deaths, MMR registered 2,493 and 8 deaths. The Budget Session of the Maharashtra Legislature is underway and before it ends, there would be a comprehensive review of the situation. During the day, 6,013 patients were discharged taking the total to 20,68,044. The case fatality rate in the state is 2.36 per cent.  Out of 1,68,67,286 laboratory samples 22,19,727 have been tested positive (13.16%) for Covid-19 until date. Currently, 4,39,055 people are in home quarantine and 4,650 people are in institutional quarantine. The total active cases in the state stand at 97,983 – and is close to reaching the one-lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-case-tally-crosses-11000-mark-959290.html
07-03-2021||West||All lady officers sailing aboard SCI Tanker MT Swarna Krishna||The Shipping Corporation of India Ltd (SCI), as a part of its ongoing diamond jubilee celebrations and also to commemorate International Women’s Day, achieved another feat when a tanker with all women officers sailing was cast off from the Nhava-Sheva port. Union Shipping, Ports and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya flagged off MT Swarna Krishna, a  product carrier of SCI from the Liquid Berth Jetty of the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust on Saturday. He acknowledged the contribution and sacrifice of the women seafarers who acted as the Indian ambassadors to the global maritime community. He applauded the officers, the majority of whom hailed from the Indian hinterlands, for choosing seafaring as a career and admired their determination for daring to take on the difficult profession regardless of the hardships, proving that they were unstoppable. Recounting the incredible feats achieved by several seafaring women in the past, he stated that women in the Indian maritime sector 'had arrived' to take on the challenges, excel in their performance and make the nation proud. He congratulated SCI’s efforts in pioneering the women’s integration into the sector and commended each of the 14 lady officers for their courage and valour, and also wished them a successful voyage and many more voyages ahead. Dr. Sanjeev Ranjan, Secretary (Shipping), Amitabh Kumar, Director General of Shipping, Rajiv Jalota, Chairman, Mumbai Port Trust and  Sanjay Sethi, Chairman, JNPT, who attended the ceremony virtually commended the efforts of the women seafarers. Capt. Suneha Ghadpande and CEO,  Divya Jatin Jain, were also present with officers of the team. The Captain and CEO of MT Swarna Krishna narrated the experiences of their maritime career and the requisites for sustenance and excelling in the sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-lady-officers-sailing-aboard-sci-tanker-mt-swarna-krishna-959294.html
07-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren death: ATS to probe murder angle||In a significant development, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) will probe a possible murder angle in the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, whose explosives-laden Scorpio SUV was planted near the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. After fast-pacing the investigations on Sunday, the ATS team visited the Vikas Palms Complex at Dr Ambedkar Road in Thane and spoke to the family members including Vimla Hiren, Hiren's wife. The team also visited the Reti Bunder area in Mumbra-Kalwa where Hiren's body was found last Friday. The ATS has registered on Vimla’s complaint under section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 34 (common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The FIR was registered against unknown person/s.  Mansukh Hiren (48) owned a car accessories business, Classic Car Decor, near Vandana Talkies in Thane. His family and friends have rejected the theory that he could have died by suicide or drowned, claiming that he was a good swimmer. On Saturday evening, after state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh held a meeting with Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale, the government wrote to Additional Director General of Police Jai Jeet Singh, who heads the ATS to take over the investigation. SUV sent for detailed examination On Sunday, Mumbai Police sent the SUV and 20 gelatin sticks found in it to the Forensic Science Laboratory in Kalina for detailed examination. In the letter addressed to Singh, Home department’s Deputy Secretary Ramesh Manale has mentioned both the cases — the recovery of the car and gelatine sticks outside Ambani's home Antilla, and the death of Mansukh Hiren, the prime witness in the case, who was in possession of the car. “The probe must start immediately and the report must be submitted to the government at the earliest,” the letter states. The FSL, with the help of experts, will also try to find out if the chassis number of the car was changed. This will help them identify the real owner of the vehicle and in whose name it was registered. It may be recalled, Deshmukh, in his statement to the Maharashtra Legislature last week, had claimed that the car belonged to one Sam Peter Newton, who had given the car to Mansukh Hiren’s automobile spare-parts company for interior refurbishment.  However, this was contested by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who had said that Mansukh Hiren in his statement to the police had said that he had purchased the car from Newton. Hiren's letter to the Maharashtra government What is more surprising is that days before he died, Mansukh Hiren had written to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deshmukh and the Mumbai and Thane police chiefs, saying that he was being harassed. “I have already given my explanation and statements about how the vehicle was stolen, and I am being victimised and suffering harassment by police and news reporters," Hiren said in the letter. Hiren pointed out that he had been questioned by the Vikhroli and Ghatkopar police stations, Crime Intelligence Unit and Nagpada unit of ATS and also NIA. "The interrogation by various agencies disturbed my peace of mind. Inspite of being a victim, I am treated as an accused. I have also been receiving calls from media houses who have been harassing me and my family," he said. This letter is also under investigation. Authorities are also working on tracing the original owner of the car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-death-ats-to-probe-murder-angle-959299.html
07-03-2021||West||'Partial lockdown' in Maharashtra's Aurangabad between March 11 and April 4||In view of the spike in coronavirus cases, the administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad on Sunday decided to impose a "partial lockdown" in the district between March 11 and April 4, as part of which markets, malls and cinema halls shall remain shut during the weekends, officials said. The world-famous heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora, and other tourist spots in the district will also remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays, while marriages will not be allowed to be held in function halls during the lockdown period, they said. Colleges, schools and training institutes will remain shut, they said. The decision to implement this partial lockdown across the district was taken during a meeting of the 'task force' comprising Collector Sunil Chavan, Municipal Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, Police Commissioner Nikhil Gupta, Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil and other officials. "The partial lockdown in Aurangabad district will come into force from March 11 and will continue till April 4," collector Chavan told reporters after the meeting. "Markets shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, but essential services shall operate on these days. Marriage ceremonies will not be allowed to be held at function halls and banquet halls during this period to avoid crowding. But the facility of registered marriage will be open," he said. Malls and cinema halls will remain shut during the weekends. Restaurants and hotels can operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity till 9 pm everyday and people can order food from them till 11 pm, he added. According to Chavan, online education shall continue as colleges, schools, and training institutes shall remain shut and libraries shall operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity. "Political, religious, social meetings, marches will be prohibited during this period. Swimming pools, sports competitions shall not be permitted," Chavan said. The world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora along with other tourist spots in the district shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, he said. Industries will continue to operate in this period but the the workforce there will be instructed to undergo RT-PCR tests, the collector said. The administration has decided to shut Jadhavwadi market in Aurangabad city for seven days from March 11, he said, adding, "If traders from this market commit to follow guidelines we can rethink of this decision later." "Bringing activities to a halt will not be done if partial lockdown works. If cases continue to go up, the option of imposing a stricter lockdown is open," Chavan said. The district had reported 459 coronavirus cases on Friday, which took its overall infection count to 52,103 that day. Till Friday night, there were 2,910 active cases in the district, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/partial-lockdown-in-maharashtras-aurangabad-between-march-11-and-april-4-959300.html
