08-03-2021||First Edit||Job quota, a retrograde step||Haryana’s law for reservation of jobs in the private sector for local residents is a retrograde measure which will hurt the interests both the state and the country. The Employment of Local Candidates Bill 2020, passed by the state assembly in November last year and notified by the government last week, requires companies to reserve 75% of jobs with a gross monthly salary of less than Rs 50,000 for people born in the state or those who have lived there for at least five years. It is part of a populist politics which seeks to appeal to the narrow parochial sentiments of the people without really helping them. The Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) led by Dushyant Chautala, which is a partner of the BJP government in the state, had promised job reservation for locals in the last election, and the government is now trying to implement it as it is dependent on the JJP’s support. Last year, the government had promulgated an ordinance providing for local job quota but the state governor refused assent for it. It was later passed by the assembly and is sought to be implemented now. It is surprising that the BJP, which claims to shun narrow sentiments and considerations and to have a national view, accepted such a proposal and is now implementing it as a policy in a state ruled by it. The consequences are predictable. Industry leaders have from the beginning opposed the policy. They rightly feel that when they invest money in a company, they should have the right to recruit the staff they need. When that freedom is denied, they may decide not to in invest in the state. That prospect becomes very real in view of the fact that industry has had to seek skilled labour from outside as there has been a shortage of many skills within the state. Haryana’s advantage of proximity to the national capital and having an industrialised city like Gurgaon will be lost because of the unwise measure. The constitutionality of the law is in serious doubt. The Andhra Pradesh assembly has also passed a similar legislation but it has been challenged in the high court. The verdict is yet to be pronounced but the court has said that "it may be unconstitutional.’’ The law seems to violate the constitutional rights to equality, equality of opportunity in employment and to freedom of movement. Every citizen should have the right to live and work in any part of the country. The Supreme Court has, in a 2014 ruling, said that “restrictions based on residence for the purposes of employment (are) unconstitutional”. What Haryana should do is to improve its human resources and the skills of its people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/job-quota-a-retrograde-step-959377.html
08-03-2021||In Perspective||Frontline forest staff need support||India has registered highest fatalities of frontline forest staff in the world. After learning this, a Supreme Court bench headed by the Chief Justice, recently urged the government to provide them arms, bulletproof vests and vehicles so that they can fight a powerful force involved in illegal wildlife trade worth millions of dollars.  The court sought the support of CBI and Enforcement Directorate to investigate the crimes and proceeds involved and hailed the efforts of the properly armed Assam forest staff in controlling poaching. Single-horned rhinoceros is the pride of Assam and to control its rampant poaching, the state has taken measures like legislative changes, bringing Wildlife (Protection) (Assam Amendment) Act, 2009, and constituting anti-rhino poaching task force comprising personnel from district police, forest and Assam Forest Protection Force equipped with sophisticated arms.  The services of CBI was also sought to unearth linkages. The Central government may consider common legislation on similar lines for the country. Earlier in 2009, the National Tiger Conservation Authority sanctioned company strength of Special Tiger Protection Force (STPF) for some tiger reserves. Karnataka recruited, trained and deployed them for the protection of Bandipur, Nagarhole and BRT tiger reserves.  The personnel recruited were of the rank of Deputy Range Forest Officers, Forest Guards and Forest Watchers. After serving for few years, they were transferred to regular posts in forest department, but their places in STPF were not filled.  Regular recruitment and training are a necessity so that there is no vacancy in STPF at any point in time.  The forest staff in Karnataka are provided with reasonably good weapons like .315 rifles, revolvers, slide action guns but are not engaged in regular training for its use and maintenance.  Also, there is no protocol for the security of the weapons. Amidst the anti-Veerappan’s operation in Kollegal in 1990-91, we lost several double barrel guns.  The gang once snatched a gun, when a Ponnachi forester was patrolling with his staff and other was taken from the residence of a Saggayam forester. Subsequently, the staff members were instructed to deposit weapons in the nearest police station.  This arrangement also did not work well as few years later, Veerappan and his gang attacked Ramapuram police station, killed some policemen and took away several weapons and thousands of rounds of ammunitions. Maintenance of weapons has been neglected in the Forest Department. In 1986-87, while I was working as Deputy Conservator of Forest in Shivamogga, a forest guard fired a shot from double barrel gun to defend teammates from the attack of teak smugglers.  The barrel was not clean and it backfired injuring him severely. Instances of misfire from the weapon have not been uncommon in the forest department. In one incident at a forest rest house in M M Hills in 1990-91, I was preparing to go for Veerappan operation, when an Assistant Conservator of Forests meddling with .315 rifle. He ended up firing a bullet that narrowly missed me. It pierced the wall of the room.  Misfire of weapons I have experienced misfire of weapons by policemen in the operation. While I was seated on the front seat of an old Mahindra jeep with the then Deputy Inspector General of Police, Mysuru range, V V Bhaskar, a policeman sitting in the back seat misfired a light machine gun.  In yet another case of misfire during the operation, a policeman accidently fired a bullet through thighs of his colleague, incapacitating him permanently. While assessing the management of human-tiger conflict in Brahmpuri and Central Chanda forest divisions in Maharashtra in 2018-19, I learnt that forest staff were not provided weapons in areas affected by left wing extremism. Security of weapon is a concern. Additional weapons in enemy’s hands pose bigger challenge for security forces in jungle warfare.  After opening fire on smugglers and poachers, forest personnel faced arrest and prosecution and were hesitant to open fire even if the situation demanded. The Karnataka government issued an order in 1991 under Section 197(3) of Code of Criminal Procedure, authorising them on patrol duty to open fire to defend themselves as well as forest properties.  Only if they are held guilty by Executive Magistrate in the enquiry that follows, police would arrest and prosecute. Although the order was issued with the concurrence of the Home Department, it did not go well with the police officers on the ground.  The Supreme Court suggestion to provide bulletproof vests to forest staff is a welcome step. However, bulletproof vehicles may not be of much use in interior areas where they move on two wheelers and on foot. If the staff take a stand that they will visit places where bulletproof vehicles go, vast stretches of forest would remain unguarded. Providing modern arms and ammunitions is also a welcome step, but proper training for maintenance, its use and security must be addressed. (The writer is former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/frontline-forest-staff-need-support-959379.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Screening of Kodava film 'Usar' from today||The 19th Kodava film Usar will be screened at Sri Ramamandira in Napoklu from Monday. The story of the film is based on the lives of youth affected by the drug menace and their family members. The film aims to create awareness in society. Usar has been produced by Pasura Ramya Nanaiah and directed by Pratish Poovaiah and Acheyada Gagan Ganapathy. The premiere show of the film was recently held at Mukkole resort in Hoddur village and was attended by dignitaries. Napoklu Kodava Samaja president Appachettolanda Manu Muttappa inaugurated the premiere. Speaking on the occasion, he said that it is a great job to produce a film in the Kodava language. Producer Ramya Nanaiah, directors Pratish and Gagan are to be congratulated, he said. Director Baleyada Pratish Poovaiah said that the team decided to produce films after the success of short films. There is a good message in the film Usar. Kodagu Press Club president Ajjamada Ramesh Kuttappa, Virajpet Kodava Samaja president Vanchira Vittal Nanaiah, Kodagu District Central Cooperative Bank president Ketolira Harish Poovaiah, Madikeri APMC former president Shivachaliyanda Ambi Cariappa and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/screening-of-kodava-film-usar-from-today-959359.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||PM Modi lauds Mangaluru doctor for installing ECG machines at Jan Aushadhi centres||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday praised the efforts of Dr Padmanabha Kamath, a Mangaluru-based doctor who has helped in setting up ECG machines at Jan Ausadhi centres across the state. Dr Kamath, a professor and head of the Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College Hospital, Mangaluru, took part in a virtual interaction with PM Modi as part of Jan Aushadhi Divas or Generic Medicine Day at Brahmavar in Udupi. The PM tweeted, “Dr Kamath from Mangaluru emphasised on two things: His own work to help solve heart-related ailments. How the Jan Aushadhi scheme is fast becoming a Jan Upyogi scheme and giving a life of dignity to many people.” Dr. Kamath from Mangaluru emphasised on two things: His own work to help solve heart-related ailments. Lauding Kamath, Modi said, “Your innovative thinking has helped many.” “I am delighted and happy. The prime minister has understood the whole concept of how the Jan Aushadhi scheme is becoming a Jan Upyogi scheme,” said Kamath. The doctor later tweeted, “Today was the day... and I spoke my heart out at the Janaushadhi diwas award function interacting with our beloved PM.” "This brought tears in my eyes..When Sri Modiji said doctor saab Seva aapka samskaar hai.. doctor naam me aap ek moorthroop hai .. simply unforgettable.. Modiji I will remember this forever,: he added in another tweet. During his virtual interaction, Kamath said “I have been part of the Jan Aushadhi Abhiyan for the last three years. When I noticed people in rural areas were losing their lives due to delay in diagnosis, we, under the initiative of Cardiology at Doorstep (CAD), started Kayakalpa to install ECG machines in Jan Aushadhi centres. These centres in rural areas remain open till late at night. With the help of the machines, several heart attacks have been diagnosed and lives have been saved. The machines have been installed at 20 Jan Aushadhi centres in six districts of Karnataka,” he said. He explained how he helped a youth to set up a Jan Aushadhi centre in Mangaluru, where an ECG machine has been installed. Sunder Poojary, owner of the Jan Aushadhi Kendra and Sandeep Poojary, a beneficiary, were also selected to interact with the PM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pm-modi-lauds-mangaluru-doctor-for-installing-ecg-machines-at-jan-aushadhi-centres-959501.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Small-scale industries welcome Karnataka Budget, hoteliers feel neglected||The state budget, presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday, evoked mixed response in Mysuru. While Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Council (MSMEC) of Mysuru welcomed the budget, members of the Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association (MHOA) expressed displeasure. The Congress leaders claim that the budget is useless, even as BJP leaders appreciate it. However, farmer leaders expressed unhappiness. MHOA president C Narayan Gowda said that the government has totally neglected the hospitality sector. "The CM has not considered hotels and other business related to travel and hospitality. We did not expect this. Not even a single demand of ours' is considered," he said. MSMEC general secretary Suresh Kumar Jain said that despite the Covid-19 crisis, the CM has presented a good budget, which will give a boost to MSMEs. "Loan, up to Rs 2 crore for women entrepreneurs at 4% rate of interest, week-long annual exhibition to market products of women entrepreneur and self-help groups, are welcome," he said. "In addition, Elevate Women Entrepreneurship, meant to provide hand holding facilities, consultancy, global connect and funding assistance with an initial fund of Rs 5 crore, will help women entrepreneurs. Additional 15% subsidy for micro food processing industries and cold storage units is commendable," he said. BJP leader, also Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Chairman H V Rajeev appreciated the budget and said, "The move to bring peri-urban areas under Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Sewerage Board from MUDA will definitely improve water management and helps sewerage network systematically." BJP city president T S Srivatsa said that the CM has presented a historical budget amidst the Covid crisis. "The budget aims to improve the revenue of the state. Increase in reservation for children of farmers in education, hi-tech cocoon market, and several programmes for the welfare of farmers and funds for the agriculture sector is appreciated," he said. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson H A Venkatesh said that there is no clear objective and pro-development programmes in the budget. "Inflation is on the rise, due to state and Center’s mismanagement. The state needed an effective budget post-Covid. But, the CM has failed. Due to the lack of vision and ability of the CM, the state is deprived of a pro-development budget," he said. Govindaraju, as assistant professor of English, said, “The state budget, presented on the occasion of International Women's Day, is commendable as it has many schemes and projects for the upliftment of women. Ten per cent reservation for women in APMCs is a good move, which will help rural women. Financial support to women to start small-scale industries and business also is a boon for women entrepreneurs. Chamarajanagar, a border district, getting allocation for the development of a turmeric market, is significant.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/small-scale-industries-welcome-karnataka-budget-hoteliers-feel-neglected-959664.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan airport to take off, Rs 175 crore earmarked||There is a mixed reaction, from the districts of the Mysuru region, for the state budget, presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, on Monday. The much-awaited Hassan airport is likely to take off, with the government allocating Rs 175 crore. It may be mentioned that 543 acres of land was acquired decades ago and there were assurances of establishing an international-standard airport in Hassan. The airport in Hassan is the dream of JD(S) supremo and former prime minister H D Deve Gowda. Once the airport becomes operational, it will boost tourism activities in the Hassan district. Besides the airport, there is a plan for a pilot training institute and a flight management centre. Deve Gowda had performed the groundbreaking ceremony in 2007. However, there was no progress after 2008. However, the people of Hassan district, who were expecting a permanent solution for the wild animals' menace, schemes for coffee growers and the development of Channapattana lake are disappointed. The ‘Bear Sanctuary’ at Arsikere is also pending. The budget has no major projects or funds for Mandya, disappointing the people, who hoped for a bonanza for the district, the native of the CM. The CM had assured of developing KR Pet taluk, on the lines of Shikaripura, during the byelection and requested the people to give him a chance to develop the district. But, neither major projects nor funds are earmarked for agriculture, industries or tourism sectors, said farmer leaders. Seats for postgraduate courses at Mandya Institute of Medical Sciences (MIMS) are increased by 100. The current seats are 59. Rs 10 crore is allotted for the development of Sir M Visvesvaraya Stadium. Besides, the CM has announced Rs 10 crore for ‘Natha Parampara Kendra’ proposed on the premises of Adichunchanagiri Mutt in Nagamangala taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-airport-to-take-off-rs-175-crore-earmarked-959666.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka Budget not in favour of poor, say leaders||Former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda criticised the budget presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, on Monday, as the worst budget so far, in the history of Karnataka. “No announcement is made for reviving Mysore Sugar factory in Mandya. There is no proposal to increase either medical facility in hospitals or to provide basic facilities at tourist spots in Mandya district. While the price of rice, dal, cooking oil, LPG, petrol and diesel has increased, no effort is made to check the surging prices. The CM has failed to address the anxiety among the people. It is an useless budget,” he opined. MLA C Puttarangashetty claimed that the budget is not of any use to the poor and favours only the upper class. “There are 18 corporations in the state and Rs 500 crore has to be shared among 16 of them. The remaining two corporations have got Rs 1,000 crore. The state is following the Centre’s way of favouring only rich. Chamarajanagar district is totally neglected. Except eco-tourism, no new scheme is announced. The expectations of the people on funds for the third phase of drinking water project for Chamarajanagar district has failed,” he said. While Chamarajanagar BJP district president Sundar claimed it to be a model budget, benefitting poor, women, farmers and middle class people, P Mariswamy, district Congress president said that the BJP government has again disappointed the people of Chamarajanagar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-budget-not-in-favour-of-poor-say-leaders-959670.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kakati Police seize explosives during transit||Explosives weighing 6.675 tonnes and worth Rs 4 lakh, being transported by violating safety norms and posing threat to human lives, were seized by the Kakati police near a dhaba at Honaga village on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway in the taluk. Police said the explosives were being carried by violating norms in goods vehicles. They seized the vehicles near a dhaba at Honaga village. Three suspects have been detained in this connection.  They are Ramesh Rayappa Lakkot, Raju Ishwar Shirgavi, residents of Bobalwad in Chikkodi, and Arun Srishail Mathad, a resident of Mugali. The Kakati police are investigating.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kakati-police-seize-explosives-during-transit-959672.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Permission mandatory to use explosives in quarries: DC||Deputy Commissioner R Girish said that it is mandatory for all mine owners and contractors to get permission from the Directorate General of Mines Safety and submit it to the district administration for approval, before using explosives for quarrying activities in Hassan district. Addressing a meeting with the Mining Task Force Committee recently, he directed the officials of the Mines and Geology department to inspect the safety measures adopted at all the 160 quarries in Hassan district and submit a report. Explosives are not to be used at any of the quarries without permission. All steps should be taken to protect the lives and health of labourers, he said. "The officials should be cautious while issuing new licenses for quarrying. They should ensure that the quarries are not near the main road and the activities do not cause harm to houses, temples and public property," he stressed. The DC asked the officials to curb illegal sand transportation. Unauthorised transportation of sand should be stopped near checkposts. The police and home guard personnel should be deployed at checkpoints. A taluk-level team should be constituted to monitor it, he said. He warned of stern action against those who misuse the vehicles fixed with GPS system. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda and Additional DC Kavitha Rajaram were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/permission-mandatory-to-use-explosives-in-quarries-dc-959673.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Watch CM B S Yediyurappa's Karnataka Budget Speech 2021 here||Faced with a mammoth financial challenge, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will present the Budget for the 2021-22 fiscal today. His budget speech — Karnataka Vikasa Patra 2021 — will begin at 12.05 pm and the Budget size is expected to be slightly larger than the Rs 2.35 lakh crore presented in the previous fiscal. Watch the Karnataka Budget speech by CM B S Yediyurappa live here:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/watch-cm-b-s-yediyurappas-karnataka-budget-speech-2021-here-959460.html
08-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP candidate Muniraju Gowda becomes MLC unopposed||BJP candidate Muniraju Gowda P M was elected member of the Legislative Council unopposed on Monday. Muniraju, who had unsuccessfully contested against the now BJP MLA Muniratna in the 2018 elections - had filed the nomination papers last week. Gowda was elected to the seat that fell vacant, following the demise of former deputy chairman of the Council S L Dharme Gowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-candidate-muniraju-gowda-becomes-mlc-unopposed-959668.html
08-03-2021||Main Article||'Love Jihad' laws: A setback for feminism||It’s the year 19G5. Dear diary,  Today was a weird day. I decided to go out with this guy, let’s call him K, to get some pizza and drinks. We are eating our food and talking about poetry when this random dude decides to come to our table and starts yelling. He grabbed K by the neck and picked him up. When I resisted, he pushed me and shouted, “Shut up. You don’t understand, we are protecting you from this Jihadi jerk, who’s on a mission to force, allure, coerce you into conversion.”  Thankfully, there was a cop in the cafe. He asked me what’s happening. When I told him, he said, ‘Don’t worry, let me take care of this,’ and took him to the police van. K and I decided to head out, and on our way, discussed the political bogey of love jihad.  This is not an ideal world. It’s a normal world. There are bad people, bullies, and the concept of love jihad also exists, but there’s no anti-love jihad law and the police protects people from harassment of any kind, while also guarding people’s freedom to talk and eat together, and marry, if it leads to that, regardless of the religion they practice.  They also steer clear of asking the woman to shut up and be her saviour, when she’s not asking to be saved. It’s year 19G5 and it’s not legal for anyone to come and yell at my table because I’m talking to a Muslim guy.   Dear, diary. I will catch up later. Gotta travel to year 2021 where things look bleak, and I have to fight for my autonomy.  What is love jihad?  A hollow concept that reeks of Islamophobia and sexism. A lot of people have dwelled on the former aspect, and anybody with an ounce of sense would be repelled with the nonsensical rationale behind the right-wing conspiracy theory that men from the Muslim community are marrying women from other religious faiths, particularly Hindu women, and forcing them to convert to Islam.   But are we going to talk about the misogyny it conjures before they normalise taking away from us our freedom to choose, and get their ideological swords out to ‘protect’ us from the ruses of imaginary monsters?    In November 2020, Uttar Pradesh passed the first “anti-love jihad” law in the country, calling it Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance. The law requires interfaith couples to provide two months’ notice to a district magistrate before the wedding. The official, then, would have the discretion to decide whether the conversion was forced and the offender could be sentenced to 10 years in prison along with penalty.  Close to home, recently, BJP’s Karnataka state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel in a party workers rally said: “We will bring in a similar law that will protect innocent Hindu girls from being cheated by cunning youth of other faiths.”  Love jihad goes with the assumption that women are stupid, naive and gullible to get tricked by men, especially Muslim men, with malicious intent, to be precise. It’s already a law in some BJP-ruled states and as many other states follow suit, I, as a woman with a brain of my own, am offended that the state thinks I cannot take my decisions. I am not protected, but enraged if you deprive me of my agency and choice.  Peddling prejudices under the cover of women safety: While the hypothesis is outrageous, its legalisation is further scary as it allows Islamophobic elements in the society to go about disrupting consensual weddings or outings, when one party belongs to a religion they diligently dislike.  It’s a choice While women are being portrayed as the victims of the ploys of Muslim men, the state needs to know that when a woman decides to marry a Muslim man, it’s not love jihad, it’s a choice. They need to be reminded to stop peddling prejudices under the cover of women’s safety.  The arbitrary use of the law by authorities is not obscure. In one of the many instances, a UP Muslim teenager in December was booked for allegedly ‘trying to elope with a girl to marry and change her religion’, when they had, in fact, gone for an ‘outing’. The girl and her father had denied such claims, according to news reports.  The officer in the case is reported to have said that even if she went with him willingly, it will be considered abduction since she is a minor…In such cases, we consider that the man took the minor with him with an intention to commit a crime and that is why these sections have been invoked. It does not matter what the girl says.  “It does not matter what the girl says”: I cannot let others do the thinking for me. It’s my responsibility to myself and that’s feminism lesson 1.0. So, the next time they tell me with whom I should hangout or whom I should marry, or pronounce that I don’t have control of my own life, I would rather go back to the year 19G5, where I could have a pizza in peace, or even if something goes wrong, at least in the security of not having a police official tell me “It does not matter what I say”.  Dear diary,  I wish 19G5 was not a figment of my imagination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/love-jihad-laws-a-setback-for-feminism-959378.html
08-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination program gets a shot in the arm from PM Modi||By Chris Kay, Following a sluggish start, India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive — one of the world’s biggest — has jumped nearly four-fold after the country opened it up to more people and got a crucial public endorsement from the inoculation of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Almost 21 million shots have been administered in India so far, up from 5.4 million a month ago, according to data compiled as of Sunday by Bloomberg and Johns Hopkins University. The number of doses per 100 people has also climbed to 1.56 from 0.41. A record 1.6 million Indians received a Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, data show.  After an initially lukewarm response — due in part to the controversial approval of a homegrown vaccine before it had completed clinical trials — the vaccination drive gained some momentum after Modi took the injection on March 1 and urged others to follow suit. India also opened the rollout to all citizens above 60 years of age and those 45 and older with co-morbidities, either for free from a state centre or for a fee of as much as 250 rupees ($3.40) at private hospitals. Some of the biggest companies operating in the country have said they will cover the costs of vaccination for their employees and families, including Accenture Plc, Infosys Ltd. and Reliance Industries Ltd., owned by Asia’s richest man Mukesh Ambani. “With your support, we will soon be able to put this pandemic behind us,” Nita Ambani, a director at Reliance and wife of Mukesh, said in a letter to employees seen by Bloomberg. “A large number of people are coming,” Azad Moopen, the chairman of Dubai-based Aster DM Healthcare Ltd., which operates 13 private hospitals in India, said in an interview Friday. But there’s still a “huge gap” to be bridged for India to reach its vaccination targets. Confidence Boost Along with AstraZeneca Plc’s shot, India has also authorised the use of Covaxin, a vaccine developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd., which initially caused hesitancy among medical and frontline workers. It was approved in early January before it had concluded final-stage human testing. Bharat Biotech announced earlier this month that Covaxin showed a strong efficacy of 81% in those without prior infection after a second dose. Modi was also injected with the indigenously developed Covaxin — a move that may have helped shore up confidence. Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. India will need all these tailwinds to meet its target of inoculating about a quarter of its population by August. Maintaining the momentum in vaccination is not always easy, as Hong Kong’s experience shows. Also as demand rises, supply shortages may arise in India unless bottlenecks are eased quickly. The head of the world’s biggest vaccine maker, Adar Poonawalla of the Serum Institute of India Ltd. — which is producing hundreds of millions of AstraZeneca’s Covid vaccine in the country — on Thursday warned of impending global shortages due to a US law blocking the export of certain key items such as bags and filters. Open More Home to the world’s second-worst Covid outbreak, India will also need to open its vaccination program more widely if it has to curb further waves. This may mean allowing younger Indians to be inoculated and giving hospitals permission to directly purchase vaccines from the manufacturers instead of queuing up for state-procured supplies. “The government should involve the private sector very actively,” said Moopen. “The manufacturers have huge stocks with them.” A wider vaccination program is also key to sustaining the nascent economic recovery and retail boom across India, as people flock to shops and restaurants. “Growth over the next few months could be driven by pent-up services demand, particularly with the vaccine rollout progressing,” HSBC Holdings Plc researchers, including Chief India Economist Pranjul Bhandari, wrote in a report on Friday. “Having said that, risks cannot be ignored,” including “the sudden surge in new pandemic cases in a few states.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-program-gets-a-shot-in-the-arm-from-pm-modi-959401.html
08-03-2021||National||Govt needs to take extra steps to educate women on financial literacy, activists say||Meera works as a domestic help in around half-a-dozen houses besides doing odd jobs to earn around Rs 30,000 a month. She manages to save around Rs 750-1,000 a month but does not know where to invest. She is unaware that she could even deposit money in post offices. More and more women are working but several, especially among the underprivileged, do not know how to operate a bank account or tools available for investments and this financial illiteracy appears to have an adverse impact amid the Covid-19 pandemic when they are among the worst affected in the job market. As the world observes Women's Day on Monday, activists and NGOs urge authorities to take extra steps to ensure that women are educated on financial tools to enable them in exercising prudent investment options. "There are women who inspite of earning money, do not know how to operate a bank account or invest their money. They don't know about different financial tools available in the market. They do not even know about life insurance. Women generally leave all the decisions about finances to the male members of the family," National Women's Commission Chairperson Rekha Sharma told DH. Seema Kumar, General Manager (Programmes) of Smile Foundation that runs a financial literacy programme for underprivileged women and girl children under its 'Swabhiman' programme, said a well balanced and just society comes with empowering women. "It cannot be denied that the Covid-19 pandemic has exposed the need for improved basic health care at all levels and as we celebrate International Women’s Day in the post-Covid world, there is acute need to work with underprivileged communities on women health and their economic empowerment," she said. An analysis by the Smile Foundation, which trained around 60,000 women and girls so far under the 'Swabhiman' programme, showed that there is a huge gap in information and awareness on financial management and opportunities among women, who need to acquire financial knowledge, confidence and skills to effectively participate in economic activities and financial decision-making within and outside their households. "If women are given relevant exposure and training, they can take better decisions to improve the quality of their family's lives," it said. While the Swabhiman programme trains women in understanding interest rates and loans and availing schemes of government and NGOs among other things, the NCW has recently launched a business and management course 'Empowering Women through Entrepreneurship' to train 5,000 aspiring women entrepreneurs in collaboration with IIM-Bengaluru. With Covid-19 changing the economic scene, activists and authorities also are aware of the vulnerabilities of women in the job market as well as dealing in finances. Sharma said that the pandemic not only changed the way of working but it is going to impact the number of opportunities for women in the workforce. "When organisations are cutting the number of employees, they first send women out because the mind set is that women are not the primary breadwinners and it's only the duty of men to earn money. The gender divide at work is huge," she said. At the same time, she said, there are a number of women who started small ventures from home to support the family income when their husbands lost jobs or there was lack of finances. "We have to give skill to women along with education and train them to take up entrepreneurship. We must teach them how they can take help of all the schemes of the government and how they can take loans etc from the bank. Financial Institutions also must give them equal opportunities and hand hold them even if they fail initially," she said. One of the issues highlighted by activists is gender inequality at homes where women, even if earning, are not given a say in financial matters. They argue that schools and colleges should also give basic knowledge on personal finances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-needs-to-take-extra-steps-to-educate-women-on-financial-literacy-activists-say-959419.html
08-03-2021||National||DH Toon | West Bengal Polls: 'Poriborton has lost its meaning!'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed a massive rally at Brigade Ground in Kolkata, adding fuel to the fiery political battle in poll-bound West Bengal. Actor Mithun Chakraborty joined the BJP and greeted PM Modi on the dais.  PM Modi slammed the ruling TMC and other Opposition parties trying to wrest power in the state and promised change or 'Asol Poriborton'  if BJP wins the upcoming elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-west-bengal-polls-poriborton-has-lost-its-meaning-959427.html
08-03-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind calls for 'gender justice' on Women's Day||On the occasion of International Women's Day, President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday extended his greetings and best wishes to all citizens. "Women in our country are setting new records and achievements in various fields. Let us collectively resolve to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men," the President of India tweeted. On the occasion of International Women's Day, greetings and best wishes to all fellow citizens. Women in our country are setting new records and achievements in various fields. Let us collectively resolve to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-calls-for-gender-justice-on-womens-day-959428.html
08-03-2021||National||PM Modi salutes indomitable 'nari shakti' on International Women's Day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted women on the occasion of International Women's Day on Monday and said India takes pride in their many accomplishments. He said it was his government's honour to work towards furthering women empowerment in the country across a wide range of sectors.  "Saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government's honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors," Modi tweeted.     The prime minister has often highlighted his government's schemes like free cooking gas cylinders, the opening of bank accounts, building toilets, saying that woman empowerment has been a central theme of these programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-salutes-indomitable-nari-shakti-on-international-womens-day-959440.html
08-03-2021||National||Evictions of forest dwellers fuels Kashmir fears||Ghulam Khatana's family lived half their lives in a simple log hut in Kashmir's forests, until around 200 men brandishing guns and iron rods chased them out of their home and into the blistering cold. As India steps up its efforts to assert control over the fractious Himalayan region, communities living in remote woodlands say they've been banished from their ancestral homes. Thousands of apple trees in small forest villages have been chopped down and wooden homes knocked down by police, forest guards and other officials. "They just ended our traditional way of life. I feel as if I was buried alive," said 30-year-old Khatana in Kashmir's famed Pahalgam tourist region. "It (the forest) protects us from disease and sustains us. But they have thrown us out." The eight people in his old home, like their neighbours in the Lidroo village region, rear livestock in summer before bunkering down in their huts in winter. All of them, including 90-year-old grandmother Janat Begam, were forced to take refuge in cramped homes with other relatives. More than 100 million people live in forests across India and are subject to laws meant to protect their right of residency if they have occupied their land for three generations. But last November, authorities began sending out eviction notices after claiming that more than 60,000 people were illegally living in or cultivating land in Kashmir's forests. Control of Kashmir is divided between India and Pakistan, with both claiming the territory in full -- a dispute that has sparked deadly confrontations between the nuclear-armed rivals. New Delhi has half a million troops stationed in Kashmir as it fights a decades-long insurgency in a conflict that has killed tens of thousands of people, most of them civilians. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought to tighten India's grip on Kashmir and in 2019 scrapped laws guaranteeing its people limited autonomy. The move was accompanied by the mass arrest of political leaders and dissidents, as well as a months-long phone and internet blackout. It also paved the way for Indians outside Kashmir to buy land there for the first time, and made the territory subject to national laws that determine who has the right to live or tend land in its forests. Officials in Kashmir told AFP thousands of acres of forest lands have been added to registers to coax outside businesses to set up local operations. "The evictions and alienating these people from the forests amounts to direct dispossession," local activist Raja Muzaffar Bhat told AFP. Others accuse Modi's Hindu-nationalist government of wanting to dilute the local population in India's only Muslim-majority territory. Former Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, who was detained for more than a year after the 2019 crackdown, accused New Delhi of trying to change the region's demographics through "settler colonial" land laws. New Delhi has not commented on the tree felling and demolition of the huts, and calls to government spokespeople have gone unanswered. But a senior forest official, who asked to remain anonymous, told AFP there was "a lot of pressure from higher authorities to be unsparing" on land matters. Other authorities said forest guards, who are tasked with guarding the woodlands against clearcutting and timber smuggling, were being trained in how to abide by the national laws meant to protect communities under their jurisdiction. Activists say this occurred only after an outcry over the evictions. The evictions heightened tensions in a region already bristling with anger at Indian rule. In remote Kanidajan in central Kashmir, 45-year-old Biya Bano said forest guards warned her husband and eight children that they would "burn you alive" inside their log home if they did not immediately vacate it. Officials had trekked up Kanidajan's hills to hack down 11,000 fruit trees cultivated by dozens of poor families. Abdul Ghani, who lives on the edge of the Kanidajan forest, said his orchard of 300 apple trees was chopped down without warning. "They came on the sly, otherwise we would have laid down our lives but not let them destroy the trees," the 70-year-old told AFP. "We've been here even before India's independence (in 1947)," added Ghani's son Shakeel Ahmed. "There's no other resource here."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evictions-of-forest-dwellers-fuels-kashmir-fears-959447.html
08-03-2021||National||Over 18K new Covid-19 cases for third consecutive day; 17 lakh get vaccines||India reported more than 18,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day, with eight states, including Karnataka, reporting an upward trajectory in daily cases. Vaccination against Covid-19 picked up pace with nearly 17 lakh doses of the vaccine administered to beneficiaries on Monday, the highest in a single day. “The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 2.26 crore,” the health ministry statement said. The active cases were on the upswing for the sixth consecutive day and touched 1,88,747, comprising 1.68% of the total infections, the health ministry said. It said eight states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana – were displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, prompting the Centre to send high-level teams to understand the fresh challenges faced by them and help remove the bottlenecks in fighting the pandemic. According to the ministry, a total of 18,599 new infections were registered in 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Monday, while the death toll increased to 1,57,853 with 97 daily new fatalities. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,82,798 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.91%, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41%. The 97 new fatalities, 87.63% were from seven states, includin Maharashtra (38), Punjab (17) and Kerala (13). On the postive side, 18 states/UTs – Andaman & Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Daman & Diu, and Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tripura – have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours. More than 2.26 crore beneficiaries have been administered the Covid-19 vaccines, the government said admitting that initially the progress of the vaccination drive was slow due to hesitancy and problems with the Cowin software.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-18k-new-covid-19-cases-for-third-consecutive-day-17-lakh-get-vaccines-959448.html
08-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha MP wears HEPA-filter face mask to Parliament||Rajya Sabha MP, Dr Narendra Jadhav, in a first, wore a High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filter mask to the Parliament. "The efficiency of this mask is 99.7%, which means very little particulate matter goes into your body. This mask is designed by former MP Vishweshwar Reddy," he said. HEPA filters capture pollen, dirt, dust, moisture, bacteria, virus and submicron liquid aerosol. An air purifier with HEPA captures 0.3 micron particles while an air purifier without HEPA captures smoke and fumes. Dr. Narendra Jadhav, Rajya Sabha MP, wears a High-Efficiency Particulate Air (HEPA) filter mask to the Parliament Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 1 pm on Monday amid uproar by Opposition members seeking a debate on the issue of frequent increase in fuel prices. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjuna Kharge gave a notice for suspension of business to discuss "huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low." However, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not allow the discussion, saying the issue can be debated "during the course of discussion on the Appropriation bill."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-mp-wears-hepa-filter-face-mask-to-parliament-959467.html
08-03-2021||National||International Women's Day: Union Ministers laud women for contributions to various fields||President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, several Union ministers and leaders of political parties conveyed their wishes on Monday on the occasion of International Women's Day, extolling the role of 'nari shakti' in various fields. Prime Minister Modi greeted women on the occasion of International Women's Day and said India takes pride in their many accomplishments. He said it was his government's honour to work towards furthering women empowerment in the country across a wide range of sectors.  "Saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government's honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors," he tweeted. President Kovind also took to Twitter to wish on the occasion and called for collectively resolving to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men. "On the occasion of International Women's Day, greetings and best wishes to all fellow citizens. Women in our country are setting new records and achievements in various fields. Let us collectively resolve to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men," Kovind tweeted. On the occasion of International Women's Day, greetings and best wishes to all fellow citizens. Women in our country are setting new records and achievements in various fields. Let us collectively resolve to promote gender justice and eliminate inequality between women and men.  Kovind also posted a photo of his wife Savita Kovind receiving her first vaccination dose, calling it a "shot in the arm" for women's empowerment on Women's Day!  Saluting women healthcare workers on International Women's Day, Union minister Smriti Irani said their unequivocal contribution played an important role in India's fight against coronavirus. "There is No HERO Without HER! The spread of COVID-19 brought to the fore selfless and determined role of #NariShakti during the crisis. This Women's Day, we salute our 6 million+ women health workforce for their unequivocal contribution in India's fight against Corona.@WHO," the Women and Child Development minister said. There is No HERO Without HER!  "A desire to conquer new frontiers, a promise to continue to be torchbearers of change, development & equality. Wishing everyone - women & supporters of Women-led Development, a Happy International Day of Women!" she said in another tweet. A desire to conquer new frontiers, a promise to continue to be torchbearers of change, development & equality.  Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said "women are capable of creating history and future with formidable grace".  "Don't let anyone stop you," he said in a tweet as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and other leaders of the party echoed him in sending out the message of women's empowerment on the day. Giving more and more space to women's voices is the foundation of women's empowerment, Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the government led by Prime Minister Modi is deeply committed to women empowerment in all walks of life. Today, women have become an integral part of India’s security and defence architecture. The targeted outcome of such an empowerment is to create an atmosphere where women feel free, safe and secure to pursue any vocation, profession or take a road less taken.  "On International Women's Day, I truly appreciate the role of India's #NariShakti in strengthening the foundations of this great nation. The government led by Prime Minister @narendramodi  is deeply committed to women empowerment in all walks of life," Singh tweeted. Home Minister Amit Shah said women empowerment has always been the focal point of the policies of the Modi government. "On the occasion of International Women's Day, I bow to the Nari Shakti symbolizing courage, valor and dedication. Women's empowerment has always been the focal point of the policies of the Modi government and it is a matter of pride that today our mother power is contributing significantly in realizing the resolve of a self-reliant India," Shah tweeted in Hindi. BJP president J P Nadda shared a 'shlok' and conveyed best wishes to all mothers and sisters on the day. "Our women power has made the entire nation proud with its amazing talent and hard work in every field," he wrote on the microblogging site. Union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeted, "Despite the odds, women have consistently proved their potential. Women are playing a leading role in every field. Some real life heroes,#COVID19 My salute to the female warrior. Happy International Women's Day to all women.#IWD2021 #ChooseToChallenge,". Aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri also highlighted roles played by women in various government initiatives. "Swachh Bharat started as a scheme of the government. Today, it has not only become a People's Movement but has empowered women & provided them security & safety by eliminating the practice of Open Defecation across the country. Women have found dignity & self independence by being employed as formal workers under SBM-U. Clean & abundant toilets, sanitary hygiene & clean surroundings has empowered women & transformed their life. #AatmaNirbharNaari," he tweeted. Women have found dignity & self independence by being employed as formal workers under SBM-U.  Puri also shared a picture of Swati Raval, Captain of the Air India flight that brought back 263 passengers trapped in Rome during the lockdown. Indian women have been at the forefront to fight the battle against COVID-19.  "Indian women have been at the forefront to fight the battle against COVID-19. Swati Raval was the Captain of the @airindiain  flight that brought back 263 passengers trapped in Rome during the lockdown.#NariShakti #InternationalWomensDay #AatmaNirbharNaari," Puri said in the caption accompanying the picture. Rail Minister Piyush Goyal shared a picture of the first woman driver of the Indian Railways.  "#NariShakti Rail: The first woman driver of Indian Railways, Smt. Surekha Yadav drives the all women-staffed Mumbai-Lucknow Special, in celebration of #InternationalWomensDay," he tweeted. International Women's Day is celebrated on March 8 around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/international-womens-day-union-ministers-laud-women-for-contributions-to-various-fields-959468.html
08-03-2021||National||China's Brahmaputra dam plan gushes in fears of river flow disruption in India||China should aim to begin construction of a controversial hydropower project on the Brahmaputra river within the year, a senior Tibetan Communist Party official said in comments published on Monday. Comprehensive planning and environmental impact assessments for the project should be completed as soon as possible, Che Dalha, chairman of the Tibetan Autonomous Region, said in a delegation briefing issued by China's parliament. Tibet should "strive to launch construction within this year," he said. China's plans for a giant hydropower project on the river, known in Tibet as the Yarlung Tsangbo, have stirred fears in India it could disrupt downstream river flows, worsen water shortages and even cause flash floods. The river flows for about 2,900 km (1,800 miles) through Tibet, India and Bangladesh into the Bay of Bengal. The "Yarlung Tsangbo downstream hydropower base" was listed in China's new five-year plan last week as one of the country's major energy development projects for the 2021-2025 period. China could build up to 60 gigawatts (GW) of generation capacity on the river, state media have reported, which would make it the world's biggest hydropower project, overtaking China's 22.5 GW Three Gorges Dam. A Chinese diplomat said late last year the project was at a "preliminary planning and demonstration" stage. India is considering plans to build its own dam on the river to increase its water storage capacity and counteract the impact of the Chinese project, an official said last year. According to Tibet's five-year plan proposals published in January, the region aims to "research and promote" the project and begin related engineering work as soon as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chinas-brahmaputra-dam-plan-gushes-in-fears-of-river-flow-disruption-in-india-959474.html
08-03-2021||National||BJP chalks out strategies to target Odisha over inter-state border disputes, political violence||The BJP has chalked out strategies to attack the Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha over issues ranging from inter-state border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal to crimes against women and political violence. Odisha's principal opposition party, during its state executive meeting on Sunday, called upon its members to put in additional efforts to reach out to the people, who have given eight Lok Sabha seats and 22 assembly constituencies to the BJP in the 2019 elections. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who along with another central minister Pratap Sarangi attended the meeting, called upon the cadre to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. He exuded confidence of forming the next government in the state under the guidance of BJP chief J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. After a brainstorming session, the BJP chalked out strategies to attack the BJD government over issues ranging from border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal to rising political violence in the state. The state executive meeting passed three political drafts and prepared a roadmap to win people's confidence. Alleging massive irregularities in PM Awas Yojna in the state, it claimed that not a single work-order was issued to any beneficiary in the last one-and-a-half-years. The saffron party claimed that Odisha has topped the lists of crimes against women and missing children, while there has been a steady rise in unemployment and beneficiaries of MGNREGA and other welfare schemes are being chosen according to their political affiliations. "The 550 police stations in the state are functioning as BJD party offices and political violence is continuing unabated like neighbouring West Bengal. The law enforcers are yet to disclose the progress in the investigations into the killings of 16 BJP workers in the state," BJP state vice- president Bhrugu Buxipatra said after the meeting. He claimed that the Centre has sanctioned huge financial assistance to the state administration for the inclusive development of Odisha but the BJD government has deliberately neglected the projects due to its vested political interests. He claimed that the BJD government is destroying heritage monuments in Bhubaneswar and Puri in the name of beautification. The BJP leader said the party is preparing a specific strategy to take on the BJD in the upcoming by-election to Pipili assembly constituency. Dismissing the BJP's allegations, BJD lawmaker and former minister Sashi Bhusan Behera said, "The BJP is struggling in Odisha for the last two decades as people have repeatedly rejected the party." "People, who are the masters, have blessed the BJD for five consecutive terms," party vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-chalks-out-strategies-to-target-odisha-over-inter-state-border-disputes-political-violence-959480.html
08-03-2021||National||Parliament to resume usual functioning at 11 am from March 9||The announcement was first made in Rajya Sabha by Vice Chairperson Vandana Chavan, who said Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu has taken a decision that the Upper House will function from 11 AM to 6 PM from Tuesday onwards. Later, Lok Speaker Om Birla also made a similar announcement in the Lower House. MPs will sit in their respective chambers and its galleries by observing social distancing norms. At present, MPs of the House in Session are sitting in chambers of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and visitors' galleries. Usually, Parliament functions between 11 am and 6 pm though on several occasions, it has sat beyond the scheduled time. During the Monsoon Session, Rajya Sabha functioned from 9 am to 1 pm and in the Budget Session, it was between 9 am and 2 pm. Lok Sabha proceedings started at 3 pm during the Monsoon Session while it was at 4 pm during the Budget Session. Sources told DH that the plan comes against a backdrop of demand from a section to curtail the second leg of the Budget Session during which elections to five Assemblies are taking place. Trinamool Congress floor leaders Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Derek O'Brien have already written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Naidu demanding the adjournment of the Session, saying that its MPs could not attend the proceedings due to campaigning in West Bengal. Sources said the plan is to finish budget-related discussions and other business at the earliest. This is why the scheduled time has been increased by one hour, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-to-resume-usual-functioning-at-11-am-from-march-9-959500.html
08-03-2021||National||Lawyers body moves SC against SoPs on hybrid hearing||Supreme Court Bar Association on Monday filed a plea in the top court for quashing the Standard Operating Procedure issued on March 5 for hybrid hearing without due consultation with the lawyers body. In a writ petition, it said a written suggestion given by SCBA president Vikas Singh on March 2 for resumption of physical hearing has not been considered by the top court. "Bar is an equal stakeholder in the dispensation of the justice delivery system and the suggestions given by it ought to have been taken into consideration. There is general feeling in the Bar that for the last few years Registry has been issuing Circulars without taking it into confidence even though such orders issued directly affect the lawyers practicing before this court," their plea said. In a circular issued on March 5, the Secretary General of the Supreme Court said that Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has issued directions on commencement of hearings in the apex court from March 15 in hybrid mode. While proximity cards remained suspended, entry of lawyers would be allowed through special passes and wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms was made mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the courtrooms, during this period. The lawyers body was aggrieved with absence of oral mentioning for urgent hearing and muting and unmuting of lawyers in virtual hearing, being conducted for last one year so, due to Covid-19 pandemic. "Judges have a sterile route to and from the court room and there are glass partitions which separate the judges from the lawyers and litigants. So basically it is the lawyers and litigants who would be at some risk if at all so the SoP dated 05.03.2021 ought to have been issued after consulting the Bar, which had already written for the resumption of physical hearing," their plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-body-moves-sc-against-sops-on-hybrid-hearing-959503.html
08-03-2021||National||Maratha quota: SC to re-examine 50% cap on reservation, issues notice to all states||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to consider if the 50 per vent cap on reservation, fixed by a 9-judge bench in Indra Sawhney’s judgment in 1992, could be re-examined in view of subsequent constitutional amendments and the "changed social dynamics of the society".  A five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan issued notice to all state governments and Union Territories to know their stand whether reservation in jobs and education could be allowed to breach the existing 50 per cent ceiling.  The court also decided to examine whether the 102nd Constitutional Amendment deprived the State legislature of its power to enact a law determining the socially and economically backward classes and conferring the benefits on the said community. "In view of the issues of seminal importance which have arisen before this Constitution Bench i.e. pertaining to the interpretation of 102nd Constitutional Amendment, the States have to be given opportunity to have their say," the bench said.  The 102nd Amendment granted constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes (NCBC). Hearing a batch of petitions challenging the validity of Maratha reservation, the bench, also comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, framed several issues for determination. The questions included whether reservation for Maratha community in addition to 50% social reservation was covered by exceptional circumstances as contemplated by Constitution bench in Indra Sawhney’s case. The court also decided to consider if States' power to legislate to grant quota in relation to “any backward class” under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) was anyway abridged or abrogated by Article 342(A) and Article 366(26c) of the Constitution. The bench agreed to a contention by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra and Attorney General K K Venugopal that this matter was not limited to just one State, so it was important to hear other States too, as the court's decision in the matter would have wider ramifications. Rohatgi said after the 102nd Constitutional Amendment by inserting Article 342A, the State legislature lost competence to legislate with regard to reservation of economically and socially backward communities. He contended that constitutional powers under Articles 15 and 16 cannot be taken away from the legislative competence of the State.  The top court would now examine the matter including on possibility of referring the Indra Sawhney’s judgment (Mandal Commission) (1992) to a larger bench. It fixed the matter for day-to-day hearing from March 15.  A batch of petitions challenged the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld 12 to 13% reservations for Marathas in jobs and education under Maharashtra Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maratha-quota-sc-to-re-examine-50-cap-on-reservation-issues-notice-to-all-states-959512.html
08-03-2021||National||Didn't ask accused to go and marry her: Supreme Court says proceedings completely misreported||The Supreme Court on Monday said the court always had the highest respect for womanhood while asserting that news reports and activists quoted out of context a query posed by court to an accused of rape to marry the victim. A bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde and also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said the court had on March 2 asked the man, in the context of the case, whether he would marry the complainant, and had not asked him to “go and marry her”. The bench said the court proceedings in the matter was completely misreported. CPI(M) Politburo member Brinda Karat wrote to Justice Bobde asking him to withdraw his remarks, saying that courts should not give an impression of supporting such "retrograde" approaches. On Monday, the bench sought to stand clear of the issue during the hearing of a plea filed by a 14-year-old rape victim, who has moved the top court through advocate V K Biju, for permission to terminate her 26-week pregnancy.   On March 2, during the hearing on anticipatory bail of the 23-year-old man accused of repeatedly raping a minor girl, the bench had asked the accused, “Will you marry her?”  An FIR was lodged by the girl against the accused after he reneged on his promise to marry her. During the hearing on Monday, advocate Biju said that he was completely against the reports which tarnished the image of the court. The bench said the court has given the largest respect to women and even in the hearing never gave a suggestion to the accused to marry the victim. "Our reputation is in hands of the Bar," the bench said. The court also said its observations in another rape case lodged after live-in relationship turned sour was misinterpreted. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta submitted that according to Section 165 of Evidence Act the court is mandated to ask any question to discover facts or for any purpose. Mehta said statements were twisted out of context and a section of society wrongly started targeting the court and the judges. The Chief Justice said, “We have the highest regard for womanhood”. The top court would hear the plea on termination of pregnancy on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/didnt-ask-accused-to-go-and-marry-her-supreme-court-says-proceedings-completely-misreported-959514.html
08-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day; to meet at usual time from March 9||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day without transacting any legislative business amid an uproar by Opposition members who were demanding a discussion on the rising fuel prices. The House was first adjourned for about an hour till 11 am and then again till 1 pm as Opposition parties created an uproar over its demand to hold a discussion on the steep rise in the prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinders. The Chair, however, did not concede to their demands. When the Upper House re-assembled at 1 pm, it was again adjourned till 1.15 pm and then till 1.30 pm. This time, Vandana Chavan, who was in the Chair, adjourned the House for the day. Meanwhile, the Upper House will meet at its normal hours of 11 am to 6 pm from Tuesday. The timings were changed to 9 am to 2 pm from last year's monsoon session due to the coronavirus pandemic. The revised timings continued during the first leg of the budget session. Before adjourning the proceedings, Chavan said: "On the request received from many members from various parties, Hon Chairman has decided that from Tuesday, that is tomorrow, March 9, 2021, the sitting of Rajya Sabha will commence from 11 am to 6 pm as per usual timings of the House." The members will be seated in the chamber and the gallaries only with some distancing, Chavan said, adding that details of the sitting plan would be intimated to the party members later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-for-the-day-to-meet-at-usual-time-from-march-9-959518.html
08-03-2021||National||Six states contribute to over 86% of fresh Covid-19 cases in India||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu are the six states that cumulatively account for 86.25 per cent of the new coronavirus cases reported in the past 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Monday. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 11,141, followed by Kerala with 2,100 and Punjab with 1,043 new infections, the ministry said. The Centre is regularly holding high-level review meetings with the states and Union territories showing a surge in new daily cases and the health secretary is also holding weekly review meetings, it said. "Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu have been reporting a surge in the Covid daily new cases. They cumulatively account for 86.25 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours," the ministry said in a statement. The Centre has recently rushed high-level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in Covid-19 control and containment measures in view of the recent spike in cases, it added. The central government said it had already deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. "These teams interact with the state/UT authorities and get a firsthand understanding of the challenges and issues being faced by them so as to strengthen their ongoing activities and remove bottlenecks, if any," the ministry said. It said eight states and Union territories -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana -- were displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. They have a weekly positivity rate more than the national average of 2.29 per cent. Maharashtra has the highest weekly positivity rate with 11.13 per cent, the government said. The number of active cases in the country reached 1,88,747 on Monday and it is 1.68 per cent of the total infections. Meanwhile, 18 states and Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Chandigarh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Puducherry, Rajasthan, Sikkim and Tripura. The ministry said that nearly 2.10 crore vaccine doses had been administered through 3,76,633 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Monday. These include 69,85,911 healthcare workers (first dose), 35,47,548 healthcare workers (second dose), 66,09,537 frontline workers (first dose) and 2,13,559 frontline workers (second dose), 4,80,661 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities (first dose) and 31,51,794 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-states-contribute-to-over-86-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-india-959522.html
08-03-2021||National||Maharashtra has half of new, active Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra accounts for more than half of both new and total active coronavirus infections, health ministry data showed on Monday, although a team of experts said the state's current wave might be "less virulent". Experts say India's relatively low hospitalisation and fatality rates suggest the pandemic is approaching its next phase of largely manageable local outbreaks, such as those being seen in the western industrialised state. India's tally of 11.23 million infections is the world's highest after the United States, with the state accounting for 11,141 of the 18,599 new cases reported in the past 24 hours, and 52 per cent of the 188,747 people still infected. As a proportion of its population, however, India's virus deaths rank among the lowest in the world, rising by 97 on Monday to 157,853. The health ministry said it had sent expert teams to a quarter of Indian states and federal territories showing a rise in cases so as to understand the challenges and issues they face. One team said the spurt in Maharashtra, which has a population of more than 114 million, could be due to pandemic fatigue, village elections, weddings, the reopening of schools and crowded public transport. "The virus is spreading to hitherto unaffected areas and most cases are asymptomatic," it said in a report on Saturday. "People are not...strictly following quarantine or getting testing done. The sense is that the current wave is less virulent." The report did not say how the current surge was determined to be less infectious, but the Indian government earlier ruled out new variants as the cause of the rise. Hundreds of thousands travel to work each day in Maharashtra's many cities home to industries such as garments, chemicals, cars and metal factories. The federal government has asked states to prioritise vaccination in the areas worst affected. Since its drive began in mid-January, India has inoculated 17.3 million people, a fifth of them receiving the two doses required. It aims to cover 300 million of a population of 1.35 billion by August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-has-half-of-new-active-covid-19-cases-959529.html
08-03-2021||National||Budget Session likely to be cut short||Parliament's budget session is likely to be shortened by two weeks before voters in Assam and West Bengal cast their votes in the first phase of elections on March 27.  Key opposition parties – Congress, Trinamool, Left parties, DMK – were engaged in a high-pitched campaign in the election bound states of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The elections are crucial as a thumping victory for the opposition could set the tone for the general elections of 2024. A number of Lok Sabha members have written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla requesting him to cut short the Budget Session to allow them to campaign in the assembly elections. The second part of the Budget Session began on Monday and as per original schedule would continue till April 8. Congress' Lok Sabha strategists – floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, his deputy Gaurav Gogoi, party whips Kodikunnil Suresh and Manickam Tagore are busy with campaigning in West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu respectively. Congress has maximum members in the Lok Sabha from Kerala, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. Trinamool and DMK have the largest contingent of members from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu respectively in the Lok Sabha. At a meeting of Lok Sabha's Business Advisory Committee (BAC), Birla spoke with various floor leaders on a one-on-one basis to take a sense on curtailing the session which began on Monday. In the Rajya Sabha, Trinamool member Derek O'Brien said due to the polls, MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. “I am writing to you as the parliamentary party leader (Rajya Sabha) for the All India Trinamool Congress. Sir, we urge you to consider the adjournment of the ensuing Parliament session, because of the declaration of elections in five states,” he said. At the meeting of the Business Advisory Committee, Biju Janata Dal did not agree with the demand for curtailment of the session. YSR Congress Party member P V Midhun Reddy said if the current session is curtailed, the next session should be longer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/budget-session-likely-to-be-cut-short-959532.html
08-03-2021||National||India seeks Quad funding to match China's Covid-19 vaccine exports||India has urged the United States, Japan and Australia to invest in its vaccine production capacity, an Indian government source told Reuters, as the so-called Quad alliance tries to counter China's growing vaccine diplomacy. Beijing has committed to provide at least 463 million doses of its home-made Covid-19 vaccines through exports and donations across the world from Asia to Africa, Europe and Latin America, according to Reuters calculations. Two senior Indian officials said the Quad alliance, grouping the United States, Japan, Australia and India, was stepping up efforts to expand global vaccination to counter China's growing soft power. India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, believes it is best placed to steer the effort, they added. Asked for comment, a US State Department spokesperson did not refer to India's request for funds or to China but said Washington was deeply focused on expanding global vaccination, manufacturing and delivery. "Secretary (Antony) Blinken spoke with his Quad counterparts on February 18 to discuss cooperation on Covid-19 response and recovery and climate change, among other issues," the official told Reuters. There was no comment from the Australian government. But a government source said a global recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic was a policy priority for the country and its Quad partners. Australia is exploring a number of options to work with partners to enhance stability and prosperity in the region, the source said. Japan's Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi told a news conference on Friday that the four countries discussed the "necessity and importance of international cooperation to ensure equal access to vaccines for developing countries," at the February meeting, but nothing was decided. An Indian foreign ministry spokesman did not respond to a request for comment. One of the two Indian sources, an official who has direct knowledge of Quad alliance discussions, said the group had had several meetings about global vaccination. "India has more vaccine options than any other Asian country at this point of time," said the source, declining to be named as he was not authorised to talk on the matter. "India expects members of the Quad alliance to pay to ramp up production. A second Indian source said that at the February virtual meeting, the Quad countries discussed ways to "encourage alternative medical supply chains, thereby implying less dependency on China". A top political advisory body in Beijing, the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, said concerns that China was using vaccines to sway other countries were "extremely narrow-minded." China's purpose was to make vaccines available globally, the foreign ministry said. Billions of doses Indian companies such as the Serum Institute of India (SII), Bharat Biotech, Biological E and Cadila Healthcare have the combined capacity to produce billions of doses of their own vaccines or contract-manufacture for others. SII, the world's biggest single manufacturer, is producing the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine for many countries and will soon start making the Novavax shots in bulk. India is also trying to sell a vaccine created by Bharat Biotech and the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research to 40 countries including Brazil, the Philippines and Zimbabwe. Bharat Biotech says it can make about 700 million doses of the shot a year. Indian vaccine makers are also planning to produce more Covid-19 vaccines developed by the United States and Russia, including Johnson & Johnson. A top Indian vaccine official told Reuters in January that the government had also held discussions with US companies Pfizer Inc and Moderna Inc about making their shots in India. Serum's Novavax partnership holds "the key to the Quad’s diplomatic alliance in vaccines and push China out of regional vaccine sales", one of the Indian sources said. "The focus is also on making sure the Quad alliance secures all the key markets for vaccines," he said. Indian companies will also produce about 300 million doses of Russia's Sputnik-V vaccine, but the source said Washington was not keen on helping expand Moscow's clout in vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-seeks-quad-funding-to-match-chinas-covid-19-vaccine-exports-959539.html
08-03-2021||National||WCD ministry classifies major programs under 3 umbrella schemes for better implementation||The Women and Child Development Ministry on Monday said it has classified all its major programmes under three umbrella schemes — Mission Poshan 2.0, Mission Vatsalya and Mission Shakti — for their better implementation. Mission Shakti will consist of policies and schemes for the protection and empowerment of women, the ministry said. It will cover schemes like one-stop centre, mahila police volunteer, women's helpline, Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Pradhan Mantri Matru Vandana Yojana among others and has been allocated Rs 3,109 crore in the 2021-22 budget, it said. According to the ministry, the government is merging the supplementary nutrition programme and Poshan Abhiyan to launch Mission POSHAN 2.0. Mission POSHAN 2.0 will look into ways to strengthen nutritional content, delivery, outreach, and outcomes. In budget 2021-22, an amount of Rs 20,105 crore has been allocated to Mission POSHAN 2.0, it said. Mission VATSALYA will look into child protection services and child welfare services and has been allocated Rs 900 crore in the budget, it said. The ministry said the step has been taken for effective implementation of various schemes and programmes of the Ministry of Women and Child Development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wcd-ministry-classifies-major-programs-under-3-umbrella-schemes-for-better-implementation-959550.html
08-03-2021||National||More than 50% account holders under PMJDY women: FinMin||The finance ministry on Monday said about 55 per cent of the total account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana (PMJDY), a flagship scheme of the government to promote financial inclusion, are women. Sharing details of various schemes with special provisions for the emancipation of women on the occasion of International Women's Day, the ministry said these plans have financially empowered women to lead a better life and chase their dreams of being an entrepreneur. As of February 24, 2021, 23.21 crore accounts, out of the total 41.93 crore accounts opened under the PMJDY scheme, belong to women account holders, the ministry said in a statement. With regard to the Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana (PMMY), it said, about 68 per cent or 19.04 crore accounts with an amount of Rs 6.36 lakh crore (as of February 26, 2021) have been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs under the scheme since its inception. The Jan Dhan Yojana, which was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his Independence Day address in 2014, was launched on August 28 in the same year. The scheme envisages universal access to banking facilities with at least one basic banking account for every household, financial literacy, access to credit, insurance and pension. In 2018, the government launched PMJDY 2.0 with enhanced features and benefits. Under the new version, the government decided to shift focus from 'Every Household' to 'Every Unbanked Adult' and free accidental insurance cover on RuPay cards doubled to Rs 2 lakh for PMJDY accounts opened after August 28, 2018. At the same time overdraft (OD) limit too doubled to Rs 10,000 and the facility of OD up to Rs 2,000 without conditions was brought in. As per extant RBI guidelines, a PMJDY account is treated as inoperative if there are no customer induced transaction in the account for over a period of two years. The PMMY was launched on April 8, 2015, for providing loans up to Rs 10 lakh to non-corporate, non-farm small/micro-enterprises. These loans are given by Commercial Banks, RRBs, Small Finance Banks, MFIs and NBFCs. Under the aegis of PMMY, MUDRA has created three products namely, 'Shishu', 'Kishore' and 'Tarun' to signify the stage of growth or development and funding needs of the beneficiary micro unit or entrepreneur. As far as Stand-Up India Scheme is concerned, the statement said, more than 81 per cent or 91,109 accounts with an amount of Rs 20,749 crore have been sanctioned to women entrepreneurs under the scheme. Stand Up India Scheme was launched on April 5, 2016, to promote entrepreneurship at the grass-root level for economic empowerment and job creation. This scheme seeks to leverage the institutional credit structure to reach out to the underserved section of people such as Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and Women Entrepreneurs so as to enable them to participate in the economic growth of the nation, it said. The objective of this scheme is to facilitate bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one woman borrower per bank branch of banks for setting up a greenfield enterprise, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-than-50-account-holders-under-pmjdy-women-finmin-959556.html
08-03-2021||National||Maharashtra Congress MLA seeks change in title of 'Gangubai Kathiawadi'||Maharashtra Congress MLA Amin Patel on Monday demanded that the title of Sanjay Leela Bhansali's upcoming movie Gangubai Kathiawadi be changed, claiming it maligns the name of Kathiawad city. The film features Alia Bhatt as Gangubai, one of the most powerful, loved and respected madams from Kamathipura, Mumbai's red-light area, during the 1960s. Speaking in the state Assembly, Patel, who represents theMumbadevi constituency in south Mumbai, said the Kamathipura area has undergone changes. "It is not the same like it was in 1950s. Women there are excelling in different professions. The film's title also maligns the name of Kathiawad city. The name of the film should be changed," said the MLA, whose party is an ally of the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government. Patel urged the state government to intervene into the matter. The film, which will open in theatres countrywide on July 30, has been adapted from one of the chapters of noted author Hussain Zaidi's book Mafia Queens of Mumbai. Bhansali is co-producing the film with producer Jayantilal Gada's Pen India Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-congress-mla-seeks-change-in-title-of-gangubai-kathiawadi-959560.html
08-03-2021||National||Indian Railways launches integrated helpline number for all kinds of queries, complaints||To overcome the inconvenience of having multiple helpline numbers, the Indian Railway on Monday announced an integrated Rail Madad Helpline number “139” for all kinds of queries, complaints and assistance during travel. On an average basis, the Rail Madad Helpline 139 receives 3,44,513 inquiry calls and SMS' per day, the railways said in a statement. The Ministry of Railways launched the social media campaign #OneRailOneHelpline139 to inform and educate the passengers. Dear Rail users! The 139 facility is available in 12 languages. All other helpline numbers related to railway passengers' grievances will be disconnected and merged with 139, the railways said in a statement. Passengers can opt for the Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS) or directly connect to the call center executive by pressing *(asterisk). There is no need for a smartphone to call on 139, thus, providing easy access to all mobile users, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-launches-integrated-helpline-number-for-all-kinds-of-queries-complaints-959572.html
08-03-2021||National||PM Modi bats for public participation in 75th Independence Day celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the celebrations for India's 75 years of independence should reflect the spirit of the country's freedom movement and showcase its achievements to the world since 1947. Speaking after the first meeting of the 259-member high-level national committee headed by the prime minister to commemorate 75 years of India's independence, Modi said public participation should be the basis of the celebrations. "It is an opportunity to showcase to the world our achievements since 1947. We need to tell people about the sacrifice of freedom movement heroes," he said after the virtual meeting. The members of the committee include former president Pratibha Patil, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, 28 chief ministers, artistes like Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, senior BJP leader L K Advani, almost all Union ministers and several governors. Opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati are also part of the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-bats-for-public-participation-in-75th-independence-day-celebrations-959573.html
08-03-2021||National||Women farmers take centre stage at protest sites||Thousands of women farmers held protest marches and delivered speeches at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites at Delhi's borders on International Women's Day. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country's farming sector, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers manage the stage, arrange food and security and share tales of their struggles on the occasion. "The stage is being managed by women, the speakers are all women and the issues that are being discussed are of both farming and women farmers more specifically," farmer leader Kavitha Kuruganti told PTI on Monday. "The discourse of the debate is focusing on women farmers. The debate is also on the contribution of women in this movement," said Kuruganti, who is also a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. She added that the participation of women has increased significantly with the arrival of "thousands of women". Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points for over 100 days, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops. International Women's Day is celebrated across the world on March 8 and it is a day when women are recognised for their achievements, according to the United Nations. This year's theme -- 'Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world' -- celebrates the tremendous efforts by women in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the pandemic, and highlights the gaps that remain, the UN Women stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-farmers-take-centre-stage-at-protest-sites-959580.html
08-03-2021||National||BJP national VP A P Abdullakutty to be candidate in Malappuram Lok Sabha bypoll||The BJP on Monday announced that A P Abdullakutty, its national vice president, would be the party's candidate for the April 6 Malappuram Lok Sabha constituency by-election. The bypoll was necessitated due to the resignation of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P K Kunhalikutty from the seat to "lead his party's poll campaign" for the assembly election. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had earlier announced that the Malappuram Lok Sabha by-poll would be conducted along with the Assembly polls in 140 constituencies in Kerala. A two-time CPI(M) MP,Abdullakutty was first expelled from the Left party in 2009 for expressing admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi when he was the Gujarat Chief minister. He later joined the Congress and was twice elected to the state assembly. The Congress had in June 2019 expelled him from the party, days after he lavished praise on the PM for the BJP-led NDA's massive victory in the 2019 general election. In a Facebook post, Abdullakutty had said the NDA's victory was an acceptance of Modi's development agenda and the secret of his success was that he adopted Gandhian values. Meanwhile, Kunhalikutty had in 2017 resigned the Vengara constituency in the Assembly and got elected as an MP from Malappuram in a bye-election after the death of former Union Minister and senior IUML leader E Ahamed and continued to win the 2019 LS polls too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-national-vp-a-p-abdullakutty-to-be-candidate-in-malappuram-lok-sabha-bypoll-959587.html
08-03-2021||National||Every day 4 child victims of sexual abuse denied justice due to insufficient evidence: Study||Everyday four child victims of sexual offences are denied justice due to closure of their cases by police because of insufficient evidence, according to a new study. The 'Police case disposal pattern: An enquiry into the cases filed under POCSO Act, 2012' by Kailash Satyarthi Children's Foundation (KSCF), is an analysis of pattern of disposal of POCSO cases by police from 2017 to 2019 and is based on the data and information published by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB). The study has been released on the occasion of International Women's Day. "It has been observed that between 2017 and 2019, there has been an increase in the number of cases that have been closed by the police after investigation without filing the chargesheet," the study pointed out. As the data shows, sexual crimes are increasing in the country over the years. "While the government recognised the need for a special law and introduced a special legislation to deal with crimes against children viz., Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO), it is disappointing to see its poor implementation on the ground," the study noted. As many as 3,000 POCSO cases registered and investigated fail to reach court for a fair trial every year and four child victims of sexual abuse are denied justice every day due to the closure of their cases by police because of insufficient evidence or lack of a clue, the study said. "It has further been revealed from the NCRB data that in a large number (two-fifths) of POCSO cases which were disposed- off/closed by the police without charge sheeting the reason cited was 'cases true but insufficient evidence, or untraced, or no clue'," it said. In 2019, 43 per cent of cases were closed by police on this ground as per the final reports filed in court, the study said. "This is higher than 2017 and 2018. Amongst other reasons, false reporting was the second most prominent reason for closure of POCSO cases, however closure of cases on this ground has reduced over the years from 40 per cent in 2017 to 33 per cent in 2019," the study said. Also, another analysis of the POCSO cases for the same period ( 2017 to 2019) by KSCF reveals that there is an urgent need for courts to expedite the justice delivery mechanism as victims of as many as 89 per cent of the cases of child sexual abuse were awaiting justice at the end of 2019. "The backlog of cases pending investigation is also increasing from year to year as the number of cases whose investigation is completed in a year is lesser than the number of cases in which chargesheets are filed. This gap demonstrates that police are not devoting adequate resources to deal with these grave crimes," it said. The study has revealed 51 per cent of cases under POCSO are being registered in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi. "This brings out the need for social interventions in these states for better protection of children both within their homes and the society," it said. The conviction rate in POCSO cases in these states is between 30 per cent and 64 per cent, which needs improvement through better presentation of cases in courts as effective detection and conviction are the measures for prevention of a crime, it said. One of the important facts is that in cases where the victims belong to the poor and marginalised communities, their chances of turning hostile during the trial and resiling from the facts in the FIR are high as such victims are subject to both coercion and inducements, the study noted. This happens especially in the cases where the accused is either a family member or a rich and powerful person, it said. “To fill the gaps and address the challenges in implementation of POCSO Act effectively, it is recommended that all the cases registered under POCSO must be closely supervised by the Districts Superintendent of Police and/or Deputy Commissioner of Police,” it said. “At this point of time, there is also a need for a dedicated unit in each district/Police Commissioner for investigating cases relating to sexual offences committed against children," it added. The study recommended that police officers posted in this unit should be specially trained and sensitised and have the correct psychological bent of mind needed to deal with the trauma that women and child victims face. "There is also a need for more Fast Track Special Courts (FTSCs) exclusively to try POCSO cases in view of the huge pendency of these cases in courts across the country," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/every-day-4-child-victims-of-sexual-abuse-denied-justice-due-to-insufficient-evidence-study-959590.html
08-03-2021||National||Man carries son’s body for 3 kms; Two cops suspended for dereliction of duty||In a heart-rending incident, a hapless father was forced to carry the body of his son in a plastic bag for three kilometres after the authorities concerned refused to arrange an ambulance for him. The police headquarters on Monday took cognizance of the matter after the news went viral and suspended two police officials for dereliction of duty. The incident took place at Bhagalpur-Katihar border where a 13-year-old Hari Om Yadav fell from a boat while crossing the Ganga on February 26 and went missing. His body was recovered from the river near Katihar on March 3. Hari Om’s father Teju Yadav was summoned by the Katihar police to identify the body on March 4. Bhagalpur police was also called to complete the formalities, but they left Katihar without taking the body in their possession, which was violation of the autopsy rule. Teju somehow managed a plastic bag, put the dead body of his son in it and carried it for three kilometres. The Katihar police reportedly asked him to go to Bhagalpur Sadar Hospital for autopsy. His plea to the cops to arrange an ambulance to carry the body of his son went unheard. As news of police’s indifferent approach went viral, the police headquarters asked the Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) to conduct an investigation into the matter. “The SDPO report found the allegation against the two police officials — Rajdeo Raman (sub-inspector) and Nand Lal Choudhary (assistant sub-inspector) are true,” said ADG, Headquarters, Jitendra Kumar. Both the cops have been suspended for dereliction of duty, the ADG added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-carries-son-s-body-for-3-kms-two-cops-suspended-for-dereliction-of-duty-959596.html
08-03-2021||National||Rijiju, Irani launch online training programme for women PE teachers, coaches||Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju and Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani on Monday launched an online training programme exclusively for female physical education teachers and community coaches to celebrate the International Women's Day. According to a Sports Authority of India (SAI) release, the initiative, which is a convergence of the 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' and 'Fit India' programmes, aims to empower women teachers in primary, secondary and senior secondary schools by giving them fitness training so that they can in turn empower students. The programme has a registered participation of 12,500 PE Teachers and community coaches, who will be imparted training for free. The online program will have a total of 28 sessions (in Hindi and English) i.e., two sessions of 90 minutes each daily and will commence from Monday till March 26. Elaborating on the collaborative events planned ahead, Rijiju said, "This online training programme is the first of many of projects that the ministries will organise together. "In the second half of the year, when the COVID situation is completely under control, we have planned to organise Girls' Super Leagues in kho kho, basketball, kabaddi and football in association with MoWDC." Speaking at the event, Irani added: "I understand that women's participation in the Khelo India Games has gone up by 160 per cent between 2018 to 2020 and I would like to thank Shri Rijiju for executing the vision of our Honourable PM so well. "Going forward, through the Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao and Khelo India initiatives, we would like to support and promote our female athletes." With this initiative, Fit India and WCD aim to provide an opportunity for women teachers to learn from the best trainers not just in India but from the world over and in the process empower them in the field of physical fitness and health. On the occasion, the Fit India Mission also organised an All Women's Fit India Walkathon on Monday morning, where thousands of volunteers participated in the event held in 1000 locations across India. Rijiju flagged off the Walkathon at the Jawaharlal Nehru stadium here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rijiju-irani-launch-online-training-programme-for-women-pe-teachers-coaches-959601.html
08-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Supreme Court ends relaxation in limitation time for filing cases||The Supreme Court on Monday ended relaxation granted in limitations of the time period for filing pleas in cases before legal fora in view of Covid-19 situation. It, however, gave minimum of 90 days time to all persons from March 15, 2021, to file their petitions, applications, suits, or appeals. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said its order passed on March 27, 2020 has served its purpose and all courts are now functioning either through virtual or physical mode.  The court had in March last taken Suo Motu cognisance of the situation arising out of the challenge faced by the country on account of the Covid-19 pandemic and the resultant difficulties faced by litigants across the country. The bench had then directed to extend a period of limitation, which was ending on March 15, 2020, to "obviate any difficulty and to ensure that lawyers or litigants do not have to come physically to file such proceedings in respective courts or tribunals across the country including this court". A period of limitation has been prescribed under the general law of limitation or under special laws for filing appeals. On Monday, the bench said, "We are of the opinion that the order dated 15.03.2020 has served its purpose and in view of the changing scenario relating to the pandemic, the extension of limitation should come to an end." The court disposed of the Suo Motu matter. "Though we have not seen the end of the pandemic, there is considerable improvement. The lockdown has been liftedand the country is returning to normalcy. Almost all the courts and Tribunals are functioning either physically or by virtual mode," the bench said. Following suggestions by Attorney General K K Venugopal, the bench said in computing the period of limitation for any suit, appeal, application or proceeding, the period from March 15, 2020 till March 14, 2021 would stand excluded. "Notwithstanding the actual balance period of limitation remaining, all persons shall have a limitation period of 90 days from March 15, 2021. In the event the actual balance period of limitation remaining, with effect from March 15, 2021, is greater than 90 days, that longer period shall apply," the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-supreme-court-ends-relaxation-in-limitation-time-for-filing-cases-959609.html
08-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive coverage was initially low due to issues in Co-WIN, hesitancy: Govt||At the start of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, fewer beneficiaries than planned attended inoculation sessions due to transient technical issues in the Co-WIN portal, vaccine hesitancy etc, which have progressively been addressed, Rajya Sabha was informed on Monday. The rate of vaccination coverage has subsequently increased, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply. "More than 50 lakh healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated in 21 days in India, which is the fastest rate in the world," Choubey said. A total of 93.6 lakh healthcare workers and 77.9 lakh frontline workers have been registered as on January 31. A total of 37.58 lakh workers were vaccinated till January 31, he said. "Initially the coverage was low. At the start of Covid-19 vaccination drive, fewer than planned beneficiaries attended vaccination sessions due to transient technical issues in Co-WIN portal, vaccine hesitancy etc., which have progressively been addressed," he said. A communication campaign was carried out to raise awareness about the Covid-19 vaccines and address misinformation. The communication strategy aims to disseminate factual information about the vaccine and the vaccination process. This is being done through multimedia platforms and the MoHFW website, Choubey said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-coverage-was-initially-low-due-to-issues-in-co-win-hesitancy-govt-959616.html
08-03-2021||National||Will continue to protest against rising inflation, high prices of petroleum products: Congress||The Congress on Monday said it would continue to protest against rising inflation and high prices of petroleum products, and would demand a discussion on the issue in Parliament. The first day of the second part of the Budget Session of Parliament in Rajya Sabha was virtually washed out due to the uproar created by the Congress. Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge said he had given a notice to the chairman under rule 267 for a discussion on rising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG, due to which farmers, women and common people are upset, but it was disallowed. "We wanted to raise the anger among people against the rise in prices and wanted to raise it in Parliament. But the government did not agree to it as it was not ready. "We will continue to raise our demand, and our agitation for raising the voice of the common man will also continue in Parliament,"he told reporters. Kharge said when the Congress party raises such issues, it is not given time to raise them in Parliament. "We want that time be given to us to raise such issues concerning the common people in Parliament and are fighting it in the house. Other parties also are with us and are cooperating with us on this issue. We will continue to raise our demand and protests in Parliament to raise issue concerning the common people,"he said. The Congress alleged the Modi government has earned at least Rs 21 lakh crore in the last over six years by raising prices of petrol, diesel and LPG. "Where has that money gone. Whom did you give that money to," he asked. He alleged that on one side, the government is reducing the burden of the rich by reducing taxes of big corporates, on the other it is putting more burden on women, middle class and common people, which they are unable to bear. Every commodity, including food articles, is becoming expensive, he claimed. "On one side, you are filling the treasury but are not looking at how it is impacting the common people," he said, adding that the people of the country have suffered earlier due to demonetisation and then due to the sudden lockdown after COVID-19 pandemic. The economic situation has been shattered in COVID-19 times and the rise in petroleum products is adding to the problems, he said. Kharge alleged that the cess and taxes on petroleum products have not been imposed by bigger, developed countries as have been done by the Modi government. He said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has also written to the prime minister in this regard. The Congress is demanding that the prices of petrol, diesel and LG be brought back to the levels of 2013-14 and the Congress chief has said this in her letter to the PM, raising the concerns and problems of people. Congress leader Deepinder Hooda said the entire country, including farmers, are suffering due to the price rise and inflation. He claimed that price of paddy and wheat have risen only by 30 per cent from 2016 to 2020 but diesel has risen by 89 per cent, and asked when the government will fulfil its promise of doubling farmers' income. He said the Congress members wanted to raise the issue of 273 farmers who have died during the agitation but not even a word has come from the government. "We wanted to raise this issue in Parliament and wanted Parliament to make an obituary reference to those farmers who died and crores of farmers have been hurt,"he said. Congress leader Naseer Hussain said they are being dubbed unparliamentary when they raise the demand for a discussion on the rising prices in Rajya Sabha. "Is there any space in our parliamentary democracy to raise issues concerning the common man? The manner in which they are running Parliament. If we will not raise demands of people and raise their issue in Parliament, then what is parliamentary democracy for. If we are accused of being unparliamentary in Parliament, then what is parliamentary," he asked. "The way they want to shut down the voice of the common man, it is condemnable. But, we will continue to raise our voice for the people," Hussain alleged. Earlier in the Rajya Sabha, Leader of Opposition Kharge raised the issue of rise in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG and demanded that the Upper House discuss this "burning subject" as the people are suffering. Kharge gave a notice under Section 267 to suspend the legislative business of the House and discuss the issue, but Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not accept it, and said the matter can be raised during the discussion on the appropriation bill. He said enough opportunities will be there to discuss this issue during this part of the Budget session. However, Naidu allowed the leader of opposition to mention the issue in the House. "This is a very important issue and it is a burning subject. Throughout the country, people are agitated," Kharge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-continue-to-protest-against-rising-inflation-high-prices-of-petroleum-products-congress-959622.html
08-03-2021||National||Amit Shah is the epitome of communalism, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has termed Union Home Minister Amit Shah the 'epitome of communalism' and alleged that he was trying to trigger communalism at any cost, which was not suitable for the post he was holding. Referring to a series of questions raised by Shah to Vijayan related to the gold smuggling case on Sunday, Vijayan recollected the series of criminal charges including a fake encounter that Shah faced and the jail term he had to serve. Vijayan accused Shah of trying to create a smokescreen by raising baseless allegations of mysterious death related to gold smuggling and hit back by recollecting the allegations Shah faced in connection with the death of CBI judge B H Loya who had handled the Sohrabuddin Shaikh fake encounter case. Speaking at the first public address as part of the election campaign at his constituency Dharmadom in Kannur district on Monday, Vijayan alleged that the probe into the gold smuggling case that was proceeding in the right direction was sabotaged by the Centre, as many Sangh Parivar leaders, including a Minister of State, were under scanner. The Thiruvananthapuram airport, which is under the Centre's control, emerged as a hub of gold smuggling after the BJP came to power. The Customs officials did not curb smuggling. An MoS is involved in it and Sangh Parivar supporters were posted at the airport to facilitate smuggling, Vijayan alleged. Despite being the Union Home Minister, Shah is trying to trigger communalism by using a harsh tone while referring to a community. Persons involved in serious criminal cases need not teach others justice, said Vijayan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-is-the-epitome-of-communalism-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-959632.html
08-03-2021||National||Army exam paper leak: Major sent to police custody till March 15||A 47-year-old Army officer arrested in connection with a recruitment exam paper leak in Pune was on Monday remanded in police custody till March 15. The Pune police told the court of Additional Sessions Judge SR Navandar that Major T Murugan, who was arrested from Taml Nadu, had forwarded the question paper to other accused. Public Prosecutor Premkumar Agrawal told court that Murugan had forwarded the leaked question paper to other accused through Whatsapp, and the police needed to know from where he got this exam paper. Agrawal said the accused had deleted mobile phone chats, which had to be retrieved, and a probe was needed to unearth financial transactions and further links. Defence counsel A D Lonandkar opposed the plea and told court that the accused's phone had already been seized and, therefore, there was no need for police custody. Remanding Murugan to police custody till March 15, Judge Navandar said the accused is the key person in the paper leak conspiracy. "Due to unlawful activities, the entire process of recruitment was stopped and the exam postponed. Considering the seriousness of the crime, there is a need for thorough investigation and for that sufficient police custody is required," the judge observed. Police have invoked relevant sections of IPC as well as the Prevention of Corruption Act. So far, six persons have been arrested, including three Army personnel, for the leak that took place on February 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-exam-paper-leak-major-sent-to-police-custody-till-march-15-959634.html
08-03-2021||National||Ex-Rajasthan Governor Anshuman Singh dies due to Covid||Former Rajasthan Governor Anshuman Singh died at a Lucknow hospital on Monday, a month after he was admitted there with coronavirus-related pneumonia. He was 86. According to an official statement, Singh was admitted to Lucknow’s Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences due to severe Covid pneumonia on February 8. After 10 days, he was admitted to a non-Covid ICU. "Subsequently, his condition worsened and led to a multi-organ failure requiring life support system," the hospital said in the statement, adding that he died at 4.30 am. Anshuman Singh had taken charge as the Governor of Rajasthan on January 16, 1999 and remained in office till May 2003. Born in 1935 in Allahabad, he became an advocate in the Allahabad district court in 1957. He was appointed as a judge of the Allahabad High Court in 1984 and later he became an acting chief justice of the Rajasthan High Court. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and several ministers condoled his demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-rajasthan-governor-anshuman-singh-dies-due-to-covid-959637.html
08-03-2021||National||Delhi Govt to provide scrapping incentives under Delhi EV Policy: Gadkari||Scrapping incentives, including up to Rs 7,500 per vehicle for auto and light commercial vehicle, is being provided by the Delhi Government under Delhi Electric Vehicle Policy 2020, Parliament was informed on Monday. The Delhi government notified the Delhi EV Policy 2020 on Aug 7, 2020, with an intention to promote the adoption of clean mobility solution. The policy aims to establish the feasibility for large-scale adoption of electric passenger four-wheelers, through transitioning its entire government fleet to electric. "Under the provision, all leased/hired cars used for a commute of GNCTD officers shall be transitioned to electric within a period of twelve months from the date of issue of this policy," Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari informed Rajya Sabha in a written reply. The Delhi Government order issued on February 25, 2021 in this regard mandates conversion of all vehicles owned/leased by the Government of NCT of Delhi to transition to electric by Aug 6, 2021, the minister said. "Under the Delhi EV Policy, 2020 —scrapping incentive is provided for the vehicles in lieu of scrapping a more polluting conventional vehicle. However, the scrapping incentive for vehicle is applicable on the evidence of matching contribution from the dealer or OEM, such that the Government of NCT of Delhi will provide incentive matching the contribution made by the OEM or dealer on the scrapping value of the vehicle, not exceeding Rs 5,000 per vehicle for two-wheelers and Rs 7,500 per vehicle for Auto and Light Commercial Vehicle," the minister said. He said other incentives are also there. Private and two-wheeler vehicles would also be included in this scheme, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-to-provide-scrapping-incentives-under-delhi-ev-policy-gadkari-959641.html
08-03-2021||National||DMK-Cong to sweep Tamil Nadu, BJP to win in Puducherry: Opinion Poll||The DMK-Congress alliance is expected win the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections with a sweeping victory, defeating E Palaniswamy's AIADMK government in the state, according to projections of the Times Now C-Voter Opinion Poll. According to the poll, the AIADMK government is headed towards a major fall and is predicted to win only 65 seats in 2021, a steep fall from its 135 seats in the previous election. DMK's M K Stalin is people's preferred CM for the state, with close to 38 per cent of respondents picking him for the top job. Meanwhile, only 31 per cent of respondents favoured Palaniswami as CM.    Congress faltering in Puducherry The opinion poll is predicting more bad news for Congress in the union territory, projecting that the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is likely to form the government by winning 18 of the 30 seats. The grand old party is expected to win 12 seats in the Assembly elections. It had come to power in the UT with alliance partner DMK in 2016 by grabbing 17 Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-cong-to-sweep-tamil-nadu-bjp-to-win-in-puducherry-opinion-poll-959647.html
08-03-2021||National||JEE Main 2021 results declared: Six score perfect 100||Six students scored 100 per cent in JEE-Mains, while Udhav Varma topped the engineering entrance exam in Karnataka with 99.99 per cent. The National Testing Agency (NTA) announced the results of the February session of the JEE Main exams on Monday night. The six who score a perfect 100 were Saket Jha from Rajasthan, Pravar Kataria and Ranjim Prabal Das from Delhi, Guramrit Singh from Chandigarh, Siddhant Mukherjee from Maharashtra and Ananth Krishna Kidambi from Gujarat. Suhail Shivaram from Karnatka stood fifth in the ST category 99.88 per cent score. A total of 6.52 lakh candidates had registered for the entrance examination this year, 95 per cent of whom had appeared in the BE/BTech papers and 81.2 per cent appeared in B.Arch/B.Planning paper. This was the first time that the exam was conducted in 13 languages — Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Hindi, English and Gujarati. NTA scores are normalised scores across multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in one session, Sadhana Parashar, Senior Director (Exams), NTA said. “The marks obtained are converted into a scale ranging from 100 to 0 for each session of examinees. NTA score is not the same as the percentage of marks obtained,” Parashar said. The National Testing Agency (NTA) had conducted the February session examination from February 23 to 26, 2021. The exam was conducted at over 800 centres in 331 cities, including nine centres abroad — Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait. Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer students a chance to improve their scores. The next phases will be held in March, April and May. “After February, March, April, and May sessions of JEE (Main)-2021 Exam, the ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy. The candidates have the choice to appear in one, two, three, four examinations for admission,” Parashar said. Results of were announced on the National Testing Agency's (NTA) official website at jeemain.nta.nic.in.  The agency had conducted the JEE main examination from February 23 to 26, 2021. How to check results: Step 2: Click on the tab that reads JEE Main 2021 Result/Scorecard Step 3: Key in your credentials in the box and login JEE Mains 2021 results will be displayed on the screen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-main-2021-results-declared-six-score-perfect-100-959648.html
08-03-2021||National||Expect lower arecanut output in 2020-21||Arecanut production is projected to fall by 1,32,000 tonnes, while mango growers could expect a jump of 8,59,000 tonnes in the harvest of the 'king of fruits', according to the first advance estimates released by the Agriculture Ministry on Monday. Arecanut production is pegged at 12,20,000 tonnes for 2020-21 as against 13,52,000 tonnes in the 2019-20 crop year. Mango growers are expected to harvest 2,11,24,000 tonnes of the fruit in the 2020-21 season as against the 2,02,65,000 tonnes achieved in 2019-20. Overall, the total production of horticulture crops is estimated to increase to 326.57 million tonnes in 2020-21 as against the320.76 million tonnes achieved the previous season. Among key vegetables, production of two main kitchen staples – potato and onion – is estimated higher from over the last year. In the case of tomato, the production is pegged slightly lower to 20.14 million tonne this year from 21.17 million tonne last year. Onion production is expected to increase to 26.29 million tonnes this year from 26.09 million tonne last year, while that of potato output is likely to increase to 53.11 million tonnes from 48.56 million tonnes last year. Production of overall vegetables in the country is pegged higher at 193.60 million tonnes in the 2020-21 from 188.90 million tonnes in the last year. Honey production is estimated to remain flat at 1,20,000 tonne this year, whereas output of spices is estimated to be slightly lower at 10.24 million tonne this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expect-lower-arecanut-output-in-2020-21-959656.html
08-03-2021||National||678 sexual harassment cases reported in 2019-20: Report||Indian companies reported more cases of sexual harassment in 2019-20 compared to a year earlier, according to the Excellence Enablers' report on Corporate Governance. According to data compiled from annual reports of Nifty 50 by Corporate Excellence, 678 cases were reported under the anti-sexual harassment law in 2019-20 compared to 663 in 2018-19. "In FY 19-20, 678 cases were reported, and 600 cases were shown as disposed of. From the reporting, it is not clear in how many of these 600 cases, the allegations were established, and appropriate remedial action was taken," the survey said. Since creation of a safer workplace is the objective, clarity on this account would have been helpful, it added. Interestingly, in 2018-19 and 2019-20, as many as 10 companies reported receiving zero complaints. Out of these, 8 companies, including 2 PSUs, had received not a single complaint in both financial years. The absence of complaints would seem to indicate either an ideal workplace or the lack of confidence among employees in reporting cases of this nature, the report pointed out. In 2018-19 and 2019-20, the maximum number of cases received by a company were 142 and 125 respectively. The anti-sexual harassment law-- the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013-- mandates listed firms to report the number of sexual harassment cases and their disposal in their annual reports. "The Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) of women in the workplace is one of the most important responsibilities of management. Towards this end, cases of this nature are expected to be examined and disposed of, fixing responsibility in instances where the allegation is established," the survey noted. The survey on corporate governance also pointed out that there were 2 and 3 companies that did not have a woman independent director on their board at the end of 2018-19 and 2019-20, respectively. In 2019-20, a total of 21 companies had 2 or more woman independent directors on their boards, and one company had a woman independent director as its chairperson. Under the rules, the board of directors of the top 500 listed entities need to have at least one independent woman director by April 1, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/678-sexual-harassment-cases-reported-in-2019-20-report-959660.html
08-03-2021||National||Hand gloves for voters, PPEs for Covid-19 patients in TN Assembly polls||Covid-19 infected voters would be given personal protective equipment (PPE) kits while others hand gloves for casting their votes in the elections to Tamil Nadu assembly next month as part of preventive measures in view of the pandemic, state Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said on Monday. On the day of polling, every voter would be given hand gloves before voting to ensure there was no chance of transmission of infection through the Electronic Voting Machine, he said. All other norms to help prevent Covid-19, including screening people with thermal scanners, would be followed during the polling on April 6, the official told a press conference at the Secretariat. "People must go to polling stations wearing mask," he said adding public should follow social distancing as well. If people had fever or in case of suspicion about coronavirus, they would be given a medical certificate and allowed to vote during the last one hour. In case of people infected with Covid-19 or suspected of being infected with the virus, they would be permitted to cast their votes wearing a PPE kit that would be provided by authorities, he said. Arrangements are in place to ensure the availability of PPEs, he noted. Both polling stations and personnel have been increased in view of the pandemic and as a result the total booths now stood at 88,937 as against 68,324 and would be manned by 4,79,892 personnel, the CEO said. There are 76 counting centres in the state. While previously only the vulnerable and sensitive polling stations were monitored through web camera, for the first time now, a minimum of 50 per cent of polling booths shall be connected to the devices. As many as 150 general observers and 40 police observers have been deployed and they would all report in their respective assigned constituencies before March 19. Also, a total of 118 expenditure observers, plus one for the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency would be deployed from March 12, he said. All preparations to hold the polls on April 6 had been done as per the guidelines. A 'candidate handbook' is available on the website of the Election Commission and applicants may submit papers in tune with the stipulations, he said. The filing of nomination begins on March 12 and would close on March 19 and applications cannot be filed on Saturday and Sunday, he said. In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, besides the candidate, only two other persons would be allowed during filing of nominations, he said. For every assembly constituency, three each of Flying Squad Team and Static Surveillance Teams have been deployed and their movement would be monitored through Global Positioning System 24x7, he said. The Call Centre to receive poll related complaints could be accessed through toll free number '1950' and the state-wide facility is now available round-the-clock. Similarly, the Control Room here at the Office of the Chief Electoral Officer (1800 4252 1950), manned by 25 people may also be approached by people for filing complaints, he said adding every call is recorded for ensuring prompt action. Apart from the EPIC, eleven documents, including Aadhar, PAN, MGNREGA job card, bank or post office pass book or pension document (with photo), driving licence, and passport can be used as identity proof. Along with the Voter Identification Slip that would be distributed to voters five days ahead of polls, voters may use one of these 12 documents to exercise their franchise, he said. For voters aged 80-plus, Covid-19 affected people and persons with disability, the option of postal ballot is available. Such people may indicate their preference to the respective Returning Officers on or before March 16 and the ROs and District Election Officers would arrange issuance of ballots to them following due process, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hand-gloves-for-voters-ppes-for-covid-19-patients-in-tn-assembly-polls-959671.html
08-03-2021||National||Expenditure incurred for Covid vaccination for 3 crore HCWs, FLWs is Rs 480 crore: Ashwini Choubey||The expenditure to be incurred as operational cost for Covid-19 vaccination of estimated three crore healthcare and frontline workers is about Rs 480 crore and vaccines' cost is about Rs 1,392 crore, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on February 9. In response to a question on whether the government plans to distribute the vaccine free of cost to any section of population in the country, the minister said, "Presently, the vaccine is being provided free of cost to healthcare workers and frontline workers."   As on February 4, a total of 96.28 lakh healthcare workers and 78.51 lakh frontline workers have been identified for Covid-19 vaccination, he said in a written reply. The database of frontline workers is in the process of getting updated on the Co-Win digital platform, he said. "The expenditure to be incurred as operational cost for vaccination of estimated 3 crore healthcare workers and frontline workers is about Rs 480 crore and vaccines cost is about Rs 1392.82 crore," Choubey said.  Two Covid-19 vaccines -- Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech International Limited -- have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) so far.  These two vaccines have been procured for Covid-19 vaccination drive in the country which began on January 16. Till January 26, a total of 200 lakh doses of Covishield and 28.03 lakh doses of Covaxin have been supplied, Choubey said. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) provides guidance on all aspects of vaccination including prioritisation of population groups for vaccination. The NEGVAC has prioritised healthcare and frontline workers during the initial phase of Covid-19 vaccination followed by prioritized population groups of persons aged 50 years and above, and those aged less than 50 years with comorbidities. Presently, the vaccine is being provided free of cost to healthcare and frontline workers, Choubey said. The budget allocation of Rs 480 crore has been made for meeting the operational cost for Covid-19 vaccination of healthcare and frontline workers, in addition to the cost of the vaccines, Choubey said. Further, in the Union Budget 2021-22, an outlay of Rs 35,000 crore has been made towards Covid-19 vaccination and a commitment to provide further funds, if required, has also been expressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expenditure-incurred-for-covid-vaccination-for-3-crore-hcws-flws-is-rs-480-crore-ashwini-choubey-959690.html
08-03-2021||National||Women's Day: Civil rights groups call for gender equality, violence-free life in post-pandemic world||On International Women's Day, civil rights organisations called for gender equality, violence-free life and renewed pledge to invest in women's leadership building in the post-pandemic world. Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi noted that it will be Women's Day in its true sense when “no daughter of India will feel insecure to go out alone at any time, when the 6-year-old daughter of the poorest mother in a backward village will dream like my 6-year-old grandson and move shoulder to shoulder with him". Amitabh Behar, CEO, Oxfam India stressed on the need to stand in solidarity with women's struggles for their rights, dignity, status as workers, farmers, owners of property, as deserving of equal wages and above all a violence-free life. "If you open newspapers or look at popular conversations, women are either made out to be goddesses or marketed as consumerist products. We need to get back to the roots of why we celebrate women's day,” he told PTI. Oxfam India has also dedicated their annual Trailwalker Challenge to women who were the worst hit by the coronavirus pandemic last year and are still struggling to recover from job loss, violence, health-related challenges and gender-based discrimination. The theme of this year's Oxfam Trailwalker Virtual Challenge is #WalkForHer. Poonam Muttreja, executive director, Population Foundation of India (PFI) said the International Women's Day this year celebrates the leadership of women and girls in shaping more equitable futures as the pandemic recedes. "International Women's Day (IWD) belongs to all groups and all women everywhere. It honours the story of women's struggles for equality around the world and is symbolic of our collective efforts to ensure human rights and social justice for women," she said. "When women and girls lead, we see change. Women have been at the forefront of the Covid-19 response across the world, and young women are at the helm of online and on ground movements for social justice, climate change, gender equality and human rights. International Women's Day is a rallying force for individuals, organisations, movements, and groups to come together to ensure 'generation equality'," she added. Aparajita Gogoi, WRAI, national coordinator and executive director, Centre for Catalyzing Change: Covid-19 Pandemic, highlighted the many ways in which women leaders at grassroots level have been at the forefront of relief and rebuilding activities. "This International Women's Day, we need to renew pledge to invest in women's leadership building as a way of redoubling recovery efforts in a post-pandemic world," she said. International Women's Day is celebrated on March 8 around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/womens-day-civil-rights-groups-call-for-gender-equality-violence-free-life-in-post-pandemic-world-959691.html
08-03-2021||National||Had Scindia remained in Congress he would have become CM: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday told youth wing leaders that had Jyotiraditya Scindia remained in the party he would have certainly become a chief minister but was now a "backbencher" in the BJP, according to sources. He said he had told Scindia so, but "he chose a different path" by joining the BJP, where he can never be the chief minister. Gandhi while addressing the executive committee meeting of the Indian Youth Congress said that even if Scindia returns to the party fold, "he cannot be the chief minister now". The former Congress chief exhorted youth leaders to adopt patience and be able to digest power. He said the party is observing the contribution of all of them, sources said. "I told Scindia that he will 100 per cent become the chief minister one day. But he chose a different path. Had he not left the party, he would have been CM. He is today a backbencher in the BJP and can never become chief minister there," a source quoted him as telling the gathering. Scindia had left the party along with some legislators loyal to him to join the BJP. This led to the fall of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh early last year. However, IYC president B V Srinivas denied that Gandhi made any reference to Scindia and claimed it was "not correct". He said Gandhi told the youth that "anyone who wanted to join or quit the party was free to do so", as he urged them to continue their fight against the RSS-BJP ideology and not fear anyone. Sources, however, said he told the youth leaders that the coming days belonged to them and they should remain loyal to the party and continue their fight against the BJP/RSS and work hard for the party which was "observing" them and their contribution. He said politics was a long process and one who worked sincerely for the party and remained loyal would get rewarded. "I will continue to fight these forces. I do not fear from anyone, Gandhi said at the closed-door gathering," the source said. All state presidents and Indian Youth Congress national office-bearers attended the executive meeting. The Youth Congress leaders made a presentation at the meeting on the work they proposed to do in the next year. Gandhi told them to continue with their programme of protests on issues of price rise and unemployment and farmers' issues and to take to the streets against the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/had-scindia-remained-in-congress-he-would-have-become-cm-rahul-gandhi-959699.html
08-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourned for day as Opposition protests over rising fuel prices||Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day as Opposition members continued their protest over rising fuel prices on Monday. When the House reconvened at 7 pm after an adjournment, the Chair allowed discussion on the issue of women empowerment on the occasion of International Women's Day. The discussion continued for about 20 minutes amidst continued protest by Opposition members. Rama Devi of the BJP who was on the Chair appealed to the protesting members several times to let the House function so that women members can raise their issues on International Women's Day. However, the Opposition did not yield prompting the chair to adjourn the House for the day to meet on Tuesday 11 am. Earlier, the House was adjourned twice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourned-for-day-as-opposition-protests-over-rising-fuel-prices-959701.html
08-03-2021||National||India celebrates 'Nari Shakti' on International Women's Day||From women taking the centre stage at the farmers' protests in the national capital to a woman sub-inspector managing a police station, the country on Monday celebrated International Women's Day with several lawmakers in Parliament pitching for at least one-third reservation for women on the occasion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted women on the occasion and said India takes pride in their many accomplishments. "Saluting our indomitable #NariShakti on International Women's Day! India takes pride in the many accomplishments of the women of our nation. It is our Government's honour to be getting the opportunity to work towards furthering women empowerment across a wide range of sectors," Modi tweeted. President Ram Nath Kovind, several Union ministers and leaders of political parties conveyed their wishes, extolling the role of 'nari shakti' in various fields. "There is No HERO Without HER! The spread of Covid-19 brought to the fore selfless and determined role of #NariShakti during the crisis. This Women's Day, we salute our 6 million+ women health workforce for their unequivocal contribution in India's fight against Corona.@WHO," the Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said. Women are capable of “creating history and future with formidable grace”, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Monday on the occasion of International Women's Day. “Don’t let anyone stop you,” he added as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the party echoed him in sending out the message of women’s empowerment on the day. Giving more and more space to women's voices is the foundation of women's empowerment, Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter. Hundreds of women took to streets while raising slogans of "kisan ekta" and some broke into nonchalant rhythmic steps of "bhangra" at Delhi borders -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- to celebrate the women's contribution to the 100-day strong farmers movement against the three farm laws. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country's farming sector, the organisers had laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers manage the stage, arrange food and security and share tales of their struggles on the occasion. "The stage is being managed by women, the speakers are all women and the issues that are being discussed are of both farming and women farmers more specifically," farmer leader Kavitha Kuruganti told PTI on Monday. "The discourse of the debate is focusing on women farmers. The debate is also on the contribution of women in this movement," said Kuruganti, who is also a member of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha. She added that the participation of women has increased significantly with the arrival of "thousands of women". The Maharashtra government set up five Covid-19 vaccination centres in each district of the state exclusively for inoculating women. These centres will remain operational only for the day, a health official said. The Punjab Assembly unanimously passed a resolution, saluting the indomitable spirit of women in contributing to the progress of the nation. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a proposal to provide six-months child care leave to women employees of the government. He also announced a grant of Rs 37,188 crore for women-oriented programmes. A woman MLA from Madhya Pradesh presided over the Question Hour of the state Assembly and women MLAs presided over the proceedings of the Haryana Assembly. The first commercial passenger flight to Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh operated by an all-woman crew was flagged off from the Delhi airport by Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The all-woman crew operated Alliance Air's Delhi-Bareilly inaugural flight on International Women's Day. The Himachal Pradesh Police held an all-women parade at the historic Ridge in Shimla, an example Governor Bandaru Dattareya said other states should follow to increase their strength in the force. Policewomen also performed a motorbike stunt and combat drill at the event held to mark International Women’s Day. Several Rajya Sabha members pushed for at least one-third reservation for women in Parliament and state assemblies, saying this will ensure they get adequate representation. The demand comes in the backdrop of a bill that sought to give 33 per cent reservation to women in Lok Sabha and state assemblies lapsing a few years ago. The Uttarakhand government launched an interest-free loan scheme for women self-help groups and distributed loans worth Rs 5.27 crore among 156 such groups. Shikha, a 30-year old sub-inspector in Valiyathura police station here, is one among the several policewomen who assumed responsibility of Station House Officers (SHOs) on the occasion of the International Women's Day on Monday. Valiyathura is a key police station in the coastal belt located nearby the international airport. "I am super excited....It was only yesterday I came to know that I would be in charge of the station on Monday. I joined the force only in 2018 and so I have never expected that I may get a chance to shoulder such a responsibility soon," Shikha said. Blue Dart, South Asia's express air and integrated transportation and distribution company, said it is all set to launch its first 'Women Service Centre'. Located in Navi Mumbai, the all-women service centre comprises a team of 16 enthusiastic women who don the role of managers, customer service representatives, security personnel as well as sales and counter staff, the company said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-celebrates-nari-shakti-on-international-womens-day-959711.html
08-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: No new taxes announced in Karnataka state budget||In your evening news brief,  No new taxes announced in Karnataka state budget announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa; NIA to probe planting of the explosive-laden Scorpio SUV near the Mumbai residence of Mukesh Ambani and Supreme Court says news reports and activists quoted out of context a query posed by court to an accused of rape to marry the victim.  Here is the top news of March 8, 2021: Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday spared citizens by not announcing any new taxes while presenting the state Budget 2021. The Opposition Congress on Monday staged a walkout during the tabling of the budget claiming that the BJP government in the state had no moral right to continue in power. The Chief Minister said, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has seen a fall due to lockdown for controlling the Covid-19 pandemic during the year 2020-21, and as per the initial estimation based on fixed prices the GSDP has contracted by 2.6 per cent in comparison with that of 2019-20. Highlights: No hike in taxes on petrol, diesel and liquor A special fund to set up 31 gaushalas, one for each district across Karnataka. Special loan assistance for up to Rs two crore with a low 4-percent interest rate for women entrepreneurs in addition to discounted bus passes and assurance of more security for travelling in mass transport vehicles. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the probe into the planting of the explosive-laden Scorpio SUV near the Mumbai residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. The state BJP had been demanding that the planting of the vehicle and the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren be given to the NIA in the wake of strange coincidences. However, the Maharashtra government has transferred the probe to the state Anti-Terrorism Squad The Supreme Court on Monday said the court always had the highest respect for womanhood while asserting that news reports and activists quoted out of context a query posed by court to an accused of rape to marry the victim. A bench, presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde and also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said the court had on March 2 asked the man, in the context of the case, whether he would marry the complainant, and had not asked him to “go and marry her”. The bench said the court proceedings in the matter was completely misreported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-no-new-taxes-announced-in-karnataka-state-budget-959713.html
08-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Over 35K people vaccinated on Monday||Over 35,700 beneficiaries received shots of the Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Monday, the highest number of people vaccinated in a single day since the start of the inoculation exercise on January 16, as per official data. In the age bracket of 60 and above, 20,123 people were vaccinated while in the 45-59 years age group, 2,710 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said. On Monday, 35,738 people received shots, the highest number of vaccinations done so far since the start of the exercise on January 16, according to official data. Leader of the House in the South Delhi Municipal Corporation Narendra Chawla also "got his first jab of Covaxin" at Tilak Nagar Colony hospital on Monday, the SDMC said in a statement. On Saturday, 33,287 people were vaccinated, out of which 17,288 were citizens in the age group of 60 years and above. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi. Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital. One minor cases of AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) was reported on Monday, officials said. About 68 per cent of the people (15,485) turned up at private facilities and the remaining 32 per cent (7,348) at government facilities for vaccination, as per the data shared by officials. As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card. On Monday, second doses were given to 7,316 people, officials said, adding, 3,252 frontline workers and 2,337 healthcare workers were also vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-35k-people-vaccinated-on-monday-959715.html
08-03-2021||National||REPCO is not a bank, rules Madras High Court||The Repatriates Cooperative Finance and Development Bank Ltd (REPCO Bank) cannot be regarded as a bank or a secured creditor within the meaning of the relevant word and expression in the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act 2002, the Madras High Court has ruled. A bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthil Kumar Ramamurthy gave the ruling while allowing a writ petition from a loan defaulter. "As a consequence, the respondent (Repco) cannot resort to any of the measures indicated in the Act, whether under Section 13 thereof or otherwise," the bench said. One S P Ganesan had obtained credit facilities from REPCO. Upon the perceived failure on his part to repay the dues within the time,possession notice was issued against him on November 15, 2019 for taking possession of the secured assets. The petitioner contended that REPCO was not a bank at all and could not be regarded as a secured creditor within the meaning of the relevant expression in the 2002 Act. All steps taken by Repco under the Act were void and completely without jurisdiction, he added. Allowing the petition, the bench observed that Repco had no recourse to the writ petitioner or to pursue a defaulting debtor. If it had obtained securities, it should have carried the claim to an appropriate forum, possibly a civil court and invoke the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 that had recently gone out of fashion after bank claims had been parked with a tribunal and taken beyond the pale of the sovereign court system, the bench said. It set aside the notice issued by Repco under the 2002 Act and all the steps purported to be taken under the statute.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/repco-is-not-a-bank-rules-madras-high-court-959729.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Trinamool demands adjournment of Parliament Budget Session due to Assembly polls||Trinamool Congress on Monday demanded adjournment of the Parliament's Budget Session in view of the Assembly elections to the four states and one union territory, including West Bengal. Trinamool's Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay and Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien wrote to Speaker Om Birla and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu respectively citing that it would be "difficult" for party MPs to attend the House during the second leg of Budget Session due to the elections. In his letter, Bandyopadhyay said political campaigning has already started in full swing in the state and requested him to consider adjourning the Lok Sabha session. O'Brien cited "two precedents" when the Parliament sessions were adjourned in view of upcoming polls in multiple states. The 222nd session between February 21, 2011, and April 21, 2011, was adjourned on March 25, 2011, due to state polls in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The 214th session which commenced on October 17, 2008, was adjourned on October 24, 2008, to meet again on December 10, 2008, due to elections. O'Brien said in his letter that the original schedule was to continue up to November 21, 2008. Besides Bengal, the states and union territories going to Assembly polls between March 28 and April 29 are Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Most of the MPs from these states are giving a skip to the Session as they are busy campaigning in the states. Bengal has an eight-phase poll from March 28 to April 29 while Assam has a three-phase poll between March 27 to April 6. Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will hit the polling booths on April 6 while the counting of votes in all the five states and union territory is May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/trinamool-demands-adjournment-of-parliament-budget-session-due-to-assembly-polls-959444.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Parliamentary panels under Rajya Sabha discuss Demands for Grants for longer||Eight Parliamentary Standing Committees under Rajya Sabha witnessed more activity this year during the examination of Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries with official statistics showing that the panels spent 12% more time compared to last year. However, the attendance of Lok Sabha MPs in these panels declined during the meetings held in the last three weeks during the recess of the Budget Session even as Rajya Sabha MPs improved their attendance in these deliberations. Giving details in Rajya Sabha, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said the eight panels held 21 meetings to discuss Demands for Grants of 18 ministries for a total duration of 70:27 hours this year as against 20 meetings for a duration of 63 hours last year. He said the attendance of Rajya Sabha MPs in these panels substantially improved -- from 52.57% last year to 58.24% this year. Also, he said 50% of Rajya Sabha MPs attended all the meetings of respective committees as against 36% last year. On Lok Sabha MPs, he said the overall attendance has declined to 31.86% from 46.37% last year and the number of members who attended all the meetings has fallen to 26.21% from 35% last year. These eight panels have a total of 242 MPs -- 78 from Rajya Sabha and 164 from Lok Sabha. The average duration of the 21 meetings comes to 2:36 hours. Four out of eight committees met for a duration of 5:25 hours to 6:25 hours in a day. The Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice has reported the highest attendance of 51.19% this year while the Committee on Commerce reported the highest improvement in attendance of 40% as against only 32% last year. There was the required quorum in all the 21 meetings this year while 3 of the 20 meetings held last year did not have the quorum. Naidu, however, was concerned over the low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in these meetings. He said that the attendance of such other parties and groups has fallen to 27.60% from 40% last year. Consequently, the overall attendance this year in the 21 meetings has fallen to 42% from 48% last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliamentary-panels-under-rajya-sabha-discuss-demands-for-grants-for-longer-959457.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Opposition members raise slogans against fuel, LPG price rise in Rajya Sabha||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 1 pm on Monday amid uproar by Opposition members seeking a debate on the issue of frequent increase in fuel prices. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjuna Kharge gave a notice for suspension of business to discuss "huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low." However, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not allow the discussion, saying the issue can be debated "during the course of discussion on the Appropriation bill." As the Chair decided to continue the scheduled Question Hour, Opposition parties began shouting slogans seeking a debate on the issue. The Chair kept on asking members to go back to their seats and not deprive members from the Question Hour. However, Opposition members kept on shouting. "If you don't want the Question Hour to continue, if you want to deprive people of Question Hour, I can adjourn the House. .... Please go to your seat. Loktantra ka majak nahi karna hai... (Don't make a joke of democracy," the Chairman said. As members continued to shout, the Chairman adjourned the House till 1 pm. The second part of the Budget session of Parliament began Monday and is scheduled to conclude on April 8. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-members-raise-slogans-against-fuel-lpg-price-rise-in-rajya-sabha-959458.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Kharge leads Opposition from the front, forces adjournments in Rajya Sabha on fuel price hike||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge opened his innings as Leader of Opposition(LoP) in Rajya Sabha on Monday by leading a protest against fuel price hike forcing adjournments after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu disallowed his notice to suspend the business of the House to discuss the issue. The House, which conducted business in the first hour, could function from 10 AM and the Chair announced the final adjournment of the day at 1:30 PM. Kharge had submitted the notice for suspension of business to discuss the "huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low" but Naidu rejected it saying it could be deliberated during the debate on Appropriation Bills, leading to an adjournment of the House while the Question Hour was on. The Karnataka MP, whom Naidu described as one of the longest-serving leaders of the country and that he has a "major role" in enabling the smooth functioning of the House, has recently succeeded Ghulam Nabi Azad, who retired on February 15, as the Leader of Opposition and Monday was his first day as LoP in the Upper House. Naidu's decision to disallow Kharge's notice did not go down well with the Congress MPs who rushed to the well of the House and started sloganeering. Kharge said it was a "very important" and "burning issue" that has agitated the people. "Petrol and diesel prices are nearly Rs 100 per litre and Rs 80 per litre respectively. LPG prices have also gone up. Rs 21 lakh crores have been collected by putting excise duty and cess. Because of this, the entire country including farmers are suffering," he said. Congress MPs, who were in the well of the House, refused to return to their seats, prompting Naidu to quip, "if you don't want the Question Hour to continue, if you want to deprive people of Question Hour, I can adjourn the House...Don't make a joke of democracy." As the sloganeering continued, Naidu first adjourned the House till 11 am. When the House re-assembled, Kharge once again demanded a discussion but Deputy Chairman Harivansh made it clear that the decision of the Chairman cannot be reversed. With MPs continuing their protest, Harivansh adjourned the House till 1 PM. At 1 PM and 1:15 PM, Vice Chairperson Vandana Chavan adjourned the House for 15 minutes each. At 1:30 PM, she announced that the House is adjourned till 11 AM on Tuesday. Earlier during Zero Hour, Naidu described Kharge as one of the longest-serving leaders of the country with vast legislative and administrative experience, as he has been an MLA in Karnataka for a record nine times without a break and twice a member of the Lok Sabha. Kharge was also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly twice besides being the leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha, he said. "Leader of Opposition has a major role in enabling the smooth functioning of the House as per the Rules of Procedure and conventions of the House. I am confident that this august House will benefit significantly from the rich and diverse experience of Kharge-ji who has witnessed the functioning of the legislatures, both from the right and left side of the Chair," Naidu said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kharge-leads-opposition-from-the-front-forces-adjournments-in-rajya-sabha-on-fuel-price-hike-959463.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Don’t let anyone stop you: Rahul Gandhi on International Women's Day||“Don’t let anyone stop you,” he added as Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and the party echoed him in sending out the message of women’s empowerment on the day. Giving more and more space to women's voices is the foundation of women's empowerment, Priyanka Gandhi said on Twitter.     The more women people's representatives, lawyers, pilots, entrepreneurs, soldiers, doctors, teachers, writers, journalists, sportspersons and artists there will be, the more the world will look beautiful and powerful, the Congress general secretary said in a tweet in Hindi. "I am proud that the policies of the Congress have strengthened the leadership of women in local bodies in our country," Priyanka Gandhi said. ..मुझे गर्व है कि हमारे देश में स्थानीय निकायों में महिलाओं के नेतृत्व को कांग्रेस की नीतियों ने मजबूती दी। हमारे देश के महिला नेतृत्व ने दुनिया को दिखाया कि महिला सरपंच, मुख्यमंत्री व प्रधानमंत्री देश को कितना शक्तिशाली व सुंदर तरीके से नेतृत्व देती हैं। 2/2   Women’s leadership in India had shown how powerfully and beautifully women can lead the country as sarpanches, chief ministers and as prime minister, she added. “Narishakti - women power - is the only way the true idea of India as envisioned by our ancestors will be accomplished. Let us stand by her, let us stand for her, let us follow her lead into a truly equal, free, safe & prosperous tomorrow," the Congress posted from its official Twitter handle.   Narishakti - women power - is the only way the true idea of India as envisioned by our ancestors will be accomplished. It described women as the backbone of the nation and said each of them should be celebrated each day.   “Women are capable of creating history and future with formidable grace. Don’t let anyone stop you,” read Rahul Gandhi’s tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/don-t-let-anyone-stop-you-rahul-gandhi-on-international-womens-day-959504.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Attend Parliament, observe debates: Rajya Sabha Chairman tells MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said that members should make it a point to be present in the House to enhance understanding of parliamentary procedures and also use the library facility. On the first day of the second part of the Budget Session, Naidu said that he has been told that some members do not attend the proceedings even when they are in the national capital. "Going to library is going to enhance your knowledge. Attending the session, not missing it, also enhances understanding of Parliament procedures. So I call upon members to please visit (Parliament) library, make use of the library...and also please attend Parliament," he said. He further said, "I am told they are in Delhi but they are not present in the House". He, however, made it clear that he was not referring to any particular member or any party. "I appeal to all the members, please make it a point to be in the House and then observe debates, enrich your knowledge," he said. The Parliament Library is completing 100 years this year. It has a huge collection of about 14 lakh books including hundreds of journals in all languages. "I am told that the footfall of Members of Parliament in this source of information and knowledge is not very encouraging," Naidu said, stressing that sufficient homework is required on the part of members to make quality contribution to debates and interventions. Naidu also gave an account of the examination of the Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries undertaken by the eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of Rajya Sabha during the 3 week-recess after the first part of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. He referred to several positives that emerged during the Budget scrutiny by the Committees of Rajya Sabha and some concerns as well. Naidu, however, expressed concern over low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in the meetings held for scrutiny of Demands for Grants. Naidu said attendance of such other parties and groups has fallen to 27.60 per cent from 40 per cent last year. Consequently, the overall attendance this year in the 21 meetings has fallen to 42 per cent from 48 per cent last year. The chairman also noted that the new Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge is one of the long serving leaders of our country with vast legislative and administrative experience having been member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly for a record 9 times without a break and twice member of the Lok Sabha. Kharge was also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly twice besides being the leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. Earlier, three newly elected BJP members Biswajit Daimary, Dineshchandra Jemalbhai and Rambhai Haribhai Mokariya took oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Constitution The House also made obituary reference to Vidya Sagar Nishad, M. Rama Jois, and Satish Sharma, all former members of the House, who passed away recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/attend-parliament-observe-debates-rajya-sabha-chairman-tells-mps-959508.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Meenakshi Lekhi, Srijan Pal join Vikhe Patil Foundation board||Senior BJP MP Meenakshi Lekhi and educationist and author Srijan Pal Singh have joined the Board of Trustees of the Dr Vikhe Patil Foundation, it said on Monday. "Lekhi brings innovative ideas in our developmental programmes due to her varied experience in various fields. She has joined as a trustee. Srijan Pal Singh, a close aide of former President Dr APJ Abdul Kalam, has joined as Executive Chairman," Foundation Chairman Dr Ashok Vikhe Patil said. A Lok Sabha member from Delhi, Lekhi is a Supreme Court lawyer and socio-political activist. Singh co-authored seven books with Kalam and is the Executive Council member of Dr. Kalam Technical University, Dr Ashok Vikhe Patil said. The Pune-based Dr Vikhe Patil Foundation was formed in 1980 in memory of Vitthalrao Vikhe Patil, a pioneer in Asia's cooperative sugar industry. It runs many schools and colleges in the state and hasacademic collaborations with schools in Sweden and France.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/meenakshi-lekhi-srijan-pal-join-vikhe-patil-foundation-board-959542.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Removed from RSS-run school for refusing to donate for Ram temple, alleges teacher; institution denies charge||A teacher here has alleged that he was removed from an RSS-run school after he refused to donate Rs 1,000 for the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, a charge denied by the institution. Yashwant Pratap Singh, who worked as an “acharya” (teacher) at Saraswati Shishu Mandir in Jagdishpur localilty, also claimed that the school has withheld his eight months’ salary. Singh said he was given a receipt book for the collection of funds for the temple. He deposited around Rs 80,000 collected for it, he said. Singh claimed that he was pressured to donate Rs 1,000 for the temple when the district “pracharak” of the Rasthriya Swyamsewak Sangh (RSS), Satyendra, came to the school. When he refused, the school authorities "misbehaved" and removed him from the school, Singh alleged, adding that he has given a written complaint in this regard at the district magistrate’s office. Singh said he will approach a court if justice is not done to him. Meanwhile, school principal Dhirendra said all employees were given receipt books for the collection of funds as per their capacity. "Singh also took three receipt books willingly but later did not deposit them. He himself resigned," he said, denying the allegations. RSS district “pracharak” Satyendra too said no one is being pressured for the collection of funds. He accused Singh of indiscipline and not having “interest” in teaching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/removed-from-rss-run-school-for-refusing-to-donate-for-ram-temple-alleges-teacher-institution-denies-charge-959546.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Youth Congress wants Rahul Gandhi as party chief||The Indian Youth Congress on Monday pitched for Rahul Gandhi's return as the Congress chief, saying his leadership will strengthen the organisation and energise party workers. The Youth Congress passed a resolution in this regard at the meeting of its national executive here. "In view of the prevailing situation in our country, the National Executive of Indian Youth Congress jointly passes a resolution that Rahul Gandhi should be appointed as the President of the Indian National Congress," the resolution said. Noting that the Youth Congress stands firmly with its leader Rahul Gandhi, the resolution further said, "We strongly believe that the organisation will be strengthened under the leadership and guidance of Rahul ji and the appointment will energise party workers across the nation".   There have been demands from several quarters for Gandhi to take over as party chief once again. The Congress will have its new full-time President by June this year, Congress chief Sonia Gandhi had said after a meeting with some of the leaders of the group of 23 who wanted an organisational overhaul. The resolution comes at a time when a section of party leaders led by Ghulam Nabi Azad have been demanding internal elections and a full-time Congress President. PTI SKC SMN SMN||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/youth-congress-wants-rahul-gandhi-as-party-chief-959700.html
08-03-2021||National Politics||Owaisi takes exception to Yogi Adityanath's reported comments on secularism||AIMIM President Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday alleged the reported comments of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over secularism was an "insult to the Constitution". Accusing the Sangh Parivar of having a "double face" on the issue, he said when it suited they say the country was secular because the majority was secular. "The obnoxious statement by the honourable Chief Minister of the biggest state of India is an insult to our Constitution. It is an insult to all those members who sat in the Constituent Assembly under the leadership of Babasaheb Ambedkar and made this Constitution," Owaisi told reporters here. Yogi Adityanath's comments contradict the BJP and Sangh Parivar's stand that the country has made a mark at the global level under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Hyderabad MP claimed. Adityanath had said parochialism and constricted mentality of certain sections deprived the country of its justifiable pride in history. The AIMIM leader said he would like to hear from the Centre on the reported comment of Adityanath at a function in Lucknow on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/owaisi-takes-exception-to-yogi-adityanaths-reported-comments-on-secularism-959734.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Farooq Abdullah pitches for thaw in Indo-Pak relations||National Conference president Farooq Abdullah on Sunday said the people of Jammu and Kashmir are praying that the recent agreement between India and Pakistan on ceasefire holds as it will bring them some relief. Peace is in the larger interest of the region, he said. "Hostilities on borders bring only agonies and miseries to the dwellers, halt agriculture and economic activities, and impact the way of life of every segment of society," Abdullah said while addressing NC workers in Udhampur. On February 25, India and Pakistan announced that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors "in the interest of achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders". Abdullah, Member of Parliament from Srinagar, said the people of Jammu and Kashmir are praying for the success of this measure as it will bring them some relief. Both the countries are spending a substantial portion of their budgets on defence procurement, thus compromising on the welfare of their poor populations, he said. Peace is in the larger interest of the region, especially as the people of the two countries have been yearning for good relations, he added. Invoking the words of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee that "you can change your friends but not your neighbours", Abdullah said either the two countries can grow their friendship and prosper, or continue the enmity but then there will be no prosperity. According to a joint statement issued by India and Pakistan on February 25, the two sides reiterated that the existing mechanisms of hotline contact and border flag meetings will be utilised to resolve any unforeseen situation or misunderstanding. On the revocation of Article 370 of the Constitution, Abdullah said it is not just a Kashmir-centric issue and much more important for the regions of Jammu and Ladakh. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister exhorted the NC cadre to reach out to people and work for their betterment. The strength of the National Conference comes from the people, who are the real fountainhead of power, which is not to rule but to serve the masses, irrespective of caste, creed, colour and religion, he said. Abdullah said people's massive support for the NC despite numerous challenges reflects their deep faith in the party which has always cherished the pluralistic ethos that has been the force that binds regions and religions. "We have to maintain, sustain and promote this spirit for making Jammu and Kashmir a better place to live in," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farooq-abdullah-pitches-for-thaw-in-indo-pak-relations-959385.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Secularism biggest threat to India: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that secularism is the “biggest threat to India’s tradition getting recognition on the global stage” speaking at the launch of the Global Encyclopedia of the Ramayana on Saturday. “Secularism is the biggest threat to India’s tradition getting recognition on the global stage... betraying the country will not be spared. People who are creating false propaganda about India for a meagre sum of money will face the heat,” he said. Launching the encyclopedia in an e-book format prepared by the Ayodhya Research Institute, the Chief Minister also said the construction of the grand Ram temple at Ayodhya makes the launch more special.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/secularism-biggest-threat-to-india-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-959423.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab waives off farm loans worth Rs 1,186 crore, 1.13 lakh farmers to benefit||Punjab Finance Minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Monday presented the state budget for 2021-22 worth Rs 1,68,015 crore. The Punjab government has decided to waive farm loans worth Rs 1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and Rs 526 crore of landless farmers in 2021-22.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-waives-off-farm-loans-worth-rs-1186-crore-113-lakh-farmers-to-benefit-959472.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi GSDP likely to contract by 5.6% due to Covid-19 pandemic: Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal||The Delhi economy is estimated to suffer a contraction of 5.6 per cent in the gross state domestic product (GSDP) in the current financial year due to the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, Lt Governor Anil Baijal said on Monday. Last year was unprecedented as the coronavirus pandemic posed the biggest challenge to the people. The Delhi government faced this challenge in collaboration with the Centre, Baijal said in his address in the Assembly on the first day of the budget session. The government has undertaken various steps to handle the crisis and job losses due to the pandemic, Baijal said. He outlined the measures taken by the Delhi government in dealing with the pandemic, such as raising number of hospital beds, setting up of plasma bank and home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-gsdp-likely-to-contract-by-56-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-lieutenant-governor-anil-baijal-959498.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Youth shot dead in Uttar Pradesh; FIR registered||A youth was allegedly shot dead by unidentified persons in the Lalganj area in Uttar Pradesh, police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday night in Anhera village when Harikesh Patel (22) was sleeping outside his house, Station House Officer, Lalganj, Ranjit Singh Bhadauria said. Patel died immediately after the attack and his family members came to know about the incident in the morning only, he said. The body has been sent for post-mortem, police said. An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons in this connection, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/youth-shot-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-fir-registered-959511.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab speaker revokes suspension of 10 Akali Dal MLAs||Punjab Assembly Speaker Rana KP Singh on Monday revoked the suspension of 10 Shiromani Akali Dal legislators.  In the ongoing budget session, the speaker said the legislators can participate in the discussion on the budget, which was presented on Monday.  The 10 Akali legislators were suspended on Friday for disrupting Chief Minister Amarinder Singh's speech on the governor's address twice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-speaker-revokes-suspension-of-10-akali-dal-mlas-959524.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat leaves for Delhi amid rumours of leadership overhaul||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat left for Delhi on Monday amid growing speculation about a leadership change in the state. An official at the chief minister's office here confirmed his departure but said the visit was of a "routine nature". BJP sources said the party high command summoned Rawat to the national capital for “further discussions” after a meeting of the state BJP's core committee presided over by central observers was held here on Saturday. However, Uttarakhand BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat claimed there was no leadership change likely in the state and Saturday’s meeting discussed events to mark the completion of the Rawat-led government's four years in office. Rawat had to attend several programmes in Gairsain and Dehradun on Monday but they had to be cancelled following the summons from Delhi. While the issues of growing resentment among party MLAs and a long-overdue cabinet expansion keep raising their heads from time to time, speculations about a leadership change in the state gained momentum after BJP national vice president Raman Singh and state party in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam arrived here on Saturday to preside over an unscheduled meeting of the state party's group. The core group meeting was held at a time when most of the party MLAs and ministers including the chief minister were in Gairsain to attend the important budget session of the state assembly. The budget session was brought to an abrupt end after passing the state's budget for 2021-22 fiscal and all MLAs and ministers were called to Dehradun for the core committee meeting. Core group members Rajya Sabha MP Naresh Bansal, Tehri MP Mala Rajya Lakshmi Shah, former chief minister Vijay Bahuguna, Nainital MP Ajay Bhatt, cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, minister of state Dhan Singh Rawat, state BJP general secretary Ajeya Kumar among others attended the meeting which went on for over two hours. Raman Singh, the former Chhattisgarh chief minister, talked separately to each member of the core group to get their feedback. He also went to the chief minister's official residence where around 40 party MLAs had gathered and later visited the RSS office here. Another member of the core group and Union minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ too met Raman Singh at the Jolly Grant Airport late in the evening. Meanwhile, Bhagat said the core group meeting discussed celebrations to be held in 70 assembly constituencies in the state on March 18 to mark the completion of the BJP government's four years in office. He claimed there was no leadership change likely in the state and also refuted reports that there was resentment among party legislators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-leaves-for-delhi-amid-rumours-of-leadership-overhaul-959531.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh Assembly passes anti-conversion Bill||The Madhya Pradesh Assembly on Monday passed by voice vote a Bill that checks religious conversions through marriage or by any other fraudulent means. The Bill earlier replaced the ordinance, cleared by the cabinet in December and promulgated in January, which had provisions of 10 years imprisonment in some cases and a hefty fine for violators. On March 1, state Home Minister Narottam Mishra presented the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Bill 2021 in the House. After a discussion on the Bill, it was passed by voice vote in the Assembly on Monday. Governor Anandiben Patel on January 9 gave assent to the Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which penalised religious conversions through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage. The ordinance penalised religious conversions by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means. Last month, Home Minister Mishra had said as many as 23 cases were registered under the ordinance within a month of it coming into force. He had said the highest number of seven cases were reported in the Bhopal division, followed by five in Indore, four each in Jabalpur and Rewa, and three in the Gwalior division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-assembly-passes-anti-conversion-bill-959533.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Two Chhattisgarh ministers test positive for coronavirus||Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singh Deo and Revenue Minister Jaisingh Agrawal have tested positive for coronavirus, amid the ongoing budget session of the state Assembly. The health minister in a tweet on Monday informed that he has contracted the viral infection. "No serious symptoms have surfaced yet but as a precautionary measure I am practising self-isolation for the next few days," he said in the tweet. The minister, who attended the Assembly session last week, appealed to all those who came in contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested if they notice any symptoms and follow all necessary precautions. Revenue Minister Agrawal, who also attended the Assembly session last week, in a tweet on Sunday night informed that he has tested positive for the coronavirus. "I request all those who came in contact with me in the last 14 days to get themselves tested and stay in home isolation. I would also appeal to avoid going in crowded places, and to wear masks and keep washing hands," he tweeted. So far, four legislators have contracted the viral infection during the Assembly session, which began on February 22. Last week, two MLAs in the state had tested positive for the coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-chhattisgarh-ministers-test-positive-for-coronavirus-959538.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi's economy estimated to contract by 3.92% in FY21: Survey||The economy of Delhi is estimated to contract by 3.92 per cent in the current financial year, according to Delhi Economic Survey 2020-21. In real terms, the contraction in Delhi's gross state domestic product (GSDP) is expected at 5.68 per cent in 2020-21 compared to contraction of 8 per cent at national level, said the report. The per capita income also went down from Rs 3.76 lakh in 2019-20 to Rs 3.54 lakh in the current fiscal year. Tabling the survey in the Budget Session of Delhi Assembly on Monday, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the pandemic halted government activities for some months, causing a decline in trade and revenue and financial constraints. The per capita income of Delhi at current prices during 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 3,54,004 against per capita income of Rs 1,27,768 at the national level. In 2019-20, with an outstanding debt of Rs 34,461.83 crore as on March 31, 2020, the Debt-GSDP ratio had declined substantially to 4.15 per cent as compared to 8.61 per cent in 2011-12.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-economy-estimated-to-contract-by-392-in-fy21-survey-959552.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab Assembly passes resolution to salute indomitable spirit of women||The Punjab Assembly unanimously passed a resolution on Monday, saluting the indomitable spirit of women in contributing to the progress of the nation. The resolution was moved by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in the budget session to mark International Women's Day. Singh termed the day an occasion "to realistically assess where we have reached and to rededicate ourselves to providing a life of equality and dignity to every woman in the state". The chief minister underlined the government's strong and continued commitment to the empowerment of women and the girl child at every level, including the family, the work place and the society in general. International Women's Day is celebrated across the world on March 8 and it is a day when women are recognised for their achievements, according to the United Nations. This year's theme -- 'Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a COVID-19 world' -- celebrates the tremendous efforts by women in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the pandemic, and highlights the gaps that remain, the UN Women stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-assembly-passes-resolution-to-salute-indomitable-spirit-of-women-959574.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||On Women's Day, UP court sentences rape accused to death||An Uttar Pradesh court, in Jaunpur district, about 225 kilometres from here, on Monday sentenced a man, who had raped an eleven-year-old girl before killing her and trying to burn her face with acid to death. Additional sessions judge Ravi Yadav, who also imposed a fine of Rs. 10,00 on the accused, had reserved the judgement in the case on Saturday. The trial was concluded within a period of seven months. The hearing of the matter was conducted on a daily basis. The incident had occurred in August last year. According to the prosecution one Bal Govind, a resident of Chandauli district in the state, about 300 kilometres from here, had lured the minor with the promise to give her chocolate and took her to a secluded field, where she was raped. The convict, fearing that he might be caught, strangled the child and then burnt her face with acid to conceal her identity. The incident had triggered widespread outrage and locals had taken to the streets demanding stern action against the culprit. The body of the minor was recovered from the fields two days later. The elder sister of the victim, who had seen the minor going with Bal Govind, and the shopkeeper from where the convict had bought chocolate, had testified against him in the court. ''Justice has been done today...we are very happy that the culprit has been sentenced to death,'' said the father of the victim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/on-womens-day-up-court-sentences-rape-accused-to-death-959615.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Average levels of pollutants in 2020 lowest in 7 years: Delhi Economic Survey||Average levels of various pollutants, including PM10, PM2.5 and nitrogen dioxide, in Delhi last year were the lowest since 2014, according to the Delhi Economic Survey report. Government data also showed that average levels of the major pollutants in the city have been decreasing steadily over the years. The annual average concentrations of PM2.5, fine particulate matter that is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases, decreased from 149 microgram per cubic meter (µg/m3) in 2014 to 101 µg/m3 in 2020, it said. The annual average of PM10 also decreased from 324 µg/m3 in 2014 to 187 µg/m3 in 2020, according to the Economic Survey report, tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in the Delhi Assembly on Monday. PM6 levels below 40 µg/m3 and PM10 levels below 100 µg/m3 are considered safe in India. The annual average for PM2.5 and PM10, at all the monitoring locations, exceeded the prescribed standards, the report said. Nitrogen Dioxide's annual average concentration has decreased from 82.45 µg/m3 in 2014 to 40.30 µg/m3 in 2020. The yearly average of carbon monoxide concentration has dipped to 1.27 mg/m3 in 2020. It was 2.07 mg/m3 in 2017, the highest in the last seven years. The safe limit for CO levels is 2 mg/m3. However, no significant variation was observed in the annual average value for Sulphur dioxide, which emanates during the burning of fossils fuels, between 2014 and 2020. The annual city average for SO2 at all the monitoring locations is within the prescribed standard i.e 50µg/m3, it said. Various studies conducted in the wake of COVID-19-induced lockdowns have shown that air pollution levels have fallen significantly across the world due to the reduced traffic and restricted industrial activity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/average-levels-of-pollutants-in-2020-lowest-in-7-years-delhi-economic-survey-959618.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Load shedding in Delhi lowest in last two decades, says Economic Survey||Load shedding in the national capital has dropped to 0.03 per cent of the total consumption, the lowest in the last two decades, according to the Delhi Economic Survey report. The development comes even as the number of electricity consumers in the city grew by 81.74 per cent during the decade, it said. The report was tabled by Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in the Delhi Assembly on Monday. Delhi, being an urban place with high load density, has seen the electricity consumption increasing from “25,668 MUs in 2010-11 to 33,082 MUs in 2019-20". "The total power purchase in Delhi has grown by 21.37 per cent during the last ten years (from 2009-10 to 2019-20). The power purchased in Delhi has increased from 32,744 MU in 2010-11 to 35,419 MU in 2019-20," the report said. While 14.72 per cent of total power purchase is sourced from own generation by the Delhi government power plants, 85.28 per cent is purchased from the central government and other sources. Delhi, where electricity prices have not been increased since 2015, also saw about 42 lakh households (more than 83 per cent of the total domestic electricity consumers) getting electricity subsidy. "A household in the national capital, on an average, is saving Rs 715 due to zero or subsidised power bills in a month," it noted quoting a study done by the Centre for Market Research and Social Development Private Limited with the help of the Planning Department, Delhi government. The Delhi government’s zero power bill scheme is for consumers using up to 200 units of electricity every month. Apart from this, a subsidy of Rs 800 is given to consumers whose monthly consumption ranges from 201 to 400 units.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/load-shedding-in-delhi-lowest-in-last-two-decades-says-economic-survey-959682.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab dedicates Rs 1,68,015 cr Budget to protesting farmers; announces loan waiver||The Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab on Monday presented its last budget with a total size of Rs 1,68,015 crore for 2021-22, making bulk of its provisions for agriculture, urban development, water resources, health and other sectors. Dedicating the state budget to the farmers who are protesting against the Centre's three farm laws, Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal decided against levying any fresh taxes in the state which will go to the Assembly polls early next year. Announcing the next phase of the Congress-led government's flagship programme 'crop loan waiver scheme', Badal announced an allocation of Rs 1,712 crore in which Rs 1,186 crore of 1.13 lakh farmers and Rs 526 crore of landless farm workers will be waived. Already, the state government has given a debt relief of Rs 4,624 crore to 5.83 lakh small and marginal growers. Among major Budget proposals, Badal announced the implementation of the sixth Pay Commission's recommendations for the government employees from July and a Rs 3,780 crore scheme — 'Kamyaab Kisan Khushaal Punjab' for farmers. The Budget also proposed another dose of crop loan waiver, Rs 200 crore for crop diversification programme, doubling of old-age pension and raising the amount under the Ashirwad scheme and employment for youth. With a speech laced with some couplets, Badal also announced a free travel facility for women in th state-owned undertaking buses in a “please-all” Budget. During the Budget speech, two Akali Dal legislators Lakhbir Singh Lodhinangal and Dilraj Singh Bhundar staged a walkout from the House for “not proposing anything” for farmers who commit suicide. After some time, AAP legislators also stormed into the well of the House and staged a walkout over the “rising” state debt. In an announcement for the state government employees who have been seeking payment of their arrears, Badal said a provision of Rs 9,000 crore has been made in the Budget for the sixth Punjab Pay Commission. Expecting the submission of the report of the Pay Commission soon, Badal said the recommendations of the pay panel will be implemented from July 1 this year. “I also announce to pay the arrears, if any, in a staggered manner of which the first installment shall be paid in October 2021 and second installment in January 2022,” said Badal in his speech. Stating that the well-being and prosperity of the farmers was the central theme of the Congress-led government, Badal announced a new scheme 'Kamyaab Kisan Khushaal Punjab' worth Rs 3,780 crore, aimed to improve the income of farmers. Under this scheme, some key initiatives are proposed like fixing base price for horticulture crops and payment of deficiency price as compensation, two new schemes to mitigate the risk of producers, agricultural marketing innovation research and intelligence centre to assist the farmers in fetching better return through marketing intelligence reports etc, said Badal. With this scheme to be implemented in next three years, an outlay of Rs 1,104 crore has been proposed for 2021-22. An amount of Rs 7,180 crore was provided towards free subsidy to farmers. The state government in the last four years had given free power worth Rs 23,851 crore, said Badal. The minister also announced to raise old age pension from Rs 750 per month to Rs 1,500 per month and increase the amount under the Ashirwad scheme from Rs 21,000 to Rs 51,000 and will be implemented from July. Under Ashirwad scheme, financial assistance is provided for the wedding of Scheduled Caste women, daughters of widows of any caste and SC widows. Both these were part of the poll promises of Congress before coming to power in 2017. In the budget, Badal said the state government intended to recruit against one lakh vacancies in a phased manner. “The government will fill 48,989 posts in the first phase and complete the remaining recruitments as per available vacancy position during 2021-22,” he stated. So far, the state government was able to facilitate employment to 16.29 lakh youth till date and aims at facilitating employment to another 10 lakh youth in next year for which the budgetary allocation of Rs 428 crore has been made, he said. To promote Punjabi language, Badal also proposed doubling award money from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 20 lakh for the Punjabi Sahit Ratan Award and from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 10 lakh for the Shiromani Award given to various writers, poets, musicians, journalists, etc. As a tribute to freedom fighters, the FM also proposed increasing the monthly pension from Rs 7,500 to Rs 9,400. Giving a push to urban development, a hike of 68 per cent in allocation for urban infrastructure at Rs 7,192 crore was made for next fiscal. A sum of Rs 3,822 crore has been set aside for strengthening the health infrastructure, said Badal adding the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic has only underscored the importance of health infrastructure and related services. A 40 per cent increase in the allocation for water resources at Rs 3,214 crore has been made as the state government is committed to raise the canal water facility. Badal proposed a revenue deficit of Rs 8,622 crore and fiscal deficit of Rs 24,240 crore for the next fiscal. On outstanding debt position, Badal said the debt is likely to be Rs 2,73,703 crore by the end of March 2022 as against Rs 252,880 crore for March 2021. He said he attempted to limit borrowings to the extent of 4 per cent of the gross state domestic product. Badal slammed the Centre over the farm laws and said he dedicated “this budget to the farmers of India and salute their inspirational struggle that is already on its way to acquiring a legendary status.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-dedicates-rs-168015-cr-budget-to-protesting-farmers-announces-loan-waiver-959692.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir Badal attacks Amarinder Singh on power tariff, VAT on fuel, loan waiver promise||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) President Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday asked Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to disclose one landmark achievement of his four-year tenure, saying people were fed up with the Congress and his government. Instead of working for the welfare of the people, Congressmen presided over the loot of state resources, be it by illegal quarrying of sand, liquor smuggling or embezzlement of NREGA funds, the SAD president said, addressing the 'Punjab Mangda Hisab dharnas'. "Once the SAD forms the government in the state, we will hold an inquiry into all these illegal acts, particularly the loot of NREGA funds," he said. Badal claimed Congress legislators had established cement tile factories and forced village sarpanches to purchase tiles from them at inflated rates. "We will ensure all those guilty of such frauds are given their due punishment," he added. Sukhbir Badal also came down heavily on the Congress government for "shedding crocodile tears" over the high rates of petroleum products. He said if the Centre was levying 31 per cent tax on petro products, the Punjab government was levying 27 per cent tax. "The Congress government should reduce its VAT quotient to give relief to farmers and the common man," Badal said. He said the Punjab government increased power tariffs by about 15 times during the last four years, making power rates in the state among the highest in the country. "These should be reduced immediately," he said. Rejecting the Congress government's stand that power purchase agreements with private thermal plants were responsible for the high tariffs, Badal said the state was getting power at Rs 2.80 per unit but was selling it at Rs 10 per unit. He announced that once the SAD formed the government in the state, it would half power tariffs for domestic consumers. Badal said the chief minister would have to tell people why he played with their emotions and why he took a false oath in the name of the holy Gutka Sahib to waive farmer loans completely, besides other promises. "Even farmer suicide victim families were promised Rs 10 lakh and a government job, but the government had reneged on this promise also," he added. Badal said the Congress government was also responsible for the plight of the farmers, who were agitating against the three agricultural laws. It was the Congress party which promised in its election manifesto in 2019 to repeal the APMC Act and allow inter-state trade in agricultural commodities, he added. Promising to restart development in the state and secure the farmers, the SAD president said, "Once we form the government, we will launch a programme to ensure all 12,000 villages in the state have concrete streets, access to clean drinking water and sewerage system. We will also introduce a minimum support price on fruits and vegetables as well as milk."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-badal-attacks-amarinder-singh-on-power-tariff-vat-on-fuel-loan-waiver-promise-959693.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||33% of ration depots to be allotted to women: Haryana deputy CM||The Haryana government has decided to allot 33 percent of all ration depots in the state to women, Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala said on Monday on International Women's Day. He also said that ration cardholders will be provided ration at their doorstep through mobile depots and the process has begun in Faridabad. The deputy chief minister, who also holds the portfolio of food, civil supplies and consumer affairs department, was responding to a question asked by an MLA during the budget session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha. Chautala said the state government has decided that women will have 33 per cent participation in all the ration depots allotted in future. Touching upon the measures being taken to ensure transparency in ration distribution through ration depots, he said e-vending machines have been installed for weighing ration in seven districts and the process of setting up e-vending machines in Faridabad and Gurgaon districts is underway. Chautala said Aadhaar numbers of 1.22 crore beneficiaries who are being provided ration have been linked under the 'One-Nation, One-Ration' scheme of the Union government. If a person goes to the ration depot, his/her Aadhaar number is fed into the machine, after which the ration to be allocated to him/her is displayed on the screen. The person is then given his share after biometric authenticity check, Chautala informed the House. Meanwhile, Haryana Agriculture Minister Jai Parkash Dalal informed the House that a committee would be constituted for shifting foodgrain warehouses in populated urban areas of the state. A survey in such areas would be conducted by the committee and as per the survey findings, a decision to shift such warehouses would be taken by making a policy, he said in the assembly while replying to a question asked by a member regarding relocating of the warehouses. He also informed that 111 warehouses are being run by the Haryana State Warehousing Corporation in various cities of the state and their storage capacity is 2,205 lakh tonne. These include 21 lakh metric ton capacity covered warehouses. The minister said the process of construction of warehouses having a capacity of 5.80 lakh metric tonne on the land of warehousing corporation, agriculture department, Haryana Sugarfed and local bodies is going on. Apart from this, it is proposed to manufacture 11.25 lakh metric tonne of steel silos on PPP mode. With the construction of new warehouses and steel silos in the next two years, the problem of storing notified commodities in the open will be overcome to a great extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/33-of-ration-depots-to-be-allotted-to-women-haryana-deputy-cm-959694.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Deputy CM Manish Sisodia Delhi govt presents 'Outcome Budget'; education, health departments top performers||The Delhi government's Outcome Budget' for 2020-21 was presented by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday, showing education, health, PWD and environment departments as top performers. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asserted that his government was the first to give an account of its Budget to the people. "The Delhi government presented its fourth outcome budget in a row. The first government in the country that gives account of its previous budget to the people," Kejriwal tweeted. The year 2020-21 started in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic and a strict lockdown that led to a shortfall of revenue which affected the progress and achievements of targets set in the Outcome Budget 2020-21, Sisodia said after presenting it in the Delhi Assembly. The Outcome Budget for 2020-21 covered 2,113 indicators of 595 schemes of major government departments. The performance report of the Budget showed that 84 per cent of education indicators were 'on track', meaning over 75 per cent target had been achieved. Other top performing departments were health (80 per cent), environment (79 per cent), power( 75 per cent), PWD (73 per cent) among others. The Outcome Budget was introduced in 2017-18 by the AAP government as a tool linking the Budget with outcomes to capture the progress of various schemes, programmes and projects and final deliverables from the citizens' perspective. "Presented 4th consecutive Status Report of Outcome Budget of Delhi govt – an exercise that began in 2017-18. Delhi is only state Govt in India that makes suo-moto disclosure across 2500+ indicators of its performance to promote transparency & accountability in public spending, "Sisodia tweeted. The pandemic caused great disruption in government routine activities, revenue collection nosedived and resources were targeted to minimise the impact of COVID 19. This coupled with lockdown affected progress and achievements of targets set in Outcome Budget 2020-21, he said in the Assembly. The performance report of Delhi government presented an account of funds used and overall score of a department in terms of percentage of indicators up to December 31, 2020, for a critical set of output and outcome indicators. In the case of the Education department, 37 schemes were covered in the Budget. Status of critical indicators highlighted that 35,275 economically weaker sections (EWS) students were admitted in private schools under the RTE Act. Government schools recorded 97.92 pass percentage in Class 12 results in 2019-20. The Budget covered 56 programmes of the Health department consisting of 1,616 output indicators including 499 critical ones. Establishment of 496 Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics against the target of 750 were among the major indicators. Total 1.82 lakh children in 9-11 month age group were fully immunised against target of 2.96 lakh while 1.20 lakh institutional deliveries were assisted through ASHA workers. The status of critical indicators of Transport department showed fleet utilisation of cluster buses increased while that of DTC buses declined. The bus operation in the city was shut from March 31 to May 18, 2020, during lockdown. The percentage of fleet utilisation of cluster buses increased to 98.58 per cent against targeted 97 per cent despite halted bus service up to December 2020. Fleet utilisation of DTC decreased to 73.71 per cent against target of 90 per cent. Status of other critical indicators included 47.78 lakh pollution under check certificates issued against target of 75 lakh, CCTV cameras installed in 5,200 DTC and cluster buses, construction of bus depots at Gummanhera and Mundela Kalan. The Environment department's 19 programmes and 33 critical indicators were assessed in the Budget. Status of critical indicators showed fully functional 26 ambient quality monitoring stations and 771 beneficiaries given subsidy for battery-operated four-wheelers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-delhi-govt-presents-outcome-budget-education-health-departments-top-performers-959725.html
08-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi's female-only liquor store helps women buy drinks in good spirits||Priya Sharma drove more than 30 kilometres to get to an exclusive boutique in a teeming New Delhi residential district -- a women-only liquor store. Inside a shopping mall, the store provides a safe environment for women to buy alcohol in a city where harassment and discrimination is a daily battle and many women fear going out at night. Buying a bottle of wine or whisky on a Saturday night in the Indian capital has always been a fight for position inside a hot and cramped store, where customers -- mostly men -- scream orders at stressed-out staff. "I have always avoided going into an alcohol store," said Sharma, whose name was changed so that her family would not know where she had been. "I usually ask someone to get it for me," she told AFP inside the store with a sign on its glass door reading "Exclusively for ladies". "Men judge when women buy and drink alcohol. I can't deny it," said a man who accompanied Sharma to the door. The store does let couples in but they are rare. "That is why we specifically came to this store so that Priya can decide what she wants in an environment where she doesn't feel uncomfortable." The gang-rape and murder of a young woman on a Delhi bus in 2012 sparked weeks of protests and put the spotlight on the treatment of women in India. Criminal law was toughened for offences against women and across India, while reserved seats for women on buses and metro trains have also become a common sight in cities. But women in New Delhi are still feeling the prying eyes at off-licences. Anisha Saigal, 29, said a routine walk from a liquor store to her car or home was an invitation to judge her "moral code of conduct" in a way she had not faced in any other country. "Even if nothing happens physically, the gaze that follows after women purchase alcohol is unsolicited and disturbing," she said. Opened in 2015, the women-only store in eastern New Delhi is believed to be the first and only such shop in India. "I have been in the business for a very long time and have seen women being uncomfortable at liquor stores," said Umesh Saxena, the manager of the store. "I have had customers tell me they are glad they have this outlet where they don't have to worry." The store sees higher sales in wine and vodka -- particular favourites among women. "This is definitely an enabling environment for women to buy -- without fear -- whatever they want to drink," said 50-year-old Mimi Choudhury. Saxena's employees also believe the store plays an important role in the liquor business in the city of 20 million people. Staff member Priyanka said she was glad she only has to talk to women. "If I walk across to the store right across the corridor and buy anything, men will still stare. At least here, I know I'm safe," she told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-female-only-liquor-store-helps-women-buy-drinks-in-good-spirits-959738.html
08-03-2021||Oasis||Unit-self and united-self ||A teenager came to the ashram and asked, “Guruji, we are the most youthful nation of the world but why are we not seen as the most powerful nation of the world?” Because our youth is yet to empower its united-self to that extent where it transforms into supreme self-confidence. And, the way to reach this goal goes through empowering every unit of self unexceptionally. This piece is a brief description of the aforementioned dialogue. The route to reclaim or retrieve real-self goes through empowering of indigenous tongues. Knowing ourselves through mother tongue and other sister languages, that we are inheritors of a glorious culture and higher values, consolidates and crystallizes our real self. This route leads to becoming wise, and wise always walk in unison. The power lies in unity. Empowerment of language happens through its usage. And, the content of language in turn helps empower the users. This relationship between consciousness, language and empowerment through knowledge has no alternative. Language, consciousness and self are connected very deeply and, their mutual empowerment is involuntarily shared. When one is empowered other too to get empowered. We need to become one, as knowledge in the form of oneness transforms into power. And we have a glorious legacy in terms of languages and culture as our ancestors lived glorious lives. And, that glory has a living presence in the form of eternal values in our hearts and, for universal reiteration, assertion and acknowledgement of those universal-family values our grand narratives Ramayana and Mahabharata are with us in all Indian languages, family traditions, community practices, architecture, folklores and most of all -in oral traditions. These narratives confide our higher values in our real selves. Those are the highest values known to humanity. Do you see any parallel anywhere in the world across time? We end up educating wrongly when content is copied or translated thoughtlessly from elsewhere. Adages like ‘Kalidas is Shakespeare of India’ or “Kautilya is Indian Machiavelli. (Not even Acharya Chanakya)“ exemplify it. Perhaps ‘we’ don’t realise that it changes the order moronically. And, if ‘we’ are doing it on purpose then, it is a lack of self-confidence and height of inferiority complex. Youth need to retrieve their self-confidence. We (not ‘we’) have discussed how to retrieve it. From unit-self United-self is chiselled and shaped thus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/unit-self-and-united-self-959383.html
08-03-2021||Opinion||Skilling women: An imperative for India||By Saurabh Adeeb One thing that the world certainly envies India for is her young demographics. Whilst the working population in developed countries is decreasing due to an ageing population, India’s median age is merely 28 years. When seen through the lens of economics, a younger workforce would be an advantage, translating to development and growth. However, even as a section of India’s youth propels the country to become a global power, many are left behind in the process.   While 37.1 per cent of the youth are in the labour force, there is a stark difference between the participation rate of men (57.1 per cent) and that of women (12.7 per cent). India lacks a coordinated labour structure and gender parity. 3 out of every 4 women in India do not take part in any recognized economic activity. In such a scenario, when more than half of our youth do not participate in the formal labour force, it is difficult to realise India’s demographic advantage.  One of the ways to narrow the gender gap in India’s workforce is to focus on the country’s 253 million youth (aged 15-24 years), of which 48.5 per cent are young women. Connecting aspirations with skills and empowering women can help them achieve their full potential, thereby also bringing equitable growth in society. A skilled and employed women workforce not only has a generational impact but also has the potential to rewrite the future of the country. Social structure and roles India’s case regarding women's labour participation is both complex and multi-layered. With the government’s increased focus on primary education policies, India has been quite successful in getting children into the realm of educational institutions. According to the latest Annual Status of Education (ASER) Report, by the age of 14 most rural youth were enrolled in schools. On the flip side, global studies have shown that even though the percentage of women among all STEM graduates is highest in India (43 per cent), even more than the UK or USA, their participation in related work is significantly lower (14 per cent). This suggests that there are other issues to be addressed — either literacy does not translate into relevant skills for employment or there exist social, historical and cultural hindrances. One of the most common obstacles for women to enter employment is the stereotypical gender biases, which put women at a disadvantage as compared to men. While an Indian woman spends 25 per cent of her time performing unpaid care and domestic work, a man only spends 2.5 per cent of his time on such activities. Such disparities change women’s priorities and keep them away from the formal workforce. Women unemployment in the age bracket of 30 to 59 years increased to 65 per cent in 2018 from 46 per cent in 2005. It is prevalent for women to take up domestic unpaid labour and caring roles after finishing education and entering into marriage. The women who work earn far lesser than men in India when compared to other countries like South Africa, Brazil and Chile. It is timely and urgent that India drives advocacy and restructures its incentives to give greater impetus to the female gender and brings equity in development and labour force, as well as unlock leadership potential for social and economic transformation. Empowerment of women is a critical part of a nation’s development and it is a balanced equation of her health, education, decision-making power and employability. Availability of agency and removal of constraints faced by women is critical for sustainable and equitable development of both, the community as well as the nation. India needs to adopt a gendered lens in education and skilling programs to overcome the challenges of an underrepresented section of youth in the workforce, as well as support women in securing and retaining jobs.   Skilling is the key Studies suggest that by the next decade, 75 million women will join the workforce in India (Niti ), with over 90 per cent of them employed in informal sectors. This necessitates an urgency to enable women to expand their learning opportunities and chart pathways for themselves, which could keep them off of exploitation, abuse and unequal pay at work.  Innovative thinking and social restructuring need to be evolved to make a shift by bringing young females to formal education and training programmes and, thereby, the workforce. Raising women participation in the workforce can boost India’s GDP by 27 per cent. The use of technology, promotion of incubation space and setting up of upskilling centers would equip and enable women to participate in the ongoing fourth industrial revolution. However, as data suggests that only 35 per cent of Indian women are active internet users, it should be taken into consideration that skilling programs that enable access and include digital training can become equalisers bridging the digital divide. In addition to vocational training, foundational and 21st-century skills are crucial to empower women in building a strong foundation for employment. Programs such as those by NSDC and The/Nudge Centre for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (CSDE) take such holistic approaches to skilling and employment. An extra effort to onboard young women onto such platforms has a huge payoff for the community. For example, 41 per cent of enrolments at The/Nudge CSDE are women.  Literacy alone is unlikely to translate into gainful employment, until and unless focused support is extended to the female labour force, particularly young women. What we need is a bouquet of women-centric enablement initiatives comprising socio-economic support, relevant skills, guaranteed jobs and investments to lower barriers and carve out an accessible gateway for women to enter into various sectors of the economy and contribute to India's progress. (The author is Senior Director at The/Nudge Centre for Skill Development and Entrepreneurship)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/skilling-women-an-imperative-for-india-959496.html
08-03-2021||Panorama||After nearly four years, GST is still a work in progress||In a few months, Goods and Services Tax law in India will celebrate its fourth birthday. This could be a good time to raise the question whether GST has been a success in India. Responses to this question normally swing between two extremes - the government and the tax department would say that GST has been an unqualified success while the taxpayer who has struggled to cope with the rapid changes in the law would say that GST has been a disaster.  As is normally the case with such extremities, the truth lies in the middle. GST has its good points and its poor points, with the latter winning over the former. Had the implementation been more smooth, the poor points would have been overshadowed by the good parts of GST. The Commission observed that the continuing dependence of states on compensation from the Central government (21 states out of 29 states in 2018-19) for making up for the shortfall in revenue is a concern.  It suggested that the structural implications of GST for low consumption states need to be considered.  The Commission has suggested that the 12% and 18% slabs under the GST be merged into one standard rate, and GST be rationalised to a three-rate structure, complemented by the 5% merit rate and 28-30% de-merit rate. On behalf of the 15th Finance Commission, the International Monetary Fund assessed and found out that the effective tax rate under GST stands at 11.8%. This is close to RBI’s estimate of 11.6%. This rate is considerably lower than 14%, the average revenue neutral rate (RNR) that was required for smooth transition from the value-added tax regime without any revenue loss. GST’s true potential is to generate revenue at 7.1% of GDP, while at present it generates revenue at 5.1% of GDP. The revenue gap thus stands at a massive 2% of GDP, noted the Commission report. At the current levels, this roughly translates into Rs 4 trillion worth of revenue loss. To put the gravity of this figure in perspective, the Centre has budgeted that Central GST (CGST) will fetch it Rs 4.31 trillion this financial year. Importantly, the Commission found inconsistencies in the data available from GST returns (from GSTN) and the national accounts (by the National Statistical Office). The value of outward supplies from GSTR-3B returns (monthly summary input-output) stood at Rs 652 trillion in FY19 as against total value of output in the economy, which was Rs 348 trillion.  It was of the opinion that  if taxable outward supplies as per the GSTR -3B are to hold good, then the effective GST rate turns out to be 6.1% which is much lower than the effective rate derived from GSTR-1 returns. Also, there is no validation within the system to establish consistency between taxable value and tax paid as per GSTR 3B.  The report underlined the negative externalities of slow economic growth on GST, especially with respect to the contentious issue of GST compensation. GDP growth  The report also stated that  with inflation being contained under the inflation targeting regime and some sluggishness in the economy, the nominal GDP growth itself is lower than expected. Hence, the protected revenue at an annualised rate of 14% places a substantial burden on the GST system.  It  highlighted that about 70% of gross GST revenue goes to the states due to sharing and devolution. With many taxes subsumed under it, GST accounts for 35% of the gross tax revenue of the Union and around 44% of own tax revenue of states. It suggested that the inverted duty structure needs a change as it might be the reason behind the high share of tax liability being paid using input tax credit. Over the last year or so, two developments in GST should be considered to be huge positives. The concept of e-invoicing has been introduced in stages – this is a step that would ensure greater transparency in supplier-receiver transactions which results in proper availment and utilisation of input tax credit. Simultaneously, the government appears to have announced a war to fight the menace of fake invoicing which was taking away a substantial portion of GST revenues.  However, imposing a monetary limit on availing input tax credit through Rule 36(4) and mandating that a certain percentage of GST has to be paid in cash are glaring negatives which should be done away with at the earliest. The announcement that a GST reconciliation statement need not be certified by an auditor could have probably waited for a couple of years more since the department would need some authentic database on what components of the revenue statement would attract GST – a task best left to the auditor of the entity. Apart from the report of the CAG, the report of the Finance Commission is probably the only one that has made a deep-dive into GST rates and administration and made useful suggestions. It is hoped that at least some of these recommendations would be implemented by the government in due course of time. Meetings of the GST Council are not as frequent as they were earlier - this leaves an impression that the government has decided that they have done all they could on GST.  Unfortunately, the reality is that GST is still a work-in-progress and is expected to remain as such for some more time. (The writer is a Bengaluru-based tax expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/after-nearly-four-years-gst-is-still-a-work-in-progress-959381.html
08-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Horse-speech ||A morning walk within the Bengaluru Racecourse is an experience. I am in the company of horses, walking, trotting, cantering and galloping. It provoked me to meditate on the ways these thoroughbreds have contributed to human thought and speech. Proverbs are our legacy. The horses have contributed in no small measure to this legacy. “Don’t look a gift horse in the mouth” meaning don’t find fault with a received gift. This is a proverb attributed to Heywood since 400 AD. “Don’t put the cart before the horse” is a classic example of what is “preposterous”; a back to front imagery, known as “hysteron proteron,” namely what should come first is placed second, e.g. “putting on one’s shoes and socks.” “Don’t shut the stable door after the horse has bolted” a proverb that is in vogue since 1390, which simply means that it is futile to take precautions when the damage has already been done. “Don’t change horses midstream,” meaning it is far from wise to change your leader or your basic position mid-way through a campaign or a project, is a saying from Abraham Lincoln’s speech of 1864. “Straight from the horse’s mouth” simply means getting credible information from authoritative sources attached to a racehorse before racing. This is “insider information,” so to say. “If wishes were horses, beggars would ride,” a nursery rhyme dating back to 1628, suggests that if only wishing could make things happen, then, even the destitute would have all that they desire for. Coming to Hindu mythology, Hayagriva is a horse-headed avatar of Lord Vishnu. It is said that Hayagriva saved the sacred Vedas from the demons and restored them to Lord Brahma. The genuineness of the restored work was indubitable because it was mediated through a horse, an authoritative source, after all. One of William Shakespeare’s most famous horse-based quote comes from his play Richard III. The King after losing his horse in the battle exclaims, “A horse, a horse, my kingdom for a horse.” In 'Much Ado About Nothing', Benedick retorting to Beatrice’s verbal slight, quips, “I would my horse had the speed of your tongue.” “Horsepower” is a great compliment paid to this noble animal species by none other than James Watt, the inventor of the steam engine who measured the capability of a big horse to pull the load on its back. Last but not the least, “crazy horse", if you are unworldly, you need to be told that that is the name of the famous Parisian night club. How can you miss it?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/horse-speech-959384.html
08-03-2021||Second Edit||The harsh impact of Covid-19 on children||Schools are not just for imparting education. They are spaces for children to interact with other children, learn from them and play with them. Our schools and anganwadis also double up to provide immunisation services and a nutritious meal. For those children facing abuse and violence at home, schools have been a welcome escape. For these children, not only has that space to escape shut them out now but they are also forced to remain cooped up at home with their tormentors. Stress levels among children are said to have increased. They are struggling to adapt to online learning. Their academic performance, obviously, is falling and this is contributing to depression. Even before the pandemic, it was children who carried the burden of mental and emotional disorders; half of all mental illnesses develop before children reach the age of 15. Pandemic-resultant anxieties and depressions could increase these numbers. The full fallout of the pandemic-induced mental health problems will become evident only in the years to come. But we need to act now to prevent them from becoming unmanageable problems. Identifying emotional problems is not easy; children cannot articulate their insecurities in words. We need to become more sensitive to their silences and understanding of their tantrums. Mental health authorities should create awareness on identifying emotional and mental health problems among children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/the-harsh-impact-of-covid-19-on-children-959376.html
08-03-2021||South||'Super excited': Kerala woman SI on managing station||When she went out for routine patrolling duty with her colleagues Monday morning, Shikha K G clearly knew that it would not be a routine day for her. Unlike other days, she is the team leader and has to shoulder the entire responsibility of her station right from decision making to looking into people's complaints, interacting with them and making quick intervention on public issues. But, this young policewoman, who is just two-years-old in Kerala's police force, says that she is not at all afraid but excited over the unexpected responsibility. Shikha, a 30-year old sub-inspector in Valiyathura police station here, is one among the several policewomen who assumed responsibility of Station House Officers (SHOs) on the occasion of the International Women's Day on Monday. Valiyathura is a key police station in the coastal belt located nearby the international airport. "I am super excited....It was only yesterday I came to know that I would be in charge of the station on Monday. I joined the force only in 2018 and so I have never expected that I may get a chance to shoulder such a responsibility soon," Shikha told P T I. She is an officer who belongs to the first batch of women sub-inspectors (SI), directly recruited to the Kerala Police in 2018. Of the 121 sub-inspectors in the batch, who had completed training and joined the force in 2019, 37 were women. Besides the regular basic training, they had been given special commando and coastal training. "So far, it was a peaceful day. But, anything can happen the next moment and so a police officer should be vigilant throughout. As I have a good team of colleagues, I am confident that I can manage any emergency," the young policewoman said. A native of Kollam, Shikha said she had quit a comfortable office job as university assistant in Kerala University to join the force and tough responsibilities would not intimidate her. Besides some local functions, the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's pass over through the area was also scheduled in her station limit on the day. "Women are as talented as men in every field. So, there should not be any gender discrimination in jobs. Everyone should keep in mind that showing respect to women and giving them more opportunities should not be an affair of just Women's Day," the sub-inspector added. State DGP Loknath Behera had, on Saturday, issued directives that women officers should be SHOs in maximum number of police stations in the southern state on Women's Day. In those police stations, where there are woman inspector or sub-inspector, they would be in charge. If there was more than one sub-inspector, their service would be ensured in nearby stations. District police chiefs were asked to take steps to deploy senior women civil police officers and civil police officers in places where sufficient number of lady inspectors/ sub-inspectors. As per DGP's direction, women commandos were deployed in escort vehicles of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. They were also deployed as security guards at CM's official residence, Cliff House, official sources said. Meanwhile, VIjayan wished all women in the state on the occasion and said the International Women's Day was observed to give energy, direction and social awareness to the ongoing struggles against the exploitation of women in this patriarchal world. He also detailed various projects implemented by the LDF government in the last five years for women. "Over the past five years, the government has implemented a number of projects, that provide support, security and confidence to help women overcome their limitations and become part of the mainstream society," he said. The CM also noted that Kerala had become the first state in the country to set up an exclusive department for women after his government came to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/super-excited-kerala-woman-si-on-managing-station-959516.html
08-03-2021||South||Communal polarisation being used in favour of Congress in Kerala, alleges CPM||The CPM has alleged that the idea of the weakening of the Congress leading to the BJP gaining strength in Kerala was being used to skew Muslim votes in the grand old party's favour ahead of polls. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the Indian Union Muslim League and the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party were unleashing a campaign on the Muslim communities for communal polarisation of votes in favour of the Congress-led UDF. He further said that in many states, Congress MLAs who had won the elections were seen jumping over to the BJP and that the CPM was the only political outfit that could ensure the protection of minority communities. The Welfare Party's leadership denied the allegations against such a campaign but maintained that not only the Congress but also the CPM would witness a flow of partyworkers joining the BJP in the coming days. Welfare Party Chairman Hameed Vaniyambalam said that there would only be one difference between the Congress and the CPM if that happens— it would mainly be the leaders in the Congress who will jump over to the BJP and in the case of CPM, it would be party workers. Vaniyambalam also said that the Welfare Party would not have any sort of a tie-up with the Congress-led UDF or CPM-led LDF, but would contest independently in the Assembly election by highlighting social justice and equality. The Welfare Party candidates won 65 seats in the recent local body polls. Political analysts have been maintaining that the BJP might prefer to defeat the Congress in Kerala in the coming election rather than the CPM. This, they said, was not only because it is the BJP's long-term agenda to have a 'Congress-Mukt Bharat', but it would also help the party in wooing many Congress leaders to join it in Kerala in due course of time, thereby strengthening the saffron party in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/communal-polarisation-being-used-in-favour-of-congress-in-kerala-alleges-cpm-959584.html
08-03-2021||South||CBSE for classes 1-7 in AP schools from 2021-22; affiliation process will take at least a year, says top official||Less than two weeks after announcing that the CBSE system would be implemented for classes 1 to 7 in all government schools from 2021-22 academic year, the Andhra Pradesh government seems to have put it on hold with a top official on Monday saying obtaining accreditation would not come immediately as the process would take at least a year. The government's idea was to first bring classes 1 to 7 under CBSE and classes 8 to 10 over the subsequent three years, thereby completing the conversion process by 2024. "We have just started discussion with the CBSE. Normally, they accept formal accreditation for classes 8-10 only," School Education Principal Secretary B Rajsekhar pointed out. He said they were now initiating the process for securing CBSE accreditation for class 8 for the 2022-23 academic year. Rajsekhar made it clear that obtaining CBSE accreditation would not come immediately as the process would take at least a year but did not specify whether the Telugu medium of instruction would continue unchanged. Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy announced on February 25 that the CBSE system would be implemented for classes 1 to 7 in all government schools from the 2021-22 academic year. The Chief Minister's decision to switch over to the Central Board of Secondary Education is seen as a move by some groups to completely do away with the Telugu medium of education, at a time when the Supreme Court is in the process of adjudicating a litigation against the conversion of all government schools, from classes 1 to 6, to English medium. Under CBSE, Telugu is only a subject taught and the curriculum will be in Hindi or English medium. "There are different ways of getting affiliated to CBSE for classes 1-7. We are exploring a lot of other things related to CBSE accreditation. We are discussing it (with CBSE)," the Principal Secretary said. On the concern over doing away with Telugu, Rajsekhar said they were discussing with CBSE how to ensure the state issues were not diluted. "We are discussing how to encourage Telugu without any problem, without losing focus and leveraging CBSE to include (Telugu) culture in the textbooks while affiliating with CBSE. We are also discussing what policies should be brought in to achieve the standards in schools without diluting the state issues," the Principal Secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cbse-for-classes-1-7-in-ap-schools-from-2021-22-affiliation-process-will-take-at-least-a-year-says-top-official-959591.html
08-03-2021||South||Dhinakaran finalises alliance with AIMIM for Tamil Nadu polls||Notwithstanding the appeal from his aunt V K Sasikala asking “true loyalists” of former Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa to work together to bring back “Amma's rule”, AIADMK rebel T T V Dhinakaran on Monday announced that his party, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), will contest the April 6 assembly polls. Dhinakaran also sealed an alliance with Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM, which claims to wield considerable influence in some pockets, bagging three seats. As per the agreement signed, AIMIM will contest in Vaniyambadi, Krishnagiri, and Sankarapuram constituencies in an alliance with AMMK. Speaking to reporters at the AMMK headquarters on Monday, Dhinakaran said his party-led alliance will contest all 234 constituencies in the state, promising to install “Amma's government” in Tamil Nadu. It was speculated that Dhinakaran would join the AIADMK alliance but Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami stoutly opposed the proposal moved before him by the BJP. Dismissing as “rumours” that many of his supporters have been promised tickets by AIADMK if they jump the ship, Dhinakaran said he will contest the assembly elections from two constituencies, without giving away the names. He is currently an MLA from R K Nagar, the constituency which was represented twice by Jayalalithaa. “The real 'dharma yutham' begins now. AMMK was established to retrieve the AIADMK and to establish the real rule of Amma (Jayalalithaa) in Tamil Nadu. We will contest all the seats,” Dhinakaran said. However, he refused to give a direct answer about Sasikala's statement about Jayalalithaa's “true loyalists”. Sasikala had on March 3 surprised everyone by deciding to “step aside” from politics, dealing a blow to Dhinakaran and handing out a moral victory, albeit for now, to Palaniswami. AMMK, which was brought into AIADMK by Sasikala hours before she left for Bengaluru to surrender before authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in February 2017, scored 5.25 per cent of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.  After the defeat, Dhinakaran went underground, hardly addressing any public meeting in the past year. Other parties like DMK, AIADMK, and MNM have already launched their election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dhinakaran-finalises-alliance-with-aimim-for-tamil-nadu-polls-959603.html
08-03-2021||South||Amit Shah's remarks over mysterious death in Kerala raises eyebrows||A remark of Union Home Minister Amit Shah during a public speech in Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday that the Kerala government did not conduct a fair investigation into a suspicious death related to gold smuggling case has raised many eyebrows. No such recent incidents came to light in Kerala so far. Even as there were certain allegations related to the road accident death of fusion musician Balabhaskar in 2018 as a couple of his close associates were later found to be involved in gold smuggling, the CBI had recently ruled out any foul play in the accident. BJP state president K Surendran said on Monday that Amit Shah himself would clarify it during his upcoming election campaigns in Kerala. It was while raising a series of questions against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan related to the gold smuggling case that Shah asked why a fair probe was not carried out into the death of a person associated with the row in mysterious circumstances. Sources in the CPM said that the Chief Minister would be giving a befitting reply to all questions raised by Shah shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shahs-remarks-over-mysterious-death-in-kerala-raises-eyebrows-959612.html
08-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Polls: DMK completes seat-sharing talks with allies, to contest in 180 seats||Tamil Nadu's principal Opposition party Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) will contest in 175 assembly constituencies in the April 6 elections, as the party completed seat-sharing talks with its major alliance partners on Monday. The party has allotted 57 seats to its alliance members– 25 to Congress, 6 each to VCK, CPI(M), CPI, and MDMK, three to IUML, two to MMK and one each to Tamizhaga Vaazhurimai Katchi, Aadhi Tamizhar Peravai and Makkal Viduthalai Katchi. The last three parties will face the elections on DMK's “Rising Sun” symbol. MDMK of Vaiko will contest all six seats in DMK's symbol, while MMK will contest one in the Rising Sun symbol and another in its own symbol. CPI(M) became the last major constituent of the DMK alliance after Congress which finalised its share at 25 seats on Sunday. The DMK is adamant that it will contest in about 180 constituencies, including those contested by its allies on its symbol. The party adopted a “hard stand” with its allies while finalising the number of seats to be allotted to them. “The party did not want to take any chances because we want to have a comfortable majority in the 234-member assembly. Since we feel this our election, we told our allies that we cannot part with many seats,” a senior DMK leader told DH. DMK, which has been out of power since 2011, feels the party will be able to put up a tough fight to the AIADMK-BJP alliance only by contesting as many seats it can. Almost all alliance partners have expressed displeasure over DMK allotting “only a few seats” to them but said they understood the senior partner's position and vowed to defeat the ruling alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-dmk-completes-seat-sharing-talks-with-allies-to-contest-in-180-seats-959613.html
08-03-2021||South||Six-year-old girl sexually assaulted by minor boys||A six-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by two minor boys in Warangal district of Telangana, police said on Monday. The incident happened on February 24 but a complaint was filed on March 6 by the girl's parents after their daughter complained of pain, the police said. The boys were relatives of the girl and stay in her neighbourhood. They took her to an isolated placeand allegedly assaulted her, the police said based on the complaint. The two were booked under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, a senior police official said. The girl was sent for a medical examination on Sunday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-year-old-girl-sexually-assaulted-by-minor-boys-959619.html
08-03-2021||South||Communal clashes in Telangana's Bhainsa; BJP blames TRS-AIMIM for 'frequent riots'||Communally sensitive Bhainsa town in north Telangana has been tense since Sunday night after clashes broke out between two groups.  The town, which witnessed communal riots last year too, was put under curfew to bring the situation under control.  At least eight people were severely injured on Sunday, including two journalists who went to cover the violence and three cops who arrived at the spot to control the clashes. Nine vehicles were damaged with some of them set on fire by miscreants. A few shops were also destroyed.  According to the Police, the clashes were sparked after an altercation between two men – one riding a bike and another walking in a lane. People from the two sides from the surrounding neighborhood then indulged in stone pelting. “A minor road rage incident soon aggravated into clashes between the two groups. We are probing the incident in detail, to bring out the miscreants. We have booked cases and have round up about 50 suspects,” Narasimha Rao, DSP Bhainsa told DH. None of the injured undergoing treatment in the hospitals are in a serious condition, the official said.  Communal clashes engulfed the Bhainsa town in Nirmal district, abutting Maharashtra, in January 2020, ahead of the civic polls. About a dozen people were injured, and several houses and vehicles were damaged then too. In the ensuing polls, the AIMIM won the 26 ward municipality claiming 15 seats, while the BJP gained nine and independents two.  State BJP chief Bandi Sanjay held the K Chandrasekhar Rao government responsible for Sunday's incident and alleged that the establishment’s “appeasement approach and the police inaction thereby were causing frequent clashes in Bhainsa.” On Monday, Nizamabad BJP MP Dharmapuri Aravind, who visited the injured in a Hyderabad hospital, blamed the AIMIM dispensation in Bhainsa municipality for the communal clashes.  “The land grabbers of MIM party in power, are avenging Hindus who voiced out against encroachments on their lands via WhatsApp and Social Media, as the police wouldn’t respond to their grievances,” the firebrand MP tweeted.  Union Minister of State for Home Affairs Kishan Reddy said that Hone Minister Amit Shah had “enquired about the Bhainsa incident and expressed his concern over the violence.”  "I strongly condemn the Bhainsa violence. The attack on media personnel is disturbing and unfortunate,” Reddy said adding that he had asked the state DGP for deployment of additional forces. Telangana DGP Mahendrer Reddy assured that the situation in Bhainsa is “now under control and that the offenders will be nabbed soon.” To this Mohammed Mahmood Ali replied, "Saab, Spoke to DGP, SP & Collector yesterday night, situation in Bhainsa is completely under control"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/communal-clashes-in-telanganas-bhainsa-bjp-blames-trs-aimim-for-frequent-riots-959635.html
08-03-2021||South||Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF to remain in power in Kerala, no progress for BJP, shows opinion poll||The incumbent Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) government is expected to remain in power in Kerala in the upcoming assembly elections, according to an opinion poll.  Interestingly, the opinion poll showed that the BJP would fail to make much progress and was likely to stick to its 2016 assembly election number - 1 seat. With 42.3 per cent of the respondents saying that they were satisfied with Vijayan's leadership, the chief minister managed to hold on to the 'most popular pick' tag. What came as a surprise was that 55.8 per cent of people wanted to see Rahul Gandhi as the Prime Minister while 31.9 per cent chose PM Modi for the post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pinarayi-vijayan-led-ldf-to-remain-in-power-in-kerala-no-progress-for-bjp-shows-opinion-poll-959649.html
08-03-2021||State||Udupi power plant sickened villagers: NGT panel||The pollution caused by the Udupi Power Corporation Limited (UPCL) thermal plant has been tied to spiralling cases of diseases in areas surrounding the plant, said a report by an expert committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). In some villages, the average annual prevalence of asthma, respiratory infections, and cancer increased by 17%, 171% and 293%, respectively between 2012 and 2020.  The thermal plant in Udupi, operational since 2010 and acquired by the Adani Group in 2015, was taken to the NGT by Janajagriti Samithi and others. The tribunal, in its 2019 order, noted that the blatant irregularities in the inception and operation of the plant call for its closure, but set up a committee to come up with mitigation measures. After several changes in its composition, the joint committee submitted its report to the tribunal recently. The committee divided the surrounding villages into three regions: Those located in a radius of 10 km, 11 km-15 km and 16 km-20 km from the thermal plant in Yellur. In the glaring absence of data on ecology, environment, loss of fish, crop or cattle deaths, the committee relied on data from the health department to assess the prevalence of health issues between 2012 and 2020. The data showed that 15 villages in the 10-km radius of the plant experienced an increase in the annual prevalence of asthma, acute respiratory infection (ARI) and cancer by 17%, 171% and 293%, respectively. In the 10 villages located between 11 km and 15 km of the plant, the average annual prevalence of ARI increased by 70% and cancer by 69%. The diseases of asthma and bronchitis were found to be negative during the study period. Eight villages situated in the 16-20 km radius showed a 10% and 17% increase in the prevalence of ARI and cancer, while the growth rate of asthma and bronchitis was found negative. The villages located within 10 km also bore the brunt of waterborne renal diseases, which increased by 55% in the eight-year period, the study noted. The committee comprising R Srikanth from National Institute of Advanced Studies, Krishna Raj of Institute for Social and Economic Change and G Thirumurthy from the Central Pollution Control Board recommended a set of measures, including a detailed study on the plant's impact on ecology, environment, fisheries and agriculture. Rs 70-crore damage to health The expert committee pegged the cost of illness caused by UPCL from October 2010 to March 2020 at Rs 70.04 crore.  The NGT has invoked 'polluter pays' principle under Section 20 of the NGT Act, and the committee adopted a calculation method to arrive at a 'conservative' estimate. The cost is estimated based on information from government health centres in the area and does not include the cost of treatment incurred at private centres and hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/udupi-power-plant-sickened-villagers-ngt-panel-959369.html
08-03-2021||State||Energisation of overhead equipment, wires from March 8 in Mangaluru||On completion of electrification in Padil – Kulasekhara and Jokatte – Panambur railway section, including New Mangaluru Port Trust (NMPT), Udupi Power Corporation Ltd (UPCL) and  Mangaluru Chemicals and Fertilizers (MCF) sidings will be energized with 25,000 Volts, AC single-phase supply from Monday. As the overhead lines and associated equipment carry the voltage as high as 25,000 Volts, to create awareness among public, passengers and workers, statutory warning boards have been exhibited in strategic places in the electrified section. Public, passengers and workers are requested to adopt the safety precautions to be followed in Electrified Sections. M K Gopinath, Public Relations Officer, Southern Railway, Palakkad Division has urged people not to come in contact directly or indirectly with the electricity cables and connected equipment. The chances of suffering electric shock are very high due to voltage electricity cables. Using unfolded umbrella beneath the high voltage electricity cables during rain or lightning is dangerous. The officer has appealed to the public not to climb up on OHE masts or Locos or Carriages or Wagons etc. Do not throw objects on the OHE lines from railway over bridges/ Foot Over bridge as they are likely to cause severe electric shock. He has also urged not to cut or trim trees that are close to the OHE line. Do not carry out any work within 2-m distance from live OHE wire. This requires prior permission and switching-off of the electricity supply. Such works should be done only in the presence of authorised traction department staff. At level crossing, the vehicles should not load beyond the permissible height. Do not travel on top of the road vehicles. Height gauges are provided to denote the safe height which a vehicle can maintain beneath the Over Head Electrical wire. Even though height gauges are provided, extra caution should be taken in the instances like transporting elephants, carrying iron flag poles during processions etc, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/energisation-of-overhead-equipment-wires-from-march-8-in-mangaluru-959374.html
08-03-2021||State||Get a taste of care, empathy at 'Ajji' juice centre in Attavar hospital||At the multi-storied KMC Hospital in Attavar, one needs to just ask for ‘Ajji’s Juice’ centre. The staff besides giving directions are even willing to escort visitors to the juice centre located on the first floor in the hospital. 76-year-old Suguna S Shetty’s popularity, also known as Ajji, in the hospital cuts across all ages and is beyond her warm smile and lively talk. “Her charity works and the ability to empathise with the poor has won the affection of all and sundry,” said Rakesh serving as Deputy Manager - Relationship and Communication of KMC Hospital (Attavar). Students, who make a beeline to the juice centre, adore Ajji for the extra serving she pours into their paper cups free of charge and without even asking for it. “Doctors and other professionals stop at her juice centre in order to unwind themselves while sipping the unadulterated fruit juice,” Rakesh added. A few years ago, Suguna had pooled her meagre savings in order to donate Rs two lakh to the Pediatric Cancer ward in the hospital. She had donated Rs 10,000 to ‘Ashraya’, a daycare centre for elderly people in the hospital, besides helping needy women from her native near Nitte in Udupi district. “Ajji also used to make tube-feed for poor patients with extra care and love. She never demanded money from caretakers, taking care of patients in cancer wards and ICU (intensive care units),” Rakesh added. Nearly 16 years ago, Suguna due to high sugar and blood sugar levels was forced to consult Dr Prabha Adhikari M R, who was then serving as Professor of Internal Medicine in the KMC. On her invitation, she decided to run the juice centre which until then was running under loss. A homemaker, Suguna had no inkling of running any business. She rose to the challenge with help of her husband Sadananda Shetty, who had retired as Manager of a private company. During the first few months, the losses continued. But Suguna decided to keep trying. Suguna expresses gratefulness to the hospital management for waiving the rent during the initial years. Post pandemic, Suguna on the advice of doctors and three sons was forced to stay in a house near the hospital. “Now it is sheer boredom. There is no bigger joy than being of some help to others,” she says as the smile leaves her face radiant. Suguna says the juice centre is in safe hands, as her eldest son Rajesh has continued to serve customers with the same smile and empathy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/get-a-taste-of-care-empathy-at-ajji-juice-centre-in-attavar-hospital-959375.html
08-03-2021||State||Jan Aushadhi Kendras to be increased to 75 in Udupi: Union Minister D V Gowda||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilisers D V Sadananda Gowda said that the measures will be taken to increase Jan Aushadhi Kendras to 75 in Udupi district. At present, there are 49 centres in the district. He was speaking during the Jan Aushadhi Divas programme, along with virtual interaction by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, organised at a ground near the community health centre in Brahmavar in the district. Gowda called upon the people to avail the benefits of the Kendras, which offer medicines at affordable prices. Already, 7,500 Kendras have been set up across the country. The present financial budget has earmarked Rs 2.33 lakh crore, which accounts for 137% extra allocation, for the health sector. With an aim to provide better healthcare facilities and to offer medicines at affordable prices, the Jan Aushadhi Kendras are being set up in the country, he added. The Minister assured that the medicines offered at the Kendras are of the utmost quality with laboratory tested under the National Accreditation Board for testing and calibration laboratories. Later, speaking to the reporters, the minister said that the state budget, to be presented on Monday, will concentrate on priority sectors. He recalled that when the Union Budget was announced, there were several suspicions. However, currently, it is considered as one of the best fiscal budgets in the world introduced during the pandemic, he added. MP Shobha Karandlaje said that the target of 75 Jan Aushadhi Kendras would be met in another 10 days. There are more than 100 applicants, who are eager to take up the opportunity to set up the Kendras in the district. Lauding the scheme, Shobha said that the PM wanted to ensure that medicines were affordable for the poor. Retorting to a query on budget, the MP said that the state budget presented on International Women’s Day should concentrate on women who are the changemakers. It should be women-centric prioritising their needs, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jan-aushadhi-kendras-to-be-increased-to-75-in-udupi-union-minister-d-v-gowda-959380.html
08-03-2021||State||Now, all Karnataka districts will have a 'gaushala'||Now, all Karnataka districts will have a 'gaushala' to prevent 'slaughter of cows and to conserve livestock' as CM B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced provisions for the same in the state Budget. He also added that to encourage ayurvedic medicine in veterinary science, a new research institute at a cost of Rs 2 crore will be set up at Veterinary College, Shivamogga. In the Budget, the chief minister spared citizens by not announcing any new taxes while presenting the state Budget 2021. During the Budget Speech, he said, "I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people. State Government levies Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel. This is already lesser compared to other southern states. Despite this, in the 2021-2022 Budget, no taxes including Karnataka State Tax on petrol and diesel has been increased and Budget has been formulated in such a way so as not to increase the financial burden on the common man." More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/now-all-karnataka-districts-will-have-a-gaushala-959479.html
08-03-2021||State||Discounted bus passes to loans: What Karnataka Budget offers women||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a slew of measures and allocations in the state Budget for the empowerment and safety of women. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister said that the Budget will be beneficial for women. Here are the announcements: 1. Brick and mortar and e-markets for products made by women entrepreneurs in major cities of the state has been proposed in the Budget. The CM also proposed to showcase unique products made by women to be exhibited for a week in these platforms. 2. CM Yediyurappa announced a discounted bus pass for women working in garment factories. Rs 30 crore has been allocated for the scheme. 3. Women and Children's Budget will be implemented under Panchayat Raj. The chief minister announced that the safe city project will gather pace. He also said that 7,500 CCTV cameras will be installed in Bengaluru. Tech-based e-beat will be implemented during night hours to ensure women's safety. 4. Excellence centres with the help of NIMHANS and NLSIU will be set up to help women who are subjected to harassment and abuse. 5. Elevate Women programme at a cost of Rs 5 crore to assist women entrepreneurs will be implemented, said the chief minister. He added that to strengthen SHGs, a Self Help Group policy will be formulated. Women safety and empowerment campaign will also be carried out. 6. The state government is set to upgrade Anganwadis to Shishu Palana Kendra to help women, said the chief minister. 7. Women entrepreneurs in the service sector can now avail up to Rs 2 crore loan at four per cent interest. 8. The chief minister said that at least 6,000 micro-enterprises under Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department to generate employment for 60,000 women. Branding and online market assistance for such enterprises will be given to women, the CM added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/discounted-bus-passes-to-loans-what-karnataka-budget-offers-women-959483.html
08-03-2021||State||MEA demand removal of Kannada flag in front of BCC in Belagavi||Activists of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) staged a rally demanding either the removal of the Kannada flag hoisted in front of Belagavi City Corporation or permission to hoist the saffron flag beside it as per the resolution passed by the civic body. The rally commenced from Sambhaji Circle and passed through College Road on Monday. It was stopped by City Police near Sardars School ground wherein MES activists staged a sit-in protest. When the police tried to stop the rally, MES president Deepak Dalvi announced that they will continue to stage a sit-in on the road. He said the situation arose as the district administration did not take any measures to meet the activists' demands. He also said that political leadership from Maharashtra stood with them in support and solidarity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mea-demand-removal-of-kannada-flag-in-front-of-bcc-in-belagavi-959526.html
08-03-2021||State||Decoding the Karnataka Budget with Minister JC Madhuswamy||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday presented the state's first post-pandemic Budget, one he said was formulated in a difficult situation never seen before.  Among the key highlights, the biggest is that no new taxes have been levied in the state Budget. Follow our conversation on decoding the Budget with Karnataka Minister for Minor Irrigation, J C Madhuswamy and we understand the key nuances of the year's financial roadmap for the state;||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decoding-the-karnataka-budget-with-minister-jc-madhuswamy-959576.html
08-03-2021||State||Rajya Sabha: Kharge forces adjournments over fuel price hike||Senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge opened his innings as Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha on Monday by leading a protest against fuel price hike forcing adjournments after Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu disallowed his notice to suspend the business of the House to discuss the issue. The House, which conducted business in the first hour, could function from 10 am and the Chair announced the final adjournment of the day at 1.30 pm. Kharge had submitted the notice for suspension of business to discuss the “huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low” but Naidu rejected it saying it could be deliberated during the debate on Appropriation Bills, leading to an adjournment of the House while the Question Hour was on. The Karnataka MP, whom Naidu described as one of the longest-serving leaders of the country and that he has a “major role” in enabling the smooth functioning of the House, has recently succeeded Ghulam Nabi Azad, who retired on February 15, as the Leader of Opposition and Monday was his first day as LoP in the UpperHouse. Naidu’s decision to disallow Kharge’s notice did not go down well with the Congress MPs who rushed to the Well of the House and started sloganeering. Kharge said it was a “very important” and “burning issue” that has agitated the people. “Petrol and diesel prices are nearly Rs 100 per litre and Rs 80 per litre respectively. LPG prices have also gone up. Rs 21 lakh crore have been collected by putting excise duty and cess. Because of this, the entire country, including farmers, is suffering,” he said. Congress MPs, who were in the Well of the House, refused to return to their seats, prompting Naidu to quip, “if you don’t want the Question Hour to continue, if you want to deprive people of Question Hour, I can adjourn the House... Don’t make a joke of democracy.” As the sloganeering continued, Naidu first adjourned the House till 11 am. When the House reassembled, Kharge once again demanded a discussion but Deputy Chairman Harivansh made it clear that the decision of the Chairman cannot be reversed. With MPs continuing their protest, Harivansh adjourned the House till 1 pm. At 1 pm and 1.15 pm, Vice-Chairperson Vandana Chavan adjourned the House for 15 minutes each. At 1.30 pm, she announced that the House is adjourned till 11 am on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rajya-sabha-kharge-forces-adjournments-over-fuel-price-hike-959669.html
08-03-2021||State||Maharashtra activists hold rally against Kannada flag at Belagavi corporation||Activists of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) staged a rally demanding the removal of the Kannada flag hoisted in front of the Belagavi City Corporation (BCC) with the second ultimatum given by them to the district administration ending on Monday. They demanded that the saffron flag should be hoisted as per the resolution passed by the BCC in the past. Raising slogans demanding the merger of Marathi-speaking areas with Maharashtra, MES activists took out a rally from Sambhaji Circle on Monday but were stopped by the police near the Sardar’s School ground.  MES President Deepak Dalvi demanded that either the district administration remove the Kannada flag or a few among them be allowed to hoist the saffron flag. Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath arrived at the spot and promised to hold talks with the concerned for an amicable solution. In the meantime, women activists of MES led by Sarita Patil and Renu Killekar made an unsuccessful attempt to hoist the saffron flag in front of BCC. Police detained them and took away the flag and the flag pole. Shiv Sena leader from Kolhapur Vijay Dewane and his associates were not allowed to enter the district. They were stopped at Kognoli checkpost on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway as per ban orders issued by the district magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/maharashtra-activists-hold-rally-against-kannada-flag-at-belagavi-corporation-959674.html
08-03-2021||State||New mineral policy for 2021-26 on the anvil: Yediyurappa||A new mineral policy for 2021-26 will be unveiled in the State on the lines of the Centre's National Mineral Policy to give a fillip to the industry and boost the economy, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Monday. Presenting the budget proposals for 2021-22 in the assembly, Yediyurappa said the government had implemented a mineral policy in 2008 and now plans to introduce it with new reforms. "We will formulate state mineral policy for 2021-26 on the lines of National Mineral Policy.A single-window clearance system will be introduced to dispose applications for grant of mining/quarry lease and crusher licence in a time-bound manner," the Chief Minister announced. To facilitate ease of doing business, the Chief Minister said 'Mining Adalats' will be set up to address grievances of applicants. "Mining adalats will be started at four revenue divisions in the state under a single-window scheme.This will help address the grievances of people and speedy disposal of pending applications to start business," the Chief Minister said. The Mines and Geology department is already working on the policy and it will be introduced soon, he added||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-mineral-policy-for-2021-26-on-the-anvil-yediyurappa-959678.html
08-03-2021||State||Four Karnataka labourers buried alive as mud caves in||Four labourers, including two women, were buried alive when a mound of mud from a hillock caved in on them at Sampebail of Idagundi village in the taluk on Monday. Deceased have been identified as Bhagyashree Yadage (21), Lakshmi Doyipade (38), Santosh Doyipade (18) and Maalu Doyipade (21), all residents of Hosahalli near Kiravatti in the taluk. The incident occurred when the labourers were resting after clearing a portion of mud at the hillock at a farm owned by Manjunath Nagappa Bhat. While four labourers were buried alive under the mud heap, three others had a narrow escape.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-karnataka-labourers-buried-alive-as-mud-caves-in-959680.html
08-03-2021||State||Karnataka Budget: BSY's doles to harvest farmers' goodwill||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa sought to keep his constituency of farmers happy by announcing a slew of measures, what with agriculture being the only sector that saw growth in the pandemic-hit year.  “In spite of Covid-19 pandemic and occurrence of floods in North Karnataka during 2020-21, a remarkable growth of 6.4% is observed in the agricultural sector,” Yediyurappa said in his budget speech, noting that growth had declined in industrial and service sectors. Yediyurappa announced the setting up of a goshala in every district in a bid to allay farmers’ fears over the new anti-cow slaughter law.  “... to prevent the slaughter of cows and to conserve livestock, one goshala would be established in each district,” Yediyurappa said.  The new Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Act prohibits the slaughter of cattle, stoking fears that the burden of taking care of non-milch livestock would fall upon farmers.  To placate farmers further, Yediyurappa has promised a new scheme called ‘Samagra Gosankula Samruddhi,’ to develop native breeds from other states such as Gir, Sahiwal, Ongole, Tharparker and Deoni.  Notably, the CM has decided to continue the ‘Anugraha Koduge’ scheme to provide Rs 5,000 compensation for the accidental death of sheep and goats.  The government will double down on organic farming with an allocation of Rs 500 crore. According to Yediyurappa, this will provide “healthy and chemical-free agricultural and horticultural products to the people.”  In line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s plan to double farmers’ income by 2023, Yediyurappa, in his speech, said, “The government is committed to provide required infrastructure facilities and support to agriculturists at all stages, like availability of quality sowing seeds, crop management, post-harvest management, collection, processing and sales.” A new hybrid seed policy will be formulated “for providing high-quality hybrid seeds and seed technology easily to farmers and to increase their productivity, profitability and popularity,” Yediyurappa said.  The CM announced that Krishi Yantra Dhare Centres would be strengthened to assist the farmers to adopt modern farm practices at low costs. Also, a ‘Samagra Krishi Paddathi’ programme will be implemented to enable small and marginal landholders to obtain sustainable income throughout the year.   Promises galore * Hi-tech cocoon market costing Rs 75 crore at Ramanagara  * A ‘theme park’ on 100 acres land in Hesaraghatta on PPP model to provide information and training, with permanent exhibition and demonstration of native livestock and other breeds * A new ayurvedic research institute costing Rs 2 crore in Veterinary College, Shivamogga * Rs 75 crore grant over the next five years to increase organic carbon and improve production of pulses. Rs 10 crore to be given this year * Horticultural technological park at Sirivara village of Koppal taluk to extend assistance to train horticulturists * A new agricultural export zone will be established for aromatic and medicinal plants, fruits, vegetables and spices throughout the state * Rs 150 crore for Reshme Bhavan at Okalipuram to house all sericulture-related offices  * Rs 1 crore to develop better Nandidurga goat breed * Additional 15% subsidy costing Rs 50 crore for construction of cold storage plants and establishment of post-harvest management/processing plants||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-bsys-doles-to-harvest-farmers-goodwill-959687.html
08-03-2021||State||Karnataka reports 436 Covid-19 cases, five deaths||Karnataka reported 436 new Covid-19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the caseload to 9,55,451 and the toll to 12,367, on Monday. The day also saw 478 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 436 fresh cases reported on Monday, 287 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. Cumulatively, there have been 9,36,250 discharges. Out of the 6,815 active cases, 116 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban accounted for four deaths, while the other fatality was reported from Mysuru. Among districts, Kalaburagi came behind Bengaluru Urban with 22 cases, Udupi 18, Dakshina Kannada 14, and Tumakuru 12 followed by others. A total of over 1,93,61,547 samples have been tested so far, out of which 56,445 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-436-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-959696.html
08-03-2021||State||PIL filed in Karnataka High Court challenges constitutional validity of Waqf Act||A PIL has been filed in the High Court of Karnataka challenging the constitutional validity of the Waqf Act, 1995.  The petition, filed by K S Subramanyan, a Bengaluru-based educationist, argues that the law runs "contrary" to the secular principles of the Constitution as it intends to "promote a particular religion". The high court has sought responses from central and state governments as well as the Wakf Board. It has, however, kept open the maintainability aspect of the petition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pil-filed-in-karnataka-high-court-challenges-constitutional-validity-of-waqf-act-959697.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Twist in 'sex for job' scandal: Activist Dinesh Kallahalli withdraws complaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi||In his letter submitted to Cubbon Park police withdrawing his complaint, Kallahalli said he was doing it in the interest of the woman in the video. He alleged that a smear campaign was launched against him and the woman on social media, as a 'shoot the messenger' policy was pursued after the CD was leaked. "Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy levelled baseless allegations of a Rs 5 cr deal over the CD issue," he said, adding that it was unfortunate that the discussion revolved around the informant in the case, rather than the victim. A source in the police department said they have 15 days’ time to investigate a complaint received without the statement of the survivor. “The advocate of Dinesh Kallahalli has written on his behalf. We have told the advocate to send Kallahalli, since he is the complainant, to get more information. After gathering evidence, we will take further action,” the source said. CBI probe Talking about the incident at a press conference, Balachandra said, "When he (Kallahalli) went to the police station and said he would release a CD (on March 2), it was already out. The videos were uploaded three hours prior on YouTube, in Russia." Balachandra claimed that "17 servers were identified to upload the video". "The objective was to release it simultaneously in Karnataka and all over India on YouTube, Facebook and other social media," he said, adding "Rs 15 cr was spent for the purpose". "He (Ramesh) should file a complaint against the incident. If he does not, I will file a complaint on his behalf," Balachandra said. Two masterminds Balachandra alleged that two people had masterminded the incident while a network of conspirators plotted the 'honey trap'. Officials should first arrest these two to unravel the truth behind the whole episode, he said, maintaining that the videos were "fake". The woman, he claimed, was lured with Rs 50 lakh cash and a job in Dubai. This was done to push BJP on the back foot ahead of elections in five states, he said, adding that there was a conspiracy to defame the Jarkiholi family too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/twist-in-sex-for-job-scandal-activist-dinesh-kallahalli-withdraws-complaint-against-ramesh-jarkiholi-959366.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Farmers to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha on March 22||The MSP Dilao campaign, launched in Kalaburagi, is set to spread across the state with farmers planning to lay siege to Vidhana Soudha on March 22, Samyukta Kisan Morcha convening committee member Yogendra Yadav said on Sunday. Speaking at a press conference along with farmer leaders and members of the committee in Karnataka, he said the Centre had been spreading falsehoods with regard to minimum support price (MSP). "The new farm laws will destroy the agriculture produce marketing companies and MSP. We already have an example in Karnataka," he said. He said the committee had visited Kalaburagi and Ballari districts where they found that farmers were paid less than the MSP. "The APMCs have also witnessed a fall in the flow of the agriculture produce. All that the farmers are demanding is the implementation of the MSP arrived at, as suggested by the report of the M S Swaminathan committee. We will continue our struggle till we get it," he said. He said the Centre was trying to suppress and bury the farmers' movement and also spread false narratives. "The more they try to silence, the farther the struggle is spreading," he said. Former chairman of Agriculture Price Commission T N Prakash Kammaradi said there has been a 25% drop in the arrival of agriculture produce at APMCs, since the introduction of the new farm laws on May 15, 2020. "As the new law permits trading outside the APMCs, farmers are getting a bitter deal," he said. Farmers' leaders from Punjab, Haryana were present with state leaders Badagalapura Nagendra, Kodihalli Chandrashekhar and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/farmers-to-lay-siege-to-vidhana-soudha-on-march-22-959399.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa spares citizens, announces no new taxes in Budget||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday spared citizens by not announcing any new taxes while presenting the state Budget 2021. During the Budget Speech, he said, "I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people. State Government levies Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel. This is already lesser compared to other southern states. Despite this, in the 2021-2022 Budget, no taxes including Karnataka State Tax on petrol and diesel has been increased and Budget has been formulated in such a way so as not to increase the financial burden on the common man." Meanwhile, the Opposition Congress on Monday staged a walkout during the tabling of the budget for 2021-22 by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, claiming that the BJP government in the state had no moral right to continue in power. Yediyurappa who also holds the Finance Portfolio presented the state budget, his eighth in the legislative assembly Monday. The Chief Minister said, the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has seen a fall due to lockdown for controlling the Covid-19 pandemic during the year 2020-21, and as per the initial estimation based on fixed prices the GSDP has contracted by 2.6 per cent in comparison with that of 2019-20. He further stated that in spite of Covid and the occurrence of floods in North Karnataka during 2020-21, growth of 6.4 per cent is observed in the agriculture sector and said however, the industrial and service sector witnessed a decline. "During 2020-21 contraction in the industrial sector is 5.1 per cent and in the service sector is 3.1 per cent," he added. "This government carrying a bundle of sins has no moral right to continue in power. So we have decided to protest against the presentation of the budget," former chief minister Siddaramaiah told reporters here. He charged that the Chief Minister, who holds the Finance portfolio and the Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani were out on bail in a criminal case relating to creation of bogus documents to take back Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) land at Devanahalli in Bengaluru. Siddaramaiah, who is Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly, also said six other ministers approached the civil court seeking an injunction against the telecast or publication of any defamatory material against them by the media following the sex-for-job allegation against the BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi who had to step down as minister. "After the telecast of Ramesh Jarkiholi (objectionable video clip), these six ministers including Shivaram Hebbar, M B Patil, Dr Sudhakar are in fear. What's their fear? Shouldn't there be some basis behind the fear?" he said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-spares-citizens-announces-no-new-taxes-in-budget-959476.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's GSDP dropped by 2.6% due to Covid-19 lockdown, says CM B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa on Monday said that due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) has declined. According to estimates, GSDP dropped by 2.6 per cent compared to 2019-20 fiscal. He added that the agriculture sector has grown 4 per cent, while the services and industry sectors were down 3 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-gsdp-dropped-by-26-due-to-covid-19-lockdown-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-959478.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Your stay in the Opposition forever is guaranteed, Karnataka CM BSY tells Siddaramaiah as Cong stages walkout during budget||The Congress on Monday staged a walkout in the Karnataka Assembly during the tabling of the budget for 2021-22 by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, prompting a strong reaction from the CM who claimed the country never had a history of opposition boycotting the budget. The Congress members had walked out of the House, claiming that the government in the state had no moral right to continue in power. "Do we have any instance of opposition staging a walkout either in the Centre or the state during the presentation of the budget?" Yediyurappa asked while speaking to reporters after the budget presentation. "What morality are they (Congress) talking about? I will explain what morality they were referring to during the debate on the budget," he said. Yediyurappa said the Opposition getting away by giving lame excuses means that they are incapable to face the situation. "Dear Siddaramaiah, your stay in the opposition forever is guaranteed. Don't call me Yediyurappa, if I don't make Siddaramaiah sit in the opposition by winning 130 to 135 seats.This I am giving in writing, an angry Yediyurappa said. When asked about Siddaramaiah demanding resignation of ministers, Yediyurappa claimed the Congress leader has developed some mental issues recently as he did not know what to speak. Earlier in the day, former chief minister Siddaramaiah had said "This government carrying a bundle of sins has no moral right to continue in power. So we have decided to protest against the presentation of the budget." He alleged the Chief Minister, who holds the Finance portfolio and the Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani were out on bail in a criminal case relating to creation of bogus documents to take back Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) land at Devanahalli in Bengaluru. Siddaramaiah, who is Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, also said six other ministers approached the civil court seeking injunction against the telecast or publication of any defamatory material against them by the media following the sex-for-job allegation against the BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi who had to step down as minister. "After the telecast of Ramesh Jarkiholi (objectionable video clip), these six ministers including Shivaram Hebbar, M B Patil, Dr Sudhakar are in fear. What's their fear? Shouldn't there be some basis behind the fear?" he said. According to him, there were many more ministers whose objectionable CDs were made. The Congress veteran alleged the injunction sought by the ministers was an attack on the freedom of press. "These ministers had taken oath saying that they would discharge their duties without any fear or favour.When they have gone to court out of fear what moral right do they have to continue in power including the Chief Minister," Siddaramiaah sought to know. He alleged that the government was steeped in corruption as well. He said the Congress party would not listen to the budget by an "unethical" government and the members would protest by wearing black badges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/your-stay-in-the-opposition-forever-is-guaranteed-karnataka-cm-bsy-tells-siddaramaiah-as-cong-stages-walkout-during-budget-959489.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No new taxes but new 'gaushalas' to mega infra projects: Key takeaways from Karnataka Budget||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a slew of measures and allocations in the state Budget. Congress MLAs staged a walkout during the tabling of the budget for 2021-22 by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, claiming that the BJP government in the state had no moral right to continue in power. Here are the key takeaways from the Budget: 1. No new taxes to be levied in the state Budget Fuel prices are set to remain the same after the CM announced that new taxes will not be levied. During the Budget Speech, he said, "I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people. State Government levies Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel. This is already lesser compared to other southern states. Despite this, in the 2021-2022 Budget, no taxes including Karnataka State Tax on petrol and diesel has been increased and Budget has been formulated in such a way so as not to increase the financial burden on the common man." 2. Now, all Karnataka districts will have a 'gaushala' All Karnataka districts will have a 'gaushala' to prevent 'slaughter of cows and to conserve livestock' as CM B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced provisions for the same in the state Budget. He also added that to encourage ayurvedic medicine in veterinary science, a new research institute at a cost of Rs 2 crore will be set up at Veterinary College, Shivamogga. 3. Karnataka GSDP dropped to 2.6% due to Covic-19 lockdown Yediyurappa said that due to the Covid-19 lockdown, Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Karnataka dropped to 2.6 per cent compared to 2019-20 fiscal. He added that the agriculture sector has grown 4 per cent, while the services and industry sectors were down 3 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively. State revenues will not meet last year's Budget targets, but will admit that there is an imbalance in expenditure and revenue, said the chief minister. "Tax revenues of both state and Centre and down. As a result, the tax share of states has decreased. GST devolution funds for the year reduced by around Rs 8,000 crore compared to budget estimates," said Yediyurappa. 4. Slew of measures for women safety and empowerment were announced a. Rs 30 crore allocated for a discounted bus pass for women working in garment factories. b. Tech-based e-beat during night hours to ensure women's safety will be implemented. c. Excellence centres with the help of NIMHANS and NLSIU will be set up to help women who are subjected to harassment and abuse. d. Elevate Women programme at a cost of Rs 5 cr to assist women entrepreneurs to be implemented. e. Women entrepreneurs in the service sector can now avail up to Rs 2 crore loan at four per cent interest. 5. Rs 5,372 crore spent for Covid-19 pandemic More than 63 lakh people have benefitted from initiatives of the state government, Yediyurappa said. Over 9 crore RT-PCR tests were conducted, he added. He warned of a possible second wave after the state saw a rise in the number of new cases, and stressed on following social distancing norms. 6. Rs 31,028 crore allocated to agriculture and allied sectors Rs 500 crore has been allocated for the benefit of food startups food park that will be set up in Vijayapura, said Yediyurappa. Reservation for farmers children at Agriculture University has been increased from 40 per cent to 50 per cent. The state government has increased subsidy to 50 per cent for small food processing units with an allocation of Rs 50 crore. APMCs will be digitised with an outlay of Rs 198 crore. A well-equipped flower market with an outlay of Rs 50 crore will be set up at Byappanahalli. Dry chilli market under PPP model will be set up at Ballari APMC. Grants for Kalasa-Banduri projects will be provided this fiscal, and all clearances to implement them will be obtained, said the CM. Allocation of Rs 5,600 crore has been set aside for Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama for irrigation works. 7. Education and skill development The government has allocated Rs 100 crore to develop 50 schools under the Kendriya Vidyalaya model. Also, Rs 100 crore has also been allocated for the construction of toilets at schools and colleges. Under a new 'Samarthya-Sarathya' programme, training for five lakh students for competitive exams to be implemented with an outlay of Rs 5 crore. 8. Healthcare Budget a. ICUs of 25 bed and 6-bed capacities will be established in 19 districts and 100 taluk hospitals, respectively, at a cost of Rs 60 crore over the next two years. b. Rs 2 crore for Tele-ICU facilities has been allocated. The Ayurvedic College in Shivamogga is set to be upgraded to Ayush University. c. Regional cancer centres along the lines of Kidwai Hospital will be set up at Mysuru and Shivamogga at a cost of Rs 100 crore. 9. Rs 1,500 crore allocated for minority communities An allocation of Rs 500 crore for various development corporations of backward communities has been made in the Budget. A new board for the development of Vokkaligas has been proposed.  The government has allocated Rs 200 crore for the renovation and repair of churches, assistance to orphanages and other facilities. Construction Workers Welfare Board will be set up to construct four temporary residential facilities in Bengaluru Urban and rural districts, one each in Mysuru, Shivamogga, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Ballari, Hassan and others. Twenty-five mobile check-up centres will also be set up for construction workers. Allocation of SCSP/TSP has been decreased to Rs 26,005 crore due to an increase in committed expenditure. Committed expenditure to grow from Rs 1.29 lakh crore in 2020-21 to Rs 1.42 lakh crore. 10. Infrastructure and development projects a. State's 'Jaladhare' scheme to be integrated with Centre's 'Jala Jeevan Mission'. Bulk water supply will be provided to villages from permanent water sources at a cost of Rs 25,740 crore. b. Engineering divisions of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department will be merged into one to reduce administrative expenditure. c. Rs 1,500 crore grant will be provided for Kalyana Karnataka Development Board. d. Rs 3,000 crore has been allocated for the continuation of the special development plan for developing backward taluks. e. All mega projects costing above Rs 100 crore will be mandatorily evaluated. Drinking water and underground drainage projects by KUWSDB worth Rs 900 crore has been announced in the state Budget. f. Chief Minister Mega Integrated Industrial Townships to be developed along Bengaluru-Mumbai and Bengaluru-Chennai industrial corridor on a minimum of 500-acre land. Investment of around Rs 10,000 crore is expected in the townships over three years, said Yediyurappa. g. Karnataka is set to establish a Venture Capital Fund of Rs 100 crore. The state will provide 25 per cent of the fund. h. Karnataka will float 'Swiss Challenge' tender to take up Peripheral Ring Road works around Bengaluru. i. Rs 850 crore has been budgeted this year for the suburban rail project. Doubling of Yeshwathpur-Channasandra and Byappanahalli-Hosuru lines is set to be completed by 2023. j. A total of Rs 7,795 crore has been allocated for the development of Bengaluru. 11.  Rs 10 crore has been allocated for the construction of a Yathri Nivas for devotees from Karnataka visiting Ram Temple at Ayodhya. 12. Integrated theme park will be developed downstream of Kabini reservoir in Mysuru under the PPP model at a cost of Rs 50 crore. 13. In a first in India, maps containing details of forest types and density will be prepared in Karnataka using satellites with precision of up to 50 centimetres. 14. A property registration pilot project using blockchain will be implemented at a cost of Rs 1 crore, with the help of IIT-Kanpur to prevent cheating and document tampering. Unified land management system to be developed. 15. Capacity in eight prisons to be increased at a cost of Rs 40 crore. The government will release Rs 10 crore in 2021-22 to develop prisons. At least Rs 15 crore has been allocated for video conferencing facility to produce prisoners before courts. 16. Yediyurappa has set the target for revenue collection for Commercial Taxes at Rs 76,743 crore. To complete the pre-GST legacy audit and to clear tax arrears expeditiously, 'Karasmadhana  Scheme-2021' will be implemented. 17. Excise revenue target for FY22 has been set at Rs 24,580 crore. The target for the transport department has been set at Rs 7,515 crore. The target for Stamps and Registration Department set at Rs 12,665 crore. Stamp duty for the first registration of apartments costing Rs 35 lakh to 45 lakh to be reduced to 3 per cent from 5 per cent. 18. For the next fiscal, total receipts are estimated at Rs 2.43 lakh crore. Total expenditure is set to be Rs 2.46 lakh crore, while the revenue deficit is set at Rs 15,134 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-new-taxes-but-new-gaushalas-to-mega-infra-projects-key-takeaways-from-karnataka-budget-959495.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Cheers! Liquor tax remains unchanged in Karnataka Budget||No changes have been introduced to the tax on liquor across the state, according to the Karnataka Budget presented by CM B S Yediyurappa on Monday.  The Excise Department had announced a 17 per cent hike on liquor tax in May last year to make up for the losses brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cheers-liquor-tax-remains-unchanged-in-karnataka-budget-959502.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt's gift on Women's Day: Six-months child care leave for employees||On international women's day, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a proposal to provide six-months child care leave to women employees of the Government. He also announced a grant of Rs 37,188 crore for women-oriented programmes. Presenting the 2021-22 budget in the Legislative Assembly, he proposed upgradation of Anganwadis situated in Bengaluru and other cities into creches for the benefit of urban working women. Action would be taken to open creches in two major government offices in each district centre, the Chief Minister said, announcing a slew of initiatives benefiting women. "Women employees of the state government will be given a total of six months child care leave along with maternity leave which is already in existence. This will be a supplementary step towards the welfare of women who are a very important part of the administrative machinery," he said. Yediyurappa announced loan facility of up to Rs two crore at a subsidised rate of four per cent through Woman Development Board/Karnataka State Finance Corporation to women entrepreneurs in the service sector. The government also announced support through Panchayat Raj institutions for the establishment of 6,000 micro-enterprises for rural women self-help groups under 'Sanjeevini'; to benefit 60,000 women. Technical support to small enterprises of women was announced by the government which also proposed encouragement to 25,000 women through 2,260 micro enterprises. The government also proposed to provide market to the products manufactured by women self-help groups and women entrepreneurs, organisation of annual fares at divisional level and implementation of e-market facility. Yediyurappa announced commencement of 'Vanitha Sangathi' programme for providing BMTC (Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation) bus pass at concessional rate to women labourers of garment sector in Bengaluru at an expenditure of Rs 30 crore. It also proposed re-examination of various laws and rules for creation of conducive environment for women taking up employment. Action was also proposed to incorporate gender budget and child budget in the Panchayat Raj system. Yediyurappa also announced fixing of 7,500 cameras in public places of Bengaluru city under safe city project; action to intensify night beats through technology based e- beat system. It also proposed establishment of centre of excellence in collaboration with NIMHANS (National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences) and National Law School for giving assistance and guidance to women subjected to atrocity. For the women who have obtained licence from Agricultural Produce Market Committee, 10 per cent reservation was proposed in the allotment of site, godown, shop, shop-cum-godowns in the premises. The government proposed to support women entrepreneurs by implementation of the 'Elevate Women Entrepreneurship' programme at an expenditure of Rs five crore. Implementation of a self-help group policy to strengthen self-help groups and their federation of the State was also announced along with action to bring all the self-help groups under the livelihood mission. Commencement of 'Women Protection and Empowerment Mission' was proposed under the direct supervision of the Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govts-gift-on-womens-day-six-months-child-care-leave-for-employees-959521.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Relief for apartment buyers: Karnataka cuts stamp duty to 3%||The reduction in stamp duty to 3% for the first registration of apartments valued between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh is set to boost the demand for affordable housing in the state. Chief Minister B S Yeddyurappa in his budget proposals for 2021-22 announced reduction in stamp duty from the existing 5% for a period of one year. Almost 35% of the residential properties in key markets of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, consist of affordable category properties. This reduction will help propel demand for the sub-Rs 50 lakh residential market, according to real estate experts. "Going by the experience of Maharashtra, where the reduction in stamp duty catapulted home sales, we can expect to see a similar boost to sentiments and activities in Karnataka as well," Shishir Baijal, Chairman and Managing Director, Knight Frank India said. He said if the real estate developers are able to absorb the remaining stamp duty value, it will make the residential sector in Karnataka extremely attractive and viable for end-users. However, the industry said the benefit of stamp duty reduction should have been extended to properties in upper price bracket as well in order to realise the true potential of the market. " it would have been far more beneficial if it was extended to other segments as well, given the burgeoning rate of expansion not only in Bengaluru but also the rest of the State," Rajendra Joshi, CEO-Residential, Brigade Enterprises Ltd said. He also said the benefit should have been extended at least for a period of three to five years instead of just one year ending March 2022. “We need to keep in mind that the cycle of planning to execution to registration of properties is significantly longer. It would definitely help the real estate sector if this benefit could be announced for a period of three to five years as it will help developers modify their product mix as well as help consumers plan their finances and purchase decisions better. We urge the Government to also consider the mid-segment and provide similar benefits for homes below one crore,” Joshi said. The move to cut stamp duty will promote affordable housing in the state and bring in more positivity in the sentiments amongst the consumers. “This will prove encouraging for the first-time home buyers and help strengthen the ecosystem of investment in real estate and accelerate purchase decisions,” Sobha Ltd spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/relief-for-apartment-buyers-karnataka-cuts-stamp-duty-to-3-959534.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-hit Karnataka economy to contract by 2.6% in FY21: Survey||The Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown has taken a toll on Karnataka's economic growth. As per the initial estimates based on fixed prices, the gross state domestic product (GSDP) is likely to contract by 2.6 per cent as against 5 per cent growth witnessed during 2019-20. In contrast, the national economy is projected to contract by 7.7 per cent for the current fiscal. While the industries and services sectors are set to contract by 5.1 per cent and 3.1 per cent respectively, the agriculture sector is set to see a remarkable growth of 6.4 per cent, according to the Economic Survey of the state for 2020-21, tabled in the state legislature on Monday. The share of Karnataka’s GSDP in all India GDP is 8.5 per cent during 2020-21. The revenue resources of the state include the state's own tax, non-tax receipts, share from central taxes and grant-in-aid from the Centre. However, most of these were hit when a nationwide lockdown was announced to prevent the spread of Covid-19 during 2020-21. “The state and central government's tax collections are lesser than the budgetary estimates due to complete stoppage of economic activities on account of lockdown,” CM B S Yeddyurappa said in his budget speech. Due to this, the share of central taxes payable to the states has been reduced in the revised estimates. Hence, the share of the state in central taxes has come down to Rs 20,053 crore in the revised estimates from the budgetary estimates of Rs 28,591 crore in 2020-21. Due to these reasons, the state’s revenue resources could not reach the targets of 2020-21. The Centre has stated in its 2021-22 budget that the share from central taxes to be provided to the state will be Rs 24,273 crore, Yeddyurappa said in his budget speech. The advance estimates of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of Karnataka for the year 2020-21 highlight that at constant prices (2011.12), the GSDP is likely to attain a level of Rs 11,13,818 crore due to lockdown. The per capita state income (i.e. per capita NSDP) of Karnataka at current prices is estimated to be Rs 2,26,796 showing a rise of 1.6 per cent during 2020-21, as against Rs 2,23,175 in 2019-20. The contribution of the agriculture sector to the overall GSDP saw a marginal increase from 12.16 per cent to 13.15 per cent in 2020-21 against 2019-20. Industry sector saw a marginal decrease from 21.68 per cent to 20.31 per cent in 2020-21 against 2019-20. The services sector, the largest component of GSDP saw a marginal increase from 66.16 per cent in 2019-20 to 66.53 per cent in 2020-21. The contribution of real estate, professional services and ownership of dwellings is highest with 33.46 per cent in 2020-21, followed by manufacturing at 13.11 per cent, trade and repair services at 10.38 per cent and crops at 8.57 per cent. The state’s revenue receipts increased from Rs 1,77,255.48 crore in 2019-20 (RE) to Rs 1,79,919.76 crore in 2020-21 (BE). The state’s own tax revenue has increased from Rs 17,220 in 2019-20 (RE) to Rs 18,249 in 2020-21 (BE). The budgeted tax revenue is anticipated at Rs 1,56,698.04 crore in 2020-21 (BE) as against Rs 1,49,907.91 crore in 2019-20 (RE).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-hit-karnataka-economy-to-contract-by-26-in-fy21-survey-959620.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Never was Budget formulated in such a difficult situation: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday said the budget of the state was never formulated in such a difficult situation previously, as he cautioned about the challenges ahead in 2021-22. "Our government has faced many challenges during 2020-21. Though there are clear indications of recovery of green cover, the year 2021-22 may also bring various kinds of challenges." "The 14 per cent expected growth we were considering year on year in revenue receipts will not be there during the next year," Yediyurappa said. Presenting the Budget, he said in similar manner, the responsibilities taken to manage Covid-19 will have its own consequence in 2021-22. This made the preparatory process of the budget very difficult. The central government has permitted the states to obtain loan up to four per cent of the GSDP during 2021-22, the Chief Minister said. Accordingly Bill will be presented in the present Legislative Session to bring an amendment to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act 2002. "The budget of the State was never formulated in such a difficult situation previously.In spite of this, I am presenting this budget with positive thoughts having the aim of achieving the developmental dreams," he added. Yediyurappa, who also holds the Finance Portfolio presented the state budget, his eighth, in the assembly today. Noting that revenue resources of the state include state's own tax, non tax receipts, share from central taxes and grant-in-aid from the centre, Yediyurappa said, state and central government's tax collections are lesser than the budgetary estimates due to complete stoppage of economic activities on account of COVID-induced lockdown. Hence, the share of the state in central taxes has come down to Rs 20,053 crore in the revised estimates from the budgetary estimates of Rs 28,591 crore in 2020-21, he said. Due to all these reasons it has become difficult for state's revenue resources to reach the targets of 2020-21, he said. He pointed out the central government has stated in its 2021-22 budget that the share from central taxes to be provided to the state will be Rs 24,273 crore. Further noting that due to Covid-19 there was a decline in the collection of state GST, Yediyurappa said the central government has to pay this loss as GST compensation. Since GST compensation cess collection was not as per expectations, it has informed that it will take loan and allocate it to states and repayment of loan will be done through compensation cess collection, the chief minister said. During 2020-21, the Centre has said a loan of Rs 12,407 crore will be taken and paid to the state as GST compensation, he said. The central government has facilitated the states to obtain loan up to five per cent of the GSDP during 2020-21 for facing the economic crisis arisen due to Covid-19, he said. Accordingly, to avail this facility, Karnataka has brought an amendment to the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act 2002, and keeping in mind the adverse impact on state finances, current year borrowing has been restricted within four per cent of GSDP. As per the 15th Finance Commission report for the period 2021-26, the state will be receiving a share of taxes at 3.64 per cent, Yediyurappa said. The Commission has given to the state an amount of Rs 3,548 crore for local bodies, Rs 791 crore to the State Disaster Relief Fund and Rs 1,631 crore as Revenue deficit grant in its report for 2021-22. Besides this, the Commission has recommended Rs 3,000 crore for peripheral ring road for Bengaluru city and Rs 3,000 crore for comprehensive development of tanks and other water resources of the state, he said. The government will strive to obtain the grants recommended by the 15th Finance Commission, the chief minister asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/never-was-budget-formulated-in-such-a-difficult-situation-b-s-yediyurappa-959630.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Activist Dinesh Kallahalli fails to personally withdraw police complaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi||Dinesh Kallahalli, the social activist who created a sensation last week with a CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, has failed to personally take back the police complaint as he had announced on Sunday. On Monday, Kallahalli sent a lawyer to the Cubbon Park police station to withdraw the complaint. The police, however, asked the lawyer to come with Kallahalli and tell him to personally withdraw the complaint. A senior officer said that only if Kalahalli appeared before the Cubbon Park police and gave a valid reason for withdrawing the complaint would they take the further necessary action. Police would have to take his statement and consult legal experts on closing the case, he added.  But as of now, the mercurial Kallahalli has no plans of going to the police to withdraw the complaint. Speaking to DH, he said that he would send his lawyer to the police again (for withdrawing the complaint). “But if the police still insist on my personal appearance, I will consult my lawyer and take a call,” he said. Claiming that he faced no pressure or fear to fight the case, Kallahalli said that he was “greatly embarrassed” by the former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s statement on a supposed money deal. “I don’t want to take such allegations and fight the case,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/activist-dinesh-kallahalli-fails-to-personally-withdraw-police-complaint-against-ramesh-jarkiholi-959683.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget 2021-22: Big projects get a boost as irrigation receives Rs 21,181 crore||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said a new policy will be formulated for the operation and management of all lift irrigation projects, while his budget made promises to expedite several pending projects in this key sector.  The Water Resources department has received an allocation of Rs 21,181 crore. “For the implementation of irrigation works, a grant of Rs 5,600 crore would be provided to Krishna Bhagya Jala Nigama,” Yediyurappa said.  “It is the endeavour of our government by providing the required resources to successfully implement the Upper Krishna Project Stage-III which aims to provide irrigation facility to six lakh hectares of command area in North Karnataka,” Yediyurappa said. “In this direction, our government is striving to issue a gazette notification of the final award of the Krishna Tribunal-II and to obtain the status of a ‘national project’ for this.” Yediyurappa also promised to give priority to complete the first stage of the Yettinahole lift irrigation project, which will benefit Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Ramanagar, Chikkaballapur and Kolar districts. The Mahadayi project -- diversion of Kalasa and Banduri Nala -- will get “the required grant” this year, Yediyurappa said, who added that the government will obtain the Centre’s clearance for this.  Similarly, the government will take the Centre’s assistance to complete the Upper Bhadra Project at a cost of Rs 21,474 crore. “This will benefit the farmers of Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere and Tumakuru districts,” Yediyurappa said. “A proposal to declare this project a ‘national project’ is at the stage of obtaining investment clearance from the Centre.”  The government is in talks with Telangana and Andhra Pradesh to construct a balancing reservoir near Navali in Koppal “to replenish the deficit in the storage of water due to filling of silt in Tungabhadra reservoir,” Yediyurappa said.  Watering hopes * Rs 500 crore to fill 234 tanks of Bengaluru Urban, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru and Chikkaballapur districts with 308 MLD water processed from the Vrishabhavathi Valley * Under the World Bank-aided DRIP project, Yediyurappa said 58 dams will be improved at a cost of Rs 1,500 crore  * Rs 500 crore will be earmarked for the Paschimavahini Project to utilize west-flowing river waters for agricultural activity and drinking water purposes. For this, 1,348 vented dams will be constructed in stages at an estimated cost of Rs 3,986 crore over five years.  * To utilise a total of 22 tmc ft of water under the Bedthi-Varada river linking project to enable permanent water supply to north Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-2021-22-big-projects-get-a-boost-as-irrigation-receives-rs-21181-crore-959709.html
08-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It'll take a few years to bridge revenue deficit: Madhuswamy||Minor Irrigation Minister JC Madhuswamy predicted that it would take at least "three to four years" to break even after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa presented a revenue deficit budget on Monday. This was the first revenue deficit budget since 2004-05. "A surplus budget cannot be expected in the next couple of years," Madhuswamy said during a DH Facebook Live session, noting that it was challenging to get out of liabilities amounting to over Rs 4 lakh crore.  On growing debt of the state, Madhuswamy said that that the Covid-19 pandemic forced the government to raise loans to the tune of Rs 71,000 crore. "Otherwise, our economic activity will have come to a standstill," he said, defending the borrowings.     Madhuswamy, who was the state's law and parliamentary affairs minister till recently, opined that the spate of floods that hit the state along with the pandemic last year wiped out key resources from the government. "We had to spend Rs 9,000-10,000 crore for relief and rehabilitation," he said, adding that the revenue deficit of the government would have been much lesser if not for these disasters. Yediyurappa has, Madhuswamy said, touched upon every sector in the budget. "The CM has set aside a lot of funds for education, health and research-oriented activities that were never taken care of. Scientific research was neglected," Madhuswamy said while pointing out that the government had expanded the scope of the budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/itll-take-a-few-years-to-bridge-revenue-deficit-madhuswamy-959724.html
08-03-2021||West||3.2 magnitude tremor felt in Gujarat's Kutch district||A tremor of 3.2 magnitude was experienced in Gujarat's Kutch district on Monday morning, officials said. There was no report of any casualty or damage to property, district administration officials said. The tremor was recorded at 7.42 am wih its epicentre 13 km east-north-east of Dudhai in Kutch district, as per the website of the Gandhinagar-based Institute of Seismological Research (ISR). It was recorded at a depth of 18.6 km, the ISR said. Kutch is located in a very high-risk seismic zone, according to the state disaster management authorities. The district witnessed a devastating earthquake in January 2001.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/32-magnitude-tremor-felt-in-gujarats-kutch-district-959453.html
08-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Maharashtra govt assures thorough probe into Mansukh Hiren's death||Amid fire from the Opposition BJP, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Monday assured a thorough probe into the sensational case involving the seizure of a Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks near the residence of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the mysterious death of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. “On March 5, Mansukh Hiren was found dead. His wife Vimla Hiren suspects that he has been murdered. We will probe this as well,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh told the Maharashtra Legislature. Deshmukh said that there would be a thorough probe into the entire episode. “The guilty would be brought to book,” he said. Deshmukh said that the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has started the investigations and a case against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) 34 (common intention) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered. Meanwhile, the Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said that he hopes that the ATS will proceed on the “right track” and come out with the truth. “I was telling (the government) that the man’s life might be at threat, and unfortunately his dead body was found,” he said. Mansukh Hiren (48), a resident of Vikas Palm Complex at Dr Ambedkar Road who was into the car accessories business, owned a car interior design garage Classic Car Decor near Vandana Talkies at Naupada in Thane. Given that he was a good swimmer, his family and friends have rejected the theory that he could have committed suicide or died due to drowning.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-maharashtra-govt-assures-thorough-probe-into-mansukh-hirens-death-959487.html
08-03-2021||West||Maharashtra sets up all-women Covid-19 vaccination centres on International Women's Day||On the occasion of the International Women's Day, the Maharashtra government on Monday set up five Covid-19 vaccination centres in each district of the state exclusively for inoculating women. These centres will remain operational only for the day, a health official said. Women willing to take the vaccine can go to these centres during the day, he said. "Every district has set up five such centres today. However, there are 19 such centres in Thane district due to higher demand there. There are 189 such centres in the state exclusively for vaccinating women," the official said. Maharashtra on Sunday added 11,141 new cases of coronavirus, taking the tally to 22,19,727. The state has so far reported 52,478 deaths due to the viral infection, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sets-up-all-women-covid-19-vaccination-centres-on-international-womens-day-959506.html
08-03-2021||West||Crowded public transport reason for Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra cities||Crowded public transport is one of the major causes of the recent Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra cities including the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), where people depend largely on suburban trains and buses. This was observed by the Central team that visited Maharashtra on March 1, 2 to study the recent surge of coronavirus in the state. In Mumbai-MMR, the suburban trains of the Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR) were opened for the general public from February 1 with restricted timings, resulting in overcrowding. Currently, more than 35 lakh people are using the trains on a daily basis, as against the pre-pandemic figures of 70 to 80 lakh. On average, over the last 10 days, the new daily cases in the MMR are roughly 2,000. Around a fortnight ago, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation  (BMC) had deployed 300 marshals inside the local trains to ensure that commuters wear masks. Crowds have also been seen in public transport in big towns like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati. Buses of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation have also seen a large number of commuters. “The exact cause of the surge is not known since laxity of Covid behaviour is not limited to the state. The possible factors are Covid-inappropriate behaviour due to lack of fear of disease, pandemic fatigue, miss outs and super spreaders, and enhanced aggregation due to recent gram panchayat elections, marriage season, opening of schools, crowded public transport,” the report added. It further points out that the health machinery also may have become lax after cases came down in the months following September. Some amongst the doctor fraternity, especially private, may not be counselling patients for testing or following protocols, dismissing it as flu. District/State-wise participative plan, engaging the community may yield better results rather than knee-jerk reactions. “Revenue machinery needs to take full charge,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/crowded-public-transport-reason-for-covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-cities-959507.html
08-03-2021||West||NIA takes over case of vehicle laden with explosives found near Mukesh Ambani's home||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the probe into the planting of the explosives-stick laden Scorpio SUV near the Mumbai residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani leaving the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation in Maharashtra fuming. However, the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) will continue to probe the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren given to the NIA in the wake of strange coincidences. After mounting pressure from the opposition, the Maharashtra government transferred the cases registered in both the cases in Mumbai and Thane to the state ATS. “The NIA has received orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India, for investigation of FIR 35/2020 registered at Gamdevi police station on 25 February, 2021. The case relates to the recovery of a Mahindra Scorpio parked at Carmicheal Road, Mumbai. The NIA is in process of re-registering the case,” a brief statement said. A rattled Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that since the case involving the planting of the car has been taken over by NIA, it raises eyebrows. “There is something fishy and hence the it was taken over by NIA....we will ensure that what is fishy is exposed,” he told reporters in the Vidhan Bhavan complex. He said that the Opposition does not seem to have faith in the “government machinery”. Thackeray also said the state police will conduct probe into the alleged suicide of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar and “punish” the guilty. Delkar (58), a seven-term MP from the Dadra and Nagar Haveli was found dead at the Sea Green Hotel in Marine Drive in Mumbai on February 22. "A Union Territory is governed by the Centre. We will take the case to its logical end. I wonder how the opposition (BJP) here is quiet on the issue of the seven-term MP ending his life," Thackeray said, adding that the Delkar family has faith in the MVA  government and feel that there would be a fair probe. “There are names in the suicide letter...we will go to the depth of it and probe,’ he added. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that the NIA can take over the case, however, the ATS would also probe the death of Hiren Mansukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-takes-over-case-of-vehicle-laden-with-explosives-found-near-mukesh-ambanis-home-959509.html
08-03-2021||West||Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan postponed over Covid-19 surge||The 94th Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan – the biggest literary event of Maharashtra - scheduled between March 26 and 28 in Nashik has been postponed in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases. Eminent astrophysicist and litterateur Jayant Narlikar, the emeritus professor at the Pune-based Inter-University Centre for Astronomy and Astrophysics (IUCAA), was to preside over the event. After extensive deliberations within the fraternity and organisers, Kautikrao Thale-Patil, President, Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal (ABMSM), announced the decision on Sunday evening. “The annual event has not been cancelled, and we'll certainly hold it when the situation is normal again,” he said. The ABMSM is the umbrella body of various regional Marathi literary organisations in India that organises the meet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/akhil-bharatiya-marathi-sahitya-sammelan-postponed-over-covid-19-surge-959510.html
08-03-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi govt's Budget focuses on ‘nari shakti’ in Maharashtra||Focusing on ‘nari shakti’, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra announced a slew of measures for girls and women on Monday during the announcement of the annual state budget which coincided with International Women’s Day celebrations. For the year 2021-22, the state government has proposed an outlay of Rs. 2,247 crores for the Women and Child Development Department to execute various schemes. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government decided to provide a concession of 1 per cent on stamp duty over the prevailing rate exclusively for women, provided that the house property or registration of sale deed is in the name of the woman. The scheme would be known as “Rajmata Jijau Griha-Swamini Yojana”, said Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who also holds the Finance and Planning portfolio.  “The lady gives meaning to the house and it is not wrong for her to expect ownership in the property. It is part of the women empowerment process,” Pawar said while announcing the Budget for 2021-22 in the Assembly. The said tax concession would lead to a revenue shortfall of around Rs 1,000 crores. Pawar, however, proposed to increase the State Excise Duty and VAT on liquor, a move that would help the state mop up Rs 1,000 crore.  Pawar said that Maharashtra has been a leader in policy-making for women and has taken many progressive steps for the education of girls and said that their education is free till 12th grade. He also announced a new scheme under the name of “Krantijyoti Sawitribai Phule” for free travel of girl students in rural areas from their villages to schools and colleges using the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation buses. Pawar added that the state will provide 1,500 environment-friendly CNG and Hybrid buses to the State Transport Corporation on a priority basis. Pawar also announced that the state would provide additional special buses for women under the “Tejasvini Yojna” scheme for easy and safe travel of women in metro cities. “Nav-Tejaswini Maharashtra Gramin Mahila Udyam Vikas,” a project for self-help groups funded by the International Funds for Agricultural Development (IFAD), would cost Rs 522.98 crore, he said. It will be a six-year project and the members will get opportunities to improve livelihood that would lead to value addition of their businesses. To empower women and children, 3% of funds in the District Annual Plan would be reserved for them. “I believe that around Rs. 300 crores will be available every year,” he said. Pawar also announced the formation of the first women's battalion of the State Reserve Police Force in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-govts-budget-focuses-on-nari-shakti-in-maharashtra-959563.html
08-03-2021||West||Sushant death case probe: NCB arrests drug peddler in Goa||The Narcotics Control Bureau has arrested a Goa-based man who allegedly had links with the accused in a drugs case related to actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an NCB official said on Monday. The NCB raided the premises of the accused, Hemant Saha, at Morjim in North Goa district and recovered 15 blots of LSD (commercial quantity) and 30 gm charas, NCB's zonal director Sameer Wankhede said in a release. The raid was part of a series of searches held in Goa over the weekend. The accused was arrested on Sunday from Miramar beach village near Panaji following a joint operation by the NCB from Mumbai and Goa, Wankhede said. The official said the drugs case accused Anuj Keswani and Regal Mahakaal during questioning named Saha as the supplier of LSD and charas. Saha, a native of Madhya Pradesh, was running a shack in Morjim area for past several years, he said. The NCP also conducted searches in Mazal Wado at Assagao in North Goa on the intervening night of Sunday and Monday and recovered 41 blots of LSD (commercial quantity), 28 gm charas, 22 gm cocaine, 1.10 kg ganja, 160 gm of a white powder and 500 gm of 'blue crystal', both suspected to be psychotropic substances, and Rs 10,000 cash. "Two foreign nationals — Ugochukwu Solomon Ubabuko (hailing from Nigeria) and John Infinity (Congo) - have been apprehended in this connection and are being interrogated," Wankhede said. The NCB also learnt that Ubabuko was earlier arrested by Goa police in 2013, he said. During follow-up action, the NCB team also searched the premises of one Prasad Walke in North Goa on Monday and recovered LSD blots of commercial quantity, he said. Walke, a history-sheeter, was booked by the NCB's Goa unit in 2018 for trafficking of contrabands like LSD, cocaine, Estacy and ganja, the release said. The NCB began probing the alleged use of drugs in some quarters in Bollywood after the death of Rajput (34) in June last year. The central agency last week filed a charge-sheet in the case before a special court in Mumbai. The NCB started its probe on the basis of some WhatsApp chats having reference to drugs. It had arrested Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some staff members of Rajput and a few others under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Chakraborty, her brother and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sushant-death-case-probe-ncb-arrests-drug-peddler-in-goa-959581.html
08-03-2021||West||Five domestic airlines to resume operations from Mumbai airport T1 on Wednesday||The city airport has said five domestic airlines will be operating 102 flights to 27 destinations on day one of the resumption of flight operations from Terminal-1 on Wednesday. The operations from T1, which serves domestic passengers, remained suspended even after a restart of domestic air services in the country on May 25 last year following a two-month suspension of air services in late March to contain the pandemic.  As of now, all operations — domestic and international (under various special initiatives) — at Mumbai airport is being carried out from Terminal 2 (T-2). The resumption of services from T1 will help maintain social distancing measures, uphold passenger safety, and ensure a seamless transit, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) said in a statement on Monday. After closing operations in March last year due to the pandemic, CSMIA's T1 will resume operations after almost a year with a total of 51 flights at departure and 51 at arrivals, it said in a statement. The terminal will cater to all domestic flight operations of Go Air, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet, the private airport operator said. Furthermore, select flights of IndiGo with subset series 6E 5500 – 6E 5900, will operate to and from T1, while the rest will continue to operate from Terminal 2, it added. The airport will have 38 check-in counters operational across the five domestic carriers to avoid crowding, it said. CSMIA has also placed eight Common Use Self Service (CUSS) kiosks on the curbside of the terminal to enable passengers to complete their check-in process without direct interaction with airport personnel, the statement said, adding that passengers can use the kiosks to print their boarding pass and generate their baggage tag before proceeding for security check. T1 will also host registration desks and six testing booths where passengers can opt to undergo the RT-PCR test at the airport for a minimal cost of Rs 850, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-domestic-airlines-to-resume-operations-from-mumbai-airport-t1-on-wednesday-959588.html
08-03-2021||West||Something fishy: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray on NIA taking over Mukesh Ambani bomb scare probe||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday took over the probe into the Mumbai SUV case involving the recovery of gelatin sticks and a threatening letter addressed to Mukesh Ambani and his wife, Nita, from a vehicle parked near Ambani’s house. However, the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) will continue to investigate the death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who had the SUV in his possession. The development left the Uddhav Thackeray government in Maharashtra fuming, with the CM saying there was something “fishy” and hence the federal agency had taken over the investigation.   Uddhav, who is locked in a bitter tussle with the Modi government, said the state would dig deep and probe the alleged suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, who had left several names in a note. After last week’s incident and mounting pressure from the BJP, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh directed the ATS to take over both the cases — parking of Scorpio near the house of Ambani and the death of Hiren. The ATS converted the ADR into an FIR against “unknown persons” and launched investigations into the possible murder as demanded by his wife Vimla Hiren. “The ATS will probe the Mansukh Hiren case...the state government is capable...as far as the planting of the Scorpio is concerned, it has been taken over by the NIA,” Deshmukh said. Uddhav told reporters that there was “something fishy and hence it was taken over by NIA”. “We will ensure that what is fishy is exposed,” he said, adding the Opposition does not seem to have faith in the “government machinery”. The Chief Minister also said the state police will conduct a probe into the alleged suicide of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar and “punish” the guilty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/something-fishy-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-on-nia-taking-over-mukesh-ambani-bomb-scare-probe-959594.html
