09-03-2021||First Edit||India's democratic slide has not gone unnoticed||The demotion of India from “free” to a “partly free” democracy by the Washington-based democracy watchdog Freedom House in its latest annual rankings may have been dismissed as misleading and motivated by the government, but such a reaction is unlikely to convince the world. Freedom House has produced the grounds for its decision. The report was prepared after assessing the country’s performance on the basis of 25 parameters and indices, and it notes that political rights and civil liberties in the country have deteriorated since Prime Minister Narendra Modi took office in 2014. It has said that “rather than serving as a champion of democratic practice and a counterweight to authoritarian influence from countries such as China, Modi and his party are tragically driving India itself toward authoritarianism.” The report has cited many grounds, like the “ham-fisted lockdown’’ to tackle Covid-19, the displacement of migrants in its wake, the “scapegoating of Muslims’’ after the Tablighi Jamaat event, the love jihad ordinances, internet shutdowns, deterrence of “free speech, including discussion of a discriminatory citizenship law and the Covid-19 pandemic’’ and the increasing strain on judicial independence, for its view. The report notes “increased pressure on human rights organisations, rising intimidation of academics and journalists, and a spate of bigoted attacks, including lynchings, aimed at Muslims,” and that the democratic decline has increased after Modi’s re-election in 2019. It concludes that “India appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader.” The report is worrying for a country that has prided itself for decades as the world’s largest and most diverse democracy, pride we took even when the country was poor and underdeveloped. Its conclusions could have been dismissed as false and motivated if they did not agree with views which have been growing stronger within the country itself and had they not been supported by the experiences of our own citizens. The government has termed the report “incorrect and misplaced.’’ It has said that the Constitution provides freedom of expression and has adequate safeguards for human rights. The question is whether the State is living by them. It has said there are legal provisions that allow suspension of telecom services, and sedition laws were invoked to preserve public order. But very often, laws are misused, and dissenters are harassed. The government has said that appropriate action was taken during the Delhi riots last year, but the conduct of Delhi Police was known to be biased and unfair. Institutions that protect citizens’ rights and freedoms, which are the bedrock of democracy, are also being weakened. Instead of criticising Freedom House and its assessment, the government should improve its conduct and change the trajectory it has put India on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/indias-democratic-slide-has-not-gone-unnoticed-959779.html
09-03-2021||In Perspective||Changes in CSR regulations merit attention||Significant regulatory changes are round the corner in respect of CSR, strongly signaling that CSR is no longer a nudge, but mandatory, with serious repercussions for non-compliance. The regulatory changes proposed are quite prescriptive, not only on what needs to be done but also on who should do it. Roles and responsibilities have been specified for the Board, the CSR Committee and the CFO. The Board is required to set the tone in the form of a CSR Policy, not merely a list of activities to do. The CFO has to certify that CSR funds have been actually spent for the purpose they were allocated. The Board has to appoint a CSR Committee and has to publish on its website the composition of the committee and the CSR Policy. These changes are far-reaching and companies have to chalk out a strategic programme for CSR activity. One of the key changes deals with the consequences of not spending the mandated amount on CSR, bringing in an approach that says “Use it or Lose it’. Moneys unspent needs to be kept in designated accounts and spent within a permissible timeframe, beyond which the unspent funds would have to be transferred to a government CSR pool. CSR lifecycle management needs to follow the same rigour that we would put on businesses: CSR is now a more ‘serious business’ than ever before and needs expert attention. Here are the top changes that merit attention. CSR Policy: Based on recommendations of the CSR Committee, the Board is required to publish a comprehensive CSR Policy that articulates the approach and direction rather than merely approve a list of CSR activities. Annual Plan: The CSR Committee has to recommend to the Board an Annual CSR Plan that includes execution strategies and details of CSR projects, money outlays, manner of execution and monitoring mechanism in line with the policy laid down by the Board. CSR Impact Assessment: Companies that have CSR spend above a threshold, currently Rs 5 crore, need to conduct a CSR Impact Assessment, which should be discussed in the Company’s Annual Report. Unless the government relaxes the start date, come April 2021, we will see companies scrambling to get an Impact Assessment carried out. Unspent amounts: Any amount unspent and carried forward as on March 31 2021 has to be transferred to an earmarked account and expended within three years, at the end of which amounts still unspent have to be transferred to a government fund. If you can’t spend on CSR, the government will do it for you. If there are multi-year projects, one can earmark funds and spend it within four years. Board responsibility, CFO certification: The Board has to ensure that CSR funds have been spent for the purpose prescribed by it. There is also a provision for certification by the CFO to that effect. Capital Expenditure: Any capital asset procured from CSR budgets cannot be held in the name of the company, probably intended to bring in an element of irrevocability of the CSR spend. Disclosure on company website: The composition of CSR Committee, the CSR Policy and a list of CSR projects are required to be disclosed on the company website Ceiling on administrative expenses: Administrative expenses in running CSR is capped at 5%. Annual CSR Report: This report now needs to contain greater details in order to reflect the above changes. There will be endless debates on the Yin and Yang of these provisions, perhaps leading to some relaxations, perhaps some time extensions. But the intent of the government is clearly spelt out and it is a timely reminder for corporates to get their act together with respect to CSR. Several of these changes are strategic in nature. Mandating the Board to make a policy pronouncement forces the Board to think long-term and strategic. Creating the need for CSR Impact Assessment reinforces the need to take a programmatic approach rather than transactional. Requiring the CFO to certify that funds earmarked for CSR have actually been spent for that purpose, brings in specific fiduciary responsibility. Finally, the “Use it or Lose it” approach to unspent moneys sends out a strong signal for the need to actively manage CSR like any other business activity from planning to execution. Companies that want to make a difference to the society they operate it have a long-term view of their CSR activity and run those programmes with the same efficacy as they run businesses. The current changes underscore the need for CSR specialists either inhouse or leveraging external professionals in order to comply with the true spirit of the law. (The writer is a Founding Partner of NxtPractice Growth Partners LLP)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/changes-in-csr-regulations-merit-attention-959781.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Group of women knit scarves, cowls for Indian soldiers||Passion for knitting got 36 women from different walks of life to knit 175 scarves and cowls for Indian soldiers who safeguard the country in extreme cold. All these women were united under ‘Knit For Our Soldiers’ WhatsApp group with Sabrina Britto Hougaard as group admin. An 84-year-old Marie D’Souza is the oldest member of the group. "The scarves and cowls are ready and will be dispatched to Bengaluru on Tuesday, and then those will be taken to New Delhi for our soldiers," Sabrina told DH. "Each member in the group has contributed to the process of knitting scarves and cowls. Some contributed money for wool. Though I was interested in knitting, I could not knit properly when I was young. My mother, a doctor, used to stress on how knitting keeps brain alert and creative, as knitting involves actions of both left and right hands," she recollected. It has a constructive and positive impact on the brain, Sabrina said. "A year ago, I met Cecilia Shresta, fondly called Leela, to learn carpet making and knitting. But I could not continue due to lockdown. When I went back to Leela and informed her on having learnt the art of knitting, she told me about a project of knitting scarves for soldiers and asked me to knit two scarves while she would knit 25," she added. Tracing the journey of knitting scarves for soldiers, Sabrina said, "I had informed my friend Lions Club Mangalore Cauvery president Dr Kalpana Ashfaque about the project. With the help of Club members, my family and friends, we raised Rs 30,000. When Inner Wheel Mangalore president Nirmala Pai learnt about the project from a member, Vasanthi Kamath, they pooled Rs 15,000." "I knitted 35 scarves. It was indeed a thrilling experience to see all members posting their knitting based activities in the WhatsApp group launched on January 23," Sabrina recollected.  "I was knitting and engaged in needlework all the way during the period. It takes three hours for me to knit a scarf, while experts like Leela completes it within one-and-a-half hours," she said. "Our goal is to continue the work and knit around 300 scarves for the soldiers next year. Individually, I and Leela will do a project of preparing woollen dolls for kids in the pediatric wing of Wenlock Hospital," Sabrina added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/group-of-women-knit-scarves-cowls-for-indian-soldiers-959859.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru woman gives birth in a park||A woman gave birth to a baby in a park in Mysuru on Tuesday. The woman from Kodagu district along with her two children had visited Mysuru and was resting in People's Park, near Sub-Urban Bus stand, when she developed labor pain. Noticing the pregnant woman's condition, a teacher named Shoba rushed to the spot and managed to help her deliver the baby. Several other people also helped the woman deliver the baby safely. Later, the mother and the child were shifted to a hospital, where they both are doing well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-woman-gives-birth-in-a-park-959982.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Panther encounters leopard at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, video goes viral||A video clip of an encounter between a black (Melanistic) leopard and a leopard, atop a tree, said to be at Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, has gone viral on social media. According to the sources, the video was captured on March 6 by a wildlife enthusiast, during a safari.  The video captured for nearly two minutes shows the black leopard climbing a tall tree where a leopard is seen crouching. The black leopard tries to charge on the leopard. However, after a while, the black leopard climbs down the tree. According to wildlife enthusiasts, both are male and it might have been a possible territory fight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panther-encounters-leopard-at-nagarahole-tiger-reserve-video-goes-viral-960061.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||ACB sleuths conduct searches at houses of three government staffers||The officials of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) conducted a raid against three officials, on Tuesday. The officials raided Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Cesc) superintending engineer Munigopal Raju, Mysuru Town Planning Joint Director Subramanya K Yadav and First Division Assistant (FDA) at Road Transport Officer (Mysuru South) Channaveerappa. The officials raided the houses of Munigopal Raju in Gokulam in the city and Kanakapura. The ACB officials have collected documents from the houses and office. The officials also raided the house of Yadav in Udupi, Karwar and in Mysuru. The houses of Channaveerappa in Kuvempunagar, Mandya and in Halakere village were raided. However, the officials denied to disclose more details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/acb-sleuths-conduct-searches-at-houses-of-three-government-staffers-960062.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Girl argues with police, parents apologise||A video clipping of a young girl being slapped by the police personnel for arguing with them during routine vehicle checking, has gone viral on social media, on Tuesday. Traffic police were on a routine checking at Besagarahalli Ramanna Circle in Mandya. They stopped the girl, a BEd student and a model, who was riding her two-wheeler without wearing helmet. After verifying the documents, the police imposed fine for violation. The girl claimed that she had no cash and will pay fine through digital payment. The police did not agree and tried to seize the vehicle. This irked the girl, who started shouting at the police personnel not to take the vehicle. It was at this time, the women’s police sub-inspector slapped the girl and used foul language. The girl also started shouting at the police for assaulting her, using singular term, much to the embarrassment of the police as the public gathered around them. Superintendent of Police Ashwini said, “The digital payment mode is yet to be introduced for collecting fine. Hence, they demanded cash. There is a mistake from both the sides. The girl’s parents have given an apology letter. I have also ordered for a probe.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/girl-argues-with-police-parents-apologise-960063.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Yash’s parents exchange words with residents over land issue||Heated arguments between the residents of Thimlapura village, Dudda hobli, Hassan taluk, and actor Yash’s parents, over leaving space for a walkway on the farmland, has been reported in the taluk on Tuesday. According to sources, actor Yash has purchased 70 acres of land near Thimlapura village. Yash’s parents Arun Kumar and Pushpa were overseeing works for the walkway carried out with the help of excavators, when the villlagers opposed and stopped it. This resulted in heated arguments among the Yash’s parents, fans and the villagers and fisticuffs ensued. Dudda police visited the spot and brought the situation under control. Yash visited the station in the evening and the police held talks between the two groups. Ramesh, a resident of the village, claimed that they have spared land for the walkway at three places, but they demanded one more. However, Yash’s supporters claimed that according to the plan, there should be one more walkway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/yash-s-parents-exchange-words-with-residents-over-land-issue-960065.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Soon, schoolgirls in state can kick and punch danger away||A team of 60 police personnel from the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) is all set to train girls studying in government schools in the state in self-defence. In the first phase of the project, the team will train students of Bengaluru Urban and Belagavi districts. Launching the programme, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the government would launch a ‘Self Defence Army,’ April 15 onwards. An informal class was held in Bengaluru on Tuesday, where students from 12 government schools and two PU colleges were trained in protecting themselves in difficult situations. These classes will be extended to all government schools and also, students of private schools, if they are interested. Sources in the KSRP said the training will be freeof cost. “We chose Bengaluru Urban and Belagavi as we have battalions in these two districts. The training will be extended to other districts subsequently,” a KSRP official said.  KSRP plans to send recorded video capsules, through which girls can learn for now in the other districts. The classes will be conducted during weekends on the school premises. The KSRP has formed two teams of 30 women constables each. The teams will teach girl children in securing themselves during untoward situations. Alok Kumar, additional director general of police, KSRP, told DH that the training’s objective was to increase the confidence level among girl students to fight in untoward situations, physically and mentally. “In any adverse situation, if a girl has to face it alone, she needs to be confident enough both mentally and physically to resist, question and challenge it. This is the essence of our training at schools,” Kumar explained.  Flagging off the training module, Bommai said, “There is an immediate need to bring in a policy to train students in these arts. I have already discussed this in detail with the DG&IGP and other senior police officers. A proposal has already been sent to the finance department for approval.” Separate academy The minister promised that soon, a separate training academy to train women police personnel will be set up in Karnataka. In Bengaluru Urban and Belagavi districts, the classes will be conducted on weekends from next week by fixing a schedule in coordination with schoolauthorities. A class 10 girl from a school in Bengaluru who attended the class on Tuesday said, “it was so exciting to learn techniques through which I can protect myself during a difficult situation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/soon-schoolgirls-in-state-can-kick-and-punch-danger-away-960073.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||36 boxes of gelatin sticks seized near Shivamogga airport site||The Tunganagar police seized 3,267 detonators and 36 boxes of gelatin sticks near the Shivamogga airport project site at Sogane on the outskirts of the city on Monday evening. According to police, following the directions from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the district administration permitted stone quarrying near the airport site, to ensure that the airport work is not disrupted in any manner. They had been brought from Chikkaballapur in two vehicles. The team of experts from Mangaluru was expected to arrive in Shivamogga to blast the boulders near the airport site. But they did not come. So, the drivers left the vehicles loaded with explosives and went away. Later, members of the bomb detection and disposal squad from Bengaluru visited the spot. Police have registered a case against the supplier of explosives, for negligence in handling them. Six persons were killed in a blast of explosives at Hunasodu village in Shivamogga taluk in January this year.  Reacting to the incident, deputy commissioner K B Shivakumar told DH that the explosives had been brought legally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/36-boxes-of-gelatin-sticks-seized-near-shivamogga-airport-site-960077.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Operation to capture tiger intensifed in Kodagu||The forest department officials intensified the operation to capture the tiger, which has claimed three lives in the last 16 days, on Tuesday.  More than 150 personnel of the department took part in the operation. The animal had attacked two persons on Monday. The condition of Kencha (50), who suffered injuries in the tiger attack, worsened on Tuesday.  Meanwhile, residnets of Srimangala and neighbouring villages staged a series of protests, urging the department to capture the tiger. The protesters demanded that the villagers should be allowed to shoot the tiger.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/operation-to-capture-tiger-intensifed-in-kodagu-960082.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three-day international film fest at Dharwad from May 21||Nava Karnataka Film Academy will be organising a three-day international film fest in Hubballi and Dharwad from May 21. Speaking to media persons after launching of fest’s logo at a private hotel in Hubballi on Tuesday, fest In-charge Altaf Jahangir said more than 120 movies, including 26 international, will be screened on eight screens of Hubballi-Dharwad. This apart 60 short movies will also be screened, he said. Golden Butterflies awards will be presented in seven categories, he said and added that more than 300 foreign delegates are expected to arrive for the first international film fest in North Karnataka. He said while students (aged between 14 and 18) will get free entry to movies, the delegates have to pay Rs 1,100. To encourage the participation of more students, the Academy will be organising a talent hunt in schools and colleges. Earlier, addressing the media persons Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) office-bearer Sa Ra Govind said it is a positive development that Dharwad is hosting an international-level film fest. “People of Karnataka are large-hearted. They welcome movies from all languages and states. However, what saddens me the most is that Kannada films do not get the right platforms across India,” he said. Actor Suman Talwar said the success of the film fest in Dharwad would put the city on the International map. The fest will be a great opportunity for Indians to showcase to the foreign delegates how to live in unity among diversity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-day-international-film-fest-at-dharwad-from-may-21-960086.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gelatin sticks seized near Shivamogga airport site||The Tunganagar police seized 3,267 detonators and 36 boxes of gelatin sticks near the Shivamogga airport project site at Sogane on the outskirts of the city on Monday evening. According to police, following the directions from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the district administration permitted stone quarrying near the airport site, to ensure that the airport work is not disrupted in any manner. They had been brought from Chikkaballapur in two vehicles. The team of experts from Mangaluru was expected to arrive in Shivamogga to blast the boulders near the airport site but they failed to arrive. So, the drivers left the vehicles loaded with explosives and went away. Later, members of the bomb detection and disposal squad from Bengaluru visited the spot. Police have registered a case against the supplier of explosives for negligence in handling them. Six persons were killed in a blast of explosives at Hunasodu village in Shivamogga taluk in January this year.  Reacting to the incident, deputy commissioner K B Shivakumar told DH that the explosives had been brought legally||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gelatin-sticks-seized-near-shivamogga-airport-site-960100.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Engineering student ends life in Nanjangud||An engineering student ended his life by hanging at Basavapatha Road in Srikanteshwara Layout, Nanjangud town, Mysuru district on Monday night. The deceased, B Bhuvan (24), son of Basappa, was a second-year engineering student at the Maharaja Institute of Technology in Tandavapura. Bhuvan's uncle Jayappa has lodged a complaint with the rural police. The exact reason for the suicide is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/engineering-student-ends-life-in-nanjangud-960102.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Budget: Congress walks out in protest, calls it ‘hollow’ Budget||The Congress on Monday walked out of the Assembly during Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s budget speech, with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah terming it as “hollow”.  Siddaramaiah led his legislators out of the Assembly in protest. “We walked out because no government had lost its morality like this one. This is an immoral government and we didn’t want to listen to their lies,” Siddaramaiah said.  He said Yediyurappa was out on “anticipatory bail,” referring to the Supreme Court recently granting him and Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani protection from arrest in a corruption case. “Also, six ministers have moved the court seeking an injunction on the media. Apparently, there are 19 CDs that they are wary of,” the Congress leader said.  Siddaramaiah, who has presented a record 13 budgets, said the 2021-22 budget lacked transparency because of the sector-wise allocation. “This Budget has more to hide than reveal,” he said.  Slamming Yediyurappa for presenting a deficit budget, Siddaramaiah said the government will have to borrow loans to meet revenue expenditure going forward. “In 2020-21, the revenue deficit is Rs 19,485 crore. This means, the government has to borrow to meet revenue expenditure,” he said. “When I was finance minister for five years, there was not a single year that had a revenue deficit.”  The former chief minister said he welcomed the allocation the CM has made for communities such as Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas. “You have given Rs 500 crore each to these two communities. But for 16 other communities, you have kept Rs 500 crore overall, which roughly works out to Rs 30 crore each. These are communities that deserve attention. Is this social justice?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-budget-congress-walks-out-in-protest-calls-it-hollow-budget-959801.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||When ‘Jai Shree Ram’ echoed in Karnataka Assembly||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday heard chants of ‘Jai Shree Ram’ during a discussion on the fuel price rise, which riled Leader of the Opposition, Siddaramaiah.  The impromptu sloganeering happened when Siddaramaiah was quoting a recent tweet by Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy on the prices of fuel.  “Subramanian Swamy, in a tweet, said that the price (of petrol) in Ram’s India was Rs 93 whereas it was Rs 51 in Sita’s Nepal and Rs 53 in Ravana’s Lanka. These aren’t my words. They’re the words of Swamy, who is a BJP leader and a Rajya Sabha member,” Siddaramaiah said while speaking on an adjournment motion he moved on rising fuel prices.  To this, Siddaramaiah was greeted with the 'Jai Shree Ram' chant.   “For what joy are you chanting this? Is it because a litre of petrol has touched Rs 100?” the Congress leader asked. “I am also a devotee of Lord Rama. I have Rama in my name. I am Sidda-Rama-iah,” he said. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he was happy that Siddaramaiah had finally acknowledged Lord Rama. Unamused, Siddaramaiah said: “(BJP) cannot claim sole ownership over Rama. Sri Ram doesn’t belong to just you. Sri Ram is as much a god to us as he is to you.”  Before this, Siddaramaiah attacked the Modi administration over fuel prices. “When crude oil cost $125 per barrel in the international market, fuel prices were not as high as they are now. Today, the price of crude oil is down to $64 and still the government is increasing taxes,” he said, daring the BJP members to "ask yourselves if you are happy with the price rise." Pointing out that fuel prices in Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka were lower, Siddaramaiah said: “PM Modi said previous governments did little to reduce our dependence on importing crude oil. But what has he done? India’s import of crude oil went up by 43 million tonnes since he came to power.”  Bommai said the state government will reply to Siddaramaiah’s queries, not before trying to block his motion. “The Congress has MPs in the Parliament. Let them raise it there.” Yatnal's poke BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who is said to be disgruntled, asked Siddaramaiah why he was attacking only the Centre. "Why aren't you saying anything against the state government," he asked. To this, Congress MLAs said that was Yatnal's job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/when-jai-shree-ram-echoed-in-karnataka-assembly-960032.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Somashekar should give up Mysuru's responsibility as in-charge minister: M Lakshmana||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) spokesperson M Lakshmana criticised the state budget and demanded District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar to give up the responsibility of the district. In a press conference here, on Tuesday, Lakshmana said, “The budget has no new programmes for the city and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has failed to earmark sufficient funds for the development of Mysuru. Claiming that MP Pratap Simha and Minister Somashekar had submitted a list of 17 demands, Lakshmana said the CM has not considered even a single demand. The MP and the Minister had demanded to constitute Mysuru Dasara Authority and Tourism Authority. Besides, they had requested to announce Mysuru as a ‘Heritage City’ in the budget. But, not a single demand has been met, he said. The MP and the Minister are misleading the people with false assurances. The Minister has failed in getting needed schemes for Mysuru. Thus, he must give up his responsibility of district in-charge, Lakshmana demanded. Alleging that the budget was caste-based, Lakshmana said that no other chief minister has presented such a budget. We have no objection for earmarking Rs 500 crore for Vokkaliga Development Corporation, but the funds should have been equally distributed, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/somashekar-should-give-up-mysurus-responsibility-as-in-charge-minister-m-lakshmana-960064.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Privileges Committee to deal with Sangameshwar incident||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on Tuesday referred to the Privileges Committee, a motion moved against Congress' B K Sangameshwar, who is under suspension for going shirtless in the House. The breach of privilege motion was moved by BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra amid protests by the Congress legislators. Moving the motion, Jnanendra said that Sangameshwar's "indecent and disrespectful" behaviour amounted a breach of privilege of the entire House. "Fortunately, he removed only his shirt," Jnanendra said, triggering an outburst from the Congress MLAs, who entered the Well of the House and launched a protest. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah objected to Kageri's decision in allowing Jnanendra to make his preliminary submission on the privilege motion in the absence of Sangameshwar, the Bhadravathi MLA who is barred from entering the House till March 12. Sanganeshwar removed his shirt in protest against the "false cases" that have been filed against him and his family.  Even as Jnanendra continued to speak, the Congress MLAs shouted slogans against the BJP government. A privilege motion should be moved against those involved in the 'CD controversy', they demanded. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai insisted that acting against Sangameshwar was "essential" to prevent such incidents from being repeated. "The privilege motion should have been discussed in the House, which was not allowed due to the Congress dharna. As a result, I have decided to hand it over to Privileges Committee," Kageri said. The Committee will submit an inquiry report into the "indecent, irresponsible" behaviour by Sangameshwar and the 'derogatory remarks' made by the MLA against the Speaker, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/privileges-committee-to-deal-with-sangameshwar-incident-960074.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress to boycott replies by 'immoral' ministers||The Opposition Congress is said to have decided to label six ministers as “immoral,” by boycotting or rejecting their replies during Question Hour in the ongoing Budget session of the legislature.  The six ministers recently approached a city court seeking an injunction against publishing or broadcasting anything defamatory against them. They are Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj and Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K C Narayan Gowda. They had approached the court soon after a sex scandal broke out, allegedly involving a BJP leader who was forced to resign as water resources minister. On Tuesday, the move to boycott or reject answers from the six ministers resulted in a heated exchange between legislators. During Question Hour, Chamarajanagar Congress MLA C Puttarangashetty was called on by Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri to ask his question to Gowda. “The minister has lost the morality to answer my question,” Puttarangashetty said and sat down, provoking an angry outburst from the treasury benches. Both Speaker Kageri and Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol took offence at the remarks, noting that it was improper to raise a question and then, reject the answer, during Question Hour. Meanwhile, Gowda took offence at Puttarangashetty’s remarks and demanded that it be removed from the records, which the Speaker said he would examine. Similar scenes were witnessed in the Legislative Council, where Congress members boycotted the replies by Basavaraj and Somashekar.  According to sources, the Congress will continue to “embarrass” the ministers by boycotting or rejecting their replies. “The boycott will be clear when three of the six ministers give their replies during Question Hour on Wednesday,” sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-to-boycott-replies-by-immoral-ministers-960076.html
09-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||I am also a devotee of Lord Rama, says Congress leader Siddaramaiah||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday heard chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’ during a discussion on the fuel price rise, which riled Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah.  The impromptu sloganeering happened when Siddaramaiah was quoting a recent Tweet by Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy on the prices of fuel.  “Subramanian Swamy, in a Tweet, said that the price (of petrol) in Ram’s India was Rs 93, whereas it was Rs 51 in Sita’s Nepal and Rs 53 in Ravana’s Lanka. These aren’t my words. They’re the words of Swamy, who is a BJP leader and a Rajya Sabha member,” Siddaramaiah said, while speaking on an adjournment motion he moved on rising fuel prices.  To this, Siddaramaiah was greeted with the ‘Jai Shri Ram’ chant.   “For what joy are you chanting this? Is it because a litre of petrol has touched Rs 100,” the Congress leader asked. “I am also a devotee of Lord Rama. I have Rama in my name. I am Sidda-Rama-iah,” he said. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said he was happy that Siddaramaiah had finally acknowledged Lord Rama. Unamused, Siddaramaiah said: “(BJP) cannot claim sole ownership over Rama. Sri Ram doesn’t belong to just you. Sri Ram is as much a god to us as he is to you.” Before this, Siddaramaiah attacked the Modi administration over fuel prices. “When crude oil cost $125 per barrel in the international market, fuel prices were not as high as they are now. Today, the price of crude oil is down to $64 and still the government is increasing taxes,” he said, daring the BJP members to “ask yourselves if you are happy with the price rise.” Pointing out that fuel prices in Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka were lower, Siddaramaiah said: “PM Modi said previous governments did little to reduce our dependence on importing crude oil. But what has he done? India’s import of crude oil went up by 43 million tonnes since he came to power.” Bommai said the state government will reply to Siddaramaiah’s queries, not before trying to block his motion. “The Congress has MPs in the Parliament. Let them raise it there.” Yatnal’s poke BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who is said to be disgruntled, asked Siddaramaiah why he was attacking only the Centre. “Why aren’t you saying anything against the state government,” he asked. To this, the Congress MLAs said that was Yatnal’s job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/i-am-also-a-devotee-of-lord-rama-says-congress-leader-siddaramaiah-960083.html
09-03-2021||Main Article||Quiet diplomacy on unquiet fronts||After nearly a year of confrontation in Ladakh, disengagement between the two armies began in February. This does not mean, however, that any of the issues that led to the confrontation in the first place have been resolved. Far from it. It is not even clear as to why the Chinese came in and why they are stepping back now. Indian strategy pundits are trying hard to figure that out. Then, towards the end of February came the decision of the Indian and Pakistani Director Generals of Military Operations to cease fire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir, which has witnessed constant exchange of fire, leading to loss of lives on both sides, including that of civilians. Here too, the strategists are trying to understand how long the mutually accepted truce will last, and what are the motives of Pakistan in the first place. The Indian side has so far not indicated that it had sought the truce. It is made to appear that Pakistan mooted it and India, as a generous and peace-loving country, had readily accepted it. The negotiations with China have been in public domain, the meetings of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his Chinese counterpart, General Wei Fanghe at the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting at Sochi in Russia in September as also the meeting of External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar with his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi at the SCO summit. There were several other conversations between Jaishankar and Wang. Both India and China had stakes in the cessation of hostilities in Ladakh because despite the Indian ban on Chinese apps, the economic relations mattered to both sides. The disengagement does not promise permanent peace and tranquility, but it comes as a respite for the two sides. China’s motives and thinking remain as inscrutable as ever. It is not clear as to what the India factor is in China’s international calculus. The statements that emanate from Beijing, both from the government and from the strategy experts over there, seem to be focused on the United States and the China-US commercial and ideological wars. The Chinese want to give the impression that India does not count in Beijing’s world picture. This might just be pretense. The truce on the Pakistan front remains equally puzzling. The stance of the Bharatiya Janata Party as well as that of the Narendra Modi government has been a hard one, even belligerent. The BJP leaders have often used Pakistan as a whipping boy in state assembly and national elections. The BJP did it in the 2015 Bihar elections, in the Uttar Pradesh elections in 2017 and in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Apart from his over-friendly gestures in 2014 towards Pakistan and the then Pakistan PM Nawaz Sharif, Modi has been talking tough against Pakistan in the same way as the Republican administration of former US President Donald Trump did with Iran. So, the truce decision of February comes as a surprise. Why and how did the thaw, however momentary, come remains a puzzle. It is true that the Pakistan army in recent months has been less vocal in its anti-India pronouncements, and Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s ideological salvoes against the BJP and its ideological mentor, the RSS had a theatrical and frivolous tone. Khan was comparing the Hindu rightwing politics to that of Nazis, but he did not seem to convince anyone. It will also remain a matter of speculation whether the developments in Ladakh on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China and the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir are separate events and that there is no plausible connection between the two. Though Pakistan-China relations are symbiotic, their policies toward India are not synchronised. Though the generals and strategy experts in India have been speaking about a two-front war scenario, it has remained at the conceptual level. In 1962, Pakistan did not do anything to embarrass India because at that time, Pakistan was in the America-led anti-communist military alliance system. In 1965 when the short war was on between India and Pakistan, China did not take advantage of it. And in 1971, the US and China were busy mending their fences with the help of Pakistan. The close economic cooperation between China and Pakistan are quite often flaunted by the two countries, but there is no clear picture on the military relations between the two, and whether there is a secret military alliance between the two, on the lines of alliances among European countries before the First World War, and which in a way precipitated the 1914 war. More importantly, there is more pragmatism in the foreign policy stance of the Modi government with China and Pakistan. It has become more calibrated than before. There is less rhetoric on the part of the BJP leaders as well as those in the Modi government. The willingness to work with temporary agreements in Ladakh and on the LoC reveals that Modi and the BJP understand that they are dealing with messy situations and that there are no clear solutions. The BJP can continue to blame the Congress and Nehru for the Kashmir problem as well as Ladakh situation. But they know they have to show greater patience while dealing with China and Pakistan in these matters. And that nationalistic bombast does not serve the purpose. And understandably enough, the Modi government is quite quiet about the developments. The government tried to indicate that this was a victory, however limited, for the country but it seems to have been recognised that it is better not to trumpet success at this moment. Modi seems to have sensed that to improved India’s image in the world, it is better to send coronavirus vaccines to other countries than to score brownie points with troublesome neighbours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/quiet-diplomacy-on-unquiet-fronts-959783.html
09-03-2021||Mysuru||MCC to relaunch ‘Green Wedding’ concept||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), which is making all efforts to minimise generation of waste, is set to relaunch ‘Green Wedding’. The concept is not new for Mysuru as the MCC had introduced it before Covid-19 itself. The first Green Wedding in Mysuru took place in November 2019. An engineer of MCC had performed his son’s marriage and then Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar and MCC Commissioner Shilpa Nag had issued a certificate to this effect. Shilpa Nag said, “Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri suggested promoting Green Wedding in order to avoid use of plastic and also to avoid generating bulk waste, in a recent meeting.” “A decade ago, there was no ‘use and throw’ concept. We used to carry tiffin boxes for lunch. But, today everything is used and thrown. Thus, we thought of educating the people. Mysuru is ready to take the next leap and accept behavioural changes. Thus, Green Marriage was introduced. Basically, bride and bridegroom take a vow to be together for a lifetime and they can actually implement a lot of good things about environment,” she said. Nag said, “Only 38 kg of waste was generated in a wedding where 4,000 people attended. We have proven it scientifically. In addition, the MCC will collect the leftover food and hand it over to orphanages and other organisations.”  The MCC also promotes reuse of water in choultries by using organic detergent. The water used to clean utensils was used for gardening. The MCC will convene a meeting with choultry owners in this regard, the commissioner said. In order to guide marriage parties on conducting ‘Green Wedding’, a cell would be launched and environmental engineers will guide wedding parties on arranging green marriages. “The engineers will monitor the couple and family. We have certain criteria to certify the wedding as ‘Green Wedding’, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mcc-to-relaunch-green-wedding-concept-960066.html
09-03-2021||National||75th Independence Day: Unsung freedom fighters should be honoured, says PM Modi||With the nation set to commence the celebration of the 75th anniversary of Independence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday stressed acknowledging the contribution of the “lesser-known” participants of the struggle for freedom from the British Raj. Modi emphasised the need to honour and take the stories of the lesser-known freedom fighters to people, said a press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office after he chaired the first meeting of the national committee recently constituted to plan and oversee the celebration of the 75th anniversary of Independence. He was quoted saying that every nook and corner of the country was replete with the sacrifices of its sons and daughters and their stories would be an eternal source of inspiration for the nation. Modi had on several occasions in the past mounted not-so-veiled attacks on the Nehru-Gandhi clan, alleging that the contribution of many freedom fighters and great leaders of the nation’s struggle for independence had been deliberately obscured in order to glorify “one family”. The Congress and other opposition parties, however, alleged that the leaders of the BJP’s mentor organization, RSS, had not only stayed away from the nation’s struggle for freedom from British Raj but had also tried to dissuade people from joining the movement. The Modi government has decided to start the celebration next Friday, commemorating the 91st anniversary of the historic Salt Satyagraha led by Mahatma Gandhi. The 259-member national panel would provide policy direction and guidelines for holding a series of events over the next 75 weeks, culminating on August 15, 2022. The Prime Minister said that the festival of the 75 years of Independence should be planned based on five pillars – Freedom Struggle, Ideas at 75, Achievements at 75, Actions at 75 and Resolve at 75. He added that the festival should embody the glimpses of the glory of “Sanatan Bharat” and also the glow of modern India, adding that this festival should reflect the light of the spirituality of the sages and also the talent and strength of our scientists. “This event will also showcase our achievements of these 75 years to the world and also give a framework for a resolution to us for the next 25 years,” he was quoted saying during the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/75th-independence-day-unsung-freedom-fighters-should-be-honoured-says-pm-modi-959739.html
09-03-2021||National||Trial courts' duty to nip frivolous litigation in the bud: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said trial courts and judicial magistrates, being the first line of defence for the criminal justice system as well as distraught and harassed litigants, had a duty to nip frivolous litigations in the bud even before they reach the stage of the trial, by discharging the accused in fit cases. The court was commenting on cases arising from a petty incident of some neighbours' physical altercaton in 2012 in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. The top court quashed all the cases. The bench stressed that the trial courts and the Magistrates had an important role in curbing the injustice, adding that such matter should not have been dragged up to the top court.  The incident resulted in series of prolonged proceedings. A magistrate issued a process in a private complaint by one of the parties after he remained unsatisfied with the police charge sheet. The sessions court further invoked harsher charges in the matter. Noting with regret, a bench of Justices Mohan M Shantanagoudar and R Subhash Reddy said, "A falsely accused person not only suffers monetary damages but is exposed to disrepute and stigma from society. While running from pillar to post to find a lawyer to represent his case and arranging finances to defend himself before the court of law, he loses a part of himself." The court noted that a history of ill-will and malice between the parties resulted in tying up one party in frivolous and harrowing criminal litigation, long years after the alleged incident. The court said the trial court's judicious intervention would not only save judicial time that comes at the cost of public money but would also protect the right to liberty that every person was entitled to under Article 21 of the Constitution.  "In this context, the trial judges have as much, if not more, responsibility in safeguarding the fundamental rights of the citizens of India as the highest court of this land," the bench added. "Frivolous litigation should not become the order of the day in India. From misusing the Public Interest Litigation jurisdiction of the Indian courts to abusing the criminal procedure for harassing their adversaries, the justice delivery system should not be used as a tool to fulfil personal vendetta," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trial-courts-duty-to-nip-frivolous-litigation-in-the-bud-sc-959740.html
09-03-2021||National||SC asks states to reply on PIL seeking protection of migrant children's rights||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from all the states to a plea by Bengaluru-based NGO 'Child Rights Trust' for directions to protect fundamental rights, including of education, of migrant children against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic.  A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to all states, seeking their response in two weeks.  The petition, filed through advocate Rukhsana Choudhury, contended that children of migrants remain invisible and were the most vulnerable, having been denied access to healthcare and proper nutrition due to unhygienic living and testing conditions.  “Migrant children affected due to Covid-19 are still working in brick kilns, stone crusher units, construction sites, rice mills, plantations and other sectors where children as young as 5 years lend a hand to help their parents earn their daily sustenance," the plea claimed. During the hearing, the bench considered an application to implead all state governments as parties in the matter.  Senior advocate Jayna Kothari, representing the petitioner, asked the court to issue directions for sharing data on out-of-school migrant children and a plan to provide them temporary education. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, representing the Centre, submitted that the petition has come up after notice, and now the petitioners have led an application to implead the state governments.  Bhati said the application may be allowed, as many schemes are centrally funded but executed by the state governments. Bhati submitted that she will an affidavit in the matter will be submitted within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-states-to-reply-on-pil-seeking-protection-of-migrant-childrens-rights-959745.html
09-03-2021||National||Banks write-off Rs 1.15 lakh crore in 9 months of FY21: Anurag Singh Thakur||Banks have written off bad loans to the tune of Rs 1.15 lakh crore during the first three-quarters of the current fiscal, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. As per RBI guidelines and policy approved by bank Boards, non-performing loans, including those in respect of which full provisioning has been made on completion of four years, are removed from the balance-sheet of the bank concerned by way of write-off, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Banks evaluate the impact of write-offs as part of their regular exercise to clean up their balance-sheet, avail tax benefit and optimise capital in accordance with RBI guidelines and policy approved by their boards, he said. However, Thakur said, as borrowers of written-off loans continue to be liable for repayment and the process of recovery of dues from the borrower in written-off loan accounts continues, write-off does not benefit the borrower. "As per RBI data, scheduled commercial banks (SCBs) have written-off loans of Rs 2,36,265 crore, Rs 2,34,170 crore and Rs 1,15,038 crore during FY2018-19, FY2019-20 and the first three-quarters of FY2020-21 respectively," he said. With regard to recovery of written-off bank loans, he said, as per RBI guidelines, banks are required to have a loan recovery policy, duly vetted by their Boards, that set down the manner of recovery of dues, period-wise targeted level of reduction in non-performing assets, etc. "A number of recovery mechanism are available to banks to effect recovery, such as filing of a suit in civil courts or in Debts Recovery Tribunals, action under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002, filing of cases in the National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, through negotiated settlement/ compromise, and through the sale of non-performing assets," he said. During the last two financial years and the first three quarters of the current financial year, as per RBI data, SCBs recovered an amount of Rs 3,68,636 crore, including the recovery of Rs 68,219 crore from written-off loan accounts, he said. He also said non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks have declined by Rs 2,79,627 crore to Rs 7,56,560 crore as of December 31, 2020, as a result of the government's strategy of recognition, resolution, recapitalisation and reforms. Replying to another question, Thakur said various measures have been taken to check unauthorised digital lending platforms. He said the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology has informed that to prevent fraudulent activities of such lenders, it has blocked 27 loan lending apps under Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Members of the general public were cautioned against unauthorised digital lending platforms/apps with an appeal to verify the antecedents of the service provider with translation in vernacular languages also being released in the local media across states, he said. Thakur also said there was no proposal at present for limiting banking operations to five days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-write-off-rs-115-lakh-crore-in-9-months-of-fy21-anurag-singh-thakur-959756.html
09-03-2021||National||CISCE revises exam schedule for class 10, 12||The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Monday revised the exam schedule for classes 10 and 12, rescheduling a few subjects, officials said. As per the ICSE (class 10) revised timetable, no exams have been scheduled on May 13 and May 15 due to "unavoidable circumstances". The class 10 Economics (Group II Elective) exam, which was earlier scheduled for May 13, will now be held on May 4. Art Paper 2 (Nature Drawing/ Painting) exam, which was scheduled for May 15, has been rescheduled to May 22. Art Paper 3 (Original Composition) and Art Paper 4 (Applied Art) will be conducted on May 29 and June 5 respectively. As per the ISC (Class XII) revised timetable, no examinations have been scheduled on May 13, 15, and June 12, 2021, subsequently some changes have been made in the timetable. "The Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE), which is the class 10 exam, will be conducted from May 5 to June 7. The Indian School Certificate Examination (ISC), which is a class 12 exam, will be conducted from April 8 to June 16," said Gerry Arathoon, CICSE's Chief Executive and Secretary. "The results will be issued through the convenors to the heads of schools by July. The results will not be available from the office of the council in New Delhi and no queries will be entertained from candidates, parents or guardians," he added. Usually, the CICSE board exams are conducted in February-March. However, the exams have been delayed this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which conducts board exams around the same time every year, has also deferred its exams to May-June this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cisce-revises-exam-schedule-for-class-10-12-959770.html
09-03-2021||National||Assam Assembly Polls: UPPL, BPF release first list of candidates||Ruling NDA constituent United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) and the opposition Congress-led grand alliance partner the Bodoland People's Front (BPF) on Monday released their first list of candidates for the upcoming Assam Assembly election. Addressing a press conference here, UPPL Working President Rwngwra Narzary said the party will focus on giving equal rights to all people in Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) and bringing lasting peace there. The party nominated its vice president Basumatary, currently the deputy chief of Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC), from the Udalguri constituency. UPPL also gave a ticket to Ratendra Daimary for contesting from the Majbat seat, Narzary said. The BJP has formed an alliance with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) to fight the Assam Assembly polls. The BPF on Monday announced the name of four candidates for the upcoming Assam Assembly polls. Congress leader Durga Das Boro joined the BPF in presence of its chief Hagrama Mohilary and he was offered candidature from the Kalaigaon constituency. BPF, which was part of the BJP-led state government, has joined the Congress-headed seven-party Grand Alliance. At a press conference at Kokrajhar, Mohilary announced the names of the four candidates, including Boro. Senior cabinet minister Rihon Daimary received ticket for the Udalguri constituency, while Karuna Kanta Sorgoyari and Charan Boro will contest from Panery and Majbat seats respectively.  Hagrama expressed confidence that the opposition alliance will form the next government with full majority and remove the BJP from the power. The Congress has formed a 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, Bodoland People's Front (BPF), CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) and Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM) to fight the upcoming Assembly election against the BJP-led NDA. BPF had won all the 12 seats from the erstwhile Bodoland Territorial Area Districts (BTAD) during the 2016 Assembly polls. Meanwhile, the newly floated political outfit Raijor Dal on Monday announced the list of candidates for the upcoming Assam Assembly elections. For the third phase of election, the Raijor Dal named six contestants - Dibash Phukan for Gauhati East, Russel Hussain for Barkhetri, Kamal Kumar Medhi for Bhabanipur, Asraful Islam for Jania, Aminul Haque for Goalpara East and Sujon Das for Sapaguri, said a release of the Dal. The additional list for the first phase are Dibbajit Dutta for Lahowal and Prabin Das for Dergaon. Pankaj Asomiya for Kolaigaon is the additional name for the second phase. Elections to the 126-member Assam Assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-assembly-polls-uppl-bpf-release-first-list-of-candidates-959776.html
09-03-2021||National||One-sided and false assertions: India condemns UK lawmakers’ debate on farmers' stir||The High Commission of India in London has condemned a debate among some British lawmakers on an e-petition over the right of peaceful protests and freedom of the press in India amid the ongoing farmers’ stir against three New Delhi laws on agricultural reform. The Commission damned the debate, held on Monday evening inside the British parliamentary premises, as “false assertions” in a “distinctly one-sided discussion”. “We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions -- without substantiation or facts -- were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions,” the commission said in a statement after the Monday evening debate on an e-petition. The debate was held in response to an e-petition which crossed the 100,000-signature threshold, required for it to be approved by the House of Commons Petitions Committee. The Indian High Commission made its displeasure known despite the British government earlier reiterating that the three New Delhi laws on agricultural reform were a “domestic matter”. The British government also underlined India’s importance, saying "India and the UK together work as a force for good in the UN Security Council and bilateral cooperation between the two countries helps fix many global problems".  In its statement, the Indian mission also pointed out that foreign media, including British media, had been present and witnessed the events surrounding the farmers’ protests in India first-hand and therefore any “question of lack of freedom of the media in India does not arise”. It lamented that a false narrative over farmers’ protest was sought to be developed even though “the High Commission of India has been, over a period of time, taking care to inform all concerned about the issues raised in the petition.” The High Commission said it was compelled to react to the lawmakers’ debate due to the apprehensions cast on India. “The High Commission of India would normally refrain from commenting on an internal discussion involving a small group of Honourable Parliamentarians in a limited quorum,” the statement said. “However, when aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight,” it added. The statement followed a group of around dozen cross-party British MPs debating issues around the alleged “use of force” against protesters opposed to agricultural reforms in India and journalists being targeted while covering the protests. As the British government minister deputed to respond to the debate, Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) Minister Nigel Adams said the close UK-India relationship did not hinder the UK in any way from raising difficult issues with India, even as he reiterated the government line that agricultural reforms are a "domestic matter" for India.  “This is a time of great ambition for the UK’s relationship with India. Both governments are working to advance shared priorities across trade and investment, health, sustainability and climate change and defence and security,” said Adams. “We are also working with India as a force for good in the UN Security Council and as one of the Prime Minister’s [Boris Johnson] guest countries at the G7 summit later this year in June. This cooperation will help us fix global problems and it will strengthen prosperity and wellbeing in India and the UK," he said. "However, whilst this is an exciting time for the UK-India partnership, it does not hinder us from raising difficult issues,” the minister said, adding that “candid discussions” on a range of issues will form part of Boris Johnson’s planned visit to India in the coming months. While the minister acknowledged the “alarm and uncertainty” the farmers’ protests and their coverage in India had caused among British communities with family ties in India, he expressed hope that the ongoing dialogue between the Indian government and farmers’ unions will have positive results. Virendra Sharma, the Opposition Labour MP for Ealing Southall in west London with a large Punjabi diaspora, sought to counsel both the Indian government and agitating farmers to reach an agreement over the issue. “Both sides need to step back and recognise the need to come to an agreement… I hope the (British) government will commit to helping that cause and offer British skills in negotiation and compromise to help both sides to bring this issue to a close,” he said. The debate, held in a hybrid form with some MPs participating via videolink in a room at Portcullis House in London, related to the e-petition entitled “Urge the Indian Government to ensure the safety of protesters & press freedom”. “We have only been able to hold the government to account today [Monday] thanks to the power of democracy. A petition started by Liberal Democrat Councillor, Gurch Singh, and signed by over 100,000 people, has forced the government to stop hiding on this important issue," said Layla Moran, Liberal Democrat MP and spokesperson for foreign affairs. From the ruling Conservative Party backbenches, Theresa Villiers noted that agricultural reform is an issue that has proved difficult across the world over the years and pointed out that the new agricultural laws in India had been postponed to allow for greater “consultation and discussion”. “I understand that protesting farmers feel insecure about their future, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has repeatedly said that a core purpose of the reforms is to make farming more profitable, to raise the incomes of people who work in farming and to promote investment in agriculture to increase yields,” she said. “I hear the concerns expressed about the response to the protests, but when thousands and thousands of people are involved in demonstrations and encampments lasting months and months, no policing response can altogether avoid controversial episodes,” she said. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-sided-and-false-assertions-india-condemns-uk-lawmakers-debate-on-farmers-stir-959828.html
09-03-2021||National||The Lead: A cause to help children affected by rare diseases||In this episode of the Lead, Prasanna Shirol from the Lysosomal Storage Disorder Support Society India talks about helping children who are affected by rare diseases. Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of the Lead by DH Radio. Today we are joined by Mr Prasanna Shirol, who has co-founded and presided over the first national parents' support group for children with ultra-rare diseases, with the goal of raising awareness and shared resources. Hi sir and welcome to DH Radio. Prasanna Shirol: Thanks for having me. Ahmed: How do you deal with these rare diseases, beacuse a lot of research has to be done to know their causes and how to be treated. How do you deal with people affected by these rare diseases? Prasanna: There are 7,000 rare diseases in the world. The major challenge is in diagnosing them. The average diagnosing period is 7 years worldwide even today... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-a-cause-to-help-children-affected-by-rare-diseases-959832.html
09-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Secularism threat to India's traditions'||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that secularism is the “biggest threat to India’s tradition getting recognition on the global stage” speaking at the launch of the Global Encyclopedia of the Ramayana on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-secularism-threat-to-indias-traditions-959835.html
09-03-2021||National||India reports 15,388 new Covid-19 cases, less than 80 single-day deaths after over a month||With 15,388 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,12,44,786, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,08,99,394, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,930 in the country with 77 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. After registering an increase for six consecutive days, the number of active Covid-19 cases has gone down to 1,87,462, accounting for only 1.67 per cent of the country's total caseload, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.40 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,99,394, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.93 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,27,16,796 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,48,525 on Monday. The 77 new fatalities include 22 from Maharashtra, 14 from Punjab and 12 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,930 Covid-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 52,500, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,521), Karnataka (12,367), Delhi (10,924), West Bengal (10,280), Uttar Pradesh (8,738) and Andhra Pradesh (7,176). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-15388-new-covid-19-cases-less-than-80-single-day-deaths-after-over-a-month-959850.html
09-03-2021||National||President Kovind expresses grief over loss of life in Kolkata fire||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday expressed grief at the loss of lives in a fire incident at a building in Kolkata and said he was pained beyond words at the tragedy. “Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for speedy recovery of the injured,” Kovind tweeted.   Pained beyond words by the extremely tragic fire accident at a building in Kolkata. My deep sympathy and condolences for the bereaved families. I wish for speedy recovery of the injured.   At least seven people were killed in an inferno in a multi-storeyed building in Kolkata, which houses zonal offices of Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway on Monday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. Two more persons were also feared dead, Banerjee, who has visited the spot, said. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-expresses-grief-over-loss-of-life-in-kolkata-fire-959871.html
09-03-2021||National||Kolkata Fire: PM Modi approves Rs 2 lakh ex-gratia for kin of deceased||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed sadness at the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata and approved an ex-gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in the incident. The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) also said Rs 50,000 would be given to the seriously injured persons. "Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest," Modi tweeted. Saddened by the loss of lives due to the fire tragedy in Kolkata. In this hour of sadness, my thoughts are with the bereaved families. May the injured recover at the earliest. At least seven people were killed in an inferno in a multi-storeyed building in Kolkata, which houses zonal offices of Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway on Monday, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said. Two more persons were also feared dead, Banerjee, who has visited the spot, said. "PM @narendramodi has approved an ex-gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each from PMNRF (Prime Minister's National Relief Fund) for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the tragic fire in Kolkata. Rs. 50,000 would be given to those seriously injured," the PMO said in a tweet. Out of the seven deceased, four were firefighters, one assistant sub-inspector posted at the Hare Street police station and one RPF personnel, West Bengal Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Basu said. The seventh person is a senior official of the Railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-fire-pm-modi-approves-rs-2-lakh-ex-gratia-for-kin-of-deceased-959873.html
09-03-2021||National||Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia floats Rs 69,000-crore 'deshbhakti' Budget for FY22||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday presented a Rs 69,000-crore 'Deshbhakti' Budget or the financial year 2021-22. Presenting the budget, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, said, "Today I present this 'Deshbhakti Budget' in view of the Centre's celebrations of India's 75 years of independence with 75 weeks as 'Deshbhakti Mahotsav' starting on March 12. This Budget will focus on India's 75 as well as 100 years of independence," he said.  Sisodia added that the Delhi government intends to increase the city's per capita income to the same level as Singapore's by 2047. He said under the "Deshbhakti Budget", the city government has proposed to allocate Rs 45 crore to install high masts to hoist the national flag at 500 places in the national capital. Sisodia also said there will be a "Deshbhakti period" in the city schools. The AAP government intends to increase Delhi's per capita income to the level of Singapore by 2047, he added. An amount of Rs 10 crore will be allocated for programmes on Bhagat Singh's life during the 75-week "Deshbhakti" celebrations, the deputy chief minister said. He pointed out that the total outlay of the budget is 6.1 per cent more than the budget presented for financial 2020-21. The city government has proposed to allocate Rs 45 crore to install high masts to hoist the national flag at 500 places in the national capital. "We have allocated Rs 45 crore for 500 flag masts across Delhi. They will be similar to the one we have at the Central Park in Connaught Place. So even if someone covers a distance of two kms from his home, he will get to see the tricolour in all its glory and feel patriotic," Sisodia said. He said there will be a "deshbhakti period" in the city schools, adding that Rs 10 crore each have been proposed for programmes on the lives of Bhagat Singh and B R Ambedkar during the 75-week "deshbhakti" celebrations. The deputy chief minister also announced that the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to people for free at the hospitals run by the Delhi government in the future phases of the inoculation drive. He said an outlay of Rs 50 crore has been made under the "Aam Aadmi Nishulk COVID Vaccine Yojana". Currently, vaccination at the hospitals run by the Centre and the Delhi government is free for senior citizens and those in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities, while an amount of Rs 250 is being charged at private hospitals. "Learning from our Covid-19 management, an amount of Rs 1,293 crore has been set aside for the expansion of healthcare services, including for opening new hospitals, renovating old ones and augmenting beds," Sisodia said. He also announced that special "Mahila Mohalla Clinics" will be opened in Delhi from the next year and 100 such clinics will come up in the first phase. The AAP government intends to increase Delhi's per capita income to the level of Singapore by 2047, the deputy chief minister said, pointing out that the total outlay of the budget is 6.1 per cent more than the budget presented for the financial year 2020-21. He said smart health cards will be issued to every citizen in Delhi, adding that a health information management system is being implemented. Sisodia also said 100 specialised schools of excellence will be set up across the national capital and a virtual model school will be started in Delhi to promote and adopt technology. "The Delhi government will also start universities for teacher training and law studies," he said. One Sainik school was proposed in Delhi in the budget. Besides, the AAP government has also decided to provide yoga instructors in colonies for which an amount of Rs 25 crore has been allocated in the budget. The city government said water supply will be ensured in all unauthorised colonies in the next two financial years. It also proposed to allocate Rs 3,274 crore to the Delhi Jal Board for the next financial year.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-floats-rs-69000-crore-deshbhakti-budget-for-fy22-959876.html
09-03-2021||National||India mulls new strategy to counter China’s cyber threat||India is mulling a new national strategy to strengthen the country’s cybersecurity amid allegations that Chinese intrusions may have affected operations at a key stock exchange and supply of electricity in the country’s commercial capital. The plan will coordinate responses across ministries including Home Affairs, Information Technology, Defense and the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre in case of an attack and set audit procedures, former Lieutenant General Rajesh Pant, India’s National Cyber Security Coordinator, said in an interview. It will be approved by the cabinet committee on security headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Authorities are investigating a series of recent suspected cyber intrusions which could have led to a power outage in Mumbai, crippled systems at banks and caused a glitch at the country’s premier National Stock Exchange, he said. A report is expected in a few weeks. “We also want to know what happened,” said Pant, who served in the Indian army and now coordinates India’s cyber intelligence and reports to the Prime Minister’s Office. He said the breaches were likely malware and couldn’t be classified as attacks without a proper investigation. At least one connection opened by Chinese state-sponsored hackers into the network system of an Indian port was still active, as authorities blocked attempts to penetrate the South Asian nation’s electrical sector, the US-based research firm Recorded Future said last week. The attempts by the Red Echo group have been occurring since at least the middle of last year, around the time a bloody skirmish between Indian and Chinese soldiers started in the remote Himalayan region, the firm said. “India will have to work at breakneck speed to put in place stringent security for critical infrastructure,” said Sandeep Shukla, who runs a state-funded cybersecurity project at the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, and has advised the federal government in the past. “There may also be a need for state financial backing to help smaller companies that are part of the grid. Because if one is hacked, entire systems can be compromised.” The new strategy will lay down protocols for prevention and audit to secure the government’s digitally connected water, health and education systems that are all being treated as critical infrastructure, he said. Infrastructure like nuclear, power and aviation will be considered supercritical. “In my view, if internet-connected computers are infected by malware, I won’t say it’s an attack but an infection unless it jumps from IT systems to other operation systems,” Pant said. “It’s like a crank caller. Can you stop someone from dialing your number?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mulls-new-strategy-to-counter-china-s-cyber-threat-959880.html
09-03-2021||National||Petrol, diesel price hike fuels protest in Rajya Sabha again; House adjourned till 2 pm||Fuel price hike continued to rock Parliament for the second day on Tuesday with Rajya Sabha being adjourned twice during the morning session after Opposition protested against not allowing an immediate discussion on the issue by suspending business of the House. Notices to suspend the business under Rule 267 were submitted by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, BSP floor leader Satish Chandra Mishra, DMK floor leader Tiruchi Siva and Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh disallowed the notices saying Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had already rejected a similar notice on Monday.  He also said such notices cannot be taken up without the Chairman's consent, as Siva pointed out that it was a fresh notice. Unhappy with the Deputy Chairman's announcement during the Zero Hour, the Opposition MPs raised slogans and demanded that the issue be discussed immediately. "The Leader of Opposition has already been given an opportunity (on Monday) to raise the matter," Harivansh said. As the Deputy Chairman went ahead with the Zero Hour, the Opposition MPs continued their sloganeering prompting Harivansh to adjourn the House till 12 noon. When the House re-assembled, Kharge was once again on his feet demanding an immediate discussion and said the notices submitted were fresh. "We accepted the Chairman's decision yesterday. Today, we have submitted fresh notice and other MPs have also given notices and included kerosene and LPG price hike," he said. However, Harivansh repeated that the issue was decided by the Chairman and went ahead with the Question Hour amid sloganeering. However, 15 minutes into the Question Hour, he adjourned the House as protesting MPs refused to budge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-price-hike-fuels-protest-in-rajya-sabha-again-house-adjourned-till-2-pm-959883.html
09-03-2021||National||Explainer | Here's how Iran vs Saudi Arabia tussle makes petrol costlier in India||Houthi rebels in Yemen reportedly backed by Iran fired drones and missiles at the heart of Saudi Arabia's oil industry on Monday including at a Saudi Aramco facility that is key to petroleum exports. What is happening in the Middle East and how does it affect oil? Iranian and Iran-backed forces in the past have also attacked oil tankers in the Strait of Hormuz and fresh hits by the Houthis on the oil industry in the past few weeks are an eerie reminder of the so-called Tanker Wars of the 1980s that around the same time as the Iran-Iraq war. Attacks on oil production and shipping facilities are widely considered a threat to global energy security and prices of oil as they cause uncertainty over the supply and production of crude oil, increase costs of shipping, insurance and security for tankers. On Monday, crude oil prices surged to above $70 per barrel -- the highest since May 2020 -- as a reaction to this incident. India's petroleum supplies are heavily reliant on crude oil imports, especially from the Middle East and hence any threat to the security of the oil industry in the region will increase crude oil prices and therefore increase fuel prices in India. Has this happened before? Such a situation however has happened earlier. In June 2019, two oil tankers near the Strait of Hormuz were attacked while transiting the Gulf of Oman amid heightened tensions between the US and Iran. In May 2019, a similar incident had occurred. The US was quick to credit Iran for the attack and deployed over 1,000 additional troops to the Middle East. How does it affect India? A doubling in the price of crude oil over the past 10 months has contributed to record fuel prices at gas stations in India. But taxes and duties account for roughly 60% of the retail price of petrol and diesel in the country, The record taxes coupled with international rates returning to pre-COVID levels have led to petrol crossing the Rs 100 mark in some places in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. Excise duty was raised by Rs 13 and Rs 16 per litre on petrol and diesel between March 2020 and May 2020 and now accounts for more than one-third of the Rs 91.17 a litre price of petrol in Delhi and 40 per cent of Rs 81.47 per litre rate of diesel. India imports about 85 per cent of its oil needs and local retail rates are benchmarked to international prices. India's fuel consumption is likely to rise nearly 10 per cent in the fiscal year beginning April 1, as a reflating economy drives petrol and diesel demand, according to Oil Ministry's latest projections. This will be the fastest pace of fuel product consumption in six years amid record-high fuel prices. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explainer-heres-how-iran-vs-saudi-arabia-tussle-makes-petrol-costlier-in-india-959886.html
09-03-2021||National||Bollywood actor Ranbir Kapoor tests Covid-19 positive||Actor Ranbir Kapoor has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under self-quarantine, his actor-mother Neetu Kapoor said on Tuesday. In an Instagram post, the veteran actor said Ranbir was recovering well. "Thank you for your concern and your good wishes Ranbir has tested positive for Covid-19. He is on medication and recovering well. "He is in self-quarantine at home and following all precautions," she wrote. Last month, Ranbir, 38, was shooting for his upcoming film "Brahmastra" along with co-star Alia Bhatt. Neetu, 62, had also tested positive for Covid-19 last year while shooting for her film "Jug Jugg Jeeyo" in Chandigarh. The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai increased by over 1,000 for the sixth consecutive day on Monday, taking its tally to 3,34,572, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bollywood-actor-ranbir-kapoor-tests-covid-19-positive-959887.html
09-03-2021||National||Paresh Rawal receives Covid-19 vaccine||Veteran actor and former BJP MP Paresh Rawal on Tuesday said that he has received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine. The 65-year-old actor took to Twitter and shared a picture, flashing the victory sign at a vaccine centre. "V for vaccines! Thanks to all the doctors and nurses and the front line health care workers and the scientists. Thanks @narendramodi," Rawal tweeted.  His wife, actor and life skills teacher Swaroop Rawal also recently received the first jab of the vaccine.  "Follow the leader... I got my #COVID19Vaccine did you?" the 62-year-old actor had tweeted on March 6.  Other Indian celebrities who have received the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine include veteran actor-MP Hema Malini, Jeetendra, actor-politician Kamal Haasan, filmmaker Rakesh Roshan, comedian Johny Lever and actor Satish Shah. The government, on March 1, launched the nationwide drive of getting everyone above 60 years of age -- and those aged between 45-59 with co-morbidities -- get vaccinated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/paresh-rawal-receives-covid-19-vaccine-959890.html
09-03-2021||National||ISRO develops radar for joint earth observation satellite mission with NASA||ISRO has completed the development of a Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR) capable of producing extremely high-resolution images for a joint earth observation satellite mission with the US space agency NASA. NASA-ISRO SAR (NISAR) is a joint collaboration for a dual-frequency L and S-band SAR for earth observation. "NISAR will be the first satellite mission to use two different radar frequencies (L-band and S-band) to measure changes in our planet's surface less than a centimetre across", according to NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration). NASA and Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) signed a partnership on September 30, 2014, to collaborate on and launch NISAR. The mission is targeted to launch in early 2022 from ISRO's Sriharikota spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kms north of Chennai. NASA is providing the mission's L-band SAR, a high-rate communication subsystem for science data, GPS receivers, a solid-state recorder and payload data subsystem. ISRO is providing the spacecraft bus, the S-band radar, the launch vehicle and associated launch services for the mission, whose goal is to make global measurements of the causes and consequences of land surface changes using advanced radar imaging. The S-band SAR payload of the NISAR satellite mission was flagged off by the Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan on March 4 through virtual mode. The payload has been shipped from ISRO's Ahmedabad-based Space Applications Centre (SAC) to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) at Pasadena in the US for integration with the latter's L-band SAR payload, an ISRO statement said. "NISAR would provide a means of disentangling highly spatial and temporally complex processes ranging from ecosystem disturbances to ice sheet collapses and natural hazards including earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanoes and landslides", ISRO said. NASA added that the mission will measure Earth's changing ecosystems, dynamic surfaces and ice masses, providing information about biomass, natural hazards, sea-level rise and groundwater, and will support a host of other applications. "NISAR will observe Earth's land and ice-covered surfaces globally with 12-day regularity on ascending and descending passes, sampling Earth on average every six days for a baseline three-year mission", NASA said on the mission's website. "This allows the mission to observe a wide range of Earth processes, from the flow rates of glaciers and ice sheets to the dynamics of earthquakes and volcanoes". NISAR uses a sophisticated information-processing technique known as SAR to produce extremely high-resolution images. Radar penetrates clouds and darkness, enabling NISAR to collect data day and night in any weather. The instrument's imaging swath the width of the strip of data collected along the length of the orbit track is greater than 150 miles (240 kilometres), which allows it to image the entire Earth in 12 days, it was stated. Over the course of multiple orbits, the radar images will allow users to track changes in croplands and hazard sites, as well as to monitor ongoing crises such as volcanic eruptions. The images will be detailed enough to show local changes and broad enough to measure regional trends. As the mission continues for years, the data will allow for a better understanding of the causes and consequences of land surface changes, increasing our ability to manage resources and prepare for and cope with global change, according to NASA. "NASA requires a minimum of three years of global science operations with the L-band radar, and ISRO requires five years of operations with the S-band radar over specified target areas in India and the Southern Ocean", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-develops-radar-for-joint-earth-observation-satellite-mission-with-nasa-959892.html
09-03-2021||National||Cow slaughter bad, but stray cattle menace bigger problem: Farmers in Western UP||On a sunny afternoon in Western Uttar Pradesh, a common sight at barren lands alongside highways is quintals of sugarcane loaded on tractor-trollies and some old men keeping guard there to keep the crop safe from stray animals always on the prowl to pull away their share. Jumma, 72, is one of those old men sitting near a quaint weighing scale along the Ganga canal in Meerut district, constantly keeping a watch on the sugarcane load he has been protecting from stray cattle waiting to be weighed before being sent off to a mill. And the stray cattle population is an ever-increasing one, which many locals across religious lines blame on a ban on their slaughter in the state. The septuagenarian is aware that a farmers' movement has been underway on borders of Delhi, less than 100 kms away, for more than 100 days over three contentious central laws. He is also concerned that there is no law to guarantee the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, another key issue before protesting farmers, in case some big corporate buyers of agri-produce decide to monopolise the market and decide to throw peanuts before farmers to gobble their crops. The landless farm worker easily gets involved in discussions over the agitation -- which has had ripples in the region that is known for sugarcane -– but is not much amused. His concerns, like that of Akbar Ali, who also has been hired to guard crops against stray animals, go beyond the issues being highlighted in the ongoing stir and the job at his hand gets the maximum priority. The problem of stray animals damaging crops looms large in the sugarcane-yielding district of Meerut in western Uttar Pradesh where men hired to guard the fields are hoping for better aid for their community from the government. Jumma said he worked for a central government warehousing corporation where his job largely kept him away from home and around a decade ago he returned to Meerut upon realising that he no longer had the capacity to perform the duty his previous job required him to do. "Here at my village, I got hired by Nanglamal sugar mill along with some other locals to guard farms and farm produce from stray animals. Initially, it seemed like a fine work that kept me engaged and provided some money too," he told PTI. There are five to six private weighing scales around Jani Khurd village where one guard is deployed at each facility to keep a watch on the yields against animals like nilgai, cow, buffalo and wild boar. There are dozens of sugar mills and hundreds of weighing scales in Meerut and adjoining districts of Muzaffarnagar and Baghpat, according to locals. These guards, Jumma said, are paid Rs 4,500 per season and the job entails guarding the crop at all times – be it scorching sunlight, chilling winters or rains. He said all he wants is a round-the-year engagement by the sugar mill, a pay hike and some sort of pension from the government. Around 50 kilometres from Jani Khurd is Satheri village in Budhana tehsil of Muzaffarnagar, a key district vis-a-vis sugarcane production in north India. Here also, many farmers believe the menace of stray animals and a low-profit margin in agriculture are issues much bigger than those being highlighted in the media about the ongoing protests. The cost of cultivation -- which involves tillage, seed sowing, irrigation and use of fertilisers -- is very high now, said Ramesh Chandra (55), a government servant and farm owner in Satheri village. Labour cost too is a vexing issue. Landowners say they pay Rs 10 per 'pully' (a local word for a bunch of sugarcane crop that is cut off the ground and tied together before being kept aside for loading) to labourers working on fields and the rate goes up to Rs 15 per 'pully' during the peak season. But the menace of stray animals, whose slaughtering has been banned in the state by the BJP-led government, trumps all other woes. Chandra said farmers in the region have to ensure the protection of their crops from animals themselves. Many farmers collectively hire a guard, while those unable to afford it, have to do it on their own. "Those who do it on their own stand guard at their fields all the time with a stick in their hand for safety," Chandra said, claiming that stray animals destroyed high brother's seven bigha land where he had sown wheat. Rajkumar Harian (52), who has 40 bigha land among four brothers, said, "People from our village leave their non-productive animals in other villages and vice versa. There is a ban on slaughtering such animals because of which farmers are facing this trouble." Chandra said, "As far as Hinduism is considered, I am against slaughtering cattle but if you look at the condition of farmers, they cannot even afford fodder for productive animals, so how will they keep the non-productive ones. For all the damage done to crops, I do not find slaughtering of non-productive animals unreasonable." Rajpal Singh (57), another farmer whose wheat crop was damaged by stray animals, said, "If farmers had enough to afford fodder, why would they leave their cattle stray in the first place?" Talking at dusk on a narrow road outside Satheri with sugarcane fields on both sides, Chandra, Harian and Singh resented that there was no solution in sight for the stray animal menace. "There are claims of gaushalas being made where stray animals are kept but all these claims are only in words. Nothing is happening on the ground," Chandra claimed. Bharatiya Kisan Union's Meerut unit vice president Subhash Singh said local public representatives and authorities are aware of the issues but nothing could be done so far. "We, as farmers’ representatives, have time and again highlighted these problems, but it is still not a priority for the government. Sugarcane rates remain unchanged for three years while prices of all other items have risen," he said. Thousands of protestors, mainly from Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, are camping at Delhi's three borders since November 2020 demanding that the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 be rolled back and a new law made to guarantee minimum support price for crops. The government, however, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cow-slaughter-bad-but-stray-cattle-menace-bigger-problem-farmers-in-western-up-959895.html
09-03-2021||National||Parliamentary panel calls for resumption of full-scale passenger train services||A Parliamentary Committee on Railways recommended resumption of full-scale passenger train services duly observing the Covid-19 protocals. The Standing Committee on Railways, headed by former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh, said that suspending of train services due to Covid-19 lockdown has hit the Railways' earning in passengers segment severely. The Railways recently said that it has been increasing the number of train services in a graded manner. Already more than 65 per cent passenger trains are running. The panel also said that the Railways' operating ratio, which detemines the financial health of the sector, has been deteriorating since 2015-16. "The Committee noted that the traffic receipts on the passenger segment have always been lower as compared to freight traffic. The passenger earnings during 2018-19 were Rs 51,066.65 crore which dropped to Rs 50,669.09 crore in 2019-20. Budget Estimates for 2020-21 were understandably reduced at RE levels from Rs 61,000 crore to Rs 15,000 crore. However, the actuals (upto the end of January, 2021) were Rs 9, 529 crore only due to suspension of Passenger trains during Covid-19," the panel said in its report tabled in Parliament. Some of the reasons for shortfall in passenger earnings have been stated to be the social responsibility and operation on un-remunerative routes by Railways. The Committee noted that the recent Covid pandemic has also deteriorated the receipts of passenger segment when the passenger trains were suspended for a considerable period, and still the same has not yet been fully recovered, the panel said. The Committee is of the view that the Railways should consider to resume their passenger services keeping in view the Covid-19 protocols in various states with a view to boost their revenues. They hope that the earnings on passenger segment would gradually improve once the operation of passenger trains are resumed completely. The Committee said that the tariff policy of the Indian Railways has traditionally followed the principle of cross subsidisation in order to offset the losses incurred in the heavily subsidised passenger and other coaching services through additional revenue from freight movement. It is seen that in such a scenario, overall fare structure of the Railways are unable to generate sufficient surplus necessary for capacity expansion and provision of enhanced amenities. "Both passenger fares and freight rates have to be demand-cum-market driven and fixed differently for different segments. The Committee, therefore, recommend the Ministry to undertake a prudent adjustment of passenger fares with a view to reduce the burden on freight segment," the panel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-calls-for-resumption-of-full-scale-passenger-train-services-959899.html
09-03-2021||National||7 get jail terms for harassing lioness in Gujarat's Gir forest||A court in Gir Somnath district of Gujarat has convicted seven people, including three tourists from Ahmedabad, and awarded them different jail terms for harassing a lioness in Gir forest in 2018. In an order issued on Monday, Judicial Magistrate First Class at Gir Gadhada, Sunik Kumar Dave, awarded three years' rigorous imprisonment to six of the accused, while another accused was sentenced to one-year in jail. The court also directed the district collector to take custody of a land allotted to the family of one of the convicts in Dhumbakarea of Babaria range of the forest where the incident took place. Eight people were arrested in May 2018 after a video clip surfaced on social media in which they were seen harassing a lioness by luring it with a chicken as bait. The feline was seen making desperate attempts to grab the chicken and later got it, but not before the accused had their share of fun in teasing it. The court awarded three years' sentence to six of the accused - Ilyas Hoth, Abbas Baloch, Altaf Baloch (from Gir Gadhada taluka in the district), and three tourists Ravi Patadiya, Divyang Gajjar and Rathinbhai Patel. They were pronounced guilty under the Wildlife (Protection) Act Sections 2 (16)(B) (capturing, trapping or baiting any wild animal), 9 (hunting), 27 (restriction on entry in a sanctuary) and other provisions. Besides, accused Magilal Meena was sentenced to one- year rigorous imprisonment after being convicted under Section 27 of the Act. The magistrate also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 fine on each of the accused, and directed for Rs 35,000 from the amount collected to be deposited to the lion welfare fund. The court acquitted another accused, Hasambhai Koreja, for want of evidence against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-get-jail-terms-for-harassing-lioness-in-gujarats-gir-forest-959900.html
09-03-2021||National||Kolkata fire: Doctors mull DNA test to identify some bodies||The bodies of some of the nine killed in the fire at a multi-storeyed building in Kolkata's Strand Road area was so badly burnt that they could not be identified, following which doctors were mulling DNA test to ascertain their identity, officials said on Tuesday. The toll in the fire at the New Koilaghat Building rose to nine as two more bodies were found from an elevator in the early hours, they said. Most of those killed are first responders -- four firefighters, one assistant sub-inspector posted at the Hare Street police station and an RPF personnel, officials said. The four firefighters were identified as Girish Dey, Gourav Bej, Aniruddha Jana and Biman Purkayat, a senior official of the state government said. "The two bodies are yet to be identified. We have sent them for autopsy," a senior official told PTI. The earlier seven bodies were also found from a lift, officials said. The fire broke out around 6.10 pm on the 13th floor of the building that houses the offices of the Eastern Railway and South Eastern Railway. The post-mortem was completed on the seven bodies at the SSKM Hospital after special permission was granted to speed up the process, an official said. Of the seven bodies, a few were so badly burnt that family members could not identify them, following which doctors were mulling to conduct DNA tests, an official at the hospital said. Meanwhile, police registered a suo motu case in connection with the incident and the fire department constituted a committee to probe the mishap, officials said. The Eastern Railway has also ordered a high-level inquiry, headed by principal chief safety officer Jaideep Gupta, they said. The railway personnel killed in the fire were identified as RPF constable Sanjay Sahni, Deputy Chief Commercial Manager Partha Sarathi Mondal and Senior Technician Sudip Das, police said. A team of the Kolkata Police's forensic department reached the spot in the morning as part of the probe to ascertain the cause of the fire, a senior police officer said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kolkata-fire-doctors-mull-dna-test-to-identify-some-bodies-959905.html
09-03-2021||National||Fuel price hike rocks Parliament again, both Houses adjourned for the day||Fuel price hike continued to rock Parliament for the second day on Tuesday with Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha failing to conduct much business after the Opposition protested against not allowing an immediate discussion on the issue by suspending business of the House. Opposition MPs in both the Houses demanded immediate discussion on fuel price hike but the Chair did not allow it, leading to repeated adjournments. In Rajya Sabha, notices to suspend the business under Rule 267 were submitted by Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge, BSP floor leader Satish Chandra Mishra, DMK floor leader Tiruchi Siva and Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi in Rajya Sabha. However, Deputy Chairman Harivansh disallowed the notices saying Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu had already rejected a similar notice on Monday. He also said such notices cannot be taken up without the Chairman's consent, as Siva pointed out that it was a fresh notice. The House witnessed two adjournments in the morning session while the final one came soon after it re-assembled in the afternoon session. Unhappy with the Deputy Chairman's announcement during the Zero Hour, the Opposition MPs raised slogans and demanded that the issue be discussed immediately. "The Leader of Opposition has already been given an opportunity (on Monday) to raise the matter," Harivansh said during protest in the morning session. As the Deputy Chairman went ahead with the Zero Hour, the Opposition MPs continued their sloganeering prompting Harivansh first to adjourn the House till 12 noon. When the House re-assembled, Kharge was once again on his feet demanding an immediate discussion and said the notices submitted were fresh. "We accepted the Chairman's decision yesterday. Today, we have submitted fresh notice and other MPs have also given notices and included kerosene and LPG price hike," he said. However, Harivansh repeated that the issue was decided by the Chairman and went ahead with the Question Hour amid sloganeering. However, 15 minutes into the Question Hour, he adjourned the House as protesting MPs refused to budge. Similar scenes were witnessed in the afternoon sitting, which started at 2 pm, and the House was then adjourned for the day. Similar scenes were witnessed in Lok Sabha where MPs trooped to the Well of the House and shouted slogans against the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fuel-price-hike-rocks-parliament-again-both-houses-adjourned-for-the-day-959909.html
09-03-2021||National||ED summons East Bengal Club official in Saradha case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) issued summons to East Bengal Club official Debabrata Sarkar in connection with the multi-crore Saradha chit fund scam, sources said on Tuesday. Sarkar had been asked to appear for questioning on Wednesday at the CGO Complex office of the ED, they said. Sarkar is alleged to have helped the owner of Saradha Group, Sudipta Sen, in the case initiated by SEBI and also secured sponsorship for the club to the tune of Rs 4 crore, they added. Arindam Das, an associate of Sen and an agent of Saradha Group, has also been summoned in connection with the matter on Thursday, sources said. Thousands of common investors have been duped by the Saradha Group by means of the fraudulent schemes floated by it. The ED is probing the money laundering aspect of the scam. Earlier, Sarkar was in CBI custody for allegedly receiving payments from the Saradha Group.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-summons-east-bengal-club-official-in-saradha-case-959910.html
09-03-2021||National||Over 20 lakh coronavirus vaccine doses administered in a day: Health Ministry||More than 20 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 8, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 2.3 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. As on day-52 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive (March 8), 20,19,723 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 17,15,380 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 28,884 sessions for 1st dose and 3,04,343 healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) received 2nd dose of the anti-coronavirus vaccine. The 17,15,380 beneficiaries include 12,22,351 aged over 60 years and 2,21,148 aged 45 to 60 with specified comorbidities. "India has recorded a significant achievement in its countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive which was rolled out from January 16. More than 2 million vaccine doses were administered in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said. A total of 2,30,08,733 vaccine doses have been administered through 4,05,517 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am on Tuesday. These include 70,75,010 HCWs (1st dose), 37,39,478 HCWs (2nd dose), 67,92,319FLWs (1st dose) and 3,25,972 FLWs (2nd dose), 7,01,80 9beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 43,74,145 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. Meanwhile, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in the Covid-19 daily new cases. They cumulatively account for 84.04 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours. A total of 15,388 new infections were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 8,744. It is followed by Kerala with 1,412 fresh cases while Punjab reported 1,229 new cases, the ministry stated. "Eight states -- Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka, Haryana, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases," the ministry underlined. India's active caseload has reached 1,87,462 which comprises 1.67 per cent of the country’s total infections. Showing the distribution of new cases in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said four states -- Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura -- did not report any new Covid-19 case, while Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala reported over 1,000 new cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-20-lakh-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-administered-in-a-day-health-ministry-959911.html
09-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu Elections: How AMMK-AIMIM alliance could hurt DMK||While Sasikala’s announcement to quit politics came as a shocker for her nephew TTV Dhinakaran, he seems to have made his point to climb up in the Tamil Nadu elections with the help of Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM). Firebrand Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM will make its foray into the southern state contesting from three constituencies in alliance with TTV Dhinakaran's AMMK. A party release, on Monday, said the two had decided to face the elections in both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Will Dhinakaran and Owaisi’s alliance affect DMK?  AMMK has, in past, managed to dent AIADMK’s vote share in the last Lok Sabha polls. Dhinakaran alone has proved as a strong opposition when he contested independently from R K Nagar constituency and defeated both the ruling AIADMK and DMK.  Other leaders quoted by The Indian Express believed that AMMK enjoyed support from the Thevar community which was favoured and nurtured by Sasikala when Jayalalithaa was alive. However, on the other hand, the AIMIM has been allotted three Tamil Nadu seats that have a significant Muslim population – Vaniyambadi, Sankarapuram and Krishnagiri. Even though the party doesn’t have much of a presence in the state, it had won 10,000 votes in Vaniyabmadi, in the 2016 Assembly polls. In this scenario, DMK is likely to give strong competition to AIMIM as most Muslim parties including Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), have joined the DMK camp that also enjoys a significant hold over the Muslim minorities in the state. It would be interesting to see how Owaisi woos Muslims voters in the state that once supported Jayalalithaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-elections-how-ammk-aimim-alliance-could-hurt-dmk-959918.html
09-03-2021||National||Political boundaries should not become physical barriers for trade: Bangladesh PM||After inaugurating a bridge connecting Tripura with Bangladesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said better connectivity is not only strengthening the friendship between the two countries but also proving to be a strong link for economic and trade ties. In her remarks at an online event, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said the 'Maitri Setu' built over the Feni river will be a "trading lifeline" for India's northeastern states and noted that political boundaries in the region should not become physical barriers for trade. "Earlier the nearest sea port for Agartala was Kolkata which is over 1,600 km away. However, today, Agartala's nearest sea port is Chattogram and the distance to Bangladesh is less than 100 km. Undoubtedly this is a historic moment," she said. The 1.9-km Maitri Setu has been built over the Feni river that flows between Indian boundary in Tripura and Bangladesh, and it connects Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh. Modi said the bridge will give an impetus to the economic opportunity in Bangladesh besides the northeastern region and thanked Dhaka for the cooperation in the completion of the project. "With the opening of the Feni bridge, Agartala will become the closest city in India to an international sea port," he said. Modi said the connectivity is not only strengthening the friendship between India and Bangladesh but also proving to be a strong link of business. He said the entire region is being developed as a trade corridor between Northeast India and Bangladesh. He emphasised that the rail and water connectivity projects that have been realised in the recent years have been strengthened by this bridge. This will improve connectivity of south Assam, Mizoram and Manipur along with Tripura with Bangladesh and South-East Asia, he added. The inauguration of the bridge comes ahead of Modi's visit to Bangladesh. "The bridge will be the trading lifeline for the Northeast (region) of India as you all know Bangladesh has already allowed the use of Chattogram and Mongla ports to and from India," Hasina said. She also said that the opening of the bridge is a testimony to the Bangladesh government's continued commitment to support India in strengthening connectivity in the region, particularly for the northeast of India. "We are creating a new era in South Asia through providing connectivity to India. We are in a region which has remained conservative in opening up, and where the regional trade is far below potential. I believe political boundaries should not become physical barriers to trade," she said. Hasina also recalled India's role in Bangladesh's liberation war. "Fifty years ago, in 1971, India opened up its border for Bangladesh's people to support their freedom struggle. Today, we are building a prosperous region together," she said. In his address, Modi said now people will not have to depend only on the road for any kind of supply to the Northeast. He said efforts are underway to connect Chittagong port of Bangladesh with Northeast through an alternative route via the river. Chittagong, which is officially known as Chattogram, is a key port city in Bangladesh.   Modi said the integrated check post in Sabroom will work like a full-fledged logistic hub with warehouses and container trans-shipment facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-boundaries-should-not-become-physical-barriers-for-trade-bangladesh-pm-959924.html
09-03-2021||National||SC puts in abeyance arrest warrant against West Bengal BJP candidate Bharati Ghosh||The Supreme Court on Tuesday granted protection from arrest or any other coercive action to BJP leader and former IPS officer Bharati Ghosh, till the Assembly elections were over in West Bengal.   Ghosh, who was once considered close to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, had subsequently joined the rival BJP. She is a candidate from the Debra constituency of West Midnapore district against Trinamool Congress candidate Humayun Kabir, also a former IPS officer. Acting on her plea against a fresh case lodged by the state police, a three-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed to keep arrest warrants in abeyance. The court restrained the state authorities from taking any coercive action. Senior advocate Neeraj Kishan Kaul, appearing for Ghosh, submitted that she was being hounded by the state government and she had no idea of FIR and charge sheet registered against her.  He said the state government has turned vindictive against her and she apprehended that government may revive cases during the Assembly election.  Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, appearing for the West Bengal government, contested Kaul’s submissions.   The bench, also comprising Justices S Abdul Nazeer and Hemant Gupta, however, directed that Ghosh should not be arrested till the election was over. The court ordered that arrest warrant arrest issued against her should be kept in abeyance to allow her to file nomination and to campaign for the election.  In her application, Ghosh said she faced unprecedented violence in all booths of Keshpur and an FIR was lodged against her during the 2019 Lok Sabha with "incorrect, baseless and malicious contentions, all of which are part of a well-planned political vendetta".  Despite apex court order of "no coercive steps" in series of "false cases" lodged against her on February 19, 2019, which was extended from time to time, she has been subjected to the practice of entangling in new cases and continues to face pressure in all possible manner.  The FIR at Keshpur police station was lodged against Ghosh for alleged voluntary causing hurt, wrongful restraint and attempt to murder and under provisions of Representation of People's Act, during Parliamentary elections on May 12, 2019. She said this FIR was not uploaded until recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-puts-in-abeyance-arrest-warrant-against-west-bengal-bjp-candidate-bharati-ghosh-959926.html
09-03-2021||National||DDC members boycott training, stage protest for better status||Cutting across party lines, the newly elected district development council (DDC) members on Tuesday boycotted a two-day training-cum-workshop here and staged a protest in support of their demand for better status and monthly honorarium. The protest came a day after the Jammu and Kashmir administration amended its warrant of precedence, placing the DDC chairpersons equivalent to administrative secretaries, vice chairpersons to vice-chancellors of universities and the DDC members to district magistrates. The members, affiliated with different political parties including the BJP, the National Conference, the Congress, the PDP, the CPI(M) and independents from across the Union Territory, gathered as per the schedule at the Convention Centre here for the training programme, scheduled to be inaugurated by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha. However, they boycotted the programme and staged a massive protest in the lawns against the administration demanding better protocol and monthly honorarium, including ministerial status for the DDC chairperson and minister of state (MoS) status for vice chairperson. As per the government order, the DDC chairpersons would get monthly honorarium of Rs 35,000 including Rs 1,500 travel allowance and Rs 500 telephone charges. Vice chairpersons will get Rs 25,000 including Rs 1,500 travel allowance and Rs 500 telephone charges and members will get Rs 15,000 including Rs 1,500 travel allowance and Rs 500 telephone charges. Secretary Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Sheetal Nanda made repeated attempts to hold dialogue with the slogan-shouting protesters, who termed the government order as 'crude joke' with them and sought the intervention of the central government and the Lt Governor. "We have unanimously decided to boycott this programme and lodge our protest. We want the administration to review its wrong decision and accord ministerial status to the chairperson, MoS status to vice-chairperson and members to a status as given to MLAs," DDC chairperson and senior BJP leader Bharat Bushan told reporters. DDC chairperson from Budgam Nazir Ahmad Khan said the government has played with their honour by lowering their status and left them red faced before their electorate. "The Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council (LAHDC) chairpersons are conferred with the cabinet status and members are enjoying MOS status. The Srinagar and Jammu mayors also enjoy the MoS status, while as we are representing the entire district and given a status of an administrative secretary," he said. Khan said the government issued the order of precedence deliberately ahead of the training programme to put a seal on it. "We will not accept it...the situation in Kashmir is grave where we have to live under constant threat and accompany by our personal security officers (PSOs) and feed them as well. We spend Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 per day," he said, adding this is not an issue of any party but "we have joined hands to protect our honour". Another DDC chairperson Ghulam Mustafa Khan said, "If we were not given our rights, how come we protect the rights of our people who have voted for us. The government has disgraced us and by this order of precedence conveyed a message that we have no importance which is not acceptable to us." He said the monthly honorarium announced by the government would encourage corruption. DDC member Taranjeet Singh demanded the immediate intervention of the central government and the Lt Governor in addressing the issue. "We will continue our protest till our demands are met,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ddc-members-boycott-training-stage-protest-for-better-status-959935.html
09-03-2021||National||All you need to know about the Ambani bomb scare case||A Hiren Mansukh's Scorpio with 20 gelatin sticks inside was found near Antilia, Ambani's multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25 with a threatening note. Police said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Around midnight of February 25, the SUV was parked off Antilia at Carmichael Road, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman, Mukesh Ambani. The SUV was spotted by police and the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad was rushed to examine and diffuse the bomb. 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter were recovered. Investigators found that the Scorpio had a fake number plate – identical/similar to one of the cars that is a part of the security detail of the Ambani family. Mumbai Police later said that an Assistant Commissioner of Police-level officer would spearhead the probe. The Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police launched parallel investigations into the case, Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was made the Investigating Officer. Mansukh Hiren’s statement was recorded at Crime Intelligence Unit at Crawford Market. On March 4, Mansukh Hiren got a call from “some Tawde of Kandivli Crime Branch” who asked him to meet him at “Ghodbunder Road” in Thane, after which, Hiren goes missing and the family lodged a missing complaint with the Naupada police station. Later, the body of Mansukh Hiren was fished out from Reti Bunder in Thane district's Mumbra. Thane police registered an accidental death report and the body was sent for post-mortem at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalva. Maharashtra Legislature discusses the matter and the Opposition BJP demanded NIA probe into the incident. Later, Maharashtra Home Minister handed over the probe to the state's Anti-Terrorism Squad. In a significant development, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) said that they will probe a possible murder angle in the death of Mansukh Hiren. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the probe into the planting of the explosives-laden Scorpio SUV on March 8 which left the tri-party Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation in Maharashtra fuming. CM Thackeray said that there was something “fishy” and hence the federal agency had taken over the investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-you-need-to-know-about-the-ambani-bomb-scare-case-959936.html
09-03-2021||National||Toolkit case: Delhi court extends protection from arrest to Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk till March 15||A court here on Tuesday extended protection from arrest till March 15 to Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, both accused along with young climate change activist Disha Ravi in a case of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after the counsel appearing from both the accused persons said they needed time to go through the reply filed by the Delhi Police before advancing arguments in the matter. The judge heard the submission and directed the police not to take any coercive action against both the accused till March 15, when the court will further hear the matter. Jacob, Muluk and Ravi were booked for sedition and other charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-delhi-court-extends-protection-from-arrest-to-nikita-jacob-shantanu-muluk-till-march-15-959940.html
09-03-2021||National||Govt granted in-principle nod to set up plastic parks in 2 states: Gowda||The Centre has given 'in-principle' approval for the establishment of two new plastic parks in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, Chemicals and Fertilisers Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Tuesday said in Parliament. Gowda, in his written reply to the Lok Sabha, said the government had received requests from seven states -- Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh and Goa -- for the proposal to set up new plastic parks. However, preliminary proposals outlining the location, estimated project cost and feasibility before the due date, was received only from Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh. "In-principle approval has been accorded for the establishment of plastic parks in Karnataka at Ganjimutt, Dakshina Kannada, near Mangaluru and Uttar Pradesh at Gorakhpur based on the recommendations of the expert committee, which had carried out the technical evaluation of the preliminary proposals," he said. The minister further said all units being set up in plastic parks have to obtain necessary clearances and comply with statutory environmental norms. Gowda replied negatively when asked if the environment is likely to be impacted adversely by establishing plastic parks and any survey been conducted by the government in this regard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-granted-in-principle-nod-to-set-up-plastic-parks-in-2-states-gowda-959941.html
09-03-2021||National||PM Modi inaugurates 'Maitri Setu' between India and Bangladesh||Underlining the achievements of the Biplab Deb dispensation in Tripura with support from the Centre, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in an apparent reference to West Bengal on Tuesday said wherever a "double-engine" government was not there, policies empowering the poor were either not implemented or were moving forward at a very slow pace. In his remarks inaugurating the "Maitri Setu" between India and Bangladesh, Modi said about three years ago the people of Tripura had created history and gave a strong message to the whole country as they made a new beginning by dislodging the negative forces that stalled the development of the state. "The potential of Tripura had been enchained, but you broke those chains," he said. Tripura is experiencing the clear difference between the 30 years of the earlier government and the "double engine" government of the last three years, he asserted. The BJP under Biplab Deb emerged victorious in the 2018 Assembly Election, putting an end to the over 25-year rule of the Left Front in the state. Referring to the mandate of the assembly elections, Modi said, "You decided to put a double engine of development -- one in Tripura and the second in Delhi. Because of this decision of putting a double engine, the results and the path of progress that emerged is before you." In place of corruption and commission culture of the earlier years, benefits are reaching directly in the accounts of the beneficiaries, Modi said. He also pointed out that employees who were hassled over salary being credited on time are getting salary as per the 7th pay commission. For the first time, Minimum Support Price (MSP) for crops has been decided in Tripura where farmers used to face many problems for selling their produce, he said. Tripura which was pushed back by strike culture for many years is now working for ease of doing business, Modi said. At the online event, Modi also inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple infrastructure projects in Tripura. Noting that new investments are changing the earlier scenario of closures of industry, he said exports from Tripura in terms of volume have increased five times. Tripura is also becoming an example for those big states where a "double engine" government is not there. "Those governments that waste time in fighting Delhi, they are also getting to know that Tripura has transformed from a power deficit state to a power surplus one due to a double engine government," he said, in an apparent swipe at the Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government which has been at loggerheads with the Centre on several issues. "The country is also seeing that wherever a double-engine government is not there, you can look at your neighbourhood, policies empowering the poor, farmers and daughters were either not implemented or were moving forward at a very slow pace," the prime minister said, in another apparent reference to West Bengal. The prime minister often uses the term "double engine" to describe the scenario of BJP governments both at the Centre and in the state. Modi said that in the past six years, the central government has taken care of every requirement for the development of Tripura and underlined that there has been a significant hike in the central allocation for the state. Tripura had received Rs 3,500 crore for central development schemes between 2009 and 2014, while more than Rs 12,000 crore has been provided between 2014 and 2019, he said. Modi asserted that the "double engine" government is working to strengthen Tripura and has transformed the state from a power deficit state to a power surplus one. The prime minister also listed other achievements of the "double engine" government in the state like connecting two lakh rural households with piped drinking water, providing 2.5 lakh free gas connections, making almost every village in Tripura open defecation free, 50,000 pregnant women receiving the benefit of Matru Vandana Yojana, 40,000 poor families getting their new homes, etc. Farmers and poor families in Tripura are getting the benefit of PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat, he said. In a video message at the event, Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina said political boundaries in the region should not become physical barriers for trade. Prime Minister Modi said that connectivity related infrastructure has seen tremendous improvement in the last three years and cited the rapid work for the airport, sea-link for internet in Tripura, rail link and waterways in this regard. Modi said the "Maitri Setu" will give an impetus to the economic opportunity in Bangladesh, noting that he had laid the foundation stone of the bridge during his visit to Bangladesh. The prime minister said now people will not have to depend only on road network for any kind of supply to the Northeast. He also said efforts are underway to connect Chittagong port of Bangladesh with the Northeast through an alternative route via the river. Due to this bridge over the Feni river, Agartala will become the nearest city to an international sea port in India, Modi said. Modi said the inauguration of several projects are efforts to make Agartala a better city. The prime minister said that the decades-old Bru refugee problem found a solution due to the efforts of the government. He expressed hope that a Rs 600-crore package will bring positive change in the lives of Bru people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-inaugurates-maitri-setu-between-india-and-bangladesh-959943.html
09-03-2021||National||173 people detained when Article 370 was abrogated in J&K still under custody: Centre||As many as 173 people, including separatists, over ground workers, stone pelters, who were detained when the Article 370 was abrogated in August 2019 in Jammu and Kashmir, continue to be under custody, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the government of Jammu and Kashmir has reported that in view of the constitutional changes effected by the Parliament with regard to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir in August 2019, various measures were taken in the interest of security and public order which included preventive detention of certain persons. "Since August 1, 2019, 627 people including separatists, over ground workers, stone pelters etc., were detained at various points of time. Out of these, based on regular review and ground situation, 454 persons have been released till date," he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy also said the government of Jammu and Kashmir has further reported that no person is under home arrest under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act. 'Terrorist violence in J&K reduced significantly post abrogation of Article 370'  The Centre also said the terrorist violence in Jammu and Kashmir has reduced significantly after the abrogation of Article 370 in August 2019 and cited a decline in terror incidents in the Union Territory in 2020 in comparison to 2019. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said in the Lok Sabha that 244 terror incidents were reported in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020 in comparison to 594 in 2019, while 221 terrorists were killed in 2020 in comparison to 157 in 2019. Till February 2021, 15 terror incidents occurred in the Union Territory in which eight terrorists were killed, he said in a written reply. The minister said 33 security personnel and six civilians were killed in Jammu and Kashmir in 2020 and 27 security personnel and five civilians were killed in 2019. "After the abrogation of Article 370, the number of terrorist incidents in Jammu and Kashmir has reduced significantly," he said. Reddy said the central government has adopted a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism and has taken various measures, such as strengthening of security apparatus, strict enforcement of law against anti-national elements, intensified cordon and search operations to effectively deal with the challenges posed by the terrorist organisations. The security forces also keep a close watch on persons who attempt to provide support to terrorists and initiate action against them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/173-people-detained-when-article-370-was-abrogated-in-jk-still-under-custody-centre-959949.html
09-03-2021||National||Congress urges Amit Shah to reveal details of 'mysterious death' in Kerala gold smuggling case||The opposition Congress in Kerala on Tuesday urged Union Home Minister Amit Shah to reveal the details of the alleged mysterious death in connection with the gold smuggling case and claimed that the CPI(M)-BJP nexus was the reason for him to hide the truth. KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran said Shah should have the guts to disclose the details if any such death had occurred under mysterious circumstances as otherwise it would amount to hoodwinking the people of the state. Covering up the details known to Shah, exposes the saffron party's 'secret ties' with the Marxist party, he said. Echoing similar sentiments, Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala said the war of words between Shah and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the incident was just a 'drama' and urged the latter to tell if such a death had indeed taken place. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy was of the view that it was notmutual questions by the leaders of the two parties which people wanted, but answers. The Congress leaders made the scathing attack against the BJP and the CPI(M) while holding a joint press meet in New Delhi. While addressing a mass rally of party workers at Shangumugham here on Sunday, Shah had mentioned about a "mysterious death related to the gold smuggling case". Slamming the Kerala CM, he also asked Vijayan to answer certain queries posed by him related to the matter. In a tit-for-tat, Vijayan on Monday described Shah as an "embodiment of communalism" and said it was the BJP leader who was jailed for the crimes of alleged "kidnapping and fake encounters". " "Both the BJP and CPI(M) are trying to create a smokescreen among people. The speeches of Shah and Vijayan were part of a pre-planned script. Both the parties are aiming for a Congress-mukth Kerala," Ramachandran said. The leaders also wanted to know why Vijayan was not being questioned by the investigating agencies over the mysterious death if Shah had information about the case. "It clearly shows the secret undercurrent between the BJP and CPI(M). "The union home minister is responsible if the probe into the gold smuggling case stops midway," they added. Meanwhile, BJP state president K Surendran dismissed as 'baseless' the allegations made by Vijayan against Shah. Vijayan had referred to the deaths of Sohrabuddin Sheikh, his wife Kauser Bi and her brother Tulsiram Prajapathi to hit back at Shah. He had also mentioned the death ofCBI court Judge B H Loya, who was hearing those cases. "Court had discharged Shah in those cases. But, now Vijayan, a murder case accused, is now raising it," Surenderan said. On Vijayan's description of Shah as an "embodiment of communalism", the BJP leader said the Left cadres were not even allowing the party to field a Hindu candidate in Ponnani in Muslim-dominated Malappuram district. Surendran was referring to a protest rally taken out by the local CPI(M) workers in Ponnai against the party leadership's reporteddecision to field CITU national secretary P Nandakumar in the constituency. The protesters wanted party district secretariat member, T M Siddique as candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-urges-amit-shah-to-reveal-details-of-mysterious-death-in-kerala-gold-smuggling-case-959950.html
09-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against notification on exempting authorities from undertaking EIA||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought response from the Centre on a plea challenging the notification exempting authorities from undertaking the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) if a road project has length less than 100 kilometer. The apex court, meanwhile, directed the Centre, West Bengal government and an NGO to exchange names among themselves which were suggested for being appointed in an expert panel on fixing criteria on felling of trees for projects on the basis of their overall value. The direction was passed by a bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde which was hearing a plea by NGO ‘Association For Protection Of Democratic Rights’ against felling of over 350 trees for construction of railway over bridges (ROB) and widening of National Highway-112 from Barasat to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the NGO, told the bench that a separate plea has been filed against the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MoEF’s) notification exempting authorities from undertaking EIA for road projects up to the length of 100 kilometer. “We issue notice on this,” the bench, also comprising justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, said and asked the Centre to respond to it by March 18. On February 18, the apex court had orally observed that prima facie it was inclined to strike down Centre's notification exempting authorities from undertaking EIA if a road project has length less than 100 kilometer. It had said it would consider setting up of an experts' panel on fixing criteria on felling of trees for such projects on the basis of their overall value. The bench had sought names of experts from lawyers including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta for the committee to be set up to lay down criteria on felling of trees for such projects. A committee of four experts, appointed earlier by the apex court, had valued at Rs 220 crore the 300 heritage trees which were to be chopped for the construction of five railways over bridges in West Bengal in terms of oxygen and other products they offer. Earlier, the top court had observed that it would consider laying down a protocol to be followed for projects like road widening which require cutting of trees so that there is minimum damage to the environment. A committee had informed the bench that before implementing a project of national importance environmental impact assessment is desired and this has not been done in the project under consideration. The apex court had earlier formed a committee of environment experts to suggest an alternative to felling of over 350 trees for construction of ROB and widening of National Highway-112 from Barasat to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border in West Bengal. The five-member committee is headed by Dr Soham Pandya of the Centre of Science For Village, Wardha. The Calcutta High Court on August 31, 2018, had paved the way for widening of the national highway and allowed felling of over 350 trees for widening of Jessore Road, which connects the city to Petrapole on the Indo-Bangladesh border, on the condition that five trees will be planted for each tree cut. The NH-112 or Jessore Road is an important link between India and Bangladesh and the state government had undertaken a project to widen it. Hundreds of old trees line both sides of the road, some of which were decided to be felled for the purpose of widening of the road. A PIL was moved before the high court challenging the state’s plan to fell trees. After arguments for several months, the high court had allowed felling of 356 trees at five places from Barasat to Petrapole border along the Jessore Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-notification-on-exempting-authorities-from-undertaking-eia-959953.html
09-03-2021||National||Union MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari bats for digitalising SFURTI scheme||MSME Minister Nitin Gadkari on Tuesday suggested officials to digitalise the Scheme of Fund for Regeneration of Traditional Industries (SFURTI) as it would help in its faster implementation. The ministry is implementing the scheme to organise traditional industries and artisans into clusters to make them competitive and increase their income. The scheme provides support for creating infrastructure through Common Facility Centres, procurement of new machineries, creating raw material banks and improved packaging. "My suggestion to the secretary (MSME) and others is to digitalise the scheme," he said here while inaugurating a two-day workshop on implementation of clusters under SFURTI "We need to make the system transparent, time-bound, result-oriented and corruption-free," he added. The minister said there is a need to step up the pace of formation of such clusters as only 93 of the 394 announced so far are actually functional, and a target of 5,000 clusters is achievable if the process is fastened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-msme-minister-nitin-gadkari-bats-for-digitalising-sfurti-scheme-959954.html
09-03-2021||National||India, world's top Covid-19 vaccine maker, denies shortage in Rajasthan||The Indian government on Tuesday denied any shortage of coronavirus vaccine doses in Rajasthan and said that it was sending supplies around the country based on demand and consumption patterns. The world's biggest vaccine maker has so far given 23 million doses to some 17 million people, with the pace picking up significantly since last week after more people were made eligible. And as demand has risen in India after a slow start and initial hesitation among people, Rajasthan this week became the first state to publicly seek urgent replenishment of its stock. The federal health ministry, however, said that there was no shortage in the state or anywhere in the country. It said Rajasthan, a state of about 70 million people, still had 1.4 million doses left as of Monday night. "The factual position is that there is no shortage of Covid-19 vaccine with the state at present," the ministry said in a statement. "The central government is regularly monitoring the availability of vaccine supply in all states and (federal territories), and providing the doses as per their requirement and consumption pattern." India, which wants to inoculate 300 million of its 1.35 billion people by August, began its campaign in mid-January with the AstraZeneca shot and another developed at home by Bharat Biotech and a state institute. It is donating or selling vaccines to more than three dozen countries, drawing some criticism for not expanding its own immunisation campaign further. After the United States, India has reported the world's most coronavirus infections, which jumped by 15,388 on Tuesday to 11.24 million. Deaths rose by 77 - the lowest in many months - taking the total to 157,930.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-worlds-top-covid-19-vaccine-maker-denies-shortage-in-rajasthan-959960.html
09-03-2021||National||3.17 lakh cyber crimes in India in just 18 months, says govt||A total of 3,17,439 cybercrimes and 5,771 FIRs were registered online through a centralised portal in the last 18 months -- a sizeable number of them in Maharashtra and Karnataka, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the Ministry of Home Affairs operationalised the National Cyber Crime Reporting Portal on August 30, 2019, to provide a centralised mechanism to the citizens for online reporting of all types of cybercrime incidents, with a special focus on cyber crimes against women and children. "As per the data maintained, since its inception 3,17,439 cybercrime incidents and 5,771 FIRs have been registered up to February 28, 2021, in the country which includes, 21,562 cybercrime incidents and 87 FIRs in Karnataka and 50,806 cybercrime incidents and 534 FIRs in Maharashtra," he said in a written reply to a question. The minister said that incidents reported on this portal, their conversion into FIRs and subsequent action thereon are handled by the state and Union Territory law enforcement agency concerned as per the provisions of the law. The MHA holds regular interactions with the state and UTs and advises them to expedite the disposal of cybercrime incidents reported with special emphasis on those relating to women and children, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/317-lakh-cyber-crimes-in-india-in-just-18-months-says-govt-959961.html
09-03-2021||National||Private companies developed 38 farm markets in 3 years, says Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar||Private companies have developed 38 farm markets in four states with a total investment of over Rs 300 crore in the last three years, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday and added that the new farm laws aim at boosting investment in agri-infrastructure. As per the 2006 National Commission on Farmers’ Report, the minister said there should be one market to serve 80 square kilometre (sq km), whereas presently one regulated market serves 473 sq km. In order to realize a greater number of markets in the country and to induce competitiveness and efficiency in the marketing ecosystem, there is a felt need for investment in farm marketing. "Farm laws aim at promoting agriculture marketing infrastructure and supply chains for efficiently connecting farm gates to markets for the benefit of farmers by encouraging investments," Tomar said in his written reply to the Lower House. As per the information available from state governments, a total number of 38 private agriculture markets have been developed during the last three years including current year involving total investment of Rs 301.19 crore, he said. Out of which, 18 markets have been developed in Maharashtra with an investment of Rs 88.62 crore, six markets in Gujarat at Rs 151.6 crore and 12 markets in Rajasthan at Rs 49.75 crore and two markets in Karnataka at Rs 11.22 crore, he added. Tomar replied in affirmative when asked if new farm laws will have huge scope for private sector investment in agri-markets and improve efficiency of such markets in the country. The three laws -- The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act -- are intended to improve the efficiency of agri-markets in the country. The minister said that these farm Acts facilitate direct buying from farmers in trade areas by traders, processors, exporters, Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) and agri co-operative societies so as to facilitate farmers with better price realization to enhance their income, he said. Further, the minister said the farm laws will "accelerate more investment in marketing and value addition infrastructure including that in storage facilities near to farm gate creating more employment opportunities for rural youth." Farm laws provide additional marketing opportunities to farmers for selling their produce outside the APMC (agriculture produce marketing committee) market yards such as at farm-gates, cold storages, warehouse, silos, etc. to help farmers get remunerative prices due to additional competition, he added. Tomar said the new farm laws provide sufficient safeguard mechanisms to protect the interest of farmers including that of small and marginal farmers. "Simple, accessible, quick and cost effective dispute resolution mechanism is prescribed at local Sub-divisional level and deterring penal provisions have been provided against traders to prevent and curb any violation of the Act by them," he noted. It may be noted that farmers from Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh are protesting for more than 100 days at Delhi borders seeking repeal of new farm laws. The stalemate continues as several rounds of talks between the government and protesting farmers' unions have failed to yield any result.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-companies-developed-38-farm-markets-in-3-years-says-union-agriculture-minister-narendra-singh-tomar-959964.html
09-03-2021||National||Trivendra Singh Rawat resigns as Uttarakhand CM||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday quit from his post amid rumblings within the party over his leadership. The 60-year-old Rawat, who would have completed four years in office next week, handed over his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, joining the league of chief ministers who never completed their five year tenure. Among the eight chief ministers of Uttarakhand, which was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000, only Narayan Dutt Tiwari had enjoyed a full tenure. Higher Education Minister Dhan Singh Rawat, an MLA from Srinagar in Pauri district of the state, is tipped to be the front runner to succeed Rawat. Political developments in the state went into an overdrive last weekend when the BJP high command dispatched emissaries -- Raman Singh and Dushyant Gautam -- to assess the pulse of the MLAs. Rawat had flown to the national capital on Monday and met BJP chief Jagat Prakash Nadda where he was learnt to have been given the marching orders. The change of guard in Uttarakhand comes an year ahead of the assembly elections. In 2017, BJP had trounced the Congress by winning 57 seats in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trivendra-singh-rawat-resigns-as-uttarakhand-cm-959970.html
09-03-2021||National||Delhi government allocates Rs 1,550 crore in budget for development of unauthorised colonies||The Delhi government on Tuesday allocated Rs 1,550 crore in budget for the development of unauthorised colonies in the city. Presenting the budget for the financial year 2021-22, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the portfolio of finance, said so far, construction work has been completed or is in progress in 1,345 out of 1,797 unauthorised colonies of Delhi. For the development of unauthorised colonies, Rs 1,550 crore has been allocated, he said. Sisodia lauded the efforts of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) and said all the slums of NDMC, SDMC and EDMC have been declared 'Open Defecation Free'. It has provided 674 Jan Suvidha Complexes with 21,586 western seats. The deputy chief minister said in 619 slums, 10,16,531 metre of concrete pavements and 250 kilometre of drains have been constructed. Twenty-one slum development centres have also been built. Reiterating the government's commitment to providing 'Jahan Jhuggi, Wahan Makaan', Sisodia said in Sultanpuri, the work of allotting 1,060 houses to the people living in the nearby slum settlements is in the final stage. Apart from this, the construction of 784 multistoried houses for the economically weaker section has started in Dev Nagar, Karol Bagh. Sisodia said Rs 5,328 crore has been allocated for housing and urban development projects in 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-allocates-rs-1550-crore-in-budget-for-development-of-unauthorised-colonies-959975.html
09-03-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's response on setting up environmental regulator||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on appointment of an environmental regulator for green clearances, which was directed for in 2011. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the Centre to file its reply as advocate Prashant Bhushan contended all environmental clearances have become farce with no independent oversight. Bhushan pointed out that the court had in 2011 directed for setting up of a national environment regulatory body to ensure independent oversight of green clearances, in the ‘Lafarge mining case’. The court also issued a notice to the Centre on a plea by Bhushan for quashing a notification, which stated that there would be no need for an environmental clearance for a road project of 100 kms length.  The top court was hearing a petition by Association for Protection of Democratic Rights (APDR), challenging the construction of bridge projects in West Bengal to prevent felling of trees.  During the course of the hearing, the court suggested that environmentalist Ranjeet Singh, who drafted the Wildlife Protection Act, be included in a committee.  The court said somebody has to assess the value of heritage trees, which were to be removed for building a road. The committee will lay down a protocol on whether the trees have to be cut down at the construction sites, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-response-on-setting-up-environmental-regulator-959980.html
09-03-2021||National||Covaxin phase 2 data shows vaccine safe, induces immune response: Lancet Study||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin has shown better safety and enhanced immune responses in the vaccine's Phase-2 clinical trial results, medical journal Lancet said in its study The Hyderabad-based company last week announced that its vaccine demonstrates 81 percent efficacy in preventing Covid-19. Bharat Biotech's interim projections were based on Covaxin's Phase-3 trials. Covaxin, developed by Bharat Biotech and ICMR-National Institute of Virology, is part of the ongoing Covid-19 immunization drive in the country. Lancet had published the Phase-1 trial results in January. The interim report then said that Covaxin affected enhanced immune responses against Covid-19.  In the phase 1 trial, BBV152 or Covaxin induced high neutralising antibody responses that remained elevated in all participants at three months after the second vaccination. “In the phase 2 trial, BBV152 showed better reactogenicity and safety outcomes, and enhanced humoral and cell-mediated immune responses compared with the phase 1 trial,” the report whose contributors include Bharat Biotech CMD Krishna Ella, and ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava and others said.  The phase-2 trials of the indigenously developed vaccine were conducted in September for which 921 potential participants were screened. 380 of them enrolled andrandomly assigned into two groups - 3 μg with Algel-IMDG group (n=190) or 6 μg with Algel-IMDG group (n=190). The Lancet Infectious Diseases paper, published on Monday, said that the 6 μg with Algel-IMDG formulation has been selected for the phase 3 efficacy trial. The report said that the proportion of participants reporting adverse events in the phase 2 trial were lower than in the phase 1 trial.  The most common adverse event in the phase 2 trial was pain at the injection site, followed by headache, fatigue, and fever. No severe or life-threatening adverse events were reported.  “Further corroboration with phase 3 safety results is required. The study enrolled a small number of participants aged 12–18 years and 55–65 years. Follow-up studies are required to establish immunogenicity in children and in those aged 65 years and older,” the Lancet publication said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covaxin-phase-2-data-shows-vaccine-safe-induces-immune-response-lancet-study-959981.html
09-03-2021||National||NEP will once again make India 'Vishwa Guru', says Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said here on Tuesday the National Education Policy 2020 (NEP) will transform India and once again make the country a 'Vishwa Guru' (global teacher). This new policy is both national and international, inclusive and innovative, impactful and interactive and built on the cornerstone of "equity, quality and access," he said addressing the Association of Professional Colleges Managements meet here. Pokhriyal said the NEP saw elaborate consultations and deliberations which did not happen till date in the world with direct consultations with 33 crore students and their parents, 1.1 crore teachers and professors, 1,000 vice-chancellors, principals of 50,000 degree colleges, from Gram Pradhan to Prime Minister, from village to Parliament. Over 2.5 lakh suggestions were received on this policy, he said. "Did you see any opposition against NEP in the country. If anyone wants to oppose (then) come before me. I am ready to explain but nobody is coming forward. Those who oppose just for the sake of opposing also did not muster courage. What will they oppose for? This new policy is for nation-building...It is aimed at transforming India and enabling the country regain its position as Vishwa Guru and we will grow in knowledge, research, science and technology and all spheres," Pokhriyal said. The NEP, approved by the Union Cabinet, replaces the 34-year-old National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower. The NEP is coming up with a lot of reforms, and will pave the way for holistic and multidisciplinary education, he said adding there is a lot of enthusiasm and exuberance on this new policy in Telangana and the entire country. "The policy by providing primary education in mother tongue, will impart vocational education from sixth standard along with subjects like artificial intelligence (AI) in school education and hence it is a unique and historic education policy in the world. We will also move ahead in research and development," the Union Minister said. The state governments have constituted a Task Force (for NEP implementation) and guidelines have been issued to some states also, he said. Pokhriyal further said for the National Research Foundation (being built) Rs 50,000 crore has been allocated towards patent, research and development over the next five years and added it (proposal over its creation) will come up before the Union Cabinet soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nep-will-once-again-make-india-vishwa-guru-says-union-education-minister-ramesh-pokhriyal-nishank-959986.html
09-03-2021||National||Intranasal Covid vaccine candidate in early clinical stage of development in India, says government||An intranasal vaccine candidate (BBV154), being developed by Bharat Biotech, is in early clinical stage of development in India, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Choubey was responding to a question on the status of launching a nasal vaccine for Covid-19. Most vaccines are administered by injection through intramuscular or subcutaneous route. But, intranasal vaccines are administered as a nasal spray and offer a needle-free approach for vaccine administration, Choubey said in a written reply. "The interval period between the two doses is presently 21 days. The schedule will be finalized after the phase I clinical trial data. Currently, in phase I clinical trial, single dose and two dose schedules are being tested," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intranasal-covid-vaccine-candidate-in-early-clinical-stage-of-development-in-india-says-government-959988.html
09-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat steps down||In your evening news brief, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat steps down; More than 20 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 8 and Michelle Obama will be inducted into the US National Women's Hall of Fame. Here is the top news of March 9, 2021:  Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday quit from his post amid rumblings within the party over his leadership. The 60-year-old Rawat, who would have completed four years in office next week, handed over his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, joining the league of chief ministers who never completed their five year tenure. Political developments in the state went into an overdrive last weekend when the BJP high command dispatched emissaries -- Raman Singh and Dushyant Gautam -- to assess the pulse of the MLAs. The change of guard in Uttarakhand comes an year ahead of the assembly elections.   More than 20 lakh people were inoculated against coronavirus on March 8, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to over 2.3 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. As on day-52 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive (March 8), 20,19,723 vaccine doses were given. Meanwhile, Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Karnataka continue to report a surge in the Covid-19 daily new cases. They cumulatively account for 84.04 per cent of the new cases reported in a span of 24 hours.   Former US first lady Michelle Obama will be inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame along with eight other women including former PepsiCo CEO Indra Nooyi, soccer icon Mia Hamm and NASA mathematician Katherine Johnson, who died last year. The National Women's Hall of Fame named the members of its Class of 2021 set to be inducted on Oct. 2 on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-uttarakhand-chief-minister-trivendra-singh-rawat-steps-down-959994.html
09-03-2021||National||Millions of women face health risks from LPG subsidy cuts||By Debjit Chakraborty, Saket Sundria and Dhwani Pandya Five years ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government offered Indian women a chance to dramatically improve their lives with cooking fuel subsidies in what became one of his administration’s most celebrated campaigns.   Now, hamstrung by a widening fiscal deficit, New Delhi has been slowly reducing the size of those handouts -- a shift that risks upsetting women voters and potentially exposing millions to heavier levels of pollution. In Allauddinnagar, a village in India’s Uttar Pradesh state, Laxmi Kishore, a 35-year-old homemaker, is worried. Cooking food for her family used to be an ordeal that involved using cheap fuels like cow dung, crops and wood, which burn with a sooty flame and left her teary eyed and choking. When Modi’s program made liquefied petroleum gas cylinders affordable to her some years ago, she breathed more easily. Now Kishore is preparing to return to her earthen stove and the smoggier fuels her ancestors used because the subsidy that landed in her account each time she refilled a cylinder has stopped arriving. Her husband lost his job as a cashier in a highway restaurant during last year’s Covid-19 lockdown, making a cooking cylinder unaffordable to them without the handout. “I’m dreading a return to my earlier pain,” she said. “It will mean less sleep and suffering in the smoke again.” Provisions for the LPG cooking fuel subsidies were halved in the federal budget for the fiscal year ending March 2022 to 124.8 billion rupees ($1.7 billion) from 255 billion rupees a year earlier. A spokesperson at India’s oil ministry didn’t respond to a request for comment. The government continues to modulate the “effective price” for subsidized domestic LPG, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said in a written response to questions from parliament. “The subsidy on the product increases/decreases with the increase/decrease in the product price in international market and decision of government on subsidy,” he added. The program launched in 2016 by the Modi government offered cash rebates for purchasing an LPG connection and a loan for the first canister of the fuel and stove. More than 80 million women from extremely poor households had received such LPG connections by Jan. 1 this year. The government announced plans in the latest federal budget to extend the benefit to another 10 million households, mostly located in the remote forests and hilly areas. To help the poor struggling with lockdowns, the government last year also offered free LPG refills of three cylinders. India’s LPG consumption in 2020 surpassed gasoline for the first time ever over a calendar year, government data show. But the free supplies were a one-off move and the finance director of Indian Oil Corp., the largest retailer of the cylinders, said last month that the government had last year stopped subsidizing the fuel for consumers except in the most remote areas. Meanwhile, prices of LPG have surged across the country. Cost of a typical LPG cylinder sold by Indian Oil in Delhi has increased by 40% since November to Rs 819. Some opposition parties are focusing on the issue of high LPG prices for regional elections against Modi’s Bharatiya Janata Party. Providing cooking gas has been one of the biggest successes of Modi’s flagship welfare programs which also included building toilets and houses for the poor. “The elephant in the room is the price rise,” said Arati Jerath, a New Delhi-based author and political analyst. “The LPG program started as a very popular scheme, but has been petering out because of the price increase. Modi will have to come up with a new emotive issue as the government is running out of money to indulge in populism measures.” LPG is crucial for reducing domestic pollution in India. The country has the highest instances of premature deaths in the world due to emissions from burning fossil fuels, including coal and oil products, according to research done by Harvard University in collaboration with other academic institutions. “Withdrawal of subsidy and increase in prices is likely to affect LPG consumption, particularly in rural areas where alternatives such as firewood, agricultural residue, dung cakes are readily available,” according to Ashok Sreenivas, a senior fellow at Prayas, an Indian advocacy group that works in energy policy. An increase in the use of alternative solid fuels will “definitely impact the health” of rural women and children as these release particulate matters that can cause illnesses including lung cancer, heart ailments and even stroke, he said. India faces issues other than price in getting poorer populations to adopt cleaner fuel. Availability is also a problem in far flung areas that are hard to reach, Prayas said in a December report. India’s oil ministry has said beneficiaries of the program availed of less than two refills of the three free ones offered over nine months last year. Air pollution inside houses, primarily due to burning solid fuels like wood, dried dung and biomass, contributed to more than 1 million deaths in 2010, making it the second- biggest health risk factor in India, according to a 2015 report by Steering Committee on Air Pollution and Health Related Issues. The International Energy Agency in a special report last month said that despite the recent success in expanding coverage of LPG in rural areas, 660 million Indians haven’t fully switched to modern, clean cooking fuels. Higher costs and fewer subsidies might only make it harder to draw new users. Vehicular exhaust, industrial emissions and other factors have already made India home to 14 of the 20 most polluted cities in the world. The task of encouraging the poor to use the cleaner fuel becomes even more challenging with millions losing their jobs during the pandemic. Poor households are more sensitive to higher fuel prices as they can easily shift to cheaper alternatives for which they need to pay just a few cents every day, rather than spending as much as $11 per cylinder upfront. “Prices are rising and the government has stopped compensating us,” said Kaushal Kishore, Laxmi’s husband. “I can’t afford LPG any further and this is my last cylinder till I find myself a job.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/millions-of-women-face-health-risks-from-lpg-subsidy-cuts-959998.html
09-03-2021||National||Police remand of gangster Ravi Pujari extended till March 15||A specialcourt in Mumbai on Tuesday extended the police remand of gangster Ravi Pujari till March 15 after the accused told the court he wanted to share certain information with the investigation officer. Earlier, the special Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA) court had remanded Pujari to police custody till March 9 in a 2016 case of firing at a restaurant. At the end of the remand period, police produced Pujari before special judge D E Kothalikar and sought further custody. Special Public Prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves submitted that the confessional statement of the accused was recorded by the competent authority and the accused needs to be confronted with the same. Pujari's lawyer, however, said sufficient opportunity has already been granted to the investigating officer and, therefore, there is no need to further extend police custody. In the meantime, Pujari told the court he wanted to make certain submissions in person, which the judge allowed. Pujari said he had certain information which he wanted to share with the investigating officer, and also submitted that he had no objection to extension of police custody for a period of five days. After considering the facts and submissions, the court extended Pujari's police custody. Pujari was brought to Mumbai from Bengaluru on February 22 in connection with a firing incident that took place in suburban Vile Parle on on October 21, 2016. According to police, it was done by the Pujari gang to intimidate a restaurant owner and extort money. Pujari has as many as 49 cases registered against his name at various Mumbai police stations, and was extradited to India from Senegal in West Africa in February last year after being on the run for several years, and was lodged in a jail in Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/police-remand-of-gangster-ravi-pujari-extended-till-march-15-960003.html
09-03-2021||National||India summons UK envoy over 'unwarranted' discussion on farm laws||Irked by the discussion in the United Kingdom’s parliament on the continuing protests by the farmers in India, the government on Tuesday summoned the British High Commissioner in New Delhi, Alex Ellis, to the Ministry of External Affairs and served him a démarche. New Delhi conveyed to London that the discussion in the UK’s Parliament on the protest by the farmers was a “gross interference” in the politics of India. It also stressed that the members of the British Parliament should not practise “vote-bank politics”. The British High Commissioner was the second foreign envoy to New Delhi to be summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) over criticism against the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in the wake of the protest by the farmers against the new agricultural laws in India. Ottawa’s envoy to New Delhi, Nadir Patel was on December 4 last summoned to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), senior officials served him a démarche, conveying that the comments made by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau and other ministers of the Canadian Government on the protest by the farmers “constitute an unacceptable interference in internal affairs” of India. The discussion in the UK’s parliament saw several British MPs of the Labour Party and the Scottish National Party as well as the Liberal Democrats expressing concern over the way the Modi Government responded to the protest by the farmers. They also expressed concern over the alleged harassment of journalists who reported on the agitation against the new agricultural laws of India. “The unprecedented protests should make one think about why so many are turning up. The arrests of journalists is a matter of serious concern,” Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the Labour Party, said. “The arrests of journalists is a matter of serious concern.” The discussion prompted Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government in London to indicate that it could raise the issue when he and Prime Minister Narendra Modi would meet or hold talks. “While this is an exciting time for the UK-India partnership, it does not hinder us from raising difficult issues,” Minister of State for Asia, Nigel Adams, said. He referred to Johnson’s proposed visit to New Delhi later this year for a meeting with Modi. “This will be an opportunity to discuss a range of bilateral issues with India. Where we have serious and specific concerns, we will raise them directly with the Indian Government, as would be expected of a friend and neighbour. Candid discussions are an important part of our mature and wide-ranging relationship with the Indian Government,” he said, in spite of recognizing that agricultural reforms was an internal matter of India. The UK’s parliament took up the issue for discussion as an e-petition asking the lawmakers to discuss it had crossed the 1,00,000-signature threshold required for such a debate. It, however, raised the hackles in New Delhi. Ellis was summoned to the MEA where Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla conveyed New Delhi’s “strong opposition” to the “unwarranted and tendentious” discussion on “agricultural reforms” in India in the UK’s Parliament. Foreign Secretary made clear that “this (the discussion in the UK’s parliament) represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country,” according to a press release issued by the MEA. Shringla also told London’s envoy to New Delhi that the members of British MPs should “refrain from practising vote bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-summons-uk-envoy-over-unwarranted-discussion-on-farm-laws-960008.html
09-03-2021||National||Piped water supply in all unauthorised colonies in two years: Sisodia||Piped water supply to all unauthorised colonies will be ensured in a phased manner in the next two years, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. The government has set aside Rs 3,274 crore for the schemes and projects of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) for the financial year 2021-22. Of this, Rs 600 crore is for 20 kilolitres free water subsidy scheme, which benefits about 6 lakh beneficiaries every month. There are 1,799 unauthorised colonies in the national capital. Of these, 1,622 now come under DJB's piped water supply network, Sisodia said. "Water supply to all unauthorised colonies will be ensured in a phased manner in the next two years except 113 colonies which have not yet received a no objection certificate from the Archaeological Survey of India or those that fall in the forest area," he said. Presenting the budget, the deputy chief minister said 93 per cent of the families in the national capital now have access to piped water supply. The Interceptor Sewer Project (ISP) is also around 99 per cent completed, he said. The ISP will trap sewage water from 108 sub-drains of three major drains — Najafgarh, Shahdara and Supplementary, which would then be sent to the nearest sewage treatment plant for treatment, before being discharged into drains. This would help to bring down pollution levels in the river. "With the help of STPs and ISP, the Yamuna can now be cleaned completely within the next three years," he said. He said the DJB has installed rainwater harvesting system in 585 of its 771 installations and the rest will be covered before the monsoon season this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/piped-water-supply-in-all-unauthorised-colonies-in-two-years-sisodia-960009.html
09-03-2021||National||NCW sends fact-finding panel to probe rape of woman by cop inside police station compound||The National Commission for Women (NCW) has sent a three-member fact-finding team to Alwar in Rajasthan to inquire into allegations that a woman who had gone to lodge a complaint against her husband was trapped and raped repeatedly inside the police station compound by a sub-inspector. The woman had gone to the police station to lodge a case against her husband as he wanted a divorce. According to the woman's complaint, the accused SI raped her for three days at a quarter inside the police station. The NCW, in a statement, said it is seriously concerned about the reported incident. It is the duty of the police to preserve public order, prevent crimes and reduce the opportunities for commission of crimes. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma has written to the Director General of Police of Rajasthan seeking adherence to guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs of completing probe in two months in cases of sexual assault. "The commission has sent a three-member fact-finding team to Alwar to inquire into the matter," the NCW said. The commission has also sought a detailed action taken report in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncw-sends-fact-finding-panel-to-probe-rape-of-woman-by-cop-inside-police-station-compound-960020.html
09-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: AMMK to release election manifesto on March 12||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, will release its election manifesto for the April 6 Assembly election on March 12. Dhinakaran said the manifesto will be released by him at a public meeting that will have AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and other alliance partners in attendance. Dhinakaran, whose AMMK scored 5.25 per cent votes in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, had on Monday announced that his party will contest the April 6 election, notwithstanding his aunt Sasikala's appeal to all true loyalists of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa to “unite” and bring “Amma's rule.” The same day, he also announced an alliance with AIMIM and allotted three seats for the party. Speaking to reporters here, Dhinakaran dismissed as “non-implementable” and “false promises” announcements by DMK and AIADMK that they would disburse “rightful pay” every month to women heads of families. “Are these promises implementable? Why are they cheating? Already the state is staring at a debt of over Rs 5 lakh crore and how will these promises see the light of the day. These parties are promising everything just to come to power. It shows their desperation,” Dhinakaran said.  “We will also try to announce candidates by March 12 and we are planning to introduce our candidates at the meeting,” he said. AMMK led by Dhinakaran was brought into AIADMK by Sasikala just hours before she left for Bengaluru to surrender before authorities at the Parappana Agrahara prison in February 2017. After the defeat, Dhinakaran went into a shell and has hardly addressed any public meeting in the past year, though other parties like DMK, AIADMK, and MNM have already launched their election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-ammk-to-release-election-manifesto-on-march-12-960025.html
09-03-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM Rawat's resignation eyewash to hide govt's failures: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday said the resignation of Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat was an eyewash to hide the government's "failures", and urged the President to dismiss the BJP dispensation in the state. Congress party in-charge for Uttarakhand Devendra Yadav said at a press conference that the act shows the "admission" by the BJP of its government's "failure" in fulfilling the aspirations of the people of the state. He said the BJP government should resign and go to the people to seek fresh elections. Yadav said this shows that nothing in the name of development has taken place in Uttarakhand under the BJP rule, except "corruption". "This is a failed attempt of the BJP to cover up the failures of its government in the state and hide the corruption taking place there," he alleged. "The Congress demands immediate dismissal of the BJP government and the resignation of Trivendra Singh Rawat alone would not suffice. The BJP needs to resign from the government and go to the people again," he said. "The President of India should take note and dismiss the government as it has failed to fulfil the aspirations of people. The people of Uttarakhand demand that this government be dismissed and President's Rule imposed and fresh elections be held in the state," Yadav said claiming that the Congress is ready for election. The Congress leader said Rawat's resignation is a result of alleged corruption, lack of development, rising unemployment and mismanagement during the pandemic and earlier during the Kumbh Mela. He claimed that Uttarakhand has a high unemployment rate of 26 per cent and huge migration is taking place from villages in the state in the absence of employment opportunities. "The BJP tries to find an escape route and this is one," he said, alleging that people understand everything and will give a befitting reply to the BJP in the next elections. Asked about the BJP talking of course correction, Yadav said, "It is clear that the BJP admits that this government has not done anything in the name of development and only corruption has taken place in the state." Rawat resigned as Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, ending days of speculations about a leadership change in the BJP-ruled hill state amid reports of discontent against him. Rawat submitted his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan here upon his arrival from Delhi where he met the central BJP leadership. He was to complete four years in office later this month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-rawats-resignation-eyewash-to-hide-govts-failures-congress-960035.html
09-03-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti moves Delhi HC challenging ED summons issued in money laundering case||Former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti Tuesday approached the Delhi High Court seeking quashing of summons issued to her by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for March 15 in a money laundering case. The 61-year-old PDP leader, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, has been served notice to appear at the ED headquarters in the national capital. The petition is likely to be listed for hearing on Wednesday before a bench headed by Chief Justice D N Patel. Besides, she has also sought to declare section 50 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution. Section 50 of the Act gives powers to authorities regarding summons, production of documents and to give evidence. Mufti has also sought an interim stay on the summons until the question of law in relation to the constitutionality of Section 50 of the Act is decided. “She has not been informed if she is being summoned as an accused or as a witness. She has also not been informed of what she is being summoned in connection with and the scheduled offence under the PMLA which gave rise to the proceedings in respect of which impugned summons has been issued to her. The petitioner is not the subject of investigation, nor is she an accused, in any of the scheduled offences to the best of her knowledge,” the plea said. The plea claimed that ever since Mufti was released from the preventive detention following the formal abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution, there have been a series of hostile acts by the State, against her, acquaintances and old family friends, who have all been summoned by the ED and a roving inquiry about her personal, political and financial affairs was made, in the course of which their personal devices have been seized. She has also written a letter to the ED pointing to the roving nature of the inquiry undertaken in the case thus far and that in the event that she is questioned, she will insist on the legitimacy of the process, it said. “As a responsible member of society, the petitioner is always ready and willing to aid the process of law. However, it is equally her duty to bring to the notice of this court, deviations from due process in legislative and executive acts. The petitioner apprehends that the impugned notice is a means of bringing undue pressure and harassment upon her and therefore, the petitioner wishes to assert her constitutional rights in this regard,” the petition said. After receiving the ED summons, Mufti had said the Centre's "tactics to intimidate and browbeat political opponents" won't work. "GOI's tactics to intimidate & browbeat political opponents to make them toe their line has become tediously predictable. They don't want us to raise questions about its punitive actions & policies. Such short-sighted scheming won't work," she had wrote on Twitter, without any mention of the ED notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-mufti-moves-delhi-hc-challenging-ed-summons-issued-in-money-laundering-case-960036.html
09-03-2021||National||Volvo Cars to launch one electric car every year in India; to start with XC40 Recharge in October||Swedish luxury car maker Volvo Cars on Tuesday said it will launch one electric car every year in India, starting with the full electric SUV, XC40 Recharge, in October this year, with an eye on becoming a fully electric car company by 2030. The company, which has announced a target to become carbon neutral by 2040 as part of its sustainability initiatives, said it is also gearing towards having all its dealerships in India becoming green dealerships. Commenting on the planned launch of the EV, Volvo Car India Managing Director Jyoti Malhotra said, "We will commence bookings of our first pure electric SUV, XC40 Recharge, in June this year and start deliveries three months hence. By 2025, electric cars should constitute 80 per cent of our annual sales." Stating that the XC40 Recharge has been received well globally, he said, "We expect the same in India as well. Starting this year, we will launch one electric car every year in the Indian market and by 2030, we aspire to become a fully electric car company." This will reinforce the company's values and commitment towards sustainability and climate safety, Malhotra added. Bullish on the Indian EV market, Malhotra said, "We are committed to becoming a leader in the fast-growing premium electric car market and plan to double our volumes in the next two years." The company said it intends to sell only fully electric cars and phase out any car, in the portfolio, with an internal combustion engine, including hybrids by 2030. "This is in sync with the company's global climate plan, which seeks to consistently reduce the life cycle carbon footprint per car through concrete action," Volvo Car India said. It added that the move towards full electrification comes together with an increased focus on online sales and a more complete, attractive and transparent consumer offer. On its dealerships in India becoming green showrooms, the company said, "It is undertaking skill upgradation of its dealer workforce to familarise them with the new technology of electric cars as well as to respond to the exacting requirements of its customers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/volvo-cars-to-launch-one-electric-car-every-year-in-india-to-start-with-xc40-recharge-in-october-960037.html
09-03-2021||National||Siddaramaiah questions heavy excise duty on petrol, diesel||Former Karnataka Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on Tuesday slammed the Centre for levying heavy excise duty on petrol and diesel which has fuelled the prices of essential commodities. Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi for blaming the previous government for rise in fuel prices as it failed to make India self-reliant, Siddaramaiah said, "You have been in power for the past seven years. Why could you not make India self-reliant in fuel?" The Prime Minister had promised to bring 'Achche Din' but failed to live up to the promise, the leader of the opposition said in the Karnataka Assembly. "While the struggle for existence has aggravated with people rendering jobless, prices of essential commodities have skyrocketed due to fuel prices," the Congress veteran said. "What is the need for so much excise duty? The Manmohan Singh government had given subsidy but now there is no need for it. Yet, the prices are going up," he said. Siddaramaiah claimed the basic value of petrol and diesel per litre is Rs 32.94 and Rs 34.10 respectively. According to him, a Central excise duty of Rs 32.98 is levied on petrol and Rs 31.83 on diesel while the state further imposes 35 per cent and 24 per cent of sales tax on diesel and petrol respectively. Around Rs 3 is charged as distribution commission and about 34 paise as a delivery charge on each litre of petrol. The Congress leader claimed that in 2013 when the UPA led by Manmohan Singh was at the Centre, per barrel crude oil price in the international market was $125.45, which came down to USD 46.18 per barrel in 2016, 49.88 in 2019, 54.77 in January 2021 and 64.56 in March 2021. Despite the reduction, petrol prices have risen to Rs 100 per litre in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh, the former chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siddaramaiah-questions-heavy-excise-duty-on-petrol-diesel-960038.html
09-03-2021||National||India needs 25 lakh daily vaccination run-rate to cover 30% population by December: Report||With just under 1 per cent of the population vaccinated so far at a daily run-rate of 1.4 million doses, India will have to inoculate 2.5 million daily to cover at least 30 per cent of the population, that too by the end of the year, according to a report. But even at 1.4 million daily vaccinations now, India is the second-fastest in the world, grossing up 21 million vaccinations so far after the US, but this is the lowest among the 26 most-affected countries in terms of coverage, UBS Securities India economist Tanvee Gupta Jain said in a report on Tuesday. She, however, expects the run-rate to increase in the coming weeks as the private sector participation rises and assumes a higher run-rate of 2.5 million daily doses would ensure inoculation of 30 per cent of the population by 2021-end, and 62 per cent by 2022-end, building in a two-dose vaccination regime. But if the daily run-rate stagnates at the current level of 1.4 million, the country would have inoculated only 16 per cent of the population by 2021-end, she said. The country began the vaccination drive on January 16 in stages, with the first stage meant for frontline healthcare workers in-line with the global trend. The second stage, currently underway, is meant for vulnerable people -- senior citizens and persons with comorbidities. As of March 7, 21 million doses had been administered in the country and at 1.4 million daily inoculations, India is second to the US which does 2.15 million doses a day. In terms of the proportion of people vaccinated based on a two-dose regime, Israel is at 50 per cent, the UAE at 32 per cent, Britain at 17 per cent and the US at 13 per cent to date and India is at less than 1 per cent. UBS analysts now estimate 18.7 per cent of the global population will be vaccinated by 2021-end. Twenty of the 26 largest economies saw an improvement, including every single developed economy the team tracks, but the pace slowed in emerging markets. The largest contributor to acceleration in developed markets was the US with a run-rate of 2.15 million vaccine doses per day. In terms of vaccination cost, Jain said the Budget has allocated an additional Rs 1,18,000 crore towards public healthcare, which is 1 per cent of the GDP and double of FY21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-25-lakh-daily-vaccination-run-rate-to-cover-30-population-by-december-report-960044.html
09-03-2021||National||Navjot Sidhu questions use of EVMs in polls, seeks voting through ballot papers||Congress MLA and former Punjab Minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Tuesday questioned the use of EVMs in the elections and said voting should be held through ballot papers. Speaking for the first time in the ongoing Budget session in the Assembly, Sidhu during the Zero Hour said countries like the USA have disapproved polling through electronic voting machines (EVMs). The Amritsar MLA said these countries had reasoned that any technology could be “manipulated” but not ballot papers. Sidhu spoke after Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjeet Singh Bains raised the issue in the House. Bains said according to Article 328 of the Constitution, a state Assembly is empowered to decide whether it wants election through an EVM or ballot paper. Citing an example, Bains said the Maharashtra Assembly Speaker had asked the state government to bring a Bill for reintroducing ballot papers as a mode of conducting elections. To this, Speaker Rana K P Singh said he will get the matter examined. Backing Bains, Sidhu told the Speaker, “You do not allow elections through EVMs in Punjab, not even a single seat can be won by the central government.” “It is not an issue of political parties. It is an issue of democracy,” said Sidhu demanding a resolution over it. Former cricketer-turned-politician also slammed the Union government, accusing it of “politicisation of institutions.” “The institutions have been turned into puppets,” he alleged. Leader of Opposition and AAP legislator Harpal Singh Cheema also demanded a resolution, stating that the elections should not be held through EVMs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navjot-sidhu-questions-use-of-evms-in-polls-seeks-voting-through-ballot-papers-960072.html
09-03-2021||National||Delhi riots: Court frames charges of rioting, unlawful assembly, dacoity against accused||A court here on Tuesday framed charges against a man for allegedly being part of an unlawful assembly and rioting in north east Delhi in February last year. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat said there are grounds for presuming that accused Suresh had committed offences under sections 143 (punishment for unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 427 (mischief), 454 (lurking house trespass) of the Indian Penal Code read with section 149 (unlawful assembly)  and section 395 (dacoity) IPC. The offences entail a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. The court noted that Head Constable Sunil, who was the beat constable in the area, had identified Suresh as part of the rioters who had allegedly damaged and looted a shop in Welcome area because it was owned by a Muslim. It said even the owner of the shop had identified him to be allegedly a part of the rioters and who was angrily shouting to destroy the shutter and loot the shop. "Thus, as per the statement of public witness Bhagat Singh and HC Sunil, accused Suresh was part of the unlawful assembly which were armed with 'lathies' and 'sariyas' and formed an unlawful assembly and committed rioting and used force in prosecution of that common object of that rioting, they broke open the shutter and locks of the shop of the complainant Asif, owned by Bhagat Singh, to commit theft and committed offence under Section 454 IPC. "They also committed mischief as a result and committed the dacoity of the articles lying inside the shop, as per the complaint of the complainant Asif, thereby committing offence under section 395 IPC," the court said in its order. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-riots-court-frames-charges-of-rioting-unlawful-assembly-dacoity-against-accused-960078.html
09-03-2021||National||Can gold smuggling be termed as 'terrorist activity'?: Supreme Court to examine||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine a question whether the offence of gold smuggling can be termed as 'terrorist activity' under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). A bench of Justices R F Nariman and B R Gavai issued notice to Centre and National Investigating Agency (NIA) on a plea against an order of Rajasthan High Court, which had declined to quash the FIR registered by the probe agency under the offences of UAPA. "Issue notice", the bench said in its order passed on Monday. The petitioner, Mohammad Aslam, who was caught smuggling over 1.5kg gold at Jaipur International Airport has sought stay of arrest, investigation and proceedings in the FIR lodged by the NIA under provisions of UAPA. The plea filed by advocate Aditya Jain said that after the case was transferred to NIA, it registered an FIR on the ground that the smuggling of the gold by Aslam was done with the intent to threaten the economic security and damaging the monetary stability of India. Aslam contended that the second FIR registered by NIA after the first one lodged by the custom officials, was arbitrary and no prima facie case of economic terrorism was made out against him as alleged. “The petitioner was not found to be connected with any terrorist or any extremist group and his background was not suspicious at all,” his plea said. Aslam claimed that he worked as labourer on contract in Saudi Arabia since May 2018 but during the outbreak of Coronavirus, he had lost his job. “During this time of distress, one person named Lal Mohammad contacted present petitioner and influenced him to deliver some amount of gold to an unknown person in Jaipur and in lieu of that he promised to book a return ticket to Jaipur and offered Rs. 10,000. Since the present petitioner was unemployed and desperate for money, he fell into the trap of Lal Mohammad and agreed to his offer,” the plea said. Aslam said that NIA has nothing on record that the smuggled gold was to fund terrorism and section 15 of the UAPA specifically states that whoever does any act with intent to threaten or likely to threaten the economic security of India commits a terrorism act. “The FIR is baseless on this ground and deserves to be quashed as the NIA could not show any such intent of the petitioner. Moreover any such act would not alone attract the offence under UAPA. The smuggling of gold should have been dealt under the corresponding provision of the Customs Act and not UAPA”, his plea said. He said that the NIA has registered the FIR on mere suspicion that the proceeds of gold smuggled might be used for financing terrorism in India. “Even, if the petitioner had funded for smuggling of gold, it would not amount to any offence under the UAPA because an act done with the intention to cause damage to the economic security of India alone would attract the offence under UAPA,” he said. Aslam contended that second FIR by NIA cannot be lodged on the same facts and grounds on which the initial case was lodged under Customs Act. On July 3, last year, officials of customs department seized more than 18.56 kg gold bars at Jaipur International Airport and arrested ten persons including Aslam, who was allegedly carrying 1515.70 grams of Gold and had arrived from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. On July 5, Aslam and nine others were produced before the court and sent to 14-days judicial custody in the case lodged by Customs department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-gold-smuggling-be-termed-as-terrorist-activity-supreme-court-to-examine-960087.html
09-03-2021||National||Farmer leaders to visit poll-bound West Bengal, Assam||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting against the Centre's three agri laws, on Tuesday said it would send a team of leaders to the poll-bound West Bengal and Assam in a bid to appeal to voters not to vote for the "anti-farmer" BJP. Farmer leader Darshan Pal said in a statement that the visit will be spread over three days starting from March 12. Pal told PTI that the team will have 4-5 people including him and Yogendra Yadav. The final details will be known on Wednesday, Kavitha Kuruganti, a member of SKM, said. Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam will begin on March 27. The SKM also said the number of farmers who have "sacrificed their lives" in the agitation has crossed 280 on Tuesday. "Today, a 50-year-old farmer Radheshyam from Jind district of Haryana got martyred at Tikri Border," it said. The farmer body also condemned an "attack by ABVP" on labour rights activist Nodeep Kaur at Delhi University on Monday, where she was to address a women's day programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-leaders-to-visit-poll-bound-west-bengal-assam-960088.html
09-03-2021||National||Over 3 lakh held for violating liquor law in Bihar so far||Over 3.46 lakh people have been arrested for violating the liquor law in Bihar so far, Prohibition, Excise and Registration Minister Sunil Kumar told the legislative Assembly on Tuesday. Among them 5,000 people have been arrested from Punjab, Haryana and Jharkhand for illegally supplying liquor in dry Bihar, the minister said. While replying to his department's budgetary demand, he said the government agencies have also seized 53 lakh litres of country-made liquor and 97 lakh litres of India Made Foreign Liquor till February this year. The Nitish Kumar government has put a total ban on the sale and consumption of alcohol, local as well as foreign brand, since April 1, 2016. He said a police station will be opened at a place where godown was located in Ramkrishna Nagar on the bypass road in the state capital from where police had seized liquor in huge quantity. Referring to the opposition charge that liquor is being sold under the patronage of police and civil administration, Kumar, himself an IPS officer who joined politics after retiring from DG rank, said that 186 police personnel and eight excise department staff have been sacked from the service on this count. Not only this, 60 SHOs will not be appointed on this post for the next 10 years as punishment, Kumar added. In order to dispel the notion that prohibition has adversely affected tourism in the state, the minister said the state on the other hand has witnessed more than a 21 per cent increase in the number of tourists -- both foreign and domestic -- between 2015-19. Stating that liquor mafias will be arrested and a speedy trial will be conducted against them, the minister asserted that their properties will be auctioned after confiscating them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-3-lakh-held-for-violating-liquor-law-in-bihar-so-far-960090.html
09-03-2021||National||Seamless transport will hugely benefit India-Bangladesh: World Bank report||Seamless transport connectivity between India and Bangladesh will not only have huge economic benefits but also has the potential to increase India's national income by 8% and that of Bangladesh by 17%, says a new World Bank report. The report, titled Connectivity to Thrive: Challenges and Opportunities of Transport Integration in Eastern South Asia said Northeastern states, West Bengal and even states like Uttar Pradesh and Maharastra will have huge economic benefits from seamless connectivity. The report was released on Tuesday and comes days before Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh on March 26. At present, Indian trucks are not allowed to transit through Bangladesh. As a result, the northeast of India is particularly isolated from the rest of the country and connected only through the 27-km-wide Siliguri corridor, also called the “chicken’s neck”. This leads to long and costly routes. Goods from Agartala, for example, travel 1,600 km through the Siliguri corridor to reach Kolkata Port instead of 450 km through Bangladesh. If the border were open to Indian trucks, goods from Agartala would have to travel just 200 km to the Chattogram Port in Bangladesh, and the transport costs to the port would be 80% lower, said the report. According to the report, all districts in Bangladesh would benefit from integration, with the eastern districts enjoying larger gains in real income. States bordering Bangladesh such as Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram, and Tripura in the northeast, and West Bengal on the west, and states further away from Bangladesh such as Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra would also gain huge economic benefits from seamless connectivity. The report said to unleash the full potential of integration, the countries need to address the challenges such as infrastructure deficits, particularly in designated border posts, harmonization of regulations and customs procedures, the report says. Junaid Ahmad, World Bank country director in India, said the eastern sub-region is poised to become an economic growth pole for South Asia. "An important component of this development potential is for countries to invest in connectivity – rail, inland waterways, and roads,” he said. “This is especially true as the region begins its economic recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. Ultimately, connectivity offers the promise of long-term sustainable and inclusive growth.” The report said previous analysis indicated that Bangladesh’s exports to India could increase by 182% and India’s exports to Bangladesh by 126% if the countries signed a free trade agreement. This analysis found that improving transport connectivity between the two countries could increase exports even further, yielding a 297% increase in Bangladesh’s exports to India and a 172% increase in India’s exports to Bangladesh, the report said. "Geographically, Bangladesh’s location makes it a strategic gateway to India, Nepal, Bhutan, and other East Asian countries. Bangladesh can also become an economic powerhouse by improving regional trade, transit and logistics networks,” said Mercy Tembon, World Bank country director for Bangladesh and Bhutan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/seamless-transport-will-hugely-benefit-india-bangladesh-world-bank-report-960093.html
09-03-2021||National||Banks sanction Rs 2.46 lakh crore to 92 lakh borrowers under credit guarantee scheme||Banks have sanctioned loans worth Rs 2.46 lakh crore to about 92 lakh accounts under the Rs 3-lakh crore Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme for the MSME sector, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday said. As informed by National Credit Guarantee Trustee Company Ltd (NCGTC), the implementing agency of Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, as on February 28, 2021, the amount of loan sanctioned under ECLGS is Rs 2.46 lakh crore, he said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. Further, he said, NCGTC has informed that as on February 28, 2021, guarantees have been issued under ECLGS to 92.27 lakh borrowers, out of which 87.50 lakh borrowers are Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and 4.77 lakh borrowers are other business enterprises. Replying to another question, he said, over 1,10,019 loans have been extended since the launch of the 'Stand up India' scheme as on January 31, 2021, since its inception and beneficiaries can get a loan of Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore to start or increase their business. Giving more details, the minister said Stand Up India Scheme was launched by the government on April 5, 2016, and subsequently extended up to 2025. "The Scheme facilitates bank loans between Rs 10 lakh and Rs 1 crore to at least one Scheduled Caste/ Scheduled Tribe borrower and at least one woman borrower, per bank branch of Scheduled Commercial Banks (SCBs), for setting up greenfield enterprises in the manufacturing, services or the trading sectors," he said. As on January 29, 2021, over 1.84 crore loans amounting to Rs 63,143.40 crore have been disbursed to borrowers in Odisha under Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) since its inception.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-sanction-rs-246-lakh-crore-to-92-lakh-borrowers-under-credit-guarantee-scheme-960094.html
09-03-2021||National||India plays key role in Afghanistan: Russia||India plays a very important role in Afghanistan and its eventual deeper involvement in dedicated dialogue formats is natural, Russia said on Tuesday while rejecting a media report that claimed it kept India out of the international efforts for the Afghan peace process. Noted the publication in the Indian media claiming that Russia allegedly "kept India out" of the international efforts for the Afghan peace process, which seems to be based on "ill-informed sources", the Russian Embassy here said in a statement. Dialogue between Russia and India has always been very close and forward-looking on all global and regional issues, including the situation in Afghanistan, it said. The dialogue has been intensively maintained in bilateral and multilateral formats, including the SCO-Afghanistan Contact Group, Moscow consultations, etc., the statement said. The Russian Embassy said that due to the complexity of the Afghan settlement, moving towards a relevant regional consensus and coordination with other partners, including the US, is critical. "We proceed from the importance of the implementation of the US-Taliban agreement signed in Doha in February 2020 and approved by a UN Security Council resolution," it said. The statement came in response to a media report which claimed that Russia kept India out, while the US brought Delhi to the talks table for the Afghan peace plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-plays-key-role-in-afghanistan-russia-960095.html
09-03-2021||National||Parliamentary panel asks NHAI to complete pending projects||A Parliamentary penal has asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), to prioritise delayed road projects to prevent further cost escalation. The Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, in its report tabled in Parliament on Tuesday said that "the NHAI may prioritise the completion of its delayed road projects to prevent further cost escalation in such projects." The Committee recommends that the NHAI explore restructuring of its existing debt and prepare proposals to raise long-term funds through the upcoming Development Financial Institution announced in the Budget Speech (2021-22). Expressing its displeasure over a whopping Rs 97,115 crore debt servicing liability on NHAI, the committee pointed out debt servicing liability of Rs 38,997 crore for 2021-22, Rs 28,800 crore for 2022-23 and Rs 29,318 crore for 2023-24. The committee said that the debt servicing liability of NHAI for the next three Financial Years is higher than the estimates that the Ministry had provided to the Committee during its examination of Demands for Grants (2020-21) of the Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-asks-nhai-to-complete-pending-projects-960098.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Will use every democratic means to prevent onslaught on Kashmiri people: Mehbooba Mufti||The Kashmir issue has neither been resolved with the scrapping of Article 370 nor can it be wished away, says former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti. She tells DH’s Zulfikar Majid that the present calm in Kashmir is an uneasy one as people have been threatened into silence. Q. How do you assess the prevailing political situation in Kashmir? Do you think it can be defused? If so, how? A. The situation is quite distressing as the Government of India is treating mainstream leaders as enemies, as the problem. They are being hounded through Enforcement Directorate (ED), NIA and other agencies. The aim is to discredit us in order to create and cultivate a new crop of obsequious politicians who will carry forward New Delhi’s narrative. Many of our party men have been detained on frivolous grounds. My movement is curtailed time and again, as per their whims and fancies. Q. You recently said the BJP is treating J&K like a political laboratory. But not long ago you were in alliance with the party. If BJP wasn’t bad then, why is it so now? A. That’s true. J&K has become a laboratory for them to test their hateful and divisive agenda. After the 2014 parliamentary elections, it was clear that Modi and BJP may be around for not one term but a longer innings. Mufti (Mohammad Sayeed) sahab assumed that as Prime Minister of the country with such a big mandate, Modi would take forward the political process initiated by Vajpayeeji. By forming a government with the BJP, he gave them a stake in the J&K government under certain conditions -- that they wouldn’t tamper with Article 370, they would start a dialogue with Pakistan and the separatists, amongst many other pro-people measures. My father believed that while striving for a larger cause, we must first safeguard what we have. And to achieve that, he put everything at stake, including his credibility. Q. Will your Gupkar Alliance (GA) survive, given its internal contradictions? People’s Conference has left GA, and the alliance has been silent since the District Development Council (DDC) elections. A. I think this alliance is not only the need of the hour but a source of hope and strength for the people of J&K. So, it has to work come what may, for the larger interest of the state. Q. Should PDP and other parties’ participation in the DDC polls be read as your acceptance of the scrapping of Article 370 and J&K’s statehood? A. Participating in DDC elections was necessary to deny a field day for the BJP and its proxies. We live in a democracy and have to use democratic means to prevent the present onslaught on our people. Q. Will you participate in Assembly elections, too? A. As I said, we have to use every inch of our democratic space to fight the onslaught. We are a mainstream party and can’t stay out of the election process permanently. Q. PDP’s politics revolved around self-rule for almost two decades. After the abrogation of Article 370, has that goal become irrelevant? A. Self-rule is even more relevant today as it addresses the political, economic and political aspirations of people without compromising the sovereignty of India or Pakistan. It holds the vision to bring Kashmiris from both sides together without changing the territorial integrity of either, which suits both the countries and could solve the Kashmir issue. Q. You are optimistic that Article 370 will be restored someday, despite the fact that the Supreme Court has not yet heard the matter. Even several opposition parties supported the Modi government in Parliament on its scrapping. What is the basis of your confidence? A. The issue of Kashmir can’t be wished away and has not got resolved with the scrapping of Article 370, as the BJP would like us all to believe. It has further alienated the people of Kashmir and complicated the issue further. It may take time but it will have to be resolved, and that can be initiated only with the return of our special status and other confidence-building measures. Q. There has been a decline in stone-pelting incidents, strikes are rare, and there is calm in the Valley. Haven’t the people of J&K then accepted its new status? A. The calm is uneasy. People have been threatened into silence. No one can dare to whisper, not to talk of protesting. No one is spared, be it politicians, activists or journalists. The most recent example of this State-sponsored self-censorship and repression was the slapping of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) against the father of Athar Mushtaq (an alleged militant killed in an encounter) for demanding the body of his son. With so much repression, no one dares to raise their voice. Q. When you were released from confinement after a year, you said, “I will not pick up the tricolour until it does not have J&K flag in it, too.” Don’t such statements create a further wedge between Kashmir and the rest of the country? A. From the very first day I took oath as a legislator or even CM, I first swore by the J&K constitution, and then to uphold the sovereignty and integrity of our country. J&K flag is a part of the J&K constitution and derived its legitimacy from the Indian constitution. So how does saying that I will hold both the Indian and J&K flags together make me anti-national?||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-use-every-democratic-means-to-prevent-onslaught-on-kashmiri-people-mehbooba-mufti-959786.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||India must prepare for borderless war: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the country must prepare for a borderless war as the past practice of a 2.5-front war has become obsolete. "Indian forces are designed to fight a 2.5 front war. This is now obsolete. We must prepare for a borderless war," he wrote on Twitter. Indian forces are designed to fight a 2.5 front war. This is now obsolete. We must prepare for a borderless war. It’s not about past practices & legacy systems. It’s about transforming the way we think and act as a nation. "It's not about past practices and legacy systems. It's about transforming the way we think and act as a nation," the former Congress chief said. Gandhi has been accusing the government of ceding territory to China even when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has clarified in Parliament that not an inch of Indian territory has been lost.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-must-prepare-for-borderless-war-rahul-gandhi-959885.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly Elections | When TMC became an NDA ally in 1999 under the Vajpayee govt||The election for 294-seat West Bengal Assembly is poised to be a stiff contest between the TMC and the BJP. The election will be held in eight phases, beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27. Votes will be counted on May 2. Ahead of the much-awaited West Bengal elections, the BJP and TMC have been seen taking down each other in rallies. Be it PM Modi’s attack on Mamata Banerjee, or the latter accusing PM of ‘spreading lies’, the elections will see a direct battle between Didi vs BJP. But did you know, Mamata’s TMC was an ally of the National Democratic Front under the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government? Let’s go back to the 1990s. After being a Congress leader in her initial years, Mamata Banerjee had a fallout with the party due to difference in political views with the then-Congress state president Somendra Nath Mitra. In 1998, Mamata formed the All India Trinamool Congress (AITC). It gained prominence and quickly became the primary Opposition party in the state against the Communist government.  One year later, TMC formed an alliance with the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre and Mamata became the Railways Minister. However, following a Tehelka expose into the defence deals by the ruling NDA government, TMC walked out of the alliance and went back to the Congress before the West Bengal Assembly Elections in 2001. In 2003, TMC returned to the NDA  and she was made the Coal and Mines minister. The TMC faced a few setbacks starting from 2004 when Banerjee was the only elected MP from the party in General Elections. After another setback in the 2006 state Assembly Elections, Mamata resigned from the Lok Sabha. From there, TMC never looked back at the NDA as the party jumped to the other side in the 2009 Lok Sabha elections siding with Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-elections-when-tmc-became-an-nda-ally-in-1999-under-the-vajpayee-govt-959901.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Wish he was as concerned earlier as he is now: Scindia hits back at Rahul Gandhi||Senior BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia on Tuesday hit back at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's "would have become CM" remark, saying he wishes Gandhi was as concerned when he was in the Congress as he is now. Gandhi had told his party's youth wing leaders that had Jyotiraditya Scindia remained in the Congress he would have certainly become a chief minister but was now a "backbencher" in the BJP, according to sources. The former Congress chief said that he had told Scindia so, but "he chose a different path" by joining the BJP, where he can never be the chief minister. Asked about the remarks, Scindia told PTI, "I wish Rahul Gandhi was as concerned when I was in the Congress as he is now."  Scindia had left the Congress along with some legislators loyal to him to join the BJP last year. This led to the fall of the Kamal Nath-led Congress government in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/wish-he-was-as-concerned-earlier-as-he-is-now-scindia-hits-back-at-rahul-gandhi-959927.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi should be sent back to school to know what ministries exist under Centre: Giriraj Singh||Attacking Rahul Gandhi over his comments on creating a separate fisheries ministry, Union Minister Giriraj Singh on Tuesday said the Congress leader should be "sent to school" so that he knows what ministries and departments exist under the central government. Hitting out at the Opposition, especially the Congress, Singh said from 1947-2014, Singh said "those who ruled for generation after generation", gave only Rs 3,682 crore through central allocation for fisheries, whereas the Narendra Modi government has invested Rs 32,000 crore since 2014. "I have been hurt because of Rahul Gandhi's comments. On February 2, he had an unstarred question but after going to Puducherry and Kochi, (whether) he did not remember, I can not say... He said there is no fisheries department and 'if I come to power, I will have a separate ministry for fisheries'... I am raising a Constitutional issue," said Singh who is the minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying. "Please send their leader (Gandhi) to school. Tell him what ministries, departments exist or else he will forget what ministries are there under the federal structure," Singh said. In a written response to Gandhi's question in the Lok Sabha on February 2, Singh's deputy Pratap Chandra Sarangi said in order to address the infrastructure requirement for fisheries sector, the Department of Fisheries, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying during 2018-19 was created with dedicated fund namely Fisheries and Aquaculture Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) with a total fund size of Rs 7,522.48 crore. Last month, Gandhi had talked about the need for a separate fisheries ministry. He was mocked for his comments by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and several Union ministers as well as BJP leaders who pointed out that the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying already existed. Gandhi, later said that he was referring to a separate ministry for fisheries. "Those who don't know, those whose leader does not know that a fisheries department exists, when was it formed...Modi ji, in 2018-19, made two departments," Singh said. The growth of the fisheries sector under the Modi government was 10.87 per cent in comparison to 5.27 per cent during the Congress rule, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-should-be-sent-back-to-school-to-know-what-ministries-exist-under-centre-giriraj-singh-959962.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Will Dhan Singh Rawat be Uttarakhand's next CM?||With the BJP mulling a change of leadership in Uttarakhand, state minister Dhan Singh Rawat has emerged as a frontrunner to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat as the chief minister. Ajay Bhatt and Anil Baluni, two senior leaders from the state who are members of Parliament, are being seen as two other strong probables for the top post. Sources said the party may also bring in a deputy chief minister, who will be from the Kumaon region. Pushkar Singh Dhami is likely to be the deputy chief minister, they added. The central BJP leadership recently sent two observers, party vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushayant Kumar Gautam, to Uttarakhand to get feedback from the party's core group in the state amid reports of discontent against the chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-dhan-singh-rawat-be-uttarakhands-next-cm-959967.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Supreme Court to hear plea on hybrid court hearings after 4 weeks||The Supreme Court Tuesday said it would hear after four weeks a plea which has sought resumption of physical hearing of cases alongside the ongoing video-conferencing mode in all courts and tribunals across the country. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that it would keep the matter pending as e-committee of the apex court is “deciding something”. “We will keep this pending. Our e-committee is deciding something. We will circulate it to you as well,” the bench told advocate M L Sharma, who has filed the petition. At the outset, Sharma said that “so many tussles are going on” on the issue of resumption of physical hearing, “We are not worried about the tussles”, the bench said. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Sharma said, “We are at the mercy of registry (of the apex court). We have to run behind them”. The top court has been hearing cases through video-conferencing since March last year due to the pandemic and several bar bodies and lawyers have been demanding that physical hearings should resume immediately. The top court would commence hybrid physical hearing from March 15 and it had recently issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the purpose. The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) had Monday moved the apex court seeking the quashing of the SOP, saying it has been framed without consulting the Bar, an equal stakeholder in justice delivery system. Besides seeking quashing of the SOP, the plea, filed by SCBA and its Treasurer Meenesh Kumar Dubey, has sought a direction to the apex court's Registry not to issue “any circular without consulting the Bar”. "On an experimental basis, and as a pilot scheme, the final hearings/regular matters listed on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays may be heard in the hybrid mode, as may be decided by the bench, considering the number of parties in a matter as well as the limited capacity of the courtrooms; all other matters, including those listed on Mondays and Fridays, shall continue to be heard through video/tele-conferencing mode," said the SOP issued by the apex court. In his plea, Sharma has sought a hybrid mode of hearing, in which the litigants and the lawyers would be free to choose the mode of hearing. "Be further pleased to issue proper writ direction to the state to provide/arrange video systems for judicial proceedings all over India in the interest of justice," Sharma has said in his plea. The plea has said that paperless e-filing of judicial records and hearing through video-conferencing would save lives as papers have been found to be carriers of the Covid-19 virus. "Several registrars and staffers of this court and judges suffered from Covid-19 due to handling of paper books. Several litigants have been facing threats of getting the infection while visiting court premises...," the plea has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/supreme-court-to-hear-plea-on-hybrid-court-hearings-after-4-weeks-959971.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Adhir alleges digital blackout of Oppn members in Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla asks whether he wants to show chaos to country||Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury Tuesday alleged a "digital blackout" of Opposition members in the House to which Speaker Om Birla asked whether he wanted to show chaos to the country. As soon as the House convened at 11 am, Chowdhury said whether it is the government or the opposition, everyone has equal rights. "(But) there is a digital discrimination. Whatever the government says and does comes on television. Whatever the opposition says does not come on television. There are restrictions on the Opposition. Everyone is a stakeholder in the House. Whatever we do is being blacked out," he said. "The blackout should stop. The camera should focus on everyone," Chowdhury said. During this time, the Opposition members, mainly from the Congress, were raising slogans and demanding roll back of fuel prices. To this, Birla said, "Does the honourable Leader of the Congress in the House wants to show the chaos to the country?" Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi hit out at Chowdhury saying the Opposition does not want any discussion on any issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adhir-alleges-digital-blackout-of-oppn-members-in-lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-asks-whether-he-wants-to-show-chaos-to-country-959985.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal election: Suvendu Adhikari gives call to overthrow TMC from power||Senior BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari on Tuesday gave a clarion call to oust the TMC from power in Bengal as he led a 'padayatra' in Jhargram district. Adhikari, sporting a saffron 'tilak' on his forehead, chanted 'Hare Krishna Hare Hare, BJP Ghore Ghore' (BJP in every household), as a battery of saffron party workers cheered for him. Some of his supporters also raised the slogan 'TMC sarkar aar nei darkar' (we dont need the TMC government any longer), while holding high lotus symbol cutouts and saffron- coloured balloons. Adhikari, who crossed over to the BJP from the TMC in December last year, has been pitted opposite his ex-party supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in a do-or-die contest in Nandigram. The former state cabinet minister, while talking to reporters, said he will campaign for saffron camp candidates of Paschim Medinipur and Jangalmahal every other day. Incidentally, Adhikari's former mentor and TMC boss Mamata Banerjee held a public meeting in Nandigram during the day, as he canvassed for BJP candidates in Jhargram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-election-suvendu-adhikari-gives-call-to-overthrow-tmc-from-power-959993.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: Kamal Haasan's MNM to contest in 154 seats; allots 80 seats to allies||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan has stitched together an alliance with All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK) and Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi (IJK), positioning it as the 'First Front' for the April 6 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. According to a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between the two parties late Monday night, MNM will contest in 154 seats, while AISMK and IJK will field candidates in 40 constituencies each. A day after the agreement was signed, Kamal Haasan held a press conference along with AISMK chief and his colleague from tinsel town, R Sarathkumar, and IJK president Ravi Pachamuthu on Tuesday evening and got himself announced as the Chief Ministerial face. “We are the First Front. We have come together for the welfare of the state and people... this is the people's front. When Mahatma Gandhi launched the freedom struggle, the rich were not part of him. Likewise, people will support us. You will know that soon,” Kamal Haasan said. He was responding to a question on why many parties are "reluctant" to join the MNM alliance when it calls itself the 'First Front'. MNM, which scored 3.7 per cent of votes in its debut elections in 2019, projects itself as an "alternative" to the two Dravidian majors that have ruled Tamil Nadu alternatively since 1967. Haasan said he was opposed to both the AIADMK and the DMK, while he apparently kept the options open if actor Vijayakanth's DMDK expresses interest in joining his alliance. "We will welcome people when they come to us. We will find space for them," he said. Meanwhile, MNM Vice-President V Ponraj, who was Scientific Advisor to former president A P J Abdul Kalam, invited the DMDK to join the alliance led by his party. The DMDK quit the AIADMK-BJP alliance on Tuesday after talks failed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-kamal-haasans-mnm-to-contest-in-154-seats-allots-80-seats-to-allies-960012.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Kerala Assembly election: Only one out of four CPI ministers in the fray||As the CPI announced candidates for 21 constituencies in the Assembly polls in Kerala, only one of the four ministers of the party are in the fray. Many senior MLAs of the party are also out of the list as the party strictly enforced a maximum of two-term norm for MLAs. Revenue Minister E Chandrasekharan, who represents Kanhangad in Kasargod, is the lone CPI minister in among the candidates. The CPM that contested in 27 seats in the 2016 Assembly elections had won in 19 seats. Now the CPI will be contesting in 25 seats as two seats have to be spared for Kerala Congress (Mani), which is a new entrant to the Left Democratic Front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-assembly-election-only-one-out-of-four-cpi-ministers-in-the-fray-960016.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Some trying to target credibility of constitutional bodies due to political interests: Modi||Taking a swipe at the opposition, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday that some people always try to target the prestige and credibility of India's constitutional bodies due to their 'political interests', and asserted that they do not represent the country's mainstream. Speaking at an event to release manuscript with commentaries by 21 scholars on 'shlokas' of the Gita here, the prime minister said the freedom of action and thoughts advocated by the epic distinguishes Indian democracy which, he added, also gives people equal rights. People draw this freedom from democratic institutions which protect the Constitution, and that is why it is necessary to keep in mind our duties while speaking of our rights, he said before targeting the opposition without naming it. "There are some people today who are always making efforts as to how to target the prestige and credibility of constitutional bodies. Be it our Parliament, judiciary or even the Army, attempts are made to target them due to political interests. This tendency harms the country a lot." "It is a matter of satisfaction that these people do not represent the country's mainstream," he said, adding that the nation is now moving forward while focussing on its duties. The country has made the 'karmayoga' advocated by the Gita as its mantra and is working to change the lives of its poor, farmers, labourers, Dalits and the backwards, he said. In this context, the prime minister spoke of the help provided by India to several countries during the Covid-19 pandemic by sending them medicines and now vaccines without any condition, and credited the Gita's inspiration for it. The epic has taught selfless service to the mankind, he said. The manuscript, published by Dharmarth Trust, is written with extraordinary variety and nuance of Indian calligraphy ranging from Shankar Bhashya to Bhasanuvada. Veteran Congress leader Karan Singh, an expert on Hindu philosophy, is the chairman trustee of Dharmarth Trust, Jammu and Kashmir. The prime minister lauded Singh's work, and said his effort has revived the identity of Jammu and Kashmir, which had led the thought tradition of the entire India for centuries. Jammu and Kashmir Lt. Governor Manoj Sinha was also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/some-trying-to-target-credibility-of-constitutional-bodies-due-to-political-interests-modi-960029.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Assam polls: CM Sonowal, Congress' Ripun Bora file nomination for first phase||More than 170 candidates including Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal filed nomination papers for the first phase of polling in Assam on March 27.  The first phase will witness voting in 47 of Assam's 126 Assembly constituencies. These constituencies are in North and eastern Assam.  Sonowal filed his nomination papers from Majuli in eastern Assam (Upper Assam), from where he was elected as MLA in 2016, when BJP wrested power from Congress and formed its first government in the state.  Attired in traditonal dhuti-kurta, Sonowal marched for filing nomination papers in a procession that highlighted performances by troupes of Satriya culture. Majuli, an island of the Brahmaputra is a centre of Vaishnavite culture.  Former Congress minister Rajib Lochan Pegu, who was elected from Majuli for three consecutive terms since 2001, will be Sonowal's main contender. Pegu lost to Sonowal by 18,923 votes in 2016.  Tuesday was the last date for filing nomination for the first phase of polling.     President of Assam Pradesh Congress Committee, Ripun Bora, president of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), Atul Bora, president of Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) Lurinjyoti Gogoi, chief of Raijor Dal Akhil Gogoi, minister Keshav Mahanta (AGP) are some of the major names contesing in the first phase.   Union DONER minister Jitender Singh, BJP leader Jay Panda, Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, AGP president Atul Bora, UPPL chief Pramod Boro, among others accompanied Sonowal during filing of his nomination papers.  Sonowal exhuded confidence that BJP and its allies will form the government again. "There was large-scale corruption when Congress was in power (till 2016). We worked hard to end corruption and made sure that all communities can live together. We worked with sincerity to address the fear of losing the identity among indigenous people. We provided land patta to 3.65 lakh indigenous landless families including 16,000 in Majuli. So we are confident that people will again vote for BJP and our allies to keep this pace of development going," Sonowal said. Congress president, Ripun Bora, who filed his nomination on Sunday said people would vote against BJP mainly to register their protest against the CAA, price rise and the saffron party's failure to provide jobs.  BJP is in alliance with AGP and UPPL. Congress, on the other hand, stitched a grand alliance with six other opposition parties, including Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front and Bodoland People's Front. BJP's ally in 2016 AJP and Raijor Dal are contesting elections together but refused to be part of the Congress-led alliance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assam-polls-cm-sonowal-congress-ripun-bora-file-nomination-for-first-phase-960031.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: EC doubles broadcast time for political parties in 4 poll-going states, 1 Union Territory||The Election Commission on Tuesday doubled the broadcast time allotted to recognised political parties in West Bengal, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Doordarshan and All India Radio during the upcoming assembly polls in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and enhanced relevance of 'non-contact based' campaigning. It had taken a similar decision for Bihar assembly polls held late last year. "Considering the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and enhanced relevance of non-contact based campaign, Election Commission of India, in consultation with Prasar Bharati Corporation has decided to double the broadcast or telecast time allotted to each national party and recognised state party of Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal on Doordarshan and All India Radio" for the assembly polls, the commission said. A base time of 90 minutes will be given to each national party and recognised state party of Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal uniformly on the regional kendras of Doordarshan and All India Radio network in the poll going states and the UT. The additional time to be allotted to the party has been decided on the basis of the poll performance of the party in the last assembly elections held in these states and the UT in 2016. At the time of 1998 Lok Sabha elections, a new initiative for state funding of recognised political parties through free use of the state-owned television and radio was introduced. The scheme was subsequently extended in all the assembly elections held after 1998 and Lok Sabha polls in 1999, 2004, 2009, 2014 and 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-ec-doubles-broadcast-time-for-political-parties-in-4-poll-going-states-1-union-territory-960053.html
09-03-2021||National Politics||'Visionless, directionless, hollow': BJP, Cong slam AAP government budget||Opposition BJP and Congress slammed the Delhi government's budget presented in Assembly on Tuesday, alleging it lacks vision and makes hollow promises to the people of Delhi. The budget 2021-22 is 'silent' on present and short-term planning for Delhi, but sells 'dreams and hollow promises' of Delhi of 2047, city BJP president Adesh Gupta said in a press conference. The Delhi government presented a Rs 69,000-crore budget themed on 'patriotism' on Tuesday under which installation of 500 flag masts and programmes on the lives of freedom fighters are planned across the city, and announced free Covid-19 vaccination for all in its hospitals in the coming days. Senior Congress leaders addressed a joint press conference where they termed the Kejriwal government's budget 'visionless and directionless'. It lacks a financial package to bail out small scale, household industries, shopkeepers and traders affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic, they party leader said. BJP MLAs, numbering eight in the 70-member Delhi Assembly, staged a walkout after the budget was presented by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, alleging 'corruption' in bus procurement by the government. The Delhi BJP president charged that the AAP government used the budget not for development but electoral benefit. Every year, the Kejriwal government claims to be presenting a historic budget, but it fails to utilize the budgetary allocations for education, health, pollution and transport, he alleged. "This must be the first state budget in the country which shows dreams to people about 26 years later, but is silent on deteriorating pollution and public transport situation in Delhi. "Sisodia has talked of making Delhi like Singapore by 2047 and holding Olympic Games in Delhi while a few days ago the government talked of making Delhi like London and make Yamuna river as clean as the River Thames," Gupta said. BJP MLA and Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri said the budget had nothing for the field of health, transport, pollution control and social welfare. The Delhi Congress leaders said that 'Deshbhakti Budget' of the Aam Aadmi Party government was a 'visionless, directionless and hollow' budget. They said it was a pointless exercise to sell a distant dream that Delhi’s quality of living will be like that in Singapore in 2047 instead of addressing the existing issues in the city. "Reduction in the capital expenditure from 34 percent to 24 percent will impact infrastructure development like creation of new flyovers, schools, hospitals, roads and other such facilities in the city. The allocation of Rs 50 crore for Covid-19 vaccination in government hospitals is peanuts,” said a Delhi Congress statement. Although the Kejriwal government presented a Rs-69000 crore budget, a Rs-4000 crore jump from last year’s Rs 65000 crore estimates, the ground reality was different, said Delhi Congress leaders. An amount of Rs 6000 crore from last year’s budget remained unspent which was a clear indication of “purposeless governance”, they alleged, adding Delhi’s fiscal deficit was one of the “worst” in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/visionless-directionless-hollow-bjp-cong-slam-aap-government-budget-960068.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||SC stays rape trial against BSP MP in UP court, issues notice to him on victim's plea for transfer||The Supreme Court Monday stayed the ongoing trial against Bahujan Samaj Party lawmaker Atul Rai in a rape case and sought his response on the plea of the alleged victim seeking transfer of the case from Prayagraj to Delhi on grounds including threat to her life. A bench of Justice Surya Kant took note of the submissions of lawyer Rakesh Mishra, appearing for the woman, and issued notice to the MP from Ghoshi Lok Sabha constituency seeking his response within four weeks. “The Court is convened through Video Conferencing. An application seeking permission to file the Transfer Petition is granted. An application seeking exemption from filing an official translation of Annexure is allowed. Issue notice returnable within four weeks. “Meanwhile, proceedings in Criminal Case pending before the Special Judge (M.P./M.L.A.) Court, Allahabad (Prayagraj), UP shall remain stayed,” the bench said in its order. An FIR was lodged in 2019 at Police station Lanka in Varanasi by the woman and the MP was arrested subsequently. “That on December 18, 2020, when the victim went for court hearing with her witness.  Both were beaten inside the court premises at Prayagraj and for which another FIR ..has been lodged at Colonelganj Police station at Allahabad,” the lawyer said. Fearing threat to her life and also that she will not get a fair trial in a special court at Prayagraj, the plea seeking transfer of trial to Delhi has been filed, the lawyer said. Earlier in January last year, the apex court had refused to interfere with the Allahabad High Court order, which had granted two-day parole to Rai for taking oath as Member of Parliament in New Delhi. Rai, who had won the 2019 Lok Sabha polls on a BSP ticket from Ghosi parliamentary constituency in UP, is in jail in connection with the rape case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-stays-rape-trial-against-bsp-mp-in-up-court-issues-notice-to-him-on-victims-plea-for-transfer-959771.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court dismisses plea challenging EC decision to hold West Bengal polls in 8 phases||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the Election Commission's (EC) decision to conduct the West Bengal Assembly polls in eight phases. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde rejected the plea, which had also sought to bar the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its leaders from using the "Jai Shri Ram" slogan during the poll campaign in the state. The bench initially told advocate M L Sharma, the petitioner, to approach the Calcutta High Court. "I rely upon a judgment. This is not a matter of an election petition. One party is using a religious slogan. Why should I go to the high court," Sharma told the bench, which also comprised justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. When the petitioner said the matter be kept for hearing on Wednesday, the bench said, "Alright, we do not agree with you. Dismissed." The plea had sought the apex court's direction to prevent the EC from conducting eight-phase polls in West Bengal, alleging that it violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 21 (right to life) of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-dismisses-plea-challenging-ec-decision-to-hold-west-bengal-polls-in-8-phases-959884.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||ED raids Punjab MLA Khaira, others in money-laundering case||The ED raided the premises of rebel AAP MLA from Punjab Sukhpal Singh Khaira and a few others on Tuesday in connection with a money-laundering case linked to narcotics trafficking and the creation of an alleged fake passport, officials said. They said the searches are being carried out at Khaira's residence in the sector 5 area of Chandigarh, five other locations in Haryana and Punjab and two places in Delhi. Khaira (56) is a legislator of the Punjab Ekta Party, which he founded in 2019. He is an MLA from Bholath in Kapurthala district. Khaira, who was elected to the state Assembly in 2017 on an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) ticket, briefly spoke to the reporters waiting outside his residence and said he has "not done anything wrong". He added that the ED team arrived at his house around 7:30 am. Sources in the Enforcement Directorate (ED) said the action is being carried out against the Punjab lawmaker and others under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and is aimed at gathering more evidence to take forward the probe. The investigation, under money-laundering charges, is related to alleged drugs trafficking and a fake passport case, they said. A few accused, who are being investigated in the case, are lodged in jail, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ed-raids-punjab-mla-khaira-others-in-money-laundering-case-959891.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC seeks Centre's response on plea challenging new IT Rules||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought the Centre's response on a plea challenging the new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notices to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology and the Ministry of Information and Technology, and granted them time to file their response. The high court was hearing a petition filed by the Foundation for Independent Journalism which said that the new IT Rules issued by the government on February 25 are palpably illegal in seeking to control and regulate digital news media when the parent statue IT Act nowhere provides for such a remit. The plea said it has profound and serious harms for digital news media, like the petitioner, and destructive of their rights. It sought to declare the "IT Rules as void and inoperative insofar as it define and apply to publishers of news and current affairs content".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-challenging-new-it-rules-959902.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt allocates Rs 50 cr in budget for free Covid vaccine at its hospitals||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced that the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to people free-of-cost at its hospitals in future phases of the inoculation drive too and a provision of Rs 50 crore has been made in its annual budget for this scheme. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, while presenting a Rs 69,000-crore budget, said Rs 9,934 crore has been allocated to the healthcare sector. "For people to get 'freedom from Covid-19', a person can go to a private hospital and pay Rs 250 and get a vaccine shot. But, there are many who every day have to think, whether they should spend money to get a ration for the family or arrange a vaccine. And, in the 75th year of Independence, this question should not arise in the minds of citizens. So, we have decided that vaccines at our hospitals will continue to be given for free to people," he said. The minister said an outlay of Rs 50 crore has been made under the 'Aam Aadmi Nishulk Covid Vaccine Yojana'. "Also, learning from our Covid-19 management, Rs 1,293 has been set aside for the expansion of healthcare services, including opening new hospitals, renovating old ones and augmenting beds," he said. Sisodia in his speech also said that the AAP government is carrying out the vaccination for free at its hospitals, and the current capacity is to give shots to about 45,000 people a day and soon it will be augmented to 60,000 people a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-allocates-rs-50-cr-in-budget-for-free-covid-vaccine-at-its-hospitals-959912.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||BJP, JJP, Congress issue whip to MLAs over no-confidence motion in Haryana||With the Congress' no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government set to be taken up in the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday, the ruling BJP-JJP as well as main the Opposition party have issued whips to their respective members for their compulsory presence in the House. Haryana minister and BJP's chief whip Kanwar Pal said, “All the members of the Bharatiya Janata Legislature Party are requested to remain present in the House throughout the 10th day of March during the current budget session of Haryana Vidhan Sabha.” “They should not leave the chamber without prior permission of the leader. Many important legislative matters are likely to come up for discussion. The members are requested to be present at the time of division/voting,” Pal, who is the Education and the Parliamentary Affairs minister, said while issuing the whip. BJP's alliance partner the JJP also issued a whip to its legislators. Jannayak Janta Party's chief whip Amarjeet Dhanda while issuing the whip to his party legislators said, “All JJP members of the Haryana legislative assembly are hereby informed that no-confidence against the Council of Ministers proposed by Opposition will be brought in the Haryana legislative assembly on March 10.” “All members of JJP in the Haryana assembly are therefore requested to be present positively in the House throughout the day on March 10 and support the stand of the government against the no-confidence motion,” Dhanda said. Congress' senior leader and chief whip B B Batra said, “The members of CLP, Haryana are informed that no-confidence motion against the government shall be listed on March 10 in the business of the House”. “I issue whip, that you must ensure your presence in the House on March 10 at 10 am positively and support the vote of no confidence. Members are advised not to leave the House without prior permission of the CLP leader,” Batra said. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. The Congress will move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government in the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Friday last fixing the date for it to be taken up in the House. Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Friday, former chief minister and Congress leader B S Hooda had said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers.” He said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has lost public confidence and the coalition government, betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-jjp-congress-issue-whip-to-mlas-over-no-confidence-motion-in-haryana-959915.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||NGT dismisses review plea challenging environment clearance given to NPCIL in Haryana||The National Green Tribunal has dismissed a plea challenging the environmental clearance granted to Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited (NPCIL) for setting up a Nuclear Power Plant in Haryana's Fatehabad district. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice A K Goel said no case is made out for review by raising a contention that there is no preparation of conservation plan for the area. "If there is a violation of an order of this tribunal, review application is not the remedy. Moreover, the review application is barred by limitation having been filed after more than two years of the order while the limitation provided is 30 days under Rule 22 of the National Green Tribunal (Practices and Procedure) Rules, 2011," the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by NGO Akhil Bhartiya Jeev Raksha Bishnoi Sabha seeking review of the NGT's 2018 order dismissing its petition challenging the environment clearance granted to NPCIL. The NGO had contended that the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) for the project had been carried out without determining its effects on the local environment, humans and the wildlife in the region as well as the neighbouring states of Rajasthan and Delhi. "While granting the environmental clearance, the Ministry had overlooked the fact that it was subject to clearance from the wildlife angle and that the state government of Harayana was to prepare a conservation plan of the township area in absence of which no construction activity was permitted," the plea said. The Haryana Anu Vidyut Pariyojna project at the Gorakhpur village will have four units each of 700-MW capacity and is to come up at a cost Rs 23,502 crore. A total of 1,503 acres of land has been acquired for the plant, of which the lion's share of 1,313 acres belongs to Gorakhpur village. The entire land was acquired from 847 families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-dismisses-review-plea-challenging-environment-clearance-given-to-npcil-in-haryana-959925.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Plea to postpone judicial exam till lawyers get vaccinated transferred to another bench of Delhi High Court||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday transferred to another bench a plea seeking to postpone Delhi Higher Judicial Service Main Examination-2019, scheduled to be held on March 13-14, till the Covid-19 vaccination drive for lawyers is complete. Justices Manmohan and Asha Menon said let the plea be listed before a bench headed by the chief justice as it has the roster of public interest litigation (PIL). "Senior advocate P P Malhotra states that though the petitioner has filed the petition in his individual name, yet it is in the nature of PIL. According to the roster, all the PILs are to be listed before the bench headed by the chief justice. Let it be listed before Division Bench-I on March 12," the court said. The court was hearing a petition filed by one of the candidates who is going to appear for the examination. In the plea, the petitioner said he is suffering from severe medical conditions, leaving him at a risk of serious and life-threatening complications if he contracts coronavirus. Senior advocate Malhotra, representing the petitioner, said all the candidates are in the age group of 32 to 47 years and mostly suffering from blood pressure and diabetes problems, and let the lawyers get vaccinated then the exam can be held after a month. "It is a serious issue. Everyone's safety is important,” he said. On being asked by the court if the petition was in nature of PIL, the counsel said it can be treated as a PIL as it was affecting everyone. The petition, filed through advocates Aditya Kapoor, Kushal Kumar, Harsh Ahuja and Akash Deep Gupta, sought quashing of February 18 notification issued by the Delhi High Court notifying the schedule of the examinations on March 13 and 14. The petitioner said he is a meritorious and middle-aged person who is suffering from severe health problems of cancer and had undergone radiation therapy with administration of chemotherapy doses and is currently having an extremely weak immunity. He said he is at a higher risk of severe complications from contracting coronavirus. The plea claimed that the notice is violative of the fundamental rights by forcing the candidates, like the petitioner, to risk their health and safety in the current situation of the Covid-19 pandemic. It said many states, including Delhi, are witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases and there are more than 1,701 active cases in the national capital as on March 4, 2021, and around 240 new cases per day are getting detected on a daily basis. "In view of the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in many states, including Delhi, the conduct of main exams in the month of March, 2021 would unjustly expose the candidates, including the petitioner to the high risks of contracting coronavirus. "It is also submitted that many candidates, including the petitioner for the exam, are of matured age and most of them also have compromised immunity due to various ailments,” the petition submitted. It also referred to recent suo motu cognisance taken by the high court on the demand for vaccinating judges, court staff and lawyers on priority basis and said it might be possible that the issue of vaccination is decided by the central government soon and it would allow lawyers to get vaccinated and thereby diminishing the risk of contracting the virus. "The absence of any urgency to conduct the main examinations and presence of the risks involved in conducting the examinations thus call for the postponement of the main examinations," the petition said. The result of the preliminary examinations was declared on February 13 last year, wherein 280 candidates were shortlisted to appear for the Delhi Higher Judicial Service Main Examination (Written)-2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-plea-to-postpone-judicial-exam-till-lawyers-get-vaccinated-transferred-to-another-bench-of-delhi-high-court-959933.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||SC dismisses PIL against use of 'Jai Shree Ram' slogan during West Bengal polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a PIL that sought a direction barring political parties from raising the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan during West Bengal Assembly elections.  The top court also rejected petitioner-advocate M L Sharma's challenge to the Election Commission's decision to conduct eight-phased Assembly polls in West Bengal. A bench of Chief Justice of India SA Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said that if the petitioner felt any poll norm as per the Representation of People Act (RPA) was being violated, then he should move the High Court.  Sharma said he was against religious slogans being abused during the polls and contended that one political party (BJP) was using the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan continuously.   The bench, however, said that the top court was not the right forum, and he should move the High Court.  The petitioner also sought a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The plea contended that the chanting of  "Jai Shree Ram and other religious slogans are creating disharmony". Sharma insisted that this is an offence under the IPC and the Representation of the People Act, 1951. Following a brief hearing in the matter, the bench dismissed the case by saying that it had read the whole case and didn't agree with the petitioner. The petitioner also claimed that holding the election in West Bengal in eight phases was a violation of the right to equality under Article 14 of the Constitution. He pointed out that elections in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry around the same time are going to be held in a single phase and also that the election in Assam is going to be held in three phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-dismisses-pil-against-use-of-jai-shree-ram-slogan-during-west-bengal-polls-959937.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||J&K DDC members up in arms after govt places them at bottom of precedence list||The newly elected district development council (DDC) members in Jammu and Kashmir are up in arms against the government over the new warrant of precedence that puts them at the bottom. On Monday, the J&K government besides fixing the monthly honorarium of DDC chairpersons, vice-chairpersons and members, also allotted them equivalent ranks in the bureaucratic hierarchy. According to the order, the DDC chairpersons have been placed at serial number 26 in the list of precedence which among others included Divisional Commissioners, Inspector Generals of Police, joint secretaries to the union government and officers of equivalent rank besides the administrative secretaries and officers of the rank of Major General or equivalent rank. The DDC vice-chairpersons have been placed at serial number 27, equivalent to the vice-chancellors of universities within the state/Union Territory followed by DDC members at the end of the warrant of precedence. In a separate order, the government also finalised the monthly honorarium to the chairpersons, vice-chairpersons and DDC members in the Union Territory. According to the order, DDC chairpersons would get monthly honorarium of Rs 35,000, vice chairpersons Rs 25,000 and members Rs 15,000. However, in protest against the government’s decision, the DDC members, cutting across party lines on Tuesday, boycotted the scheduled two-day training programme in Jammu. J&K Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha was scheduled to address the inaugural day of the event as the chief guest. But the event could not take off after the members staged a sit-in against the government order. The protesting members demanded a roll back of the government order and did not budge despite repeated appeals from the administration including deputy commissioner Jammu, Sushma Chauhan, reports said. The protesting members said that they would continue their protest and boycott the event till their demand is not met. As the protest continued, LG Sinha did not turn up to attend the function till the filing of this report. Safina Beig, DDC chairperson, Baramulla, asked that if they don’t have authority how could they work for people? “This was the first major political outreach that the government had made after 2019 and there were expectations of the people attached with it,” Safina, who is wife of former J&K Deputy Chief Minister, Muzaffar Hussain Beig, said. The maiden DDC elections to 280 seats -- 14 each in 20 districts -- were held in November-December last year and the chairpersons and vice chairpersons in all the 20 districts were elected last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-ddc-members-up-in-arms-after-govt-places-them-at-bottom-of-precedence-list-959952.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Muzaffarnagar riots: Court accepts closure report of SIT against Sangeet Som||A special court has accepted the closure report filed by an Uttar Pradesh Police Special Investigation Team (SIT) team against BJP MLA Sangeet Som in a case of uploading an inflammatory video on social media ahead of the communal riots here in 2013. In his order issued on Monday, Special Judge Ram Sudh Singh while accepting the closure report of the SIT said the complainant in the case, inspector Subhodh Kumar, has died and no objection has not been filed against the closure report. Kumar was killed when a mob went on a rampage over allegations of illegal cow slaughter in Bulandshahr in 2018. According to the prosecution, the SIT had filed a closure report in the court, saying that no evidence could be found against Som, the MLA from Sardhana. During investigation, the SIT had, through CBI, sought the details of the persons from the Facebook headquarters in the US who had uploaded the video on its social media platform that incited communal passions. But Facebook failed to provide the names of those involved in the act, the prosecution said. Police had registered a case under sections 420 (cheating), 153a (promoting enmity between groups) and 120b (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 66 of the Information and Technology (IT) Act against Som and about 200 others, who had liked the video, uploaded on Facebook, on September 2, 2013. The accused persons had been charged for circulating a video about the murder of two youths, triggering communal tension in the district. During investigation, it was found that the video was old and had either been shot in Afghanistan or Pakistan, the prosecution said. More than 60 people were killed and 40,000 displaced during the riots in Muzaffarnagar and adjoining areas in 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muzaffarnagar-riots-court-accepts-closure-report-of-sit-against-sangeet-som-959957.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Budget: Special mohalla clinics to be set up for women||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced that special women mohalla clinics will be opened across the city in the next financial year to offer free gynaecological and other medical care services to them within walking distance from their homes. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, made the announcement while presenting the government's annual budget for year 2021-22, in which Rs 9,934 crore has been allocated to the healthcare sector. "Our government has opened Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics to make healthcare and medicines for minor ailments accessible to people, for which otherwise they had to travel long distance or shell out large sums of money at a private clinic," he said. In his budget speech, Sisodia said the government has proposed to start special mohalla clinic for women -- 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' -- from next financial year and termed it a "revolutionary announcement". "In the first phase, 100 'Mahila Mohalla Clinics' are proposed to be established in different parts of Delhi, which will be progressively increased to at least one clinic in each ward. I understand that this is taken in the direction of keeping half of its population respectfully healthy, which will be the most important step so far in the history of 75 years of independent India. For a step such as this, what better time can there be, than the 75th anniversary of our independence," he said. The deputy chief minister said the step has been taken to make gynaecological and other medical care services free and accessible to women. Many women can afford services of a specialist, but in the middle class and lower income families, they many times fail to reach to a gynaecologist. It is a fact about our society that many women tend to neglect their own illnesses. The result is that many women live with ailment, assuming it their destiny, he said. "We also know that our mothers and sisters are not able to talk about their health issues openly (with the opposite gender). The Delhi government will now undertake the responsibility of having a 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' within reach of every woman in Delhi so that services of a gynaecologist and related diagnostic tests, etc. are made available for free," Sisodia said. "Better health services and better treatment is the right of every citizen and in the 75th year of independence, we need to improve our health services so that every citizen can be confident about getting healthcare for their family,"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-budget-special-mohalla-clinics-to-be-set-up-for-women-959963.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Budget includes free Covid-19 vaccine scheme at state-run hospitals; special women mohalla clinics||The Delhi government on Tuesday announced in its annual Budget that the Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to people free-of-cost at its hospitals in future phases of the inoculation drive too, and special women mohalla clinics will be opened across the city, coinciding with the 75th anniversary of Independence Day. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, who also holds the finance portfolio, while presenting a Rs 69,000-crore budget for year 2021-22, said Rs 9,934 crore has been allocated to the healthcare sector, which is about 14 per cent of the total budget. He said 2020 was the year of the pandemic and hence of the healthcare sector too, and Delhi government in a way "unwittingly was preparing for the massive challenge" that was to come ahead. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government gave "home isolation and plasma bank system" as part of its response to the Covid-19 management. "For people to get 'freedom from Covid-19', a person can go to a private hospital and pay Rs 250 and get a vaccine shot. But, there are many who everyday have to think, whether they should spend money to get ration for the family or arrange vaccine. And, in the 75th year of Independence, this question should not arise in the minds of citizens. So, we have decided that vaccines at our hospitals will continue to be given for free to people," he said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, while replying to reporters on a query on vaccination said, a citizen can choose between a government school where education is free and a private school, similarly a person can choose to go to a government hospital for free services or a private hospital, the choice is theirs. The minister said an outlay of Rs 50 crore has been made under the 'Aam Aadmi Nishulk Covid Vaccine Yojana'. "Also, learning from our Covid-19 management, Rs 1,293 crore has been set aside for expansion of healthcare services, including opening new hospitals, renovating old ones and augmenting beds, and 14,000 more beds will be added after that," he said. Sisodia in his speech said the Delhi government is carrying out vaccination for free at its hospitals, and the current capacity is to give shots to about 45,000 people a day and soon it will be augmented to 60,000 people a day. He also announced that special women mohalla clinics will be opened across the city in the next financial year to offer free gynaecological and other medical care services to them within walking distance from their homes. "Our government has opened Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics to make healthcare and medicines for minor ailments accessible to people, for which otherwise they had to travel long distance or shell out large sums of money at a private clinic," he said. Sisodia said the government has proposed to start special mohalla clinic for women -- 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' -- from next financial year and termed it a "revolutionary announcement". "In the first phase, 100 'Mahila Mohalla Clinics' are proposed to be established in different parts of Delhi, which will be progressively increased to at least one clinic in each ward. I understand that this is taken in the direction of keeping half of its population respectfully healthy, which will be the most important step so far in the history of 75 years of independent India. For a step such as this, what better time can there be, than the 75th anniversary of our independence," he said in his speech. The deputy chief minister said the step has been taken to make gynaecological and other medical care services free and accessible to women. "We also know that our mothers and sisters are not able to talk about their health issues openly (with the opposite gender). The Delhi government will now undertake the responsibility of having a 'Mahila Mohalla Clinic' within reach of every woman in Delhi so that services of a gynaecologist and related diagnostic tests, etc. are made available for free," Sisodia said. "Better health services and better treatment is the right of every citizen and in the 75th year of independence, we need to improve our health services so that every citizen can be confident about getting healthcare for their family," he added. The Delhi government will also issue a health card to every citizen of Delhi, and an online Health Information Management System (HIMS) will be set up, he said. Also, the 'Delhi ke Farishtey' scheme has been "very successful" and it has helped in saving 10,600 lives. The scheme has been appreciated at national and international level, Sisodia said. Under the scheme, if someone takes a road accident victim to a hospital, Rs 2,000 is given to that person as a reward, Sisodia said, adding that the government bears the treatment cost of the accident victim. Earlier, Sisodia said, as per the available data of the first Economic Survey of 1951 after independence, there were a total of 12 government hospitals and 17 dispensaries in Delhi at that time. "At present there are 38 multi-specialty hospitals, 181 allopathic dispensaries, 496 Aam Aadmi Mohalla Clinics, 27 polyclinics, 60 seed primary health centres, 46 ayurvedic, 22 unani, 107 homeopathic dispensaries in Delhi,” he said. “There are 22 mobile health clinics covering 78 day-shelter homes and 311 night-shelter homes in Delhi, along with 61 school health clinics, providing preventive and curative health care services to the citizens of Delhi," the deputy chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-budget-includes-free-covid-19-vaccine-scheme-at-state-run-hospitals-special-women-mohalla-clinics-959991.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Budget: Government allocates Rs 3,090 crore for its power subsidy scheme||Delhi residents will continue to avail subsidy on electricity as the Delhi government allocated Rs 3,090 crore for its Special Electricity Subsidy Scheme on Tuesday. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced a total of Rs 3,227 crore for the energy sector in the budget 2021-22. The Delhi consumers at present get "zero power bill" up to 200 units of electricity and a subsidy of Rs 800 for consuming 201 to 400 units of monthly electricity. Presenting the budget, Sisodia said approximately 90 per cent of households in Delhi are availing the benefit of subsidy on electricity. "The government also gives 100 per cent subsidy to the victims of 1984 riots for power consumption up to 400 units," he said. The government also extended the Special Electricity Subsidy Scheme to the lawyers' chambers within the court premises. Sisodia also announced to reduce the fixed charge for agricultural connection to Rs 20 per kWh from the earlier Rs 120 kWh. The Delhi government has proposed a sum of Rs 25 crore for a new scheme titled 'Conversion of 11KV network from bare conductor to insulated conductor (under the Jagmagati Delhi Programme)'. The scheme shall ensure 24 hours uninterrupted power supply to Delhi residents, Sisodia said. The power distribution companies will also work to remove mesh of cables crisscrossing various parts of the national capital in the next five years to ensure safety of human lives and properties as well as to beautify the city, he added. The government has also conceived the 'Delhi Solar Energy Policy' under which the process of setting up of solar units is going on in most of the government buildings, schools,technical institutes and courts. As on January, 2021, approximately 4,664 solar power units with an aggregated capacity of 193 MW had been installed in Delhi. Around 200 acres of land for the installation of solar power plant has been offered by farmers under the 'Mukhyamantri Kisan Aay Badhotary Yojana', he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-budget-government-allocates-rs-3090-crore-for-its-power-subsidy-scheme-960015.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi government aims to convert its entire transport system to electric: Sisodia||The Delhi government aims to convert its entire transport fleet to an electric vehicle system in the next 25 years, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday. "We sincerely hope that when the country is celebrating its 100th Independence Day, our Delhi will be 100 per cent free from vehicular pollution," he said, while presenting the budget for the financial year 2021-22 in the Assembly. It is an aspirational dream to convert the entire transport system of Delhi to electric in the next 25 years but it is not impossible, Sisodia added. The deputy chief minister said the biggest step to protect the environment has been the implementation of 'possibly the world's most progressive' electric vehicle policy in Delhi since August 2020. "Due to this, Delhi has also become an 'electric vehicle capital'... The share of electric vehicles has increased from 0.2 per cent to 2.21 per cent. This is a major indication of the success of the e-vehicle policy," he said. "The government is soon going to increase the number of charging stations for electric vehicles from 72 to 500. Rapid charging points are also being built along the lines of the city of London. We aim to have at least one e-charging station every three kilometres in Delhi," Sisodia said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-government-aims-to-convert-its-entire-transport-system-to-electric-sisodia-960022.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Al-Badr chief killed in encounter in Kashmir's Sopore||Security forces in Kashmir achieved a major success on Tuesday by killing Gani Khawaja, chief commander of Al-Badr militant outfit in an encounter in Tujjer area of Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. Sources said the gunfight erupted in Tujar after a joint team of J&K police and the Army’s Rashtriya Rifles cordoned off the area following information about the presence of militants there. As the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon the forces, triggering off a gunfight, they said. Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said they have killed Al-Badr chief Gani Khawja in the encounter at Tujjar, 60 kms from here. “Khawaja had been active in north Kashmir for some time and was wanted in numerous militancy-related incidents. His killing is a big success,” he said. Khawaja, who belonged to Kralgund area of northern Kupwara district, was earlier associated with Hizbul Mujahideen, police said. He was active for the last three years, mostly in north Kashmir. Earlier, Kashmir Zone Police in a tweet said, “#SoporeEncounterUpdate: 01 #unidentified #terrorist killed. #Incriminating materials including #arms & ammunition recovered. Search going on. Further details shall follow.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/al-badr-chief-killed-in-encounter-in-kashmirs-sopore-960033.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||Keen to avoid repeat of Jharkhand debacle, BJP goes for axing Rawat||The BJP's decision to remove Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat marks a break from its norm of ignoring any call from state satraps against its choice of chief ministers and is driven by the realisation that his continuation may cost it the state like the indifferent image of Raghubar Das led to its defeat in Jharkhand in 2020. With the hilly state heading for the assembly polls early next year, the BJP top brass paid heed to growing complaints against Rawat from a section of MLAs, including many heavyweights who had joined it quitting the Congress, about his indifference to their concerns and also the fact that his public image remained unimpressive. The BJP legislature party will pick its new leader on Wednesday, and Rawat's replacement is set to be a choice of its central leadership which had earlier elicited views of its state MLAs by sending its vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushyant Kumar Gautam there. If the party decides to replace its outgoing Thakur chief minister with another Thakur, the most populous caste in the state, then minister Dhan Singh Rawat and Satpal Maharaj are being seen among the likely choices, while Anil Baluni and Ajay Bhatt, both MPs and Brahmins, are also being considered as frontrunners. With a view to balance the aspirations of Garhwal and Kumaon regions, the party may also go for a deputy chief minister, sources said. Trivendra Singh Rawat, who resigned on Tuesday, has become the first chief minister to be axed since Prime Minister Narendra Modi became the party's preeminent leader in 2014. Often in the past, the party had snubbed any lobbying by state MLAs against incumbent chief minister while preferring to keep a sharper vigil on the state government's works. However, the loss in Jharkhand despite what the party believes had been good work by the state government headed by Das has apparently made it rethink its strategy. Whether this will embolden dissidents in other states ruled by the party remains to be seen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/keen-to-avoid-repeat-of-jharkhand-debacle-bjp-goes-for-axing-rawat-960054.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||9 held for abduction, gang-rape of minor girl in Rajasthan||All nine accused, including a woman and two boys, were arrested on Tuesday for the alleged abduction and gang-rape of a 15-year-old girl in Rajasthan's Jhalawar, police said. The teenage girl from Suket town of Kota district was allegedly raped at separate places by nine people over eight days, Kota Rural police said. Kota Rural SP Sharad Choudhary had announced a cash reward of Rs 5,000 in connection with the arrest of the rape accused. Meanwhile, the statements of the minor rape survivor were recorded on Tuesday before the city magistrate. Speaking to the media, the SP said three of the accused, identified as Chothmal Mali (20), Pooja Jain alias Bulbul (around 19 to 20) and a minor boy were arrested late on Monday night from Suket and Ramganj Mandi areas of Kota district while three other accused identified as Arshad Ayub alias Chinta, Toshif alias Nana and Shahrukh, all residents of Jhalawar district, were arrested by a district special team (DST) from Jawar in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday morning. The remaining three accused -- Shahrukh, Raja Khan and another minor boy -- had already been arrested on Monday, he added. Two among the nine accused are minor boys and they were also detained, he added. The rape survivor on Saturday approached Suket police station with her mother and lodged a case of gang-rape against the 9 identified persons following which the police registered a case under IPC Sections 363, 376(D) along with provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act, the SP said. In her complaint, the teenage girl alleged that Bulbul was familiar to her along with Chothmal Mali. In the pretext of buying her a bag on February 25, they took her on a motorbike to Jhalawar where 3-4 other youths also joined them. The girl alleged that Bulbul and Chothmal left her with the youths, who took her to Gagron Fort and other places in Jhalawar district where she was raped. On March 5, Bulbul and Chothmal took the minor survivor back to her home in Suket where she narrated her ordeal to her mother following which the case was filed. As Bulbul and Chothmal were familiar with the girl, she did not resist going to Jhalawar with them, the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/9-held-for-abduction-gang-rape-of-minor-girl-in-rajasthan-960092.html
09-03-2021||North and Central||From 'pracharak' to CM, Trivendra Singh Rawat travelled a long way||From an obscure RSS 'pracharak' to the chief minister of Uttarakhand -- it has been quite a journey for Trivendra Singh Rawat who had to quit the top office on Tuesday ahead of next year's state Assembly polls, following a "collective decision" by the party. Sworn in as CM on March 18, 2017, when the BJP stormed to power after winning 57 out of 70 seats, he had just nine days left to complete four years of his tenure when he had to call it quits. At the press conference soon after his resignation, Rawat described himself as a man with humble beginnings who never imagined that the party will give him the honour of serving Uttarakhand as its chief minister. “The rise of an ordinary man like me to the top office is something that can happen only in a party like the BJP," he said. In the 2017 election, Rawat won the Doiwala seat for the third time, wresting it from the Congress which had bagged it in a bypoll in 2014. He defeated his rival by 24,869 votes. The highlights of his term as chief minister were granting Gairsain in Chamoli district the summer capital status and the ordinance that gave co-ownership rights to women in their husband's ancestral property. The ouster from the CM’s post was sudden and rather unceremonious. Exactly what triggered it is still not known. But resentment against him has surfaced now and then with some MLAs even writing to the party’s central leadership, complaining that they were not being heard. Rawat was born in 1960 in a family where serving in the armed forces was a tradition -- his father Pratap Singh Rawat was in Garhwal Rifles. Young Trivendra studied at a school with mud walls in his native village of Khairasain in Pauri Garhwal district. Though average in studies, he had a keen interest in social and political affairs from an early age. Impressed with the Sangh’s ideology, he joined the RSS when he was just 19. Six years later he was appointed an RSS pracharak for Dehradun city. After being actively involved with the RSS for about 14 years, Rawat became the BJP’s state-level organisation secretary. He also took party in the agitation for statehood for Uttarakhand and was arrested several times. In 2002, he was elected from Doiwala, in the state's first assembly elections in 2002. He won the seat again in 2007 and was made the state’s agriculture minister. On the strength of his organisational skills, Rawat was made the party's national secretary in 2013. His successful stint in that capacity earned him the post of co-incharge of party affairs in Uttar Pradesh just a year later. He is the ninth and the youngest of his siblings. One of his brothers is the post master of the post office at Khairasain village. Another brother grows aromatic plants on a piece of land near Jaiharikhal. Rawat keeps visiting his village now and then to relish millet (manduwa) rotis, his brother Veerendra says. The former CM is a post graduate in Journalism from Garhwal University’s Srinagar campus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-pracharak-to-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-travelled-a-long-way-960099.html
09-03-2021||Oasis||Of power and glory||Those in power often believe their power has no limits. They also believe their actions determine everything and they are in control of all processes. Such thoughts seem so natural that even the Gods are subject to these delusions. An anecdote from the Kenopanishad illustrates this reality. Contemplating on the power which causes things to happen or not happen, the Kenopanishad recounts how the Gods got carried away by what they believed was their triumph. Bramha, by his grace, caused the victory of the Gods in a battle. The Gods, in turn, rejoiced and believed that there was none as powerful as them. Bramha knowing their thoughts appeared in a form not known to them. The Gods thought the form to be a wonder and set out to investigate what it was. Agni, the glorious fire went first. The form stood firm and asked him what power he possessed. The fire posed many benevolent powers but what came to mind was that he could burn down everything. The form placed a blade of grass and asked him to burn it. Much as he tried the blade would not even ignite. Overawed, the fire returned. Vayu, the mighty wind went next. Again, the wonderous form stood firm and asked him what power he possessed. The puzzled wind thought it was evident that he could blow away everything, and said so. The form placed a blade of grass and asked the wind to try. The wind roared but the blade would not budge. Defeated, the wind gave up and returned. Indra went next. He went with a little more humility and on seeing him approach, the form disappeared. In its place stood a lovely woman. With folded hands Indra asked her who the wonderous form was. She told him it was Brahma. It was the one single power from whence all power emanated, the one which decided all action. Everything else was only a manifestation of the gracious being. Learning this, Indra realised that power was not just position or strength. Even a blade of grass backed by righteousness could hold its own against the strongest.  He returned with enlightenment to tell the others that their vanity about their power was a delusion. Division based on such notions was false and the discrimination it led to was not unchanging. When this truth is realised, not just the Gods but also lesser mortals find the strength to fight evil and follow the path of righteousness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/of-power-and-glory-959792.html
09-03-2021||Opinion||Growing women’s activism in India||In the words of Martin Luther King: “Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny. Whatever affects one directly, affects all indirectly.” At this juncture, it is pertinent to ask: What has given rise to this sudden spur of activism by young Indian girls particularly, against what they believe is the government’s unjust and discriminatory laws and policies. First, the gradual rise in internet penetration among India’s female population in both rural and urban areas and easy access to social media has exposed Indian girls to global information and knowledge like never before. Although, factors such as caste, class, creed and community separate individuals from each other, social media acts as a great leveller and brings together the activist and an individual victim of a human rights violation. Digital platforms like Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, WhatsApp et cetera offer the activist an opportunity to voice one’s concerns, question the government’s actions, gather support and display solidarity with the aggrieved individuals and their community. Second, when young girls from largely urban settings learn about instances of discrimination, oppression and marginalisation which they are typically not accustomed to in their immediate social environment; maybe, because of more or less gender-equal dynamics at home, a study of the ‘equality’ doctrine in the school curriculum, active participation in college politics, and the ‘equal opportunity’ culture at workplaces; they feel even more strongly about injustices and feel necessary to stand up for their fellow citizens and actively participate in condemning inequalities and injustices.  When Licypriya Kangujam, the nine-year-old climate change-environmental and indigenous peoples’ rights activist from Manipur was selected amongst the inspiring women of the country under the Indian Prime Minister’s #SheInspiresUs initiative in March 2020, after much thought she decided to turn down the honor and tweeted in unequivocal terms: “Dear Narendra Modiji, Please don’t celebrate me if you are not going to listen to my voice.” Third, many girls may be drawn to activism not out of individual choice but circumstances. Hailing from a poor Dalit background, Nodeep Kaur identifies with the Indian labour and understands how it feels to be invisibilised, overlooked and marginalised by society and the state. As a trade union leader, she has brought to the centre of the national debate, the intersectionality prevailing between labour oppression and farmer exploitation in India.  Reasonably, based on their individual nature and nurture, the ‘new girls’ are endowed with a potential to perceive social, political, economic, climatic-environmental ramifications of the state’s laws and policies and a capacity to stand up against the resultant injustices. These girls are not just stirring mass movements but reshaping existing discourses on relevant topics.   Fourth, everything becomes difficult when society and the state do not know what to make of these young girl activists. Disha Ravi was charged with sedition, Nodeep Kaur faced police brutality and Kangujam was heavily trolled by racist online trolls. However, the retail, advertising and commercial sector has been an outlier in this regard. Recently, some private companies recreated and redesigned their marketing, branding and advertising strategies to make them more inclusive and accommodative; in tune with the Indian girl’s choices, dignity and respect. Recently, Myntra, India’s leading fashion portal revised its logo across its website, mobile applications and packaging material after a  woman activist complained that the logo was ‘derogatory’, resembling a woman’s raised legs wide open.   Contrarily, the Indian society and state have still not come to terms with the reality that it is difficult to ‘reign in’ the growing girl activism in the country. The Indian activist girl-in-waiting has finally broken free from the shackles of ‘silence’, ‘dependence’ and ‘self-doubt’; and it would be a  rather sensible approach to create a tolerant space for her to engage in an open, free and unhindered dialogue. (Prerna Dhoop is a human rights lawyer and Vandana Dhoop is an independent research consultant)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/growing-women-s-activism-in-india-959788.html
09-03-2021||Opinion||Karnataka Budget has welcome aspects for Bengaluru||It is good to see that the budget contains more outcome-oriented headers like economic growth, women’s welfare, inclusive welfare, etc., with the usual grab bag of projects listed under them. Needless to add, there is a section for Bengaluru given the oversized role it plays in the state’s GDP. It does give teeth to some of the many ideas set out in the CMs’ Mission Bengaluru (CMB) 2022 and that is a welcome sign. Making public spaces come alive was a dominant theme in CMB 2022 and money has been set aside for Experience Bengaluru at Mysore Lamps and the greening (tree park) of NGEF. However, one wishes NGEF is treated more holistically in terms of repurposing the warehouses and structures as public exhibitions and sports venues. There is mention of three other tree parks – trust one of them is not at Turahalli which deserves to be left as a forest. The Koramangala Valley drain project (essentially ensuring sewage does not enter it) is positioned as a tourism attraction project – it is a rose by any name! Just envisaging a Business Park next to the airport represents a limited vision. It is better to be more ambitious in planning it as a MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences, Entertainment) project – this can be the first in India on scale. We could do with less ambition with the ‘One Nation One Card’ theme for integrating our two local alphabet soups of BMRCL and BMTC, which just needs focused implementation efforts. Else, this card integration project will join the PRR project as always due to arrive. The separate parastatal for Solid Waste Management was announced earlier and there is now money to go forward. It is an unwise decision to introduce one more parastatal on the argument that the BBMP is broken and only a new agency can fix it. We need to find the political will and administrative rigour to do transformative reforms for the third tier of city government for megacities like Bengaluru. The practice of announcing the bulk of the BBMP project items through the state budget in a kind of a tied in grant needs to give way to greater decentralization on the direction of spends. One area the budget could help in shoring up revenues through private involvement is innovative ways of sweating existing assets. In multiple places, there is mention of improving government school infrastructure and providing upskill training. If government schools can be leased out in the evening for vocational and training classes, it will serve the twin purpose of raising money and improving skills. Lastly, there is mention of making some changes to the Karnataka Town & Country Planning Act to help land acquisitions and faster TDRs. We need a comprehensive rehaul of the archaic Act to make it relevant to current realities. This budget for Bengaluru has welcome aspects. It could have been more transformational in its ambition.    (The writer is an urbanist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/karnataka-budget-has-welcome-aspects-for-bengaluru-959799.html
09-03-2021||Opinion||Balanced and far-sighted Budget||Let me at the outset congratulate Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for presenting a prudent, pragmatic, growth-oriented budget 2021-22, with no additional taxes levied. This budget will undoubtedly put the state’s economy which was ravaged by the pandemic back on a new growth trajectory.   The proposals announced by the CM for various sectors, especially agriculture, industry with a special focus on MSMEs and women entrepreneurs will propel the growth in a holistic pattern with multiplier effect and make Karnataka a leader on all fronts and attract investment from all quarters.  Yediyurappa has presented a very balanced and a farsighted, visionary budget aimed at pushing economic growth, with social inclusion, with a focus on job creation, loans at affordable interest rates for startups, women entrepreneurs,  while providing succour to shattered lives and to all the citizens of Karnataka, without levying a single rupee additional tax/cess.  The CM has announced a bumper gift to women in the budget, presented on International Women’s Day.  The allotment of Rs 37,188 crore for women-centric schemes shows the commitment of this government towards women’s empowerment and recognising their role in the economic growth journey of Karnataka.  Yediyurappa has always given priority to agriculture and the welfare of farmers. He is the first person who presented a separate agriculture budget for farmers. He has proposed to implement a scheme at a cost of Rs 500 crore to encourage organic farming. The e-market facility for farmers to sell organic and millets produce, subsidy for small tractors, new hybrid seed policy, new agro product export zone to sell aromatic, medicinal plants, spices, fruits and vegetables and facility at airports to export horticulture produce will greatly help our farmers in price discovery and fetch them the best rates simultaneously, coming out from the clutches of the agents.  The CM has also given priority to expedite irrigation projects - Upper Krishna, Yettinahole, Mekedatu, Mahadayi and Upper Bhadra projects. A whopping outlay of Rs 31,028 crore for agriculture and allied activities will set the ball rolling for the sector on a fast-track basis. He has earmarked funds for the welfare of various communities, including Veerashaiva-Lingayats, Vokkaligas, Brahmins, Dalits and OBCs for their all-round development. By allocating Rs 1,500 crore for the welfare of religious minorities, Yediyurappa who follows Basavanna’s principle of “equal opportunities and status to all communities” has shown BJP government’s commitment to ensure social justice.  The CM has announced a slew of projects to boost infrastructure projects and attract investments. Despite the economic slump caused by the pandemic, Karnataka and particularly Bengaluru continued to attract investments. The state maintained its position as a leader in industrial growth. The proposed 58.2-km outer ring road project waiting for the Centre’s nod, increasing Namma Metro networks including link to the airport, would boost connectivity, reduce traffic congestions/bottlenecks significantly, thereby saving man-hours and enhancing productivity. Yediyurappa has given a big relief to the people by not increasing Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel which have become dearer, owing to global oil market trends. Another huge relief for the people is the reduction of stamp duty from 5% to 3% for the registration of apartments valued between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh. This will help promote affordable housing and boost the real estate sector. Overall it’s a growth-oriented, balanced, pragmatic, futuristic budget, which will propel the sagging economy, create more opportunities for the people and bring about holistic development of Karnataka, including social and economic. (The writer is a Cabinet minister and an industrialist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/balanced-and-far-sighted-budget-959803.html
09-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Across the road||The pandemic has accomplished what ageing could not – it has turned me into a house-bound being. In order to make up in part for the usual walks that I was habituated to, I sit in a chair on the balcony and watch the world go by. The balcony overlooks a rather busy road that is bordered on the opposite side by a small park. The scene in front of me, though not invigorating, is stimulating and satisfying.  All the time, there is an unending procession of people caught in some errand of their own. Conversation, with the liveliness that accompanies it, is somewhat muted because of the mandatory wearing of masks. This however is compensated by an increase in gesticulation and body language. The pedestrians, I notice, have taken to more colourful attire, perhaps because of the aridity of the times enforced on us. Dogs are on parade more often than before.  There is however another ever-present and more charming entity that engages my attention. Inside the park and on the edge of the road is a rain-tree. Tall with spreading branches, its new and tender green leaves draw a lovely outline against the clear, blue sky. As this species of trees goes, it is not a big one. But it is nevertheless a graceful and elegant specimen. What draws my attention to it are the vicissitudes I know it has endured being where it now is. As a sapling, it was cut, stripped and otherwise vandalized many a time. But it literally and figuratively rose above all this to turn into the lovely picture it presents. It is a silent benefactor to innumerable living beings – bees, butterflies, birds and humans. It is a living, breathing purifier of the air and does this work without a murmur. Its gentle rustle in the breeze is soothing music. The quiet closure of its leaves in the evening reminds us that it has a sensitive heart within it and that it beats largely for others. Trees, whatever their kind, are a source of inspiration. No tree ever eats its own fruit. They stand uncomplainingly in sun and wet weather to provide shelter. They are symbolic of life and remind us to grow, spread out and serve others. Why then do we cut them down without any thought? Should we not stand with the conservationists who cry out against the mindless destruction of trees? As the Buddha pointed out, ‘a tree offers protection and shade even to the woodcutter who axes it. Every tree is worthy of reverence and worship.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/across-the-road-959784.html
09-03-2021||Second Edit||Country, society need women leaders||While Indian women can take pride in the fact that they are storming a growing number of male bastions and shattering glass ceilings to take on roles in corporate boardrooms and senior management, this heartening picture is hardly the norm either in our polity, industry or civil society. Despite having the education and experience to take on leadership positions, women continue to be kept out of decision-making and leadership roles in our country. This is the case even in women-dominated industries or workplaces. Consider this: Women comprise over 80% of India’s garment industry workers. They do most of the work in transforming reams of cloth into ready-made apparel for sale and export. Yet, it is mainly men who are appointed to supervisory positions. A similar situation exists among civic workers. While it is the women who do the cleaning, the men strut around supervising and ordering them around. Whether it is the PMO or our Covid-19 Task Forces or even our disaster management teams, these are male-dominated. This is unfortunate, as women have displayed exemplary leadership and decision-making abilities as in the Self-Help Groups that are part of the National Rural Livelihoods Mission, for instance. Appointing women to decision-making roles is essential for several reasons. For one, they deserve it. They have the skill and experience for it and should be appointed to supervisory roles across industries. Besides, it is important for gender relations in the workplace and society. Women are less likely to feel dominated, bullied, undervalued and vulnerable to exploitation if their supervisors comprise both women and men. They should be able to speak easily about workplace sexual harassment; more women in leadership roles will enable women workers to access support. Importantly, women have vast experience in keeping families and communities together and in building lives and livelihoods. By keeping them out of negotiations and policymaking, we are not drawing on their valuable expertise. Women’s Day 2021 has thrown the spotlight on women in leadership roles. The coming months will see programmes to draw women into decision-making. Our focus must include not only women working in the corporate sector but also those in small and big private and government-run firms and factories, in the services and the unorganised sector. As India charts its way out of the pandemic, it will need smart, experienced and compassionate leadership, whether in rebuilding our health infrastructure, kickstarting business or energising education. Women can provide that leadership. The change, of course, must start at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/country-society-need-women-leaders-959778.html
09-03-2021||South||Andhra CM Jagan's government to introduce 'Gender Budget'; free sanitary napkins for female students||Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy announced on Sunday that Andhra Pradesh will introduce the Gender Budget that will come into effect from the upcoming financial year. The CM also launched “Swechha,” a scheme to provide 10 free biodegradable sanitary napkins per month to the girl students studying in classes 7-12 in all government institutions, from July 1.  These napkins would also be made available at low prices in the YSR Cheyutha grocery stores across Andhra Pradesh from July 1. “Swechha” is also intended to create awareness on menstrual hygiene among the adolescent girls Participating in the International Women's Day celebrations at the CM camp office in Amaravati on Monday, Reddy virtually inaugurated Women Help Desks in Police Stations across the state along with cyber kiosks, and flagged off a fleet of 900 Disha patrolling vehicles and 18 Disha crime scene management vehicles `````````````````for women safety. Reddy said that Andhra Pradesh will become the first state in the country to come up with the Gender Budget concept. The gender budget statement is proposed in two parts. Part A reflecting schemes that are 100 percent targeted towards women and girl beneficiaries; and Part B reflecting the pro-women and girl schemes in which 30 to 99 percent allocations are towards women and girls. Stating that his government had introduced several schemes for the welfare of women like Amma Vodi, YSR Cheyuta, YSR Asara, the CM claimed that about Rs 80,000 crore was spent for women welfare in his 21 months of governance so far. The YSRCP government also decided to enhance the casual leaves for women government employees to 20 from the present 15 annually.  “Workplace committees to prevent harassment of women should become mandatory in all government and private institutions,” the CM said while instructing the Chief Secretary to set up such a committee in the state Secretariat as the first step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-jagans-government-to-introduce-gender-budget-free-sanitary-napkins-for-female-students-959742.html
09-03-2021||South||After DMK, AIADMK announces monthly payment for women||Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Monday announced that it would provide six gas cylinders free of cost a year to every family and pay Rs 1,500 as a monthly payment to female heads of families in the state, a day after Opposition DMK announced a “rightful payment” of Rs 1,000 to women. Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami made the announcement at a joint press conference with his deputy O Panneerselvam during which he said “more announcements that will bring cheer” to the people will be made in the AIADMK election manifesto to be released which is due out soon. The announcement came a day after DMK chief M K Stalin declared a seven-point agenda for the state. When asked about the DMK's promise, Palaniswami said the DMK “copied” the AIADMK's idea as few of them “got leaked”. Responding to a question, Palaniswami said he was confident that the AIADMK government will retain power in the April 6 elections. He also ruled out a merger of AMMK and AIADMK. However, leaders who are with AMMK are in touch with the parent party and the leadership will take a call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-dmk-aiadmk-announces-monthly-payment-for-women-959743.html
09-03-2021||South||'Metro Man' E Sreedharan no longer Election Commission's poster boy in Kerala||Technocrat E Sreedharan, popularly known as ‘Metro Man’, is no longer the poster boy of the Election Commission as he joined the BJP. The Election Commission in Kerala had been using posters of Sreedharan, apart from many other celebrities, to spread election-related messages. The Chief Election Commission has now directed the Kerala Chief Electoral officer to withdraw the posters having Sreedharan’s pictures. Election commission officials said that it was a normal procedure as the Election Commission has to ensure neutrality in the entire process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/metro-man-e-sreedharan-no-longer-election-commissions-poster-boy-in-kerala-959746.html
09-03-2021||South||Kamal Haasan's party to contest from 154 Assembly segments||Actor-politician Kamal Haasan-led Makkal Needhi Maiam has finalised a seat-sharing pact with two of its allies for the April 6 Assembly polls and it is set to contest from 154 segments out of the 234 constituencies. MNM inked an agreement with actor-politician Sarathkumar's All India Samathuva Makhal Katchi and Indiya Jananayaka Katchi to jointly fight the polls. According to the understanding reached here late last night, AISMK and IJK would contest from 40 seats each. The primary goal was to contest polls in alliance with a "promise for change and emerge victorious to form the government," the agreement said. The parties have committed to the common goal of transforming Tamil Nadu by fulfilling the long pending aspirations of the people, the pact said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasans-party-to-contest-from-154-assembly-segments-959904.html
09-03-2021||South||Setback for BJP-AIADMK alliance in Tamil Nadu as DMDK walks out ahead of Assembly polls||In a setback to the ruling alliance, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) led by actor Vijayakanth on Tuesday walked out of the AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance after failing to reach an agreement on the number of seats to contest. The announcement by DMDK was not surprising as the AIADMK was playing hardball with its junior partner, which was expecting to be “treated on par” with another constituent of the alliance, PMK. DMDK wanted at least 23 Assembly seats in the April 6 election, while the AIADMK was not willing to part with more than 13 constituencies. “The DMDK held three rounds of talks with AIADMK on seat-sharing. Since there was a difference between the demand and the offer, the district secretaries meeting of the DMDK which met on Tuesday unanimously decided to walk out of the AIADMK alliance,” Vijayakanth announced in a statement. The party is likely to face the elections alone, though Kamal Hassan's Makkal Needhi Maiam extended an open invitation to join its alliance. There was also speculation about DMDK joining the alliance led by AMMK of T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala. After the statement, DMDK leader L K Sudhish, and Vijayakanth's son Vijay Prabhakar, launched a scathing attack on the AIADMK for “ill-treating” the party by offering very less number of seats. Sudhish also blamed AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy as one of the reasons for the breakdown of the talks between the two parties, accusing him of favouring PMK. DMDK and PMK, which have been part of the same alliances in 2014 and 2019, do not see eye-to-eye. “All district secretaries reflected the views and sentiments of the cadre. The AIADMK did not give the number of seats that we demanded, so we are walking out of the alliance. Today is Deepavali for all our DMDK cadres,” Sudhish told reporters. Both AIADMK and BJP termed the development as “unfortunate”, while the Dravidian party took objection to DMDK going “overboard” in its criticism against the outfit. The ruling front is facing the election against a resurgent DMK, which is entering the field with the same alliance that registered a resounding victory in the 2019 elections.  Once projected as an alternative to the DMK and AIADMK and launched with much fanfare in 2005 when stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa were in active politics, DMDK’s rise was meteoric and so was its fall as its vote share shrunk to a mere 2.19 per cent in 2019 from an impressive 10.3 per cent in 2009. With a notable 8.38 percentage in its debut elections in 2006 when Tamil Nadu voted for a new Assembly, the party did remarkably well three years later during the 2009 Lok Sabha elections by securing 10.3 per cent votes. However, the percentage came down to 7.88 per cent in the 2011 Tamil Nadu Assembly when the DMDK aligned for the first time since its inception with the AIADMK to fight the elections. Since 2011, the party’s downfall began, and its vote share has been witnessing a slide every election. While the percentage in 2014 Lok Sabha polls fell to 5.19 per cent, it went further down to 2.39 per cent in the Assembly elections held two years later. An alliance with the AIADMK also could not help the party increase its vote share as the DMDK secured just 2.19 per cent of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/setback-for-bjp-aiadmk-alliance-in-tamil-nadu-as-dmdk-walks-out-ahead-of-assembly-polls-959908.html
09-03-2021||South||Uttarakhand crisis: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat to meet Governor amid buzz over removal||Amid rising speculation that the BJP is mulling political changes in Uttarakhand, Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat is set to address a press conference today, according to multiple media reports.  The reports added that Rawat will meet the Governor at 4 pm today.  On Monday, Rawat had met central BJP leaders. Two central leaders, BJP vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushyant Singh Gautam, are learned to have submitted their report to party president J P Nadda on their return from the state where they had gone to speak to state BJP core group members. However, senior party leaders discounted the possibility of any leadership change in the state while acknowledging that a section of Uttarakhand leaders may have issues with the chief minister. Rawat met Nadda and had earlier in the day visited Uttarakhand MP Anil Balooni's residence too. Meanwhile, state minister Dhan Singh Rawat has emerged as a frontrunner to replace Triverdra Singh Rawat as chief minister, according to PTI. Sources told the agency that the party may also bring in a deputy chief minister, who will be from the Kumaon region. Pushkar Singh Dhami is likely to be deputy chief minister, the sources added. The central BJP leadership recently sent two observers, party vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushayant Kumar Gautam, to the state to get feedback from the party's core group in the state amid reports of discontent against the chief minister.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/uttarakhand-crisis-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-to-meet-governor-amid-buzz-over-removal-959913.html
09-03-2021||South||Karnataka 'marching towards Covid-19-free state', says Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Tuesday said the state is 'marching towards a Covid free state' with more than 10 lakh vaccinations having been done so far. "Marching towards a Covid free state. Karnataka. Crossed 10 lakh inoculations on Monday, March 8. Vaccinated 73,269 beneficiaries on March 8th, highest in a single day so far," Sudhakar tweeted.   Marching towards a Covid-19 free state. Karnataka 💉 Crossed 10 lakh inoculations on Monday, March 8. 💉 Vaccinated 73,269 beneficiaries on March 8th, highest in a single day so far. .💉 Safely vaccinated more than 1 lakh elderly above 60 yrs in just 8 days, since 1st March. He said Karnataka has safely vaccinated more than one lakh elderly people above 60 yrs in just eight days, since March 1. According to the health department, 55,612 people, including 32,183 senior citizens, were inoculated on a single day on March 8. The state has reported two severe AEFIs (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) and 21 serious AEFIs since the launch of the vaccination drive from January 16, the department said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-marching-towards-covid-19-free-state-says-health-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-959931.html
09-03-2021||South||Twenty-20 forum fields 5 candidates for Kerala Assembly polls||Posing a serious challenge to the mainstream political parties, Twenty-20, a forum initiated by a corporate firm that won in four panchayats in Kerala in the recent local body elections, has announced candidates for five constituencies in Ernakulam district for the Assembly election. While the surge of the forum formed as part of the CSR activities of Kitex Garments in the last local body elections had triggered debates on whether it was desirable in a democracy to have a corporate-controlled forum gaining the power in panchayats, the forum founder president and managing director of Kitex Garments used to maintain that the failure of mainstream political parties paved the way for the victory of Twenty-20. The forum has now gained more significance as many noted personalities from various fields have announced their association with Twenty-20. Known businessman and founder chairman of V-Guard industries Kochouseph Chittillappilly, who is also a known philanthropist, leading actor and filmmaker Sreenivasan and filmmaker Siddique are among those who announced their association with Twenty-20. Chittillappilly told DH that when Twenty-20 was formed in 2015 and decided to contest in the local body elections in the firm’s home panchayat Kizhakambalam, about 20 kilometres from Kochi city, he was also quite sceptical about the initiative. But the forum brought in massive development in the panchayat not by pumping in CSR funds, but by improving the efficiency of the panchayat’s administration and thereby ensuring that funds from the central and state governments were utilised properly without any sort of corruption and ensuring transparency. The social welfare of the residents of the panchayat was initiated by studying the needs of the people.   He also said that Twenty-20 has now won in three more nearby panchayats as the people of those panchayats were impressed by the changes that happened in the Kizhakambalam panchayat. This had raised the hopes of the people in the forum and hence it may have its reflection in favour of Twenty-20 in the Assembly elections also. K Venu, a senior social activist and communist thinker, said that with a corporate firm at the helm of the affairs of a Twenty-20, it would have more vested interests rather than the interests of people. It seems they wooed support from people by pumping in money for welfare activities. But it might not be a loss for the firm as the local body, which has the power to allow permissions to industrial units in the locality, has come under their control. Moreover, there were also allegations that many pollution issues caused by the corporate firm in Kizhakambalam panchayat were being suppressed. Countering this, Chittillappilly said that it was nothing wrong that the person heading the forum is a businessman as many leaders of political parties were widely believed to be setting up benami business ventures after entering politics. He also said that the allegations of hushing up pollution issues in the panchayat were baseless as monitoring agencies like Pollution Control Boards were not under the control of the panchayat. Twenty-20 announced candidates for Kunnathunadu, Perumbavoor, Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha and Vypin in Ernakulam and it is identifying candidates for some more constituencies. All candidates, including doctors, are professionally qualified and hail from the constituencies.  Apart from retaining power at Kizhakambalam panchayat, Twenty-20 won nearby Aikaranadu, Muzhavanoor and Kunnathunadu in the recent local body election. Providing decent housing and drinking water for all, developing roads, initiating a host of welfare activities and opening a shop selling grocery items at very reasonable prices were the highlights of the initiatives of Twenty-20 at Kizhakambalam. Concerned over the surge of the forum, leaders of mainstream political parties were holding talks with the forum leaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/twenty-20-forum-fields-5-candidates-for-kerala-assembly-polls-959977.html
09-03-2021||South||Kerala gold smuggling case: ED pressurised key accused Swapna Suresh to name CM Pinarayi Vijayan, claim police officers||Two Kerala police officials have claimed that they came across ED officials pressurising Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the gold smuggling case, to name Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the case. The officials, Siji Vijayan and Rajimol, who were on security duty during Suresh’s interrogation by the ED, gave their statements to a Kerala police team probing an audio conversation believed to be that of Suresh. Rajimol also said that the ED offered to make Swapna an approver in the case if she stated that the money recovered from her bank locker was given by the Chief Minister to his former Principal Secretary M Sivasankar. CPM, Customs locked in legal battle over statement against Vijayan Kerala CPM on Tuesday initiated legal action against the Customs Commissioner (Preventive) in Kochi by accusing him of leaking a confidential statement by gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh that linked Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Speaker and three other ministers to smuggling activities. The Customs Commissioner recently filed an affidavit before the Kerala High Court stating that gold smuggling accused Swapna Suresh had said in her statement that Vijayan, Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and three ministers had illegal dealings with the former UAE consul general in Thiruvananthapuram. K J Jacob, a CPM leader from Kochi, has moved a petition and state Advocate General C P Sudhakara Prasad has sought remarks from the Customs Commissioner on the matter before proceeding further, it was learnt. Jacob said in the petition that the Customs Commissioner leaked out the confidential statement given by Swapna before the magistrate and hence, action should be taken against him under contempt of court. He also said that, as per norms, only investigation officers can see the contents of a confidential statement. The Customs Commissioner had gone through it even as he was not the investigation officer and misused it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-case-ed-pressurised-key-accused-swapna-suresh-to-name-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-claim-police-officers-960001.html
09-03-2021||South||Ruling YSRC faces stiff test in Andhra Pradesh urban local bodies polls||The Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh will face the first test of its governance as the urban local bodies (ULBs) in the state go to polls on Wednesday. The ULB elections are being held amid a strong attack on the government by a combined opposition which has accused the ruling YSR Congress of resorting to high-handed tactics, abuse of state machinery, particularly the police, in a bid to grab the civic bodies. The opposition parties,while targeting the government, have cited the ruling YSRC's 'clean sweep' of Pulivendula (Chief Ministers home constituency), Punganuru (Chittoor district), Piduguralla and Macherla (both Guntur district) municipalities, where it won all civic wards 'unanimously'. Even in many other municipalities, an unusually high number of wards were bagged by the ruling party 'unopposed', forcing the opposition parties to cry foul. Elections will now be held on Wednesday for 71 municipalities and Nagar Panchayats and 12 municipal corporations in the state, with 78.71 lakh eligible voters. The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation is going to polls after over a decade, the first after its expansion. The ULB elections were abruptly deferred in March last year, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, after the nominations were filed. The opposition parties TDP, BJP, Congress, Jana Sena, CPI, CPM demanded that the State Election Commission cancel last year's poll notification and issue another afresh in view of alleged malpractices committed by the YSRC. The SEC, however, gave an opportunity in some municipalities, where the opposition candidates were allegedly made to forcibly withdraw from the race, to file complaints with evidence for their cases to be reconsidered. In practice, though, no candidate came forward to file nominations afresh as they reportedly faced 'threats' in multiple forms. In Ward No.7 of Tirupati Municipal Corporation, the TDP candidates nomination was 'withdrawn' but the SEC cancelled the election in that ward after it was established that the candidate's signature was forged. The stakes are very high for the YSRC and the TDP as the main opposition wants to prove the ruling party has lost all credibility because of alleged misgovernance, while the former is banking heavily on its welfare agenda. But all eyes are on three major Municipal Corporations Guntur, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam as the outcome in these civic bodies will virtually be seen as a virtual referendum on the contentious state capital issue. A defeat, particularly in Vijayawada and Guntur, for YSRC will be seen as a clear rejection of its decision to relocate the capital city to Visakhapatnam. It makes a victory in Visakhapatnam mandatory for it to claim people have endorsed its move to make it the state's Executive Capital. The TDP, on the other hand, is keen on winning Vijayawada and Guntur to establish that the people are opposed to relocating the capital from Amaravati, the two ULBs forming part of the present capital region. A victory in the port city will enable TDP to proclaim that people of Visakhapatnam want no change in the state capital. Who succeeds will be known on March 14 when the votes are counted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ruling-ysrc-faces-stiff-test-in-andhra-pradesh-urban-local-bodies-polls-960007.html
09-03-2021||South||Will target anyone who is people's enemy: Kamal Haasan||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Tuesday said he would criticise anyone who is "people's enemy" and denied he was being selective in his criticism of opponents. Addressing a press conference here, along with alliance party leaders R Sarath Kumar of AISMK and Ravi Pachamuthu of IJK, Haasan also said his party's first list of candidates for the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu will be released on Wednesday morning. Asked if he had been specifically targeting DMK President M K Stalin recently, Haasan said, "If I decide someone is people's enemy, I have to criticise them." "Earlier you said I never criticised him (Stalin)... what shall I do. When I decide that someone is people's enemy, then there is no difference between this person or other. Every (such person) has to be attacked... they will face the music," Haasan said. He also denied going soft on the ruling AIADMK and said both the Dravidian parties have to be 'removed.' "When I was talking (critically about the) ruling party, you asked if they (DMK) are my friends. I want all those who committed wrongdoings to get the punishment. Both (AIADMK and DMK) have to be removed, there is no doubt about that," he added. Haasan has been critical of archrivals AIADMK and DMK over corruption and other issues and is heading a three-party coalition to face the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. Sarath Kumar, also an actor, said Haasan will be the front's Chief Ministerial candidate while IJK leader Ravi Pachamuthu said "only this alliance is the best to form government in Tamil Nadu."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-target-anyone-who-is-peoples-enemy-kamal-haasan-960048.html
09-03-2021||South||Sexual harassment case against DGP: EC suspends IPS officer who stopped victim||Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday night placed under suspension D Kannan, hours after he was shunted out as Chengalpattu district Superintendent of Police for allegedly stopping a woman IPS officer on her way to Chennai to complain against a DGP-rank officer for sexually harassing her. In a notification, the ECI said a case has been registered against Kannan, who was Chengalpattu district SP when the incident took place on February 22, under sections 341 (Punishment for wrongful restraint ) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of IPC and section 4 of Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 1998. “Considering the gravity of the case and report of the Home Department of Tamil Nadu, the Commission has directed that Shri. D. Kannan be placed under suspension immediately and disciplinary proceedings initiated against him,” the ECI said in its order addressed to the Chief Secretary. Kannan is accused of stopping a woman IPS officer at the Chengalpattu toll gate outside Chennai on February 22 when she was on her way to file a complaint against Special DGP (Law and Order), whose name is being withheld due to a court case, for sexually harassing her. It is alleged that Kannan not just stopped the woman officer's car, but also forced her to speak to the accused police officer over the phone. The woman officer, in her complaint to police, has accused the Special DGP of sexually harassing her while they were travelling in the same car during Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami's visit to central districts. The Special DGP was removed from his post and placed under compulsory wait at the DGP's office after the complaint was filed. Subsequently, the CB-CID wing of Tamil Nadu Police registered a case against the accused officer and Kannan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sexual-harassment-case-against-dgp-ec-suspends-ips-officer-who-stopped-victim-960106.html
09-03-2021||State||Karnataka Budget: CM B S Yediyurappa announces reduction in stamp duty for flats||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a 2% cut in stamp duty for flats priced between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh. “To promote affordable housing, the stamp duty for first-time registration of apartments valued between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh is proposed to be reduced to 3% from 5%,” Yediyurappa said in his Budget speech. This was in addition to the government’s decision to slash stamp duty on new apartments that cost up to Rs 35 lakh, in the last fiscal. In the announcement, the stamp duty for apartments costing below Rs 20 lakh was reduced to 2% from 5% last year. Similarly, stamp duty for apartments costing between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 35 lakh was reduced to 3% from 5%. With the new Budget announcement, stamp duty for houses costing above Rs 20 lakh but below Rs 45 lakh will be 3%. Yediyurappa also promised to “start and complete” houses approved in the last several years under various government housing schemes.  “In this regard, after coming to the power, our government has given approval for Rs 10,194 crore for the next three years in order to complete 9.74 lakh houses,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-announces-reduction-in-stamp-duty-for-flats-959753.html
09-03-2021||State||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa presents 'no pain, no gain' Budget||Sparing citizens of any new taxes, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday presented a Rs 2.46 lakh-crore Budget in which he attempted to woo farmers, women and various social groups while not announcing any big-ticket or populist programmes. The pandemic-induced economic crisis was written all over the 2021-22 Budget, which was a revenue deficit one, as Yediyurappa tried to offer something for everybody with whatever is available.  It was widely expected that Yediyurappa would increase taxes on excise or fuel to mop up resources. “I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people,” he said, calling it a “people-friendly” Budget.  However, the government will borrow Rs 71,332 crore to fund developmental activities.  “In the midst of the pandemic, maintaining a balance between fiscal discipline and equity in development has given the experience of walking on a razor’s edge,” Yediyurappa said. Yediyurappa reached out to women, who make up half of Karnataka’s population, in a big way by announcing schemes worth Rs 37,188 crore for them. These include schemes to help women entrepreneurs.  While the Budget has offered Rs 21,000 crore to irrigation schemes, it is far less than what is required. For instance, the much-delayed Upper Krishna Project-3 needs Rs 51,000 crore, but it has been given Rs 5,600 crore. The Mahadayi project got Rs 1,667 crore, but this is subject to clearance from the Centre.  Yediyurappa, looking to keep his pro-farmer image, has offered Rs 500 crore to boost organic farming. Also, reservation for farmers’ children in agricultural universities is up from 40% to 50%. He also kept Rs 25 crore for research into yellow leaf disease affecting arecanut. Several such micro interventions have been announced for farmers.  In what is seen as a political move, Yediyurappa has announced the formation of a new board for the Vokkaliga community, which will get Rs 500 crore. This comes close on the heels of Rs 500 crore that Yediyurappa gave for Veerashaiva-Lingayats, the community that he belongs to.  Besides this, Yediyurappa doled out Rs 500 crore among 16 community-based boards and corporations in an apparent effort to form a social coalition in his favour. Also, Brahmins have been given Rs 50 crore. He has earmarked Rs 1,5000 crore for the development of minorities and Rs 200 crore for Christians.  “This Budget has been formulated in a most difficult situation,” Yediyurappa said. “From this point of financial constraints, this is a balanced Budget bringing relief in the difficult situation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-chief-minister-b-s-yediyurappa-presents-no-pain-no-gain-budget-959755.html
09-03-2021||State||8-year-old boy killed in tiger attack in Kodagu district||An eight-year-old boy was killed while his grandfather was injured in a tiger attack at Bellur in Srimangala hobli of Kodagu district, prompting angry protests from villagers who demanded that the tiger be shot. The deceased has been identified as Rangaswamy. His grandfather Kencha, 50, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mysuru. The incident took place when Kencha was irrigating plants in the plantation owned by Chekkera Subbaiah and Rangaswamy was playing nearby. With three lives lost in tiger attacks in the last 15 days in Kodagu district, farmers' association staged a protest by blocking the Ponnampet-Kutta road at Bellur and asked authorities to shoot the tiger. Yuko organisation convener Kokkalemada Manju Chinnappa, who arrived at the spot, had appealed to people through social media to take part in the protest, following which large number of people gathered.  Later, Tahsildar Yogananda Hudikeri clamped Section 144 till Tuesday.  Hiralal, In-charge Chief Conservator of Forests, visited the spot and said the tiger's movements were being tracked for the last 10 days and efforts were on to capture it. Forest officials have been ordered by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests to shoot the tiger as a last resort if it tries to flee. An expert from Bengaluru, Susheel, has been deployed to take part in the operation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/8-year-old-boy-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-kodagu-district-959759.html
09-03-2021||State||Serial sex offender sentenced to 10-years rigorous imprisonment||A man was found guilty of sexually harassing minor boys and was sentenced to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment (RI) and was also slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 by Pocso Court (Fast Track Special Court-1) Judge Yadav Vanamala Anandrao. The convict Chandra Hemmady, 42, was convicted in the first of the 21 similar cases registered against him under the Pocso Act. Out of 36 witnesses, including 15 victims, had testified before the court in the first case. The trial in the remaining 20 cases is underway. The convict visited villages in the guise of a journalist and promised villagers of highlighting problems in their localities with his articles. The boys sent to show him around ended up being sexually assaulted by Chandru. As many as 21 parents had filed complaints against him in Byndoor, Gangolli, Kollur and Kundapur police station limits. The district administration had facilitated counselling for traumatised 21 children in Kundapur, Byndoor, Gangolli and Kollur police station limits. About 16 victims were said to have sexually assaulted by Chandru under Byndoor police station limits alone. Chandru initially confessed to having abused 12 children, but in police custody, he confessed to sexually assaulting 21 children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/serial-sex-offender-sentenced-to-10-years-rigorous-imprisonment-959762.html
09-03-2021||State||Youth electrocuted in Wenlock hospital canteen||A 20-year-old youth was electrocuted after coming in contact with a live wire while moping floor in the canteen of District Wenlock hospital on Monday. The youth was identified as Aneesh B Suvarna, son of Bhagawan, a resident of Kotekaru. Aneesh had passed out from KPT institute. He was studying at St Aloysius Evening College and was working in the College canteen during the day time. Eyewitnesses told police that Aneesh while moping the floor came into contact with the live wire and was electrocuted. The relatives said the canteen was in a dilapidated state and held the officials responsible for the youth’s untimely death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/youth-electrocuted-in-wenlock-hospital-canteen-959764.html
09-03-2021||State||Karnataka Budget: Redemption for waterbodies, push to save water||The budget makes a pitch for the development of the lakes, whose destruction has brought international shame to the city over the last few years, and gives a much-needed push for the development of the Vrushabhavathi and Koramangala valley. The Vrishabhavathi valley, which has lost more than half of the 71 lakes it had in the 1970s, is set to get a Rs 500 crore facelift. Under the project, 308 mld of water from the valley will be processed and channelled to fill 234 tanks in Bengaluru city as well as the three districts of Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru and Chikkaballapur. The announcement comes at a time the state government has come under pressure from the National Green Tribunal over its failure to look into the mess in the valley. Thanks to a monitoring committee appointed by the NGT, the government has finally taken up major works in the valley.  The budget has also allotted Rs 169 crore for the development of the stormwater drain in the Koramangala Valley (K-100) project. The project which had received administrative approval in January 2021, aims to develop the valley into a tourist spot by converting the present SWD into a freshwater canal. The valley has also been under the radar of the green tribunal owing to a number of encroachments.  The Koramangala-Challaghatta Valley will be rejuvenated and the 248 mld sewage treatment plant will be upgraded under a joint project by Bengaluru Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) and BBMP at an estimated cost of Rs 450 crore.  Also, focussing on improving the quality of water being supplied, the budget has kept aside Rs 17 crore to set up water testing laboratories across a number of AMRUT (Atal Mission For Rejuvenation And Urban Transformation) cities, Bengaluru being one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-redemption-for-waterbodies-push-to-save-water-959798.html
09-03-2021||State||Karnataka Budget: Railway projects get a push, bus corporations wait for help||Karnataka on Monday gave the biggest push yet for the local trains by allocating funds for three major projects in its budget, but has let down the four transport corporations which have suffered losses of Rs 4,000 crore over the last one year. Days after the Centre allocated Rs 300 crore for the much-anticipated suburban rail project as part of the equity infusion to the joint venture company, the state government has gone a step further by setting aside Rs 850 crore for the Rs 16,000-crore project. Two crucial doubling projects that have been pending over the years due to the initial reluctance of the state government to share the cost have not got full support of the same government.  The budget has allocated Rs 813 crore for the doubling and electrification of Byappanahalli-Hosur (estimated cost Rs 376 Crore) and Yeshwantpur-Channasandra (Rs 170 crore) lines, which will help in the introduction of the local trains without waiting for the completion of the full-fledged suburban rail project. The budget announces the construction of 52 bus stations and 16 bus depots across the state without the particulars. It also makes mention of supporting public transport by “taking maximum advantage” of the Union government’s “Augmentation of City Bus Services”project. However, activists pointed at the action taken report in which the government said it has diverted the Rs 100 crore set aside in the last year’s budget for procuring 300 electric buses to pay the salary of the BMTC employees. Vinay Sreenivasa of the Bengaluru Bus Prayanikara Vedike questioned the government’s failure to support the bus corporations. “Metro projects get thousands of crores of rupees while the BMTC loses even the few crores allocated in the budget,” he said. The announcement of concessional bus pass to women garment workers in Bengaluru at an expenditure of Rs 30 crore comes as a saving grace for a budget that otherwise doesn’t have much for the bus commuters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-budget-railway-projects-get-a-push-bus-corporations-wait-for-help-959802.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget: New aerospace, defence policy on cards||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced the formalisation of a new aerospace and defence policy while presenting the state budget which he and officials said will substantially revamp the industry ecosystem. Yediyurappa said that the new policy will help Karnataka maintain its edge in the aerospace and defence sector. “We have the credit of having declared an aerospace policy in 2013, the first in the country. Karnataka has a share of more than 65% of the exports of defence and aerospace sector. To maintain this lead in this sector and to give attention towards indigenous production under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, a new aerospace and defence policy will be announced,” he announced in the budget speech. Industries secretary Gaurav Gupta specified that the new policy will include changes in line with demands from industries. Gupta acknowledged that several issues had cropped up since the formulation of the now nine-year-old aerospace and defence policy. “Now, there is an increased focus on Aatma Nirbhar Bharat which means supporting great levels of indigenisation, especially when it comes to the LCA Tejas and other high-profile aircraft projects, but also upcoming smaller technologies such as drones,” he said.  Gunjan Krishna, commissioner, Industrial Development and director, said the new policy will be in line with reforms introduced by the central government. “In a way, the policy is intended to make the state more competitive, but not necessarily to the point that Karnataka will be in direct competition with states. We are aiming to provide the framework that will enable ease of business,” Krishna explained. Gupta pointed out that  Karnataka’s aerospace and defence ecosystem has already attained a high level of maturity when compared to that of the other states. “We have to look at the larger scale when it comes to the new policy but also MSMEs, including startups. One major focus area is the space industry,” he said. The officials said that the state is still about two to three months away from finalising the policy. “We require consultations with stakeholders and members of the industry. This is ongoing. The policy will be rolled out rapidly,” Gupta said. In the budget, the chief minister also announced a grant of Rs 2 crore to improve infrastructure at the Government Flying Training School at Jakkur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-new-aerospace-defence-policy-on-cards-959800.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget: Experts say 4% allocation to health not enough||A good budgetary allocation to the health sector this year was much anticipated given the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite the pandemic, the sector, however, saw little real increase in the allocation. Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has set aside Rs 11,908 crore (4% of the total budget) to the Health and Family Welfare Department for 2021-22, a marginal increase over the last year’s Rs 10,122 crore. Experts say even last year, health was 4% of the total budget and that the increase in absolute numbers was not enough. Dr Giridhar Babu, professor, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, told DH, “The budget is too curative-centric and does not focus on strengthening preventive health services, which is the need of the hour, especially in a post-pandemic world.  “There is very little for public sector as such. Even in public health, there is very little on what you would hope to see, given that we have just been through the Covid-19 pandemic. Even in the last budget, it was 4%. The real question is how much of this is being spent on salaries, reimbursement of health insurance claims, and how much is for public health. We don’t have that split,” he said. “What have we learnt from the Covid-19? The least we could have done is to make some judicious investments in preventing future pandemics. Allocations for improving Covid-19 surveillance have not been done. We don’t see any initiative to improve urban primary healthcare, which was a major problem in Covid-19 contact tracing,” Babu said. A super speciality hospital for urban poor and migrant labourers in Bengaluru has been proposed. “When the government has already taken care of their expenses, having another structure is not going to fix real problems like lack of primary healthcare for the urban poor. So there is a lack of focus on public health,” he said.       “Out of 11,000-plus crore the health budget, only Rs 5 crore has been allocated to mother and child development, which is a complex inter-generational problem and requires complex mechanisms from childhood nutritional health perspective,” he said.   Many announcements in the budget, like the super speciality hospital in north Bengaluru, a burns treatment centre in Kalaburagi, Institute of Medical Sciences, and up-gradation of Ayush College in Shivamogga into Ayush University, did not have any fund allocation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-experts-say-4-allocation-to-health-not-enough-959804.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget: In 'Kannada Kayaka Varsha', nothing much for Kannada and culture||With 2021 being a ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’, expectations were high on the state government for a major boost to culture and heritage activities. But, there’s nothing much for Kannada and culture in the state budget 2021-22. However, CM Yediyurappa’s announcement to allocate Rs one crore for the theatrical production of noted writer Dr S L Byrappa’s novel ‘Parva’ through Rangayana came as solace for many in the field of theatre. The state-owned repertoire, excited by the CM’s announcement said that their team of 45 artists is all set for the first theatrical performance from March 12 to March 14 in Mysuru. Addanda C Cariappa, Director, Rangayana said, “We are excited and looking forward to the first stage appearance of Parva on March 12. The budgetary allocation has only increased our excitement and will be performing the 8.5 hours long play at 10 different districts in the first phase.” The team has been rehearsing for over six months and will stage the play for the first three months in Mysuru. Subsequently, the show will be extended to Bengaluru, Hubballi, Kalaburagi, Shivamogga, Davangere and Chikkamagaluru. Commenting on the no mention of ‘Kannada Kayaka Varsha’ in the budget, TS Nagabharana, Chairperson, Kannada Development Authority said, "... We do hope that this will be rectified in the coming days." Kittur fort to get a facelift at Rs 50 crore Further, trying to assuage the rebellious Panchamasali community which is demanding reservation and renovation of the fort belonging to Rani Chennamma, the chief minister announced to set aside Rs 50 crore for taking up various development works at Kittur Fort. Assuring further support to the already announced Anubhava Mantapa project in Basavakalyan of Bidar, Yediyurappa said Rs 5 crore would be provided to develop the birthplace of Jagajyothi Basavanna at Ingaleshwara village in Basavana Bagewadi taluk of Vijayapura district. This apart, CM also announced a Rs 10 crore grant-in-aid for the propagation of ‘Natha Heritage’ to future generation by setting up Adichunchanagiri Natha Heritage Centre at Adichunchanagiri in Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district. Yediyurappa also announced Rs 10 crore in the current year to build a well-furnished Yatri Nivas at Ayodhya on five-acre land provided by the UP government to facilitate state pilgrims visiting the Ram Mandir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-in-kannada-kayaka-varsha-nothing-much-for-kannada-and-culture-959805.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget | Where rupee comes from and where it goes||Sparing citizens of any new taxes, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday presented a Rs 2.46 lakh-crore Budget in which he attempted to woo farmers, women and various social groups while not announcing any big-ticket or populist programmes. The pandemic-induced economic crisis was written all over the 2021-22 Budget, which was a revenue deficit one, as Yediyurappa tried to offer something for everybody with whatever is available. Here is a look at how Karnataka gets its revenue and how it spends from the available funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-where-rupee-comes-from-and-where-it-goes-959838.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Infographic | Karnataka Budget 2021 in a nutshell||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday presented the state Budget that included some major announcements. The CM announced a number of infrastructure and development projects, in addition to allocation of Rs 31,028 crore to agriculture and allied sectors. Another announcement that grabbed much attention is the inclusion of "gaushala" in all the districts across the state to prevent "laughter of cows and to conserve livestock". Below is an infographic on the state Budget 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/infographic-karnataka-budget-2021-in-a-nutshell-959839.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Infographic | Which sector got what in Karnataka Budget||Sparing citizens of any new taxes, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday presented a Rs 2.46 lakh-crore Budget in which he attempted to woo farmers, women and various social groups while not announcing any big-ticket or populist programmes. The pandemic-induced economic crisis was written all over the 2021-22 Budget, which was a revenue deficit one, as Yediyurappa tried to offer something for everybody with whatever is available. Here are the allocations for each sector in the Karnataka Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/infographic-which-sector-got-what-in-karnataka-budget-959840.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Infographic | How Karnataka's tax break-up looks||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a slew of measures and allocations in the state Budget. Congress MLAs staged a walkout during the tabling of the budget for 2021-22 by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, claiming that the BJP had no rights to continue in power.  The pandemic-induced economic crisis was written all over the 2021-22 Budget, which was a revenue deficit one, as Yediyurappa tried to offer something for everybody with whatever is available. In the Budget, the CM has not announced any new taxes or reduced them.  Fuel prices are set to remain the same after the CM announced that new taxes will not be levied. During the Budget Speech, he said, "I am not willing to put the burden of additional taxes on the common people. State Government levies Karnataka Sales Tax (KST) on petrol and diesel. This is already lesser compared to other southern states. Despite this, in the 2021-2022 Budget, no taxes including Karnataka State Tax on petrol and diesel has been increased and Budget has been formulated in such a way so as not to increase the financial burden on the common man." Here is a look at how Karnataka's tax break-up:||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/infographic-how-karnatakas-tax-break-up-looks-959842.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Budget receives mixed reactions in Dakshina Kannada||The Karnataka state Budget presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa received mixed responses in Dakshina Kannada district. Lauding the Budget, BJP State president and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said that Yediyurappa presented an "optimistic" Budget, which will complement the growth of the state. Minister S Angara and Campco president Kishore Kumar Kodgi thanked the Chief Minister for earmarking Rs 25 crore for conducting research into yellow leaf disease and to help farmers take up cultivation of alternative crops in the affected plantations. On the other side, former member of Karnataka State Planning Board and retired professor of Economics in Mangalore University, G V Joshi said that the Budget has set a dangerous trend of budgetary allocation for caste and community-oriented schemes. This in turn will be a setback to the development of the state which former finance minister Arun Jaitely had predicted during global investors meeting in 2016, he added. KCCI President Isaac Vas said that the government has presented a Budget emphasising on women empowerment, tourism, agriculture and irrigation. "Although capital expenditure for the year has been restricted to Rs 44,237 crore out of a total Budget outlay of Rs 2,46,207 crore, Rs 66 crore was allocated for Plastic Park at Ganjimatta in order to accelerate work. Plans to introduce a Bill on reconstituting Coastal Development Authority as Coastal Development Board was a welcome step," he added. He further said that establishment of Advanced Bio-tech Research Centre on seaweed will encourage fishermen in the district to take up seaweed cultivation which he feels has tremendous export potential. "This will create employment and generate wealth in the region. Outlay for conversion of sea water for agricultural use is sure to help the coastal districts," Vas said. Plans on having 1,000 EV charging stations will benefit DK as it is number 2 in new vehicle registration and will encourage people to shift from fossil fuel to this new age solar power, he said. DCC president MLC K Harish Kumar said, “The Budget has not allocated funds for particular projects in a district. It lacks farsightedness. The sector-wise allocation of Budget is misleading the public.” Well-known chartered accountant Giridhar Kamath said that there is nothing substantial in the budget. “CM has almost maintained the status quo,” he added. Seva Bharathi Treasurer Vinod Shenoy welcomed government’s decision to increase monthly stipend from Rs 1,400 to Rs 2,000 for mentally challenged people. Shenoy told DH that he was hoping that the salaries of special teachers would be increased from the present Rs 13,500. The welfare of differently abled, which is presently under women and child welfare department, needs a separate independent department, he stressed. Vinod Madhavan, Dean-Administration, Associate Professor-Marketing Area, TAPMI-Manipal, said the Budget has supported people of the state by not raising taxes, especially, during Covid times. "Digitisation of APMC is a welcome move and will ease transactions for farmers. Revamp of health infrastructure, especially, additional ICUs in 19 districts and 100 taluk hospitals is much-needed support during the pandemic," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-budget-receives-mixed-reactions-in-dakshina-kannada-959868.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||I knew about sex CD 4 months ago: Ramesh Jarkiholi||Scandal-hit BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi on Tuesday said that he knew about the sex tape four months ago, and said that the "conspiracy" against him was hatched in Bengaluru. Claiming the tape to be fake, Jarkiholi further hinted that he knows the person who is behind the "conspiracy". He resigned as the water resources minister last week after news channels aired a video allegedly showing him getting intimate with an unidentified woman, which became a sensational scandal. A police complaint was filed accusing him of sexually exploiting the woman.  In a twist, however, social activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who had filed the complaint, later decided to withdraw it.  "This (sex) CD is 100% fake. There’s no truth," a teary-eyed Jarkiholi said as he sought the support of mediapersons during a press conference. "I got to know about the CD four months ago. I was asked about it then and I said I had no idea. I didn't act because it was not the truth," he said. "I got a call from a well-wisher 26 hours before the tape went public. I was warned. Still, I was undeterred because I have not done anything wrong," he said, adding that the scandal has hurt him a great deal. He said "one great leader" was behind the conspiracy against him. "I'm not at liberty to say much. But I will say that this conspiracy was hatched in two places in Bengaluru - on the fourth floor of some place near the Yeshwanthpur police station and on the fifth floor of somewhere near Orion Mall," he said.  The Belagavi strongman vowed to "put in jail" those responsible for the scandal.  Jarkiholi thanked his wife, children, brothers, well-wishers, relatives, constituents and the people of Karnataka for "standing" by him. He also expressed gratitude to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and thanked JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy. "It was Kumaraswamy and (his brother) HD Revanna who spoke with me first," he said.  Jarkiholi, who represents Gokak, was among the chief architects in causing the downfall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition, paving the way for the BJP to come to power. He was earlier with the Congress. "I resigned on my own accord, not because someone asked me to. I didn't want to cause embarrassment to my party," he said. "I’m not interested in politics. My family is more important to me."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/i-knew-about-sex-cd-4-months-ago-ramesh-jarkiholi-959882.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to convene all-party meet to discuss Tamil Nadu's Cauvery project||The Karnataka government will soon convene an all-party meeting to discuss the state's future course of action in response to Tamil Nadu's Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river-linking project, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol told the Legislative Council on Tuesday.  Responding to demands from opposition MLCs, Karjol said that the meeting would be held at the earliest and the government would take suggestions from all leaders. "We will not compromise on the issue. The Cauvery Water Management Authority has sought our opinion in the matter. We have made our stand clear. All the surplus water remaining after fulfilling its water sharing obligation to Tamil Nadu, belongs to Karnataka. We also have plans for using the surplus water," Karjol said.  Karjol's response came in the wake of protests against the project from opposition MLCs. They contended that Tamil Nadu appeared to have gone ahead with the project without necessary sanctions from the Cauvery Water Management Authority or the state government. Unless the state starts pressurising the Centre against this project, Karnataka will lose out on its share of excess water, the MLCs said.  Congress MLC CM Lingappa demanded that an all-party delegation should head to New Delhi. "Organise a meeting with the Prime Minister. Let us get a go-ahead from him for the Mekedatu project," he said.  When Karnataka proposed construction of the Mekedatu balancing reservoir, Tamil Nadu vehemently opposed it. "What is our government doing? It is not enough to submit a project report to the Centre. You have to ensure that the work begins soon," JD(S) MLC Srikante Gowda said.  The legislators alleged that the BJP's national leadership was playing politics in the wake of the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly polls where the saffron party hopes to make inroads.  Not satisfied with Karjol's response, Congress MLCs staged a walkout.  The issue also came up in the Assembly with JD(S) leader H D Revanna moving an adjournment motion on this issue. "11 districts in the Cauvery basin - Mandya, Mysuru, Madikeri, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Ramanagara, Bengaluru Rural and Urban and Tumakuru - would face injustice because of what Tamil Nadu has set out to do," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-convene-all-party-meet-to-discuss-tamil-nadus-cauvery-project-960028.html
09-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Feels like my hands are tied, says Karnataka revenue minister on encroachments||Revenue Minister R Ashoka admitted that he felt helpless in dealing with encroachment of government lands, when the issue was raised in the Assembly on Tuesday.  “Land encroachment is an issue that I have also raised while sitting in the Opposition. But after coming here and becoming the revenue minister, it feels like my hands are tied,” Ashoka said.  “Recently, I went to KR Puram where government land worth Rs 160 crore was encroached upon. They have built flats there and are selling them. I suspended the sub-registrar and tahsildar. But within four hours, they got a stay from the Karnataka Administrative Tribunal (KAT),” Ashoka said. “I didn’t let this go. I transferred them to Tumakuru. Again, they got a stay and came back to Bengaluru.”   Lakhs of acres Ashoka admitted that “lakhs of acres” of land were encroached. “When we order deputy commissioners to recover the land, they go there, turn it into a photo op and put up a signboard. In three days, the board is removed and it’s status quo,” he said. “The minute you touch (encroachers), they get a court stay.”  Rs 100-cr fund Apparently, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has agreed to provide Rs 100 crore towards protection of government lands. “Wherever we recover land, we will immediately build a compound wall or fence and build a shed for a watchman to keep vigil there. Wherever possible, we will auction lands and retain those that the government needs,” he said.  Ashoka was responding to a calling attention notice by Hosadurga MLA Gulihatti Shekhar, who raised the issued of encroachment of a government land at Hulimangala village of Anekal taluk in Bengaluru Urban district, by creating fake documents. Ashoka said one official was suspended in this case.   Senior JD(S) MLA A T Ramaswamy, who is considered an authority on the issue of land encroachment, asked if the government was alive. ‘The living dead’ “In and around Bengaluru, there’s enough encroachments based on fake documents that will fetch money worth two years of the state budget. These are powerful, influential people who are fudging documents to grab land. There’s no fear. That’s why I keep saying, we’re the living dead.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/feels-like-my-hands-are-tied-says-karnataka-revenue-minister-on-encroachments-960084.html
09-03-2021||West||Mumbai sees over 1,000 new Covid-19 cases for 6th straight day||The number of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai increased by over 1,000 for the sixth consecutive day on Monday, taking its tally to 3,34,572, an official said. Monday's addition of 1,008 cases was, however, a dip from the 1100 plus figures notched up on the preceding five days, including 1,300 on Sunday. Four deaths took the toll to 11,504 while 956 people getting discharged during the day took the recovery count in the metropolis to 3,11,407, he added. The average daily growth rate of Covid-19 cases in the city has increased to 0.31 per cent from 0.17 per cent on February 18, while the case doubling time shortened from 417 days to 225 days now, BMC data showed. With 17,849 samples being examined on Monday, the overall number of tests in Mumbai went up to 34,34,610.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-over-1000-new-covid-19-cases-for-6th-straight-day-959794.html
09-03-2021||West||Lockdown in 11 hotspots in Thane city from March 13 to 31 as Covid-19 cases rise||A lockdown between March 13 and 31 was declared on Monday in 11 hotspots in Thane city by the civic administration, officials said. The order, issued by Thane Municipal Commissioner Vipin Sharma, said the decision was taken due to rise in Covid-19 cases in these areas in the past few days. It said all restrictions that were in place during the nationwide lockdown declared earlier would be in force during this time as well. As on Monday morning, the caseload of Thane district was 2,69,845, including 6,302 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-in-11-hotspots-in-thane-city-from-march-13-to-31-as-covid-19-cases-rise-959843.html
09-03-2021||West||1993 Mumbai blasts convict Noor Mohammad Khan dies||Noor Mohammad Khan, a 1993 Mumbai blasts convict, died at his residence in suburban Khar after a prolonged illness, a police official said on Monday. Khan, a close aide of the blasts conspiracy mastermind Tiger Memon, died on Sunday, the official said. He was buried at the Santacruz burial ground on Monday morning. Khan had been sentenced to ten years in prison by the special TADA court in the blasts case on November 24, 2006. A builder by profession, Khan was convicted for storing in his godown 58 bags of the explosive RDX and later disposing them of in the Nagla creek in Thane. At least 257 persons were killed when 12 coordinated blasts ripped through Mumbai on March 12, 1993.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/1993-mumbai-blasts-convict-noor-mohammad-khan-dies-959844.html
09-03-2021||West||Maharashtra govt plans grand memorial in honour of Saint Basaveshwara||A grand memorial in honour of Saint Basaveshwara, the 12th century statesman, philosopher, poet and Lingayat saint will come up in the Solapur district of Maharashtra. Known for its importance in terms of places of pilgrimage, Solapur borders Karnataka. Solapur is a city with tri-linguistic and multi-cultural features and has a mix of Marathi, Telugu and Kannada culture. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is planning the grand memorial of Saint Basaveshwara in Mangalwedha. Announcing Budget 2021-22, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, said: “Sant Basveshwar Maharaj lived in Mangalwedha, Solapur district of Maharashtra for more than 30 years. He taught equality, hard work and morality to the common man. Necessary funds will be made available in the year 2021-22 for erecting a memorial in the memory of Sant Basaveshwar Maharaj.” Mangalwedha is also known as the "Land of Saints" as Saint Jayatirtha, Saint Damaji, Saint Kanhopatra, Saint Basaveshwara and Saint Chokhamela had stayed there. Mangalwedha is situated 55 km west of the district headquarters at Solapur and 25 km southeast of Pandharpur city. The Solapur district is home to a very big Lingayat community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-plans-grand-memorial-in-honour-of-saint-basaveshwara-959888.html
09-03-2021||West||Fire in Thane residential building, 32 electric meters gutted||A fire broke out in an electricity meter box room of a housing complex in Maharashtra's Thane city in the wee hours of Tuesday, a civic official said. At least 32 electric meters were completely destroyed in the blaze, he said, adding that no person was injured. The fire broke out around 1.45 am in the power meter box room located on the ground floor of the residential building in Kalwa area, Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell chief Santosh Kadam said. A fire engine was rushed to the spot and the flames were doused in an hour, he said. "No one was injured. At least 32 electric meters were gutted in the blaze. The power supply to the building was affected due to the fire," the official said. Officials of the power supply company and police also reached the scene and a probe was underway to ascertain the cause of the blaze, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-in-thane-residential-building-32-electric-meters-gutted-959893.html
09-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren death: Devendra Fadnavis demands arrest of Sachin Vaze||Uproarious scenes were witnessed in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on the issue of the mysterious death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, whose Scorpio SUV, laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter, was planted near the Mumbai residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. Spearheading the BJP charge, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demanded the suspension of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. The BJP also demanded his immediate arrest. So far, the Lower House has seen four adjournments over the issue – and BJP members are on their feet demanding the arrest of Vaze, who is attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch CID of Mumbai Police. “Whom does the state want to protect?” asked Fadnavis and lashed out at the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. Fadnavis wanted to know if the government was protecting Vaze as he had joined a “particular political party”. "Mansukh Hiren’s body was later found 40 km away. He may have been murdered in the car and the body may have been thrown into the creek. Since it was a low tide, the body was found," he said. Deshmukh, however, did not say anything on the demand of suspension and arrest of Vaze. “You are allowing him (Vaze) to destroy the evidence (in the Mansukh Hiren case),” he said. Deshmukh clarified that Vaze is with the CIU while the case is being investigated by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). Shiv Sena leader Bhaskar Jadhav said that the BJP is agitated and against Vaze as he was investigated the Anvay Naik suicide case and arrested Republic Media Network’s Editor-in-Chief.  Deshmukh said that Fadnavis, who was then the Chief Minister and Home Minister “suppressed” the case. “His wife and daughter came to us and requested for a probe,” he said. Jadhav also referred to the Judge Brijgopal Harkishan Loya case – amid uproarious scenes. Congress MLA Nana Patole wanted to know how a vehicle can be parked near the house of Ambani. He also wanted to know how Fadnavis could get CDR details vis-a-vis Sachin Vaze-Mansukh Hiren. “You want to know... please order a probe against me... I am requesting the Home Minister for a probe against me,” said Fadnavis. The former Chief Minister further claimed that Hiren's last location was found with Dhananjay Vithal Gawde, against whom an FIR was lodged for seeking a ransom of Rs 40 lakh in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-death-devendra-fadnavis-demands-arrest-of-sachin-vaze-959923.html
09-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: Mumbai-bound Gitanjali Express derails in Akola||A coach of the Howrah-Mumbai Gitanjali Express derailed in Maharashtra's Akola district on Tuesday, disrupting traffic on the route for some time, officials said. There was no report of any casualty, they said. The last SLR coach of the moving Mumbai-bound train derailed with a loud sound between Borgaon Manju and Katepurna stations around 11.15 am, a railway police official said. The train immediately came to a halt, the official said, adding that this led to the disruption of traffic on the Up and Down lines. Railway and police personnel rushed to the spot. The derailed coach was later detached from the train and it left for its onward journey after about two hours, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mumbai-bound-gitanjali-express-derails-in-akola-959930.html
09-03-2021||West||In Maharashtra, man gets two years rigorous imprisonment for throwing slipper at judge||A 35-year-old undertrial was sentenced to two years of rigorous imprisonment for allegedly throwing a slipper at a district judge and verbally abusing him in Maharashtra's Thane district. District judge P M Gupta on March 5 held the accused Ganesh Laxman Gaikwad guilty of offences punishable under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of duty) and 294 (obscene acts or words in public) of the IPC. The order copy was made available on Monday. Additional public prosecutor S M Dandekar told the court that the accused, a labourer from Navi Mumbai, was an undertrial lodged in Thane Central Jail and was produced in the court of district and additional sessions judge R S Gupta on June 28, 2019 for a hearing. During the hearing, the accused informed the court that the advocate provided by the court was not attending the hearing, he said. Upon this, the judge informed the accused that the court will assign him another advocate and the hearing can be held on the next date. To this, the accused removed one of his slippers and hurled it at the judge, which hit him and also verbally abused him in foul language, the court was told. The judge in his order noted that the offence committed by the accused was a serious one and he did not deserve any sympathy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-maharashtra-man-gets-two-years-rigorous-imprisonment-for-throwing-slipper-at-judge-959934.html
09-03-2021||West||SIT to probe Mohan Delkar’s death case||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced a probe by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the death of seven-time Dadar and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. On 22 February, Delkar (58), an Independent MP, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in a room of the Sea Green Hotel in Marine Drive in Mumbai. The Mumbai Police has registered an accidental death report (ADR) and investigations are in progress. Rattled by the fact that the probe into the planting of a Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks near the Mumbai house of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani has been taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has assured thorough investigations into the death of Delkar. Making a statement in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that an SIT would be set up to investigate the entire issue. In the suicide note that had been recovered, Delkar has named Praful Khoda Patel, the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, for allegedly harassing him and trying to finish off his political and social career. Deshmukh informed that Delkar’s wife Kalaben Delkar and son Abhinav Delkar had requested him and the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for thorough investigations. “He was a seven-time MP and was being constantly harassed,” he said, adding that the state government would go deep into the case. It may be recalled that at the start of the Budget Session, Thackeray had sought the help of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in case Mumbai Police needed to go to the Union Territory for investigations. An advocate for tribal rights, Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. Later, he started Adivasi Vikas Sangathan for the tribals in 1985. He had represented the seat seven times – as an Independent in 1989, in 1991 and 1996 from the Congress, 1998 as a BJP candidate, 1999 as an Independent and in 2004 representing Bharatiya Navshakti Party, a political outfit floated by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sit-to-probe-mohan-delkar-s-death-case-959944.html
09-03-2021||West||Vedanta's mining plant in Goa can't operate sans environment clearance: NGT||The National Green Tribunal has held that Vedanta's mining plant in Dharbandora area in Goa cannot operate without obtaining Environment Clearance (EC). A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said the recommencement of the plant in 2019 can only be done after obtaining EC. "Accordingly, we hold that the application is maintainable and requirement of prior EC for operating the plants in question by Respondent no. 4 (Vedanta) is attracted. The Ministry of Environment and Forests and the Goa State Pollution Control Board may take further remedial action in accordance with this finding to enforce the rule of law," the bench said. The tribunal said the plant has recommenced in the year 2019, such recommencement is required to be after the grant of EC even if the plant was initially started prior to the year 2006. "More so, the initial location of the plant at a time when EC was not required was different. It is clear from the record that such location changed in the year 2012 i.e. after September 14, 2006. Since working of the plant prior to 2019 is not in issue, we are only considering the issue of recommencement in the year 2019. "Such recommencement in our view required EC. The contention that when the plant was initially set up in the year 1997, the requirement of notification was not applicable is not sufficient to hold that EC is not required even after the plant started at a different location," the bench said. On the issue of maintainability of the plea challenging operation of the plant, the bench said the mere fact that there is a prayer for quashing Consent To Operate (CTO) does not render the application not maintainable "The tribunal cannot avoid responsibility in dealing with the matter where direct violation of specific statutory obligation is pointed out. Violation alleged in the present case is of serious nature of not having requisite EC, which is crucial regulatory the requirement under a statutory notification. "This cannot be ignored nor any commercial establishment committed to rule of law can oppose this being done," the bench said. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by NGO Goa Foundation Question challenging operation of  Vedanta plant located at Codli Village in  Dharbandora on former mining lease without requisite Environment Clearance (EC) as per EIA Notification only on the strength of Consent to Operate granted by the Goa State PCB in 2019. According to the applicant, after the judgment of the Supreme Court in Goa Foundation vs. Sesa Sterlite Ltd. & Ors, mining operations were halted leading to the closure of the beneficiation plants in question. The same subsequently commenced, after the CTO dated September 19, 2019, granted by the state pollution control board for the process of 2.1 million tonnes of ore per annum, without requisite EC. It said the mere fact that initially the plants were set up at the time the EIA notification did not exist will not matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vedantas-mining-plant-in-goa-cant-operate-sans-environment-clearance-ngt-959948.html
09-03-2021||West||Uddhav Thackeray directs local authorities to take call on measures to curb Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government has left it to local authorities to take a call on various measures that may be needed in the wake of the February-March surge in Covid-19 cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has instructed Collectors, Municipal Commissioners, Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to take decisions based on the respective situation. The state government has not yet taken any decision for a complete shutdown in cites and urban conglomerates where the cases are growing. “It can be a night curfew, complete or partial lockdown.....cases are on the rise in Mumbai and other parts of Maharashtra. Nightclubs are likely to be shut first," state Textiles, Ports and Fisheries Minister Aslam Shaikh, who is the Guardian Minister of Mumbai City. The statement comes a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated some measures. “Yes, cases are on the rise, buy the end of the Budget session or in a few days, we have to decide. We will meet again and I will inform or I will do Facebook live, which the opposition likes,” he told reporters in Vidhan Bhavan complex. "After the session, a decision has to be taken to ban people from going to places like Chowpatty and Gateway of India where there are unwarranted crowds. People often travel from Mumbai to Pune and Mumbai to Thane. Officers have been asked to check if restrictions on travel are needed. In a related development, in Thane city, lockdown measures would be in force in dozen-odd hotspots from 13-31 March. In the commercial capital of Mumbai, Lockdown has been ruled out, as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-thackeray-directs-local-authorities-to-take-call-on-measures-to-curb-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-959955.html
09-03-2021||West||Maharashtra approves Pune-Nashik semi high-speed line||In what would further boost development, the Maharashtra government has approved the Greenfield project involving a semi high-speed railway line between Pune and Nashik. The 235-km route would have 24 stations, 18 tunnels and 19 viaducts – and would be an engineering marvel. The trains would move at a speed of around 200 kmph. The Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) along with Pune and Nashik forms what is often referred to as the Golden Triangle of Maharashtra. The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (MRIDC or MahaRail) will be executing the project. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has given a major push to the project. Tabling the Budget proposals, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, announced that the project would cost Rs 16,039 crore. According to MahaRail officials, the project would be on a debt-equity basis of 60:40, wherein the government of Maharashtra and Ministry of Railway shall contribute equity of 20 per cent each of the project cost while the remaining 60 per cent will be raised from the Domestic Financial Institutions. MahaRail is estimated to complete the project in 1,200 days from the date of its financial closure. “Railway is the backbone of economic development of any country in the world. Road and Rail transport facilities have expanded simultaneously in regions and countries like Europe, Japan, South Korea, Russia and China. This has led to an unprecedented opportunity to achieve the sustainability and growth which is required for the 21st century,” an official said. The MRIDC has envisaged the coaching configuration of six rakes with a carrying capacity of 450 passengers per train, a total number of 48 trips made by six rakes in a day for the initial phase. The project will open a new revenue for industries by fast track movements of cargo by Railways as important MIDC areas such as Chakan, Sinnar Satpur will be directly connected by this Railway line. Apart from these MIDC areas, the proposed line will cater to another important Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Khed, Narayangaon and Manchar. This project will also provide benefits to places in tourism and pilgrimage Pune–Nashik corridor. MRIDC has plans to develop a Private Freight Terminal (PFT), Dry Port, Multimodal and Commercial Hub, Warehouses and Sidings at suggested locations by the local industries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-approves-pune-nashik-semi-high-speed-line-959968.html
09-03-2021||West||India’s first Sugar Museum to come up in Pune||India’s first Sugar Museum would come up in Pune, the cultural capital of Maharashtra. The museum would come up at ‘Sakhar Sankul’ at Shivajinagar area of Pune city. The announcement came in the Maharashtra Budget 2021-22 tabled by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios and is also the Guardian Minister of Pune district. “The proposed Sugar Museum would be set up at a cost of Rs 40 crore,” Pawar said, adding that the museum would provide the progress made by the sugar industry in Maharashtra and the other sugar ancillary industries in the state. It will also showcase how sugar has transformed rural Maharashtra, he added. Pune, the hub of Western Maharashtra, is known for sugar cultivation and sugar factories. Sugar is the primary cash crop in Western Maharashtra – and the cooperative movement for the sugar industry started in the 1960s. At present, there are 170-plus cooperative sugar factories in operation – and Maharashtra accounts for 20 per cent of sugar production in India. There are around a dozen Sugar Museums in the world - Sugar Museum in Berlin, Germany, Alexander & Baldwin Sugar Museum in Puʻunene, Hawaii, Museum of Brown Sugar, a former museum in Recife, Brazil Sugar Museum in Nakskov, Denmark, Redpath Sugar Museum at Redpath Sugar Refinery in Toronto, Canada, Taiwan Sugar Museum in Kaohsiung, Sugar Museum in Tienen, Belgium, Australian Sugar Industry Museum in Mourilyan, Queensland, Barley Sugar Museum in Moret-sur-Loing, France.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/india-s-first-sugar-museum-to-come-up-in-pune-959972.html
09-03-2021||West||Scholar-activist Anand Teltumbde 'active member' of CPI (Maoist): NIA||Scholar-activist Anand Teltumbde, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, is an "active member" of CPI (Maoist) and "deeply involved" in furtherance of the outfit's agenda, the NIA has told a special court. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is conducting a probe into the case, made these submissions on February 26 in its written reply to the activist's bail plea. A copy of the reply was made available on Tuesday. In January this year, Teltumbde filed the bail plea in the special NIA court, claiming no evidence was found against him and theprosecution theory that he was abetting others to wage war against the government was all "humbug". Opposing his bail, the probe agency said it is "absolutely false" to say there is no evidence against the accused. "In fact, there is evidence against the accused that he is an active member of CPI (Maoist) and deeply involved in furtherance of the agenda of CPI (Maoist)," the NIA said in its submission. Further, it is evident from the statement of a protected witness that the accused used to attend international conferences and bring their foreign Maoist literature in memory card, and the same was further used for training purpose after approval from central committee of the CPI (Maoist), the probe agency said. It also claimed that Anand Teltumbde was in touch with his brother Milind Teltumbde, a wanted accused in the case, and had secret meeting with him. "Anand Teltumbde used to meet his brother during his urban area visits and used to share the literature of Maoist ideology collected during international conferences," it said. The Maoist literature/videos were used for training and strategic development of party members after approval in the (outfit's) central committee members' meeting in Abhujmad area (of Chhattisgarh), the NIA said. It also claimed that electronic evidences recovered from other accused show he was in touch with them. Anand Teltumbde and several other activists have been booked under stringent provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), for allegedly having links with Maoists and conspiring to overthrow the government. He has sought bail on merits of the case. The accused in his bail plea said he hails from a poor family and due to his sheer brilliance and hard work, he reached the position he has in the Indian society. However, casteist forces cannot digest this fact and implicating him in the case is an attempt to belittle his achievements, the accused said. Anand Teltumbde and some other activists were initially booked by the Pune police after violence erupted near Koregaon-Bhima, on outskirts of Pune city, a day after an Elgar Parishad conclave was organised. Inflammatory speeches and provocative statements made at the Elgar Parishad meet held in Pune on December 31, 2017, triggered the violence at Koregaon-Bhima the next day, the police had alleged. According to the police, the event was "backed" by Maoists. The NIA later took over the probe into the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/scholar-activist-anand-teltumbde-active-member-of-cpi-maoist-nia-960000.html
09-03-2021||West||We hope MVA gives us justice, says Mohan Delkar’s family||Accusing Praful Khoda Patel, the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, of harassing late Mohan Delkar, the latter's family thanked the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for launching SIT probe into his death as they feel it will give them "justice". Delkar’s wife Kalaben and her son Abhinav and daughter visited the Vidhan Bhavan complex and met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Home Minister Anil Deshmulkh. “We are sure, we will get justice,” said Kalaben after the meeting. “We have faith in the MVA that it would go to the truth....I thank them for giving us a hearing....my father was being harassed, humiliated...he (Patel) has also asked for a big amount of money....he was misusing the administrative machinery against us,” Abhinav told reporters in Mumbai. He pointed out that Delkar was one of the seniormost Parliamentarians of India – having contested Lok Sabha election nine times and winning seven times. Deshmukh said: “The family told us that they have faith in Uddhav Thackeray ji and Sharad Pawar saheb....they narrated how Delkar ji was being harassed.”  “In the letter he had named the Administrator....other names are also there,” he added. Abhinav further said that there are “30 to 40 instances” of how his father was being harassed. “My father was a strong person and he broke down and had to take this step,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/we-hope-mva-gives-us-justice-says-mohan-delkar-s-family-960006.html
09-03-2021||West||No immediate lockdown in Mumbai despite rise in Covid-19 cases: Civic officials||Despite the rise in Covid-19 cases, the situation in Mumbai is under control and there is no immediate need to impose a lockdown in the city, senior civic officials said on Tuesday. Mumbai on Monday recorded 1,008 fresh infections that raised its tally to 3,34,572. When asked about the possibility of imposing a lockdown, municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal said there was no immediate need to do so. According to civic officials, the surge in cases is a result of an increase in daily testing. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has ramped up testing significantly from 11,000 to 15,000 tests conducted in January to over 20,000 at present. As many as 23,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted by the civic body on Monday. The city has recorded a positivity rate of six per cent, which is quite less compared to other cities in Maharashtra, a civic official said. Considering this, there is no immediate need to impose a lockdown in the metropolis, the official said. Officials have, however, warned that if citizens do not follow the Covid-19 protocol, the civic body may be forced to take stringent steps. Speaking to media persons, a senior BMC official said nearly 60 per cent beds are available for Covid-19 patients at city hospitals. The civic body has undertaken the third sero survey in Mumbai and 12,000 samples have been collected under this, the official said, adding that a report is expected in two weeks. The COVID-19 immunisation drive is underway at 67 centres, including 24 civic hospitals, four state-run hospitals and 38 private hospitals, the official said. The civic body is planning to increase the number of the vaccination centres to 85, he said. Meanwhile, Mumbai Guardian Minister Aslam Shaikh on Tuesday said if Covid-19 cases continue to rise in the city, the possibility of a night curfew or partial lockdown cannot be ruled out. Shaikh said local authorities have been empowered to take a decision on lockdown as and when necessary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-immediate-lockdown-in-mumbai-despite-rise-in-covid-19-cases-civic-officials-960023.html
09-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Hiren's wife suspects Vaze's role in death, seeks probe||Vimla Hiren, wife of auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiren who died mysteriously last week, has alleged in her statement to the ATS that Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze might have killed her husband. On Tuesday, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis also cited her statement in the Maharashtra Assembly and demanded that Vaze be arrested. The police officer did not offer comment immediately on the allegations. After a Scorpio with explosives was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25, Hiren, a Thane resident, had claimed it had been stolen from his possession a week earlier. Hiren himself was found dead in Thane creek on March 5. Vimla Hiren recorded her statement before the state Anti-Terrorism Squad, which is probing the case, on March 7. According to the statement, the Scorpio, owned by Dr Peter Newton, was in the possession of the Hiren family for the past three years with Dr Newton's consent. Her husband knew API Vaze who was a regular client of Mansukh's car decor business, she said. In November 2020, he had given the Scorpio to Vaze to use, Vimla Hiren said, adding that the police officer returned it on February 5, 2021, through a driver. Her husband had then told her that the steering of the SUV was hard, she said. On February 17 Mansukh left for Mumbai in the SUV for business-related trip, but as the steering got jammed, he left it after crossing the Mulund toll plaza and took a cab, she said. The next day when he returned to the spot with one of his employees, it was missing, so he lodged a complaint of car theft at Vikhroli Police Station, she said. On February 25, when the SUV with gelatin sticks was found near Ambani's house, her husband got a call from an ATS inspector, she said. Mansukh and their son Lucky then went to meet the officer near their building, she told the police. The officer showed him a picture of the SUV and Hiren identified it. He later told her that he went with Sachin Vaze to the Mumbai police's crime branch the next morning for inquiry and returned around 10.30 pm with Vaze. He showed her a copy of his recorded statement which also bore the name and signature of Vaze, Vimla told the ATS. On March 2, Mansukh told her that he had gone to Mumbai with Vaze, and on his insistence filed a complaint addressed to the Chief Minister, Home Minister and police commissioners of Mumbai and Thane about harassment faced from the media and police, her statement said. She asked him if he had been tortured and Mansukh denied, but said he was constantly getting calls. On March 3 he told her that Vaze had asked him to get arrested in the case and assured that he (Vaze) will get him out on bail within 2-3 days, the statement claimed. She advised him against doing any such thing and he seemed tensed, she told the ATS. On March 4, her husband called his brother Vinod Hiren and said he needed a lawyer to apply for anticipatory bail as he feared arrest, Vimla said in the statement. He returned home early the same day, and said he had to go out again as a police officer named Tawde wanted to meet him, she said. He was going to Ghodbunder Road to consult the police who were their well-wishers, he assured her. Mansukh left in an auto rickshaw and after 11 pm his phone became unreachable, so she called Vinod Hiren. Vinod called Vaze who advised him to wait till morning, she said. Next day Vinod filed a missing person complaint and around 3.30 pm her son informed her that Mansukh's body has been found in the creek, she told the ATS. Her husband was a good swimmer so he could not have drowned in the creek, she stated. She suspected that her husband might have been killed by Sachin Vaze, Vimla Hiren said in the statement, demanding a thorough probe. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai on Tuesday, API Vaze said he would go through her allegations and only then respond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-hirens-wife-suspects-vazes-role-in-death-seeks-probe-960040.html
09-03-2021||West||Senior citizen dies in Mumbai after Covid-19 vaccination||A 65-year-old man died some time after he was given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in a private hospital in Andheri in Mumbai on Tuesday, a health official said. The senior citizen was inoculated at 3:50 pm, after which he fainted and was rushed to the ICU in the same facility, and was declared dead at around 5 pm, he said. This is the first case of death of a person after vaccination and a post mortem will be conducted in state-run JJ Hospital to find out the exact cause, the official added. As on Monday evening, 19,05,388 people have been inoculated against the infection in the state since the drive started on January 16. It includes 3,57,210 people above the age of 65, an official had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/senior-citizen-dies-in-mumbai-after-covid-19-vaccination-960043.html
09-03-2021||West||Gold coins from Mughal period found near Pune||Over 200 Mughal-era gold coins, dating back to the early 18th century, have been seized from the possession of a family of construction workers in Pimpri Chinchwad near here, police said on Tuesday. Some members of the family had found the coins while working at a construction site, said Pimpri Chinchwad Police Commissioner Krishna Prakash. Inspector Shailesh Gaikwad of Crime Branch and his team had received information that one Saddam Salar Pathan had in his possession of some gold coins. "During a search of his house, 216 gold coins and one copper vase, weighing around 2.357 kg, were found," said inspector Gaikwad. "As per the preliminary assessment by the Archaeological Department, these are Mughal-era `Mohurs' (coins), dating back between 1720 and 1748 and issued by Emperor Muhammad Shah Rangila," he added. Shah ruled from 1719 to 1748. Saddam's father-in-law and brother-in-law who stay with him were doing digging work at a construction site in Chikhali when they chanced upon some coins. They told Saddam and they returned to the site and found a broken copper vase containing more coins, Gaikwad said. Saddam kept the coins at home. As per law, such discoveries have to be reported to the police and archaeological authorities. A case will be registered against them under the Indian Treasure Trove Act after Archaeological Department officials lodge a complaint, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gold-coins-from-mughal-period-found-near-pune-960069.html
09-03-2021||West||Maharashtra government plans grand memorial for Basavanna in Solapur district||A grand memorial in honour of Saint Basaveshwara (Basavanna), the 12th-century philosopher and poet will come up in the Solapur district of Maharashtra. Known for its importance in terms of places of pilgrimage, Solapur borders Karnataka. Solapur is a city with tri-linguistic and multi-cultural features and has a mix of Marathi, Telugu and Kannada-speaking people.  The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government is planning the Basaveshwara memorial at Mangalwedha in the district. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 on Tuesday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, who holds the Finance and Planning portfolios, said, “Sant Basveshwara Maharaj lived in Mangalwedha, Solapur district of Maharashtra for more than 30 years. He taught equality, hard work and morality to the common man. Necessary funds will be made available in the year 2021-22 for erecting a memorial in memory of Sant Basaveshwara Maharaj.” Mangalwedha is also known as the ‘land of saints’ as Saint Jayatirtha, Saint Damaji, Saint Kanhopatra, Saint Basaveshwara and Saint Chokhamela had stayed here. Mangalwedha is situated 55 km west of the district headquarters of Solapur and 25 km southeast of Pandharpur city. The Solapur district is home to a very big Lingayat community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-government-plans-grand-memorial-for-basavanna-in-solapur-district-960079.html
09-03-2021||West||Man held with Rs 2,8-crore worth charas in Mumbai||The Mumbai Police has seized Charas worth Rs 2.80 crore from a Nepalese national at Borivali in the suburbs of the financial capital on Tuesday. The breakthrough was made by the Anti-Narcotics Cell’s Kandivali unit, according to Inspector Satish Taware. Acting on a tip-off that a member of a Nepalese gang would be coming to the Borivali suburbs to sell charas near the Sanjay Gandhi National Park, the ANC laid a trap and arrested him with 14 kg of Charas. The accused, who has been identified as Prabej Mahamjan Ansari, 23, from Bara district of south-central Nepal, has been arrested under the NDPS Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-held-with-rs-28-crore-worth-charas-in-mumbai-960104.html
