10-03-2021||First Edit||A plan Goebbels would be proud of||It is surprising that the Narendra Modi government feels it is facing an image crisis despite the sway it has on much of the mainstream media of all kinds and social media. A Group of Ministers (GoM), including the country’s law and foreign ministers and other senior members of the cabinet, has prepared a report which has made recommendations to ‘regulate’ digital news and social media so that the government has good control over the narratives about it. The idea is not just to encourage positive reporting and commentary about the government but also to neutralise those critical of it. It has come to light that the GoM met six times on this vital issue of gaining control over the narrative in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis in June last year. The GoM also held consultations with members of what has come to be known as “Godi media” – pro-government journalists, rather than watchdogs of democracy – on how to rein in journalists who are not in the government camp. The suggestions by ministers, officials and these ‘journalists’ leave no one in doubt as to the intent of the whole exercise. One of them wants journalists to be colour-coded into pro-, anti-government and neutral journalists, and dealt with accordingly; a minister wants to track 50 ‘negative influencers’ on social media and go after them. While those who give a positive picture of the government will be engaged and encouraged, it can be assumed how the ‘negative’ ones may be dealt with. Even a name — Pokhran effect — has been given to the strategy to manage the media. The report says that “spin doctors’’ who can “present the same fact with different narratives’’ should be identified and utilised. There is an elaborate plan of a carrot-and-stick policy, outreach to foreign media, and various other ideas. One could have dismissed the report as the mere fulminations of a paranoid government, but the fact that some of the plans have been made into rules and laws makes it dangerous. The recent directive on permissions for webinars with foreign institutions, the new rules for social media and streaming services, etc., all arose out of what can only be called a Goebbelsian plan. It is unfortunate that a government that is stable and politically strong and enjoys the support of large sections of the media should think of further extending its control. Ideally, any government in a democratic system should think of encouraging and promoting criticism. A government becomes stronger by responding positively to criticism and correcting itself, and not by extinguishing criticism. Manipulating the media and creating one that suits it will not help the nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-plan-goebbels-would-be-proud-of-960181.html
10-03-2021||In Perspective||A Swachch America, please||Here’s a populist slogan for President Biden’s infrastructure plan: Pee for Free! Sure, we need investments to rebuild bridges, highways and, yes, electrical grids, but perhaps America’s most disgraceful infrastructure failing is its lack of public toilets. The humourist Art Buchwald once recounted an increasingly desperate search for a toilet in Manhattan. He was turned down at an office building, a bookstore and a hotel, so he finally rushed into a bar and asked for a drink. “What kind of drink?” the bartender replied. “Who cares?” Buchwald answered. “Where’s the men’s room?” America should be better than that. Japan manages what may be the world’s most civilised public toilets — ubiquitous, clean and reliably equipped with paper — and almost every industrialised country is more bladder-friendly than America. Even poorer countries like China and India manage networks of public latrines. But the United States is simply not made for people who pee. “I go between cars or in bushes,” Max McEntire, 58, who has been homeless about 10 years, told me as he stood outside the tent where he lives here. “Sometimes at my age, if your body says pee, you’ve got to pee. If your body says poop, you can’t wait.” Most stores and businesses are of little help, he said, because they often insist on a purchase to use the restroom — and that’s even before the pandemic closed many shops. “At night you’ll see men and women pulling their pants down and peeing and pooping in the gutter,” McEntire said. “People lose their dignity, they lose their pride.” Cities also lose their liveability, and open defecation becomes a threat to public health. Americans have painstakingly built new norms about dog owners picking up after their pets, but we’ve gone backward with human waste. Meanwhile, it’s not just homeless who suffer. Taxi drivers, delivery people, tourists and others are out and about all day, navigating a landscape that seems oblivious to the most basic of needs. The same is true of parents out with kids. What’s a parent supposed to do when a toddler needs to wee? And what about people with medical conditions that require more frequent urination or defecation? Why do we make life so difficult and humiliating? How is it that we can afford aircraft carriers but not toilets? For men, it’s more convenient to disappear behind a trash can, but men also face greater risk of being arrested — and the consequences can be dire. At last count, 13 states sometimes classify people arrested for public urination as sex offenders. In Florida, a welder named Juan Matamoros was fined and ordered to move away from his home, which was near a park, because 19 years earlier he had been arrested for public urination; as a result, he was considered a lifelong sex offender and not allowed to live near a park. Women seem less likely to be arrested but more likely to be humiliated. “It’s a big hit to your dignity the first time you have to squat down in a field or by the side of the road,” said Raven Drake, 37, who until recently was homeless and now works with Street Roots, a Portland group supporting the homeless. “Slowly you take these hits to your dignity, and one day you don’t even think you’re a person anymore.” Drake told me that she had lived in a homeless encampment in Portland that was two miles from the nearest restroom she could use, and she flinched as she recounted the shame of having to relieve herself where she could, trying to avoid people leering. Toilets, she said, are an infrastructure issue, but also far more than that: “Bathrooms are a humanitarian issue.” In the 19th century, the United States did set up public toilets in many cities. They were often called public urinals, abbreviated as P.U. (this may be part of the origin of “P.U.” to mean something that stinks, although there are competing theories). In the early 20th century, these were supplemented by “comfort stations” for men and women alike, but most closed in waves of cost-cutting over the years. That’s partly because this is a class issue. Powerbrokers who decide on infrastructure priorities can find a restaurant to duck into, while that is less true of a Black teenage boy and utterly untrue of an unwashed homeless person with a shopping cart. The White House can work with cities to experiment with various approaches to expand restroom access. We can work with corporate sponsors. We can use advertising to help underwrite the expense. We can give tax breaks to businesses that make restrooms open to all. There are models all over the world, such as India turning old buses into clean public toilets. So come on, President Biden! Let’s see an infrastructure plan that addresses not only bridges and electrical grids, but also bladders and bowels. (International New York Times)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-swachch-america-please-960184.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Initiate measures to save Munda Beach: Congress leaders||Former MLA Abhayachandra Jain and Congress leader Mithun Rai have urged district administration to initiate measures to check sea erosion in Munda Beach near Haleyangady. The beach had caught attention globally when international surfing festival was held a few years ago. The sea erosion has damaged the beauty of the beach, If the erosion continues, then the beach will lose its identity, said leaders, who were speaking during the visit to the beach. "The entire stretch of the beach has been damaged. The retaining wall, at a cost of Rs 50 lakh, was constructed to check the erosion four years ago. There was a plan to provide connectivity from Munda Beach to Chitrapura. However, it has not been taken up. More than two acres of land of the beach has been affected by the erosion," Jain said. Stating that the development of Munda Beach has been neglected, Jain said that surfing festival was organised when he was the MLA. “To protect tourists from drowning, a watchman and lifeguards were deployed at the beach. Hotels, shops and toilets constructed near the beach have been neglected. A few structures have already been washed away. Several coconut trees have been washed away due to the fury of the waves,” he added. Jain urged tourism minister to initiate measures to develop Munda Beach. “Without lifeguards, the visitors are risking their lives. In the last two months, four persons have drowned in the sea,” said Chandru, a local resident. "A campaign needs to be started to save Munda Beach. The area where surfing competitions was held has already been affected by the erosion. There are about 60 acres of government land in and around the beach, which needs be developed on the lines of Maravanthe beach," Mithun Rai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/initiate-measures-to-save-munda-beach-congress-leaders-960165.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Beware of viral infections as summer is here, warn doctors||Summer is around the corner, so are viral infections such as influenza-like illness (cough and cold) and gastrointestinal problems (diarrhoea and vomiting). However, this year summer begins along with the anxiety of the possible second wave of the novel coronavirus. Meanwhile, misty mornings has taken the heritage city by surprise for the past few days, with parts of Mysuru city and outskirts covered with mist. The days are warm with maximum temperature at 34 degree Celsius and minimum temperature hovering between 17 and 18 degree Celsius, announcing the summer has set in. As per the forecast of the Indian Meteorological Department, it will continue to be same for the next five days.  While respiratory infections and gastroenteritis are seen during early and midsummer, mosquito density goes up and the conditions are favourable for transmission of dengue and chikungunya viruses, in the latter half. “This season more people complain of fever and running nose. However, with Covid positive cases still being reported, people should be cautious. If fever and cold persists, it is safe to undergo Covid test, as a precautionary measure,” said general physician Dr Kamat. Working professionals are more prone to influenza and other flu like infections, because of their work environment, working in groups. Poor ventilation, airconditioned offices facilitates the spread of virus from one person to another, he said. Staying away from work, when sick, is the best service one can do to the firm they are employed and also the courtesy towards their colleagues. Self-isolation prevents the spread of airborne viral infections. Following basic work place habits, like cough etiquette, hand washing and sanitisation are important in offices, say Health officials. Viral infections can be prevented by maintaining hydration, using protective gears like mask, avoiding contact with infected persons and getting vaccination, if necessary. Speaking to DH, Dr Chidambara, Mysuru District Sureveillance Officer, said that though it is a little early for the outbreak of summer diseases, be cautious as prevention is always better than cure. With jatras and temple fairs scheduled during summers, the respective taluk authorities should ensure that clean drinking water is provided and all measures are taken to prevent breeding of mosquitoes. It is mandatory to follow guidelines issued by the department concerned from time to time. The Health department personnel should check water samples to ensure that it is potable. The surveillance by the Health department continues throughout the year. However, it is intensified during summer. The population density is proportional to the spread of diseases like dengue, malaria and chikungunya. Hence, people are educated on maintaining cleanliness and hygiene, to prevent any outbreak of diseases during summer, he said. Respiratory and airborne diseases, caused by pollution, is also on the rise during the season. Hence, people, especially those with health comorbidities like asthma and allergic bronchitis should be careful. Masks help to keep away most of the virus infections, especially Covid. Hence, people should continue to wear masks, while venturing out, to be safe during summer, Dr Chidambara said. Speaking about Covid, he said, “Coronavirus will stay for years, and it is the responsibility of the people to strictly follow Covid guidelines.” The district health officers are taking all measures to prevent any outbreak of summer related diseases. Primary health care centres, taluk and district hospitals are fully equipped to tackle any outbreak of epidemic. Campaigns on using safe water for consumption, hygiene and cleanliness will be conducted, Dr Chidambara said. Maintaining personal hygiene, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, eating balanced meals, hand washing, drinking more water and fruit juices and keeping one’s environment clean are some of the measures to be taken during summer season, health officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/beware-of-viral-infections-as-summer-is-here-warn-doctors-960484.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shiva temples gear up for Maha Shivaratri today||Shiva temples across Mysuru region have geared up for Maha Shivaratri, scheduled to be celebrated on March 11 (Thursday). The temples have been spruced up, decorated with flowers and buntings with arrangements for devotees to have darshan of the deities. As lakhs of people visit the popular pilgrim centre Male Mahadeshwara Hill in Hanur, Chamarajanagar district, for Mahashivaratri Jatra, the MM Hill Temple Development Authority and Chamarajanagar district administration have banned the entry of devotees from other districts. Permission is only for locals, to be a part of the festival, as a precautionary measure, in the wake of the Covid crisis. Devotees observe fasting and meditation, visit temples, chant prayers on the day. The golden mask of Trineshwara Swamy temple was brought out from the District Treasury, amid police security, on Wednesday morning. The mask (kolaga), weighing 11 kg was handed over to the temple authorities of Trineshwara Swami temple on the Mysuru Palace premises, by the district administration. Special pujas and other rituals will be held from 5 am at the temple. It will be open for devotees till 12 midnight. According to sources, all Palace gates will be open till midnight, for the devotees. However, the devotees are asked to strictly follow Covid norms. Besides, Chandramouleshwara Swamy temple at Matrumandali Circle in VV Mohalla, Mahadeshwara temple on Valmiki Road, Gurukula temple, which has 101 shivalingas on Ramanuja Road, Kamakameshwari temple, Amruteshwara temple and others have been spruced up. All temples have been illuminated for the occasion. The police have made security arrangements at popular temples, by placing barricades. Suttur Mutt has also organised special programmes for Maha Shivaratri. Cultural programmes have been organised at Gadduge all night at Suttur in Nanjangud taluk. All Shiva temples in Hassan, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts too have geared up for the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shiva-temples-gear-up-for-maha-shivaratri-today-960485.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Technical glitches delay property registration process across state||Technical glitches in sub-registrar offices have been causing a lot of inconveniences to those who want to sell and buy properties in the district, especially the senior citizens and women. There are also instances when they are made to visit the offices more than twice, posing threat to their health, especially when the Covid cases are still being reported. "I am waiting for my registration from yesterday. Even today, the same issue persists in the sub-registrar's office in Malavalli. The employees have been claiming technical glitches. I see a lot of people from yesterday present even today. This has been causing a lot of inconveniences", complained a person waiting at Malavalli sub-registrar's office. The problem is not limited to just one office, but across the state. The server is frequently down, hampering the work. Some offices even have a server down boards displayed, said an officer on condition of anonymity. The recurring software problems have been brought to the notice of the authorities concerned. In case of emergencies, when the software does not respond for days, an alternative method should be introduced by the government, it is opined. The officials have to face the wrath of the public due to the delay in generating OTP (One Time Password). Slow bandwidth and down in internet servers are said to be the main reason behind the problem. The problems are being resolved, said an officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/technical-glitches-delay-property-registration-process-across-state-960486.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Miscreants dig land on temple premises in search of treasure||In an effort to discover treasure, miscreants have allegedly dug soil on the premises of Someshwara Swamy temple, at Thimmanahalli in Alur taluk on Wednesday. The Someshwara temple is dated back to Chola period and is located near the bank of Yagachi river. It is in a dilapidated condition since several years. As no pujas or other rituals are being conducted, the temple is covered with wild growth of bushes. A cowherd, while grazing the cattle found soil being dug at a few places around the temple premises and also, near the sanctum sanctorum, on Tuesday. The villagers have lodged a complaint with the police alleging that miscreants have dug the premises in search for treasure. The police visited the spot and registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miscreants-dig-land-on-temple-premises-in-search-of-treasure-960487.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||KRS partymen misbehave with government staff, arrested||Seven members of Karnataka Rashtriya Samiti (KRS) party, including its state president Ravikrishna Reddy have been arrested on charges of allegedly misbehaving with the staff members at the revenue office, at Mini Vidhana Soudha in Nagamangala taluk on Wednesday. It is alleged that around 20 people, all members of the party entered the office without any permission, misbehaved with the staff for not having nameplates and even tried to attack them, at around 11 am on Wednesday. Tension prevailed for a while, when the public raised objections for their behaviour. However, the police personnel rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control. The staff members staged a protest for a while and submitted a complaint to the tahsildar. Based on the complaint lodged by Tahsildar Ahmed, FIR has been filed against the seven persons. They were produced before the court, after subjecting to health screening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/krs-partymen-misbehave-with-government-staff-arrested-960489.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Leopard rescued in Karnataka's H D Kote||A five-year-old leopardess fell into a trap laid by the Forest department at Madapura village, near Hampapura, H D Kote taluk, on Wednesday. Based on the complaints from the residents of the village, the department placed a cage at the coconut farm of one Srinivas on Tuesday morning. The leopard fell into the trap on Tuesday night. The wild cat was later released into Nagarahole National Park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-rescued-in-karnatakas-h-d-kote-960512.html
10-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi sleaze CD row: Somashekar points fingers at Congress||Karnataka cooperation minister S T Somashekar pointed fingers at Congress leaders over the release of a sleaze CD, which led to the resignation of Ramesh Jarkiholi from the state Cabinet. Replying to queries at a media briefing, he said that few ministers of the 'Bombay Team' were being targeted, blaming them for the collapse of the previous coalition government. 'Bombay Team' is in reference to the group of 15 MLAs who resigned from the previous coalition government and were lodged in a hotel in Mumbai. "We received credible information that there was a plan to damage us and force us to resign during the Assembly session. We didn't go to court fearing that they would release a CD," he said, explaining why six ministers of the state Cabinet had sought an injunction in court against publishing anything defamatory against them. On whether Congress leaders were behind the CD release, his answer was affirmative. "They made the CD," he said.  Somashekar recalled his association with the Congress, noting that he was in the party for two decades. "I know what they have. The entire state knows what Congress's morality and immorality are." The minister said that apart from the six, more ministers of the 'Bombay Team' had planned to approach the Court seeking an injunction against publication of anything defamatory. "However, it was depicted as an error on our part by the media, due to which they did not," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-sleaze-cd-row-somashekar-points-fingers-at-congress-960293.html
10-03-2021||National||81.59 lakh healthcare workers, 1.01 crore frontline workers registered on Co-WIN till March 2: Minister||A total of 81.59 lakh healthcare workers and 1.01 crore frontline workers were registered on Co-WIN portal for anti-coronavirus vaccine till March 2, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. On whether there is a plan regarding the completion of anti-coronavirus vaccination for the country, Choubey said it is an ongoing and dynamic process which is being expanded to include beneficiary groups as prioritised by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). "In view of the dynamic nature of Covid-19 pandemic and inclusion of new priority groups, no specific time frame can be indicated at present, for completion of vaccination," he said in a written reply. As of March 2, a total of nine states and Union Territories have administered the 1st dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine to more than 90 per cent of the registered healthcare workers. These are Ladakh, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Lakshadweep. Similarly, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Lakshadweep, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Tripura, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have administered 1st dose to more than 70 per cent of the registered frontline workers, Choubey said. The NEGVAC has prioritised next priority group for vaccination. These are persons above 60 years of age and persons aged between 45 to 59 years with one of the 20 listed comorbidities, he said. The vaccination for this priority group has begun across the country from March 1. In another reply, the minister said till March 3, a total of 8.45 lakh persons aged 60 years and above, and 1.04 lakh people aged 45-59 years with comorbidities have received 1st dose of anti-coronavirus vaccine. The personal data of beneficiaries is collated on Co-WIN 2.0 and conforms to data security and confidentiality norms hence, the same is not available in public domain for specific individuals based on their name and designations, he said. The NEGVAC has also recommended persons above 50 years of age as a priority group for vaccination, to be taken up in the next phase, Choubey stated. He said vaccine is being provided free of cost at government Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) while at private CVCs, vaccine is available at a ceiling cost of RS 250 per dose per person.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8159-lakh-healthcare-workers-101-crore-frontline-workers-registered-on-co-win-till-march-2-minister-960119.html
10-03-2021||National||India finally agrees with Japan, Australia, US to elevate Quad, PM Modi to attend summit with President Joe Biden||India has confirmed that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would on Friday join his counterparts in Japan, Australia and the United States for the first-ever summit of the ‘Quad’ – a coalition forged by the four nations to counter China’s expansionist moves in the Indo-Pacific region. Modi will join United States President Joe Biden, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison for the virtual summit of the Quad. It will mark the elevation of the Quad to the level of the Heads of Governments – a move, which is likely to rile up China and may even result in some unease in India’s relations with Russia. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) issued a press release in New Delhi on Tuesday, confirming the Prime Minister’s participation in the forthcoming summit. “The leaders will discuss regional and global issues of shared interest, and exchange views on practical areas of cooperation towards maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region,” it stated, adding that the summit would provide an opportunity to exchange views on contemporary challenges, such as resilient supply chains, emerging and critical technologies, maritime security and climate change. The proposal for a virtual meeting of the leaders of the four nations was mooted by the Biden Administration last month.  India, however, took time to give its consent to the proposal as it was keen to first assess the implication of its joining the move to elevate the Quad on its relations with Russia as well as on the yet-to-be-completed process of mutual disengagement of troops by the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) from the face-off points along the disputed boundary between the two nations in eastern Ladakh. New Delhi, however, finally formally confirmed the Prime Minister’s participation in the summit, a few hours after he and his counterpart in Japan, Yoshihide Suga, spoke over the phone and agreed that the four-way consultations among India, Japan, Australia and the United States held value and should continue. Morrison too last week said that he was “looking forward” to the first virtual meeting of the leaders of the Quad. He had also spoken to the Prime Minister over the phone earlier. The MEA stated in New Delhi that the leaders of the four nations would discuss ongoing efforts to combat the Covid-19 pandemic and explore opportunities for collaboration in ensuring safe, equitable and affordable vaccines in the Indo-Pacific region. India, Australia, Japan and the US had first launched the Quad in 2007, but the initiative had fizzled out very soon. The four nations, however, re-launched the Quad in Manila in November 2017 – ostensibly to create a bulwark of democratic nations to counter expansionist moves of China in the Indo-Pacific region. The senior diplomats of the four nations had several meetings ever since it was re-launched. It was elevated to the level of Foreign Ministers with a meeting on the side-line of the United Nations General Assembly in September 2019. The second ministerial meeting was held in Tokyo on October 6 last year and the third was held virtually on February 18. The one Biden, Morrison, Modi and Suga are likely to hold will be the first-ever talks at the level of the leaders of the four nations. It is however unlikely to transform the Quad into a NATO-like entity for the Indo-Pacific region as the erstwhile US administration led by Biden’s predecessor Donald Trump wanted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-finally-agrees-with-japan-australia-us-to-elevate-quad-pm-modi-to-attend-summit-with-president-joe-biden-960121.html
10-03-2021||National||Classification for Covid-19 vaccine based on vulnerability to infection: Centre to Delhi High Court||The Centre Tuesday told the Delhi High Court that classification of citizens for the purpose of COVID-19 vaccination is based upon most rational and non-arbitrary criteria depending upon their vulnerability to the disease either due to age or nature of work or co-morbidity health situation and it may not be desirable to create a separate class consisting of lawyers and others below 45 years of age. The Centre made the submission in its affidavit filed in response to a PIL initiated by the high court to examine the demand to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers, as “frontline workers” so that they could receive COVID-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition. The government said any specific classification either based upon the nature of trade, profession or otherwise is neither possible nor advisable. It said that in order to achieve the first objective of protecting India’s healthcare and pandemic response system, NEGVAC has prioritise healthcare workers, front line workers (personnel for state and central police department, armed forces, home guard and civil defence organization including disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, poll officers in election bound states), persons aged 60 years and above and those aged between 45 to 59 years with identified 20 co-morbidities for COVID-19 vaccination. National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) has been established by the government to provide guidance on all aspects of COVID-19 vaccination. The Centre, in its affidavit filed through Central government standing counsel Anil Soni, said the decision to include individuals above 50 years and 60 years in the priority list is based on vulnerability and the mortality risk of this age group for COVID-19 disease. It added that a look at prioritisation criteria for vaccination from World Health Organisation (WHO) and other countries showed that a step-wise layered approach is advisable. The high court is scheduled to hear the matter on Wednesday. Regarding the issue of export of vaccine to other countries, the Centre said once an epidemic takes form of a pandemic, its management has to be done keeping the entire globe as unit and in most circumstances it is not possible to take either states-specific or country-specific approach. “…Hence, export of COVID-19 vaccine which facilitates global action to vaccination is important to simultaneously protect the high-risk population in all the countries of the world, thereby breaking the chain of transmission and minimising chances of import of COVID-19 cases from foreign countries as well as neighbouring countries to India,” it said. On the demand for treating lawyers as frontline workers, the government said any specific classification either based upon the nature of trade, profession or otherwise is neither possible nor advisable. “Though the government has tremendous respect for the profession and the discharge of duties by these professionals for and on behalf of citizens of India and as part of administration of justice, those lawyers and other associates staff who are either above 60 years or between the age group of 45 to 60 years and are having any of the almost exhaustive list of co-morbidities would, in any case, be covered by the on-going vaccine drive,” it said. It added that it may not be desirable to create a separate class consisting of lawyers and others below 45 years of age and discriminating other similarly situated citizens engaged in other professions. “The term ‘frontline workers’ is used only for those citizens who are required to be directly exposed to the COVID-19 infected patients. Thus, it may not be appropriate to discriminate them as against a separate class of lawyers as both are doing their respective duties towards the citizens under similar circumstances,” it said. The high court had on March 4 asked the Centre to explain the rationale behind keeping strict control over class of persons who can be vaccinated against COVID-19 currently as under the present system those above the age of 60 years or with comorbidities can receive vaccination. It had said the two institutes which have developed the vaccines COVISHIELD and COVAXIN -- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- have more capacity to provide the vaccines but it seems that their full capacity is not being exploited. It had also directed the two institutes to file separate affidavits on their capacity to manufacture the vaccines on per day/ week/ month basis and also the current optic of the vaccines and how much unused capacity is lying. The high court was hearing a PIL initiated by it to examine the demand of Bar Council of Delhi (BCD) to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers as “frontline workers” so that they could receive COVID-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition. It had said premises and court rooms of the high court, which is scheduled to resume physical functioning from March 15, and some of the district courts are air-conditioned and with increased footfall, there is likelihood of the rate of infection amongst those who attend the courts spiking, once the full-fledged physical functioning of courts in Delhi resumes. The court had referred to a communication sent to the chief justice by BCD Chairman Ramesh Gupta requesting that appropriate directions be issued to the concerned authorities to make available necessary infrastructure in court premises, particularly in dispensaries for vaccinating the members of the judicial system by treating them as frontline workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/classification-for-covid-19-vaccine-based-on-vulnerability-to-infection-centre-to-delhi-high-court-960122.html
10-03-2021||National||Regional AIIMS a letdown, more in line||Nearly a decade after they became operational, the first batch of six AIIMS at Bhopal, Patna, Bhubaneswar, Raipur, Jodhpur and Rishikesh are nowhere near their illustrious parent institute that was set up in Delhi seven years after Independence. Taken together, the six AIIMS carried out 89,729 minor and major surgeries in 2019 as against 1,04,850 such surgeries at AIIMS Delhi. The average OPD footfall in these hospitals vary between 1,800 and 3,000 a day in the same year as against 10,000 plus at AIIMS Delhi. Conceived by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government two decades ago, the six regional AIIMS were established with the objective of correcting the regional imbalance in the availability of affordable and reliable tertiary healthcare. But as of September 2020, five of the six AIIMS have failed to even recruit the sanctioned number of faculty members. The only exception is AIIMS, Rishikesh that managed to fill up 82% of its faculty positions. The worst performers are AIIMS Patna and Raipur that recruited only 47% and 48% of their faculty. The other three are marginally better, filling up just about 60%. Notwithstanding its failure to staff these institutes, the Centre plans more such institutions in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Jammu and Kashmir, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Assam, Gujarat and Jharkhand. As many as 15 such institutes have been sanctioned by the Narendra Modi government in the last seven years and at least four more are under consideration. “Service conditions must be more attractive. Rotation between regional and central AIIMS will help provide service incentives and spread the culture of the parent AIIMS, which too will benefit from infusion of regional health perspectives,” K Srinath Reddy, president of Public Health Foundation of India and a former professor of cardiology at AIIMS Delhi, told DH. All the six fare poorly when it comes to filling up non-teaching positions. Out of the 22,656 non-faculty posts, only 11,995 are filled up and 10,661 posts are still lying vacant. At AIIMS Bhopal, Bhubaneswar and Patna, there is less than 50% of the sanctioned strength. Once again, AIIMS Rishikesh is the best performer as it has managed to fill up nearly 80% of such posts and AIIMS Patna is the worst one with only 29% recruitment. AIIMS Bhopal is a tad better with 40% recruitment whereas the other three recruited 50-60% of their non-faculty staff. “The Committee expresses its deep anguish over the snail’s pace at which the recruitment process of non-faculty posts in the first six AIIMS is going on. Against the sanctioned strength of 22,656 non-faculty posts, only 11,606 posts remain filled up,” the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health said in its report. “Establishment of new AIIMS in different locations is attractive to regional political leaders but does not meet the expectations of excellence in healthcare, teaching and research that the original AIIMS has achieved. Unless primary care and district hospitals are strengthened, the referral chain will remain weak,” said Reddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regional-aiims-a-letdown-more-in-line-960123.html
10-03-2021||National||PM Modi, Japanese counterpart vow to strengthen cooperation in Indo-Pacific||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Japanese counterpart Suga Yoshihide held a telephonic conversation on Tuesday during which they discussed deepening collaboration bilaterally as well as under the Quad framework to enhance cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. The two leaders expressed satisfaction at the positive momentum in India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership in the last few years, guided by mutual trust and shared values, according to a statement from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). "Had a fruitful conversation with PM Suga Yoshihide on the progress of India-Japan Special Strategic and Global Partnership," Modi tweeted after the telephonic talks. "We exchanged views on contemporary global challenges and agreed to further enhance our cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region," he said. The Japanese government, in a read-out of the telephonic talks, said the two leaders exchanged views on the regional situation and in this context, Suga expressed serious concerns regarding "unilateral attempts" to change the status quo in the East and South China Sea, in a clear reference to China's expansionist behaviour. The Japanese foreign ministry said the two leaders "confirmed that they have grave concerns over the situation in Myanmar. "The two leaders also exchanged views on the regional situation. In this context, Prime Minister Suga expressed serious concerns regarding unilateral attempts to change the status quo in the East and South China Sea, China's Coast Guard Law and the situation in Hong Kong and the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region (XUAR)," according to the read-out. The PMO, meanwhile, said Modi and Suga exchanged views on regional and global issues of mutual interest and concurred that the partnership between the two countries could play a pivotal role in addressing common challenges. In this regard, they emphasized that their engagement with like-minded countries such as Australia and the US in the form of Quad consultations holds value and agreed that these useful discussions must continue, it said. The Quad comprises India, the US, Japan and Australia. The Japanese government's statement said the two leaders shared the recognition that cooperation towards realising a free and open Indo-Pacific is becoming increasingly important and to this end, shared the view to steadily advance both Japan-India bilateral cooperation and Japan-Australia-India-US quadrilateral cooperation. The PMO said the two leaders appreciated that bilateral exchanges were maintained over the last year despite the COVID-19 pandemic. They also welcomed the recent signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation on Specified Skilled Workers (SSW) and looked forward to its early implementation. During the conversation, Prime Minister Modi noted the Mumbai Ahmedabad High Speed Rail (MAHSR) project was a shining example of India-Japan bilateral strategic partnership and expressed his commitment to its successful implementation, the PMO said. The two leaders noted that the 70th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries would fall in 2022 and agreed that this event be celebrated in a befitting manner, it said. Prime Minister Modi also invited Suga to visit India at the earliest for the Annual Bilateral Summit. The Japanese statement said that in their nearly 40-minute conversation Modi and Suga concurred that they would continue their effort to materialise the Japan-India Special Strategic and Global Partnership through cooperation in areas such as security and defence, economic relationship including digital fields, and people-to-people exchanges. Prime Minister Suga also asked for understanding and cooperation toward the early resolution of the abductions issue by North Korea, the Japanese side said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-japanese-counterpart-vow-to-strengthen-cooperation-in-indo-pacific-960124.html
10-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine: Rajasthan stops vaccination at PHC, CHCs due to short supply||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said he had no other option but to stop Covid-19 vaccination at some of the primary healthcare centres and community health centres because of a shortage in the supply of vaccines. Hours after the Union Health Ministry denied any vaccine shortage in Rajasthan, the Chief Minister shared detailed data on non availability of vaccines and asked the ministry not to spread misinformation impacting the morale of the Covid warriors in the state. With limited availability, Gehlot said the vaccination programme would continue at medical colleges, district hospitals and private hospitals, but administering the dose was stopped at some of the PHCs and CHCs due to uncertainty on vaccine supply. This is the first known example of a state putting a break on the mega Covid-19 inoculation drive, though health officials last week assured that there was no shortage in vaccine supply.  In a series of tweets, Gehlot said that Rajasthan so far received 31,45,340 doses of vaccine, of which 2,15,180 doses were given to the armed forces leaving 29,30,160 doses for use.  Till March 8 – when a Rajasthan minister first raised the issue of vaccine shortage – the western state utilised 23,26,975 doses while 1,68,888 doses were wasted. The wastage, said Gehlot, was less than 10% as advised by the Health Ministry. As a consequence on March 8 only 4,40,297 doses were available. Since the state vaccinates nearly two lakh people daily, the stock would have lasted for two days. After Rajasthan reached out to the Centre, another 85,000 doses have been sent on Tuesday. "I appeal to the Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan to make the vaccines available as early as possible and direct his officials not to issue such wrong statements,” said the veteran Congress leader.  Earlier the ministry denied any supply shortfall in Rajasthan. “There is no shortage of Covid-19 vaccine with the State at present. Rajasthan has been supplied 37.61 lakh doses and has consumed only 24.28 lakh doses till March 8 night. The Central government is regularly monitoring availability of vaccine supply in all States and UTs, and providing the doses as per their requirement and consumption pattern,” the ministry said in statements.  With more than 20 lakh doses of vaccination on a single day for the first time, India is approaching 2.5 crore people receiving at least one dose of the vaccine. The Centre’s plan is to vaccinate 30 crore people with two doses of the vaccine by August.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-rajasthan-stops-vaccination-at-phc-chcs-due-to-short-supply-960127.html
10-03-2021||National||Parliament panel pitches for drive to issue caste certificates to Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups||A parliamentary standing committee has asked the Tribal Affairs Ministry to issue directions to all states and union territories for starting a special drive to provide caste certificates to all Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs). The committee said it was "particularly shocked" to know that some PVTGs do not have caste certificates, the basic document required for availing benefits of various welfare schemes meant for them. In its report on the Demands for Grants of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs for 2021-22, the Standing Committee on Social Justice and Empowerment said the scheme of development of PVTGs is very significant for their protection and development. "The Committee find from the details of state-wise funds released and utilised under the scheme that no funds were released in the year 2018-19 and 2019-20 for Bihar, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh and UT of Andaman and Nicobar Islands. The ministry attributed it to pendency of utilisation certificates and project progress reports against the earlier releases of funds under the scheme," according to the report. The committee said the utilisation status was missing for 2020-21 for all states and UTs except the state of Telangana which has utilised the entire amount during the last three years. "The Committee desire that the ministry should extend assistance to the state governments and NGOs/VOs (voluntary organisations) working under the scheme for timely and proper submission of utilisation certificates and physical progress report so that proper utilisation of funds could be ensured," it said. The panel noted that the scheme has already been evaluated by an independent body and several important recommendations made. The report flagged poor awareness about the Forest Rights Act-2006 among PVTGs, government schemes and programmes and other basic social entitlements, tuberculosis, typhoid, jaundice, malaria and sickle cell anaemia that have cost many lives of PVTGs. Noting that poor access to public healthcare facilities makes the situation worse to check the spread of these diseases, it said poor literacy rate among the PVTGs due to poor access to primary and secondary schools is a major concern. "Some of the PVTGs still do not have caste certificates, thus they are being deprived of the benefits offered by central and state governments and most of the states do not have micro-plan projects for PVTGs except Odisha and Madhya Pradesh," it said. It said the ministry should formulate fresh guidelines based on the feedback from states/UTs covering all the above crucial issues and direct the state governments to follow guidelines in letter and spirit. "The Committee are particularly shocked to know that some PVTGs do not have caste certificates, which is the basic document required for availing benefits under various welfare schemes meant for tribal people. The Committee recommend that the Ministry should issue directions to all the State Governments/UTs for starting a special drive to issue of caste certificates to all the PVTGs without further delay," it said. The panel said that as the pandemic is under control, extra efforts should be made by the ministry to fill the gap due to non-implementation of schemes since the tribal population is most vulnerable and would be pushed deeper into poverty and isolation otherwise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-pitches-for-drive-to-issue-caste-certificates-to-particularly-vulnerable-tribal-groups-960128.html
10-03-2021||National||Mamata visits temple, mausoleum in Nandigram, prepares tea for people at roadside stall||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Tuesday visited a temple and a mausoleum in Nandigram, where she has crossed swords with her former close aide-turned-bete noire Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, and said she "does not believe in divisive politics". The TMC supremo, after addressing a party workers' meeting, paid her reverence at the local Mazar, popular among members of the minority community here, and then offered prayers at Maa Chandi temple nearby. As she entered the temple, women, who lined up next to the shrine, blew conch shells to greet her. At the mausoleum, too, she was extended a warm welcome. Next, Banerjee visited a roadside stall, where she prepared tea for the customers, much to the astonishment of the shop owner. "I am here to serve all, no matter which section they belong to... People are with me, 100 per cent of them. On Shivratri (Thursday), I will be offering puja at a temple, which is close to my accommodation in Nandigram, interact with people there and then file my nomination, she said. The CM, while talking to reporters, also said several welfare projects have been launched by her government in Nandigram over the past 10 years, "as is evident from the metalled roads, streetlights and bustling marketplaces, and more such work will be undertaken in the days to come."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-visits-temple-mausoleum-in-nandigram-prepares-tea-for-people-at-roadside-stall-960130.html
10-03-2021||National||Day before no-confidence vote, JJP MLA Babli says he stands with farmers||A day before the Haryana Assembly takes up a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government, JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli on Tuesday said he stands with protesting farmers but added that he alone could not make a decision and it was for his party to decide on walking out of the ruling alliance. Asked about his party issuing a whip to its MLAs for their compulsory presence in the House on Wednesday and his stand on the no-confidence motion, Babli said, "When the party has issued whip, willingness or non-willingness is not the question, one has to go by what the party has decided." On farmer leaders spearheading the stir against the Centre's new farm laws requesting all MLAs to support the no-confidence motion, Babli said, "If I alone take a stand, will farmers get justice? The voice I am raising in favour of farmers by being a member of the House, will I be able to do that when my party expels me for taking a different stand." Babli, who was interacting with reporters after the end of the day's proceedings in the assembly, said, "You should understand. Entire party should withdraw support, Dushyant (Chautala) should take a step if this issue (farmers) is not being resolved... All (JJP) MLAs should come out (of the alliance)." He said during party legislature group meetings in the past Deputy Chief Minister and JJP leader Dushyant Chautala had been telling them the farmers issue will be resolved. Asked why Chautala is not listening to his MLAs when majority of them have openly come out in support of farmers, Babli replied, "Don't you know that? He thinks he can get more benefits for the farmer by being part of the government." To another question, he said, “I have come in support of farmers and even today I have the same stand. Earlier too, I had said the situation wherein ruling party legislators are facing opposition from farmers in villages is not good and this issue should be resolved." Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Tuesday evening, former chief minister and Congress leader B S Hooda reiterated, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers." He said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has lost public confidence and the coalition government, betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other.  When asked that opposition did not have the numbers on their side, Hooda quipped, "But that does not mean opposition will not play its role..." With the Congress's no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP government set to be taken up in the Haryana Assembly on Wednesday, the ruling BJP-JJP as well as main the opposition party have issued whips to their respective members for their compulsory presence in the House. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/day-before-no-confidence-vote-jjp-mla-babli-says-he-stands-with-farmers-960152.html
10-03-2021||National||PMK to go it alone in Puducherry Assembly polls||The PMK on Tuesday announced its decision to go it alone in the Assembly polls in Puducherry scheduled to be held on April 6. The announcement comes a day after the S Ramadoss-led party commenced parleys with the BJP on the number of seats to be contested as part of the NDA, which remained inconclusive. Convenor of the Puducherry unit of PMK K Dhanaraju told PTI that his party was kept in dark on the seat sharing exercise between the AINRC, AIADMK and BJP and the decision these parties had taken on sharing of seats. "I had presented a letter to the BJP observer for Puducherry, Nirmal Kumar Surana at a meeting here on Monday, seeking allocation of five seats for the PMK to contest the forthcoming election as part of NDA." "We had no information about the deliberations the AINRC, AIADMK and BJP had held finalising allocation of seats among themselves. While 16 seats had been allotted by the NDA to AINRC to field its candidates the remaining fourteen seats have been earmarked to the BJP and AIADMK," he said. Expressing displeasure over being kept in the dark about the deliberations between three constituents of NDA, Dhanraj said, "The PMK which is a recognised party in Puducherry has decided to contest the polls on its own." "We will field candidates in all the 30 constituencies in the Union Territory," he said. Earlier in the day, the opposition AINRC firmed up alliance with the BJP and AIADMK for next month's assembly polls and exuded confidence that the coalition will emerge victorious at the hustings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmk-to-go-it-alone-in-puducherry-assembly-polls-960164.html
10-03-2021||National||2.40 crore vaccinated against Covid-19: Health Ministry||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 2.40 crore with 10,28,911 people being given jabs till Tuesday evening, the Union Health Ministry said. A total 10,28,911 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Tuesday, the 53rd day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. During the day, 7,98,354 beneficiaries took their first dose and 2,30,557 healthcare workers (HCWS) and frontline workers (FLWs) received their second dose of the vaccine as per the provisional report, the ministry said, adding final reports would be completed for the day by night. The 7,98,354 beneficiaries who got the first dose include 5,51,398 beneficiaries aged over 60 and 98,478 aged between 45-60 with specified comorbidities, according to the data. More than two million Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered on March 8, the highest in a day so far. Cumulatively, 2,40,37,644 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far, according to the provisional report till 7 pm. These include 71,13,801 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 38,51,808 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 69,02,006 FLWs (first dose), 4,44,199 FLWs (second dose), 8,00,287 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities, and 49,25,543 beneficiaries more than 60 years old. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and the vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/240-crore-vaccinated-against-covid-19-health-ministry-960174.html
10-03-2021||National||Industrialist Sajjan Jindal gets first Covid-19 vaccine shot||Industrialist Sajjan Jindal on Tuesday received the first shot of the COVID-19 vaccine at BKC Covid Hospital, Mumbai.  The owner of steel-to-sports JSW Group took to microblogging site Twitter to announce his vaccination. "Got my first dose of #CovidVaccine today at the @bkchospital ! Amazed by the infrastructure created by @mybmc and the level of hygiene maintained at this Jumbo Facility. I'm sure the efforts of Dr. @rajeshdere1973 and his team are widely appreciated by everyone in our city," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/industrialist-sajjan-jindal-gets-first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-960177.html
10-03-2021||National||A year after first Covid-19 death, normalcy returns to Kalaburagi||March 10, 2020, not only shook Kalaburagi district but drew the nation's attention as the country's first Covid-19 fatality was reported from Kalaburagi city. One year since the first death, the activities are now coming back to normalcy in the district. A 76-year-old elderly man who returned from Saudi Arabia on February 29 succumbed to the virus on March 10, while on his way back to Kalaburagi from a hospital in Hyderabad. The district administration led by former deputy commissioner B Sharat battled hard to contain the spread of the virus by deputing all officials and staff to this work.    After Muhammad Hussain Siddiqui's death, a containment and buffer zone was created in the area where the deceased lived in. Prohibitory orders under 144 of CrPC was clamped in the city to prevent the people from assembling in large numbers and the city municipal corporation staff got the business establishments across the city closed. Bus operations from Kalaburagi to other states and districts were stopped.  The daughter of the deceased, the doctor who initially treated the victim and the doctor's wife caught the virus as they came in contact with the deceased. Before the people of the district could heave a sigh of relief, the returnees of Tablighi Jamaat congregation held at Delhi rattled the district administration for some days and the Mominpur area in Kalaburagi initially emerged as a virus hotspot. During the nation-wide lockdown, the migrants returned to their villages by walking or in vehicles. The district witnessed a huge spike in Covid-19 positive cases only after infected migrant workers from Maharashtra returned home after the lockdown norms were eased. However, the district administration had then claimed the infection is not spreading but only cases are increasing. The district is receiving a high number of positive cases as most of the workers are coming back from Dharavi, Mumbai, and Pune, the hotspots of coronavirus, former Deputy Commissioner B Sharat had advocated.   Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences and ESIC hospitals were converted into Covid hospitals to treat Covid patients. A few private hospitals were also declared as Covid hospitals anticipate a rise in the number of positive cases. From March 10, 2020, till March 8, 2021, a total of 330 people died of Covid-19 in the district. As many as 22,183 positive cases have been reported and a total of 3,067 containment zones have been created across the district so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-after-first-covid-19-death-normalcy-returns-to-kalaburagi-960178.html
10-03-2021||National||Editors Guild expresses shock at GoM report on media||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Tuesday expressed "shock and disbelief" at the recent report of a group of ministers (GoM) suggesting steps to "neutralise" the negative narrative against the government. It said the GoM report illustrates government's "increasingly draconian attitude" against any critique and inquiry by the press. "The Editors Guild of India expresses shock and disbelief at the manner in which a group of ministers (GoM) has prepared a report with an embedded toolkit to control the narrative about the government in the media. "This GoM, comprising five cabinet and four ministers of state, had been constituted by the government in mid-2020, without any provocation and at a time when various press freedom and democracy indices show a rapid slide," the EGI said in a statement. It said that the report, which was prepared at the end of 2020 and has recently emerged in the media, "further illustrates the government's increasingly draconian attitude against any critique and inquiry by the press." The suggestions from the GoM report hint at increased surveillance and targeting of writers and journalists who depart from the government's narrative, the editors' body said.  It also said, "One of the more disturbing instances is the suggestion by a Union Minister that refers to developing a strategy to neutralise the people who are writing against the government without facts and set false narratives/spread fake news." The EGI said that in the absence of any clarity on what will constitute fake news and the process to be followed, such observations “smack of an intention to simply muzzle any criticism of the government.” Since the report was made public, some of those who have been named in the report have denied any involvement in its drafting, it said. It added that the preparation of the GoM report and “its debilitating import on media freedom and journalists is a major concern for EGI, which demands that the government, which is supposed to safeguard constitutional values of freedom of expression should make it clear that it is committed to the plurality of views in the media.” The report of the Group of Ministers has suggestions of “tracking 50 negative and 50 positive influencers” on social media and “neutralise people who are writing against the government without facts to spread fake news”. The GoM comprising nine ministers -- Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani, S Jaishankar, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Hardeep Singh Puri, Babul Supriyo, Anurag Thakur and Kiren Rijiju -- had held six meetings between June 14 and July 19 2020 before putting together the 97-page report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-guild-expresses-shock-at-gom-report-on-media-960182.html
10-03-2021||National||Assam breaks all records in poll seizures, Rs 18cr worth items caught so far||Assam broke all previous records in seizures of cash, liquor, drugs and other goods in the run-up to the Assembly polls with various agencies already confiscating over Rs 18 crore worth of items and arresting around 110 people in the last 11 days, officials said on Tuesday. The highest amount of seizures worth over Rs 5.72 crore took place during the 24 hours, starting 9 am on Sunday, an official told PTI. After the polls were notified on February 26, all election districts in Assam formed a minimum of three Static Surveillance Teams (SST) and Flying Squads (FS) each, with some even having six such teams each, he added. "We have 50 election districts and each has at least six teams of SST and FS. So, we have a minimum of 756 teams working across the state. The seizures by all state and central agencies along with SST and FS have crossed all figures of last elections," the official said. Since the Model Code of Conduct came into force, the agencies have seized an overall Rs 18.31 crore worth of items till Monday, according to the daily seizure report of the Election Department, Assam. It includes Rs 4.27 crore in cash, liquor (3.58 lakh litres) worth Rs 5.52 crore, Rs 4 crore worth drugs and other narcotics substances, Rs 1 crore worth precious metals such as gold and silver, and Rs 3.52 crore of other items like different freebies. The various teams and agencies have arrested 100 persons for involvement in illegal liquor and eight persons for narcotics-related crimes since the Model Code of Conduct came into force. The highest 26 persons were arrested from the Cachar district, followed by 16 in Goalpara and 13 in Sivasagar during the last 11 days, another report by the Election Department said. On Monday night, Rs 19.55 lakh cash was recovered from three persons in the Barpeta constituency by an SST. As they failed to produce any valid document for the cash, the currencies were seized and deposited at the Treasury Office. Following such huge seizures across the state, a review meeting was held on Monday in presence of Special Central Observers of the Election Commission with various regulatory agencies. The meeting was attended by the Special General Observer Sudarsanam Srinivasan, Special Police Observer Ashok Kumar and Special Expenditure Observer Neena Nigam along with Additional Chief Electoral Officer Vinod Seshan, EC Director General Dharmendra Sharma and EC Expenditure Director Pankaj Srivastava. "A detailed discussion over functioning of various regulatory agencies regarding search, seizure and maintenance of Law and Order and expenditure monitoring was done," an official statement said. Various regulatory agencies such as Excise, Police, DRI, NCB, SLBC (SBI), Income Tax, RPF, CISF, CGST, SSB and BSF presented their performance report with regards to search and seizure. Of the total 126 seats in Assam Assembly, elections to 47 will be held on March 27, while 39 will go to polls on April 1 and voting in the remaining 40 seats will be held on April 6. The counting of votes in Assam will take place on May 2 along with those in four more states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-breaks-all-records-in-poll-seizures-rs-18cr-worth-items-caught-so-far-960190.html
10-03-2021||National||NGO moves Supreme Court against sale of Electoral Bonds||NGO ‘Association for Democratic Reforms’ has approached the Supreme Court against the opening of windows for sale of Electoral Bonds before forthcoming Assembly polls in five states and union territory. The application moved through advocates Prashant Bhushan and Neha Rathi also sought an urgent hearing in the matter.  It contended that there is a serious apprehension that any further sale of Electoral Bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. The Finance Ministry on January 02, 2018, notified the Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018. As per the scheme, an electoral bond is a bond issued in the nature of a promissory note, it may be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or entities incorporated or established in India. The bonds are issued in multiples of Rs 1,000, 10,000, one lakh, 10 lakhs and 1 crore. According to data on Electoral Bonds declared by political parties in their audit reports for 2017-18 and 2018-19, the ruling party had received more than 60% of the total electoral bonds issued till date, it said. The NGO further pointed out so far more than Rs 6,500 crores worth of EBs have been sold with the majority of donations going to the ruling party. Almost 99% of the EBs purchased are of value Rs 1 crore and 10 lakh denominations which showed that it is not individual citizens but large corporations which are purchasing these bonds with a view to receive kickbacks from the government.  “Clearly, these corporations are being allowed to do make unlimited anonymous donations to the ruling political party because of the amendments brought about but the Finance Act, 2017 and Finance Act, 2016,” it said. The petitioner asked the court to restrain the authorities from further selling the Electoral Bonds during the pendency of the petition against its validity. It maintained that the Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngo-moves-supreme-court-against-sale-of-electoral-bonds-960195.html
10-03-2021||National||Activate all private facilities, provide sufficient stock of Covid-19 vaccines: Centre to states||The Centre on Tuesday advised all states and union territories to register and activate all private facilities and provide sufficient stock of Covid-19 vaccines to them for 15-28 days so that they can offer online open slots to citizens for vaccination. Visibility of more open slots not only assures the citizens about the services but also helps avoid overcrowding on account of perceived scarcity, states and UTs were told during a high-level review meeting chaired by P K Misra, the Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, according to a health ministry statement. During the meeting to review the progress of Covid-19 vaccination across states and UTs, Misra asked senior officials to work through a scientific, evidence-based, micro-planned, area-specific approach to ensure convenient and safe vaccination for all, in a rapid yet sustained manner, the statement stated. States were urged to encourage registration for vaccination over 'walk-in' mode, to facilitate the entire process by making it more convenient for the citizens, as well as giving authorities a forward view of expected demand to plan accordingly and avoid over-crowding. The Union Health Secretary apprised the meeting on India achieving the landmark of administering more than 20 lakh doses in a single day. The country is approaching 2.5 crore total vaccination coverage, powered by the fastest recent growth in vaccination globally, the health ministry said in the statement. The Principal Secretary to the PM commended all officials across the central and state governments for their critical role in the till now successful roll-out of the world's largest vaccination drive, the statement said. "He also reinforced the need to continue this momentum in a sustained manner," it said. Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba advised the states to ramp up the speed of vaccination to cover as many eligible people as possible in as short a duration as possible, especially given the large population to be covered, the statement stated. "States were asked to prepare a detailed roadmap for the next three months for achieving the same," it said. Chief Secretaries/senior officials of states and UTs briefed about the progress of vaccination in their respective jurisdictions, giving valuable feedback and suggestions. The aspects which were reviewed during the meeting included expanding capacity-on-boarding and operationalising as many health facilities as possible as vaccination centres across the public and private sectors and ensuring equitable and easy access to all throughout the nation, especially identifying existing geographical dark-zones through geo-spatial analysis. The aspect of maximising efficiency, keeping as many vaccination centres operational daily as possible, enhancing capacity utilisation in these centres, and minimizing wastage in the same was discussed. Ensuring convenient registration for citizens by maximizing available slots on Co-WIN with all vaccination centres publishing sessions for up to four weeks ahead was also advised. The discussion also focused on optimizing centre-level planning with appropriate provisions made for crowd management, drinking water and other conveniences for citizens and ensuring real-time authentication and certification as much as possible for the convenience of the citizen as well as a check against misuse. States and UTs were also advised to optimise the supply chain down to the vaccination centre through efficient and equitable distribution while preventing any stock-piling or hoarding, with the assurance of there being no shortage of vaccine doses in the future, according to the statement. They were asked to review progress in the vaccination drive on a real-time, disaggregated basis down to the district and block levels, leveraging the end-to-end data integration of the Co-WIN platform, for continuous and customized management. State-wise data and analysis on all the above parameters was discussed in detail, and all encouraged to share and learn from each other's experiences and best practices, the statement said. It was reiterated that there is no shortage of vaccine doses in any state and UT.  "States and UTs were particularly urged to leverage the private sector to the maximum to enhance coverage, taking advantage of the liberal enabling guidelines issued by the Centre; registering and activating as many private facilities as possible, providing sufficient stock of vaccines necessary for these centres to work at their optimum and providing any other facilitation required," the statement said. "Principal Secretary to PM concluded by asking all the senior officials to work through a scientific, evidence-based, micro-planned, area-specific approach to ensure convenient and safe vaccination for all, in a rapid yet sustained manner," the statement stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activate-all-private-facilities-provide-sufficient-stock-of-covid-19-vaccines-centre-to-states-960205.html
10-03-2021||National||DH Toon | We are in the endgame of Covid-19 pandemic in India: Vardhan||"We are in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic in India" and to succeed at this stage, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said, politics should be kept out the Covid-19 vaccination drive. He said people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-we-are-in-the-endgame-of-covid-19-pandemic-in-india-vardhan-960224.html
10-03-2021||National||India to buy armed Predator drones from US amid border tensions with China, Pakistan||By Sudhi Ranjan Sen, India plans to buy 30 armed drones from the US to boost its sea and land defenses as tensions persist with neighbors China and Pakistan, according to officials with knowledge of the matter. The South Asian nation will approve next month the $3 billion purchase of 30 MQ-9B Predator drones manufactured by San Diego-based General Atomics, the officials said, asking not to be identified speaking with the media. The deal would add to India’s military capabilities as the drones it has now can only be used for surveillance and reconnaissance. India is emerging as a strategic defense partner for the US, particularly in countering Chinese influence in the Indian Ocean and some areas of Southeast Asia. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is in the midst of a 10-year, $250 billion military modernisation. Spokespeople from India’s Defense Ministry and General Atomics didn’t respond to requests for comment. Pentagon officials didn’t respond to a request for comment either. US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin is expected to visit India this month, according to local media, while President Joe Biden will soon join counterparts from India, Japan and Australia in the first-ever meeting of the “Quad” bloc. The leaders will meet virtually on March 12, according to an announcement posted on the Indian government’s website, which said they would discuss issues including supply chains, maritime security and climate change. The MQ-9B drone can fly for about 48 hours and carry a payload of about 1,700 kilograms (3,700 pounds). It will give the Indian Navy the ability to better monitor Chinese warships in the southern Indian Ocean, and equip the army to engage targets along the disputed India-Pakistan border in the Himalayas. Last year, India leased two unarmed MQ-9 Predators as border tensions with China threatened to spin into a full-blown conflict. In the end they weren’t deployed after the Air Force expressed apprehension about drones manned by US personnel flying over the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-buy-armed-predator-drones-from-us-amid-border-tensions-with-china-pakistan-960231.html
10-03-2021||National||'LAC activities opened India's eyes to what cooperative effort might mean for own defensive needs'||Recent activities along the Line of Actual Control with China have opened India's eyes to what cooperative effort with others might mean for their own defensive needs, a top Pentagon commander told lawmakers on Tuesday observing that New Delhi, in the very near term, will deepen its engagement with the Quad. "India has long had an approach called strategic autonomy, you know, a nonaligned approach with others, but I think certainly the activities along the Line of Actual Control with China has opened their eyes to what cooperative effort with others might mean for their own defensive needs," Admiral Phil Davidson, Commander of US Indo-Pacific Command told members of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee during a Congressional hearing. "We have provided some information to India in that crisis, cold-weather closing, clothing, some other equipment, some things like that, and over the last several years, we have been deepening our maritime cooperation," he said. "I think you will see India in the very near term, you know, remain committed to their nonaligned approach, but I think they will deepen their engagement with the Quad, and I think that's a key strategic opportunity for us, Australia, and Japan," Davidson said. The admiral was responding to a question from Senator Angus King. "That would be a geopolitical major development if India more closely aligned with those other countries," King said responding to the answer from the admiral. "India has always been a neutral country, if you will. Are we developing a stronger alliance with them? You mentioned them as part of the Quad. Do they consider themselves a member of something of that nature," King asked. Responding to questions, Davidson said that China has a vast disinformation machine. "They use both regular media and social media and have nearly 1 million people in their propaganda machine to undermine US interests, to capture the narrative to their own benefit, and to, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, you know, corrupt the environment in a way that creates doubt amongst our allies and partners in the reliability of the United States," he said. In response to another question, Davidson said that China's Belt and Road Initiative actually has a component that is trying to enable smart cities globally where all cyber connections would lead back to China, which the US has to highlight, the threat that it presents to others. "And then we, a whole of government approach, have to be willing to compete in that environment to help the infrastructure and advances in these other cities, even if it's only advice," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lac-activities-opened-indias-eyes-to-what-cooperative-effort-might-mean-for-own-defensive-needs-960234.html
10-03-2021||National||Indian Navy commissions third Scorpene-class submarine INS Karanj||The third of the potent and stealth Scorpene-class submarines – INS Karanj was commissioned in Mumbai on Wednesday. The submarine was commissioned into the Indian Navy in presence of Admiral Karambir Singh, the Chief of Naval Staff and Admiral (Retd) V S Shekhawat at an impressive ceremony at the Naval Dockyard here. Admiral Shekhawat, a  former Chief of the Naval Staff, who was part of the commissioning crew of the old Karanj and later the Commanding officer during the 1971 Indo-Pak war, was the Chief Guest for the ceremony. INS Karanj would form part of the Western Naval Command’s submarine fleet and would be another potent part of the Indian Navy’s sword arm’s arsenal. The two submarines of this class that are currently in service are INS Khandari and INS Kalvari, commissioned on December 14, 2017, and September 28, 2019, respectively. The fourth submarine Vela was launched on May 6, 2019, and it has commenced the sea trials, while the fifth submarine Vagir, was launched on 12 November 2020 and has commenced its harbour sea trials. Vela and Vagir are expected to be commissioned in December 2021 and December 2022, respectively. The sixth submarine Vagsheer is presently in the advanced stage of outfitting. The six submarines are designed by French naval defence and energy company DCNS and are being manufactured by Mazagon Dock Shipbuilders Ltd (MDL) in Mumbai. A crew of the erstwhile ‘Karanj’, a Russian origin Foxtrot Class Submarine, which was decommissioned in 2003, were also special invitees for the ceremony. “This impetus to indigenisation and 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' is a fundamental tenet of Indian Navy’s growth story and future operational capabilities," said Admiral Singh. Admiral Shekhawat also highlighted India’s push towards 'Atmanirbharta' by saying, “We live in an India launching numerous satellites, building nuclear submarines, manufacturing vaccines for the worlds - the new Karanj is another example of it.” This year is being celebrated as the ‘Swarnim Vijay Varsh’ which marks 50 years of the 1971 Indo-Pak war. Old INS Karanj, commissioned on September 4, 1969, at Riga in the erstwhile USSR, also took an active part in the conflict under the Command of then Cdr VS Shekhawat. In recognition of the valiant action of its oﬃcers and crew, personnel were decorated, including an award of Vir Chakra to the then Commanding Officer Cdr VS Shekhawat. Interestingly, the commissioning Commanding Officer of the old INS Karanj Cdr MNR Samant, later on, became the first Chief of The Naval Staff of the newly formed Bangladesh Navy in the year 1971. The Scorpene or Kalvari-class submarines are one of the most advanced conventional submarines in the world. These platforms are equipped with the latest technologies in the world. More deadly and stealthier than their predecessors, these submarines are equipped with potent weapons and sensors to neutralise any threat above or below the sea surface. The induction of Karanj is another step towards the Indian Navy, consolidating its position as a builder’s Navy, as also is a reflection of MDL’s capabilities as a premier ship and submarine building yard of the world. Project-75 also marks a critical milestone in the Yard’s continued importance in the field of defence production.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-commissions-third-scorpene-class-submarine-ins-karanj-960239.html
10-03-2021||National||India reports 17,921 Covid-19 cases, 133 deaths; tally nears 1.13 crore||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,12,62,707 with 17,921 fresh cases being reported in a day, while the recoveries surpassed 1.09 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,58,063 with 133 new fatalities, according to the ministry data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases reduced to 1,84,598 which now comprises 1.64 per cent of the infection count. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,20,046, which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.96 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; crossed 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed one crore on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,34,79,877 samples have been tested up to March 9 for the viral disease, including 7,63,081 on Tuesday. The 133 new fatalities include 56 from Maharashtra, 20 from Punjab and 16  from Kerala. A total of 1,58,063 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,556 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,525 from Tamil Nadu, 12,373 from Karnataka, 10,928 from Delhi, 10,281 from West Bengal, 8,740 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,176 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths were caused due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-17921-covid-19-cases-133-deaths-tally-nears-113-crore-960240.html
10-03-2021||National||Who are the top contenders for Uttarakhand CM post?||Here is a list of persons who are key frontrunners for the post of Uttarakhand CM: Dhan Singh Rawat Dhan Singh Rawat belongs to the influential Thakur community and is the Minister of State for Higher Studies in Trivendra Singh Rawat's Cabinet. He is an MLA from the Srinagar constituency in the Pauri district for the first time. In January 2020, Rawat courted controversy after he said that mobile phones should be banned in colleges after making a claim that they were an impediment to the concentration of students. He also went on to suggest that the government should install jammers in colleges as a way to prevent mobile phone usage. Dhan Singh is among the frontrunners to replace Trivendra Singh because they both come from the same caste. Caste equations play an important role in the state with Thakurs and Brahmins being the dominant communities in the state's politics with a combined vote bank of about 80 per cent. Ajay Bhatt Bhatt is a Lok Sabha MP from the Nainital–Udhamsingh Nagar constituency. He defeated former chief minister and top Congress leader Harish Rawat by a margin of nearly 3.4 lakh votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The constituency was considered a Congress stronghold till Bhatt was elected. During the Congress rule, Bhatt held the position of the Leader of Opposition and was active in state politics before becoming an MP. In earlier stints of the BJP, Bhatt also held several Cabinet portfolios and is widely regarded as a senior BJP leader in the state. In the 2017 state Assembly elections, Bhatt lost his seat to Congress's Karan Mahra, but BJP's previous victory in the polls is attributed to his leadership among other reasons. Bhatt is a lawyer by training and has been associated with the BJP since his time in education. Anil Baluni Baluni was a journalist before he became a politician with the BJP and is now a Rajya Sabha MP from Uttarakhand. He is also a national spokesperson for the saffron party and is considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Baluni lost twice from the Kotdwar constituency in state Assembly elections and in the state's first-ever election in 2002, his nomination was rejected by the state election commission. He also fought the 2005 bypolls from the constituency but lost to Congress's Surendra Singh Negi. Anil Baluni is currently is known to manage the media engagements of Amit Shah and the Prime Minister. Pokhriyal is the Union Minister for Education and hails from Dehradun district and is currently an MP representing Haridwar constituency in the Lok Sabha. He is also considered among the top contenders for the post. The union minister is highly educated with an MA, PhD and D. Litt from Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal University in Uttarakhand. He served five consecutive terms as an MLA in undivided Uttar Pradesh and later in Uttarakhand between 1991 and 2012. Between 2009 and 2011, he served as the state's CM. In 2014, he resigned as an MLA and entered national politics and was made a Cabinet minister in 2019, and is considered to have the most administrative and political experience in the state. Satpal Maharaj Maharaj is the Tourism Minister of the state and is seen as a prominent contender. A former Congress heavyweight, Maharaj joined the BJP in 2014 after losing the race for chief ministership to Harish Rawat. Maharaj is an MLA from Chaubattakhal in Pauri district. He is also a spiritual guru having admirers across the country. The 69-year-old had been a Congress MP from Pauri in the past. The BJP is yet to make an official announcement on the replacement for Rawat and the state's BJP legislature party meet is currently under way to choose a new chief minister. According to PTI, the name of Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is also doing the rounds. Koshyari had held the Uttarkhand chief minister's post briefly after Nityanand Swami. He has also represented the state both in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-are-the-top-contenders-for-uttarakhand-cm-post-960249.html
10-03-2021||National||Haryana floor test: A look at the Assembly math ahead of no-confidence motion||As the farmers' protest against the three farm laws rages on, the Congress has issued a no-confidence motion against the BJP-JJP alliance government in the state. Thousands of farmers from various states have been camping at three Delhi border points for over 100 days, demanding the repeal of three new farm laws. Speaking on the no-confidence motion, former chief minister and Congress leader B S Hooda said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers.” The ruling alliance has issued a whip to their respective members for compulsory presence in the House, but will that save the government? Let's have a look at the Assembly match ahead of the floor test: Numbers in Haryana Assembly The Haryana Legislative Assembly has 90 seats. Of this, the ruling alliance has 55 seats, of which the BJP has 40 seats, the JJP has 10 seats and five independent MLAs in support of the government. The Congress holds 30 seats, with two independent MLAs and one Haryana Lokhit Party making up the remaining seats. Two seats are vacant, owing to the disqualification of a Congress MLA and the resignation of an INLD MLA. No-confidence motion: Possible outcomes The BJP-JJP alliance government has a comfortable majority in the state Assembly, and the lone HLP MLA has announced his support to the government. While this virtually guarantees smooth sailing for the government in the no-confidence motion, all may not be well. The Assembly math alliance suggests that the BJP-JJP alliance has an edge and they will be able to prove the majority on the floor of the House, assuming MLAs of both the parties are present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-floor-test-a-look-at-the-assembly-math-ahead-of-no-confidence-motion-960252.html
10-03-2021||National||JEE Mains topper Ranjim Prabal Das a follower of Elon Musk||JEE Mains topper Ranjim Prabal Das, who despite testing positive for Covid-19 topped the coveted competitive exam, said that he was a fan of Tesla and SpaceX boss Elon Musk. Das, who was among five other Indians to get a perfect score of 100 in the JEE Mains exam, said that he planned to go to IIT Delhi for his higher studies. “I follow Elon Musk and I plan to go to IIT Delhi for higher studies. Otherwise, I will go to Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru for science graduation.” Das told ANI. The student, who hails from Assam, also said that he wasted no time in preparing for the IIT entrance exam after he recovered from his bout with Covid-19. “When I tested Covid-19 positive, I focused on healing. Once fever was down I got back to studies,” he added.  The National Testing Agency (NTA) had conducted the February session examination from February 23 to 26, 2021. The exam was conducted at over 800 centres in 331 cities, including nine centres abroad -- Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait. This year, a total of 6.52 lakh candidates had registered for the entrance examination, 95 per cent of whom had appeared in the B.E/B.Tech papers and 81.2 per cent appeared in B.Arch/B.Planning paper. This was the first time that the exam was conducted in 13 languages -- Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, Urdu, Hindi, English and Gujarati. Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. The next phases will be held in March, April and May. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jee-mains-topper-ranjim-prabal-das-a-follower-of-elon-musk-960253.html
10-03-2021||National||PM Modi greets CISF on its raising day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday lauded the Central Industrial Security Force on its raising day, saying their role in furthering national safety and progress is deeply valued. One of the central armed police forces in India, the CISF was set up in 1969 and is tasked with the security of vital government and industrial buildings. "On their Raising Day, greetings to the courageous @CISFHQrs personnel and their families. Their role in furthering national safety and progress is deeply valued. In 2019, I had attended the Raising Day celebrations of CISF. Here is what I had spoken then," Modi said in a tweet, posting the speech he had delivered in 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-greets-cisf-on-its-raising-day-960260.html
10-03-2021||National||Sikh youth, who is a Dutch national, arrested in Red Fort violence case||A 23-year-old Sikh youth, who is a Dutch national and settled in the United Kingdom, allegedly involved in violence in Red Fort during farmers' tractor rally on Republic Day and trying to flee from India on forged travel documents have been arrested. Maninderjit Singh was apprehended on Tuesday by Delhi Police's Crime Branch after "feeling pressure" from the raids being conducted by police at different places in Punjab, Deputy Commissioner of Police Monika Bhardwaj said on Wednesday. Another youth, Khempreet Singh, a resident of Delhi's Swaroop Nagar and allegedly seen assaulting policemen during the protest, was also arrested in connection with the case on Tuesday. Maninderjit is purportedly seen in video footage along with protesters carrying spears on January 26 and his presence at Red Fort was also established through electronic evidence, Bhardwaj said. During the investigation, she said an electronic map was drawn to figure out the possible route taken by the accused to reach Red Fort on the date of incident. Along with the mob, he allegedly moved from Singhu Border, Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, Burari, Majnu ka Tila and finally reached Red Fort.   Electronic evidence further corroborates the fact that the accused had also visited Singhu Border protest site on different dates, Bhardwaj claimed. She claimed that he was trying to flee from India using forged travel documents posing himself as Jarmanjit Singh.  A Look Out Corner notice was also opened against him. "As per his plan and arrangements, he was to fly first to Nepal from Delhi and then from Nepal to the United Kingdom," she said adding Maninderjit is a "habitual offender". "The antecedents of the accused are not clean. Firstly, he is accused in a riots case in Punjab. He is also arrested in another case registered on March 2," Bhardwaj said. Maninderjit was born in India but as his father is a Dutch National, he was also given Dutch citizenship. Presently, he along with his family is settled in Birmingham in the United Kingdom and is employed as a labourer in the construction field. During December 2019, he visited India and due to the Covid-19 lockdown in 2020, he could not go back. He was produced before a local court, which sent him to four days police custody.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sikh-youth-who-is-a-dutch-national-arrested-in-red-fort-violence-case-960267.html
10-03-2021||National||Farmers ready to continue protest on Delhi borders till Modi govt lasts: Narendra Tikait||Farmers are ready to stay put on Delhi borders to protest against three agri laws for the remaining three and half years of the Modi government's second term and the stir cannot be "culled" any which way the Centre tries, legendary farm leader Mahendra Singh Tikait's son Narendra Tikait says. Narendra, who does not hold any official position in Bharatiya Kisan Union, formed by his father in 1986, and mostly focusses on the family's farming activities but is as vocal on issues concerning farmers as his two elder brothers Naresh and Rakesh Tikait who are leading from the front in the agitation that has been continuing for more than 100 days. Speaking to PTI at his home in Sisauli, Muzaffarnagar district, 45-year-old Narendra also said his two brothers and the entire Tikait family would leave the protest if even smallest of any wrongdoing is proved against even a single family member, as he rejected allegations by some quarters that they have built properties and made money from the agitation. The eldest brother Naresh Tikait is BKU president, while Rakesh Tikait holds the position of national spokesperson of the organisation, which under Mahendra Singh Tikait's leadership in 1988 had laid a virtual siege to Meerut in pursuit of higher prices for sugarcane, cancellation of loans and lowering of water and electricity rates. The same year, BKU held a week-long protest in Delhi's Boat Club to focus on the plight of farmers. After Mahendra Singh Tikait's death in 2011, Naresh and Tikait have been leading the main organisation in various roles, though a number of faction groups have emerged in various parts of the country over the years. Narendra said the Centre is under any misconception that it can “cull” the farmers' protest like it has "culled" other agitations in the past using various tactics. "I am here in Sisauli but my eyes are there at the protest," he said, adding that he keeps visiting Ghazipur border where hundreds of farmers and BKU supporters are camping since November 2020. "This government has a misconception, probably because it never faced such kind of protest, but we have seen agitations and been part of those for 35 years. This government only has an experience of facing smaller protests and of getting those culled through various tactics," he said. "They cannot crush this protest by any means. This will continue for as long as our demands are not met. This government has a tenure of three and a half years left, and we can continue the movement till the end of its term," he asserted. The younger and less publicly known Tikait said farmers would vacate the protest sites only after their demands are met completely and not on the basis of any future assurance or partial agreement on demands. "If the government keeps saying again and again that crops would be bought at MSP, then why cannot they give this in writing? They keep harping about giving subsidies on LPG cylinders, but that subsidy is also gone," he said. Tikait alleged that the Centre has done the same to the school education sector where private institutes are thriving and minting money while the condition of government facilities keep getting poorer and poorer. "Now they want business houses to store crops, hoard those and later sell at desired rates. Their push is for business and that's the agenda,” he said, adding farmers are already reeling under the high cost of labour and fuel prices. Asked about allegations that the Tikait family holds land worth hundreds of crores and that BKU is involved in hooliganism in the region, he said, "There is nothing that they (the government) could find against us and therefore this (levelling allegations) is happening. If they find a single fault in any member of our family, then we will return from Delhi." He also rejected allegations of hooliganism by BKU as incorrect. "Why would we do it? Some even say that we are taking money for the protest. More than 200 of our farmers have sacrificed their lives during the protest. People are donating money even during the last rites of those who have died. There is no question of we taking money for protests as we are not short on any resources," he said. Describing his family's position as Chaudhary or head of Balyan Khap (the Balyan caste council), Tikait said this Khap leads 84 villages in the region as per traditions continuing for ages. His eldest brother Naresh Tikait is the head of the Balyan Khap, which makes him de facto head of 'Sarv Khap' (all caste councils). "We have 84 villages (belonging to the Balyan Khap). By that measure, we have 3 lakh bigha of land. When our father passed away, he had passed on the responsibility of 84 villages to us. We are Chaudhary of 84 villages and all this is ours only. What are we going to do by seeking more money,” he said. Tikait also hinted at a 'Sarv Khap' meeting in Soram in near future to further mobilise regional support if protests continued further on Delhi's borders and the government does not agree to farmers' demands. Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi’s border points in Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur with a demand that the Centre repeal three farm laws that were enacted in September 2020 and make a new law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The farmers fear the new laws would destroy their livelihoods and leave them at the mercy of corporations. The government, which has held 11 rounds of formal talks with the protestors before the discusses broke down, maintains that the laws are pro-farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-ready-to-continue-protest-on-delhi-borders-till-modi-govt-lasts-narendra-tikait-960273.html
10-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha adjourned till 12.30 pm after opposition members demand repeal of farm laws||The Lok Sabha was adjourned till 12.30 pm on Wednesday after Opposition members disrupted proceedings over their demand of a repeal of the three farm laws. Opposition members started raising slogans as soon as the House convened for the day at 11 am. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, referred to a farmer taking his own life on the Delhi border. Speaker Om Birla repeatedly asked the members to let Zero Hour proceedings function smoothly. As slogans demanding a rollback of the farm laws continued, Question Hour lasted a little more than 30 minutes and the speaker adjourned the House till 12.30 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-adjourned-till-1230-pm-after-opposition-members-demand-repeal-of-farm-laws-960276.html
10-03-2021||National||Renaming of cities jurisdiction of Centre: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said the proposal to rename Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar is being sent to the Centre, as that process is under the jurisdiction of the Union government and not state governments. Thackeray’s response came in the form of a written reply to BJP's Yogesh Sagar query in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. In the reply, Thackeray said a detailed proposal for renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar was received from the Divisional Commissioner on March 4, 2020.  The renaming of Aurangabad has caused a rumble within the Maha Vikas Aghadi with the Shiv Sena rooting for it while the Congress vehemently opposing it, as the Sharad Pawar-led NCP maintains a neutral stand. The opposition BJP and Raj Thackeray-led MNS questioned Shiv Sena’s commitment to the issue and its Hindutva credentials. The All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) has opposed the demand. It needs to be mentioned that the elections to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) are scheduled this year and this issue is dominating the political scene of the historic town of the Marathwada region. Shedding light on the legal history of the case, the CM said the Revenue/Forest and the Urban Development Department had issued a notification for renaming the city on November 9,1995. The notification was challenged by Mohammed Mushtaq Ahmed in the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court, which was quashed. The Supreme Court on January 17, 1996, ordered a status quo. The Revenue/Forest and Urban development departments scrapped their notification on September 6 and October 10, 2001, respectively, as per the decision of the state cabinet on June 26, 2001. Thackeray pointed out that considering the legal background of the case, the opinion of the law and judiciary department is being sought.  “After all the approvals are taken, the proposal of the Aurangabad Divisional Commissioner will be sent to the Centre,’’ he said. The Aurangabad district is also the tourism capital of the state with UNESCO World Heritage Sites of Ajanta and Ellora and mediaeval structures like Bibi ka Maqbara. Mughal emperor Aurangzeb had renamed the city as Aurangzeb in 1653. However, popular demand is to name it as Sambhaji Nagar after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj,  who was tortured to death at the behest of Aurangzeb in 1689. Sambhaji Maharaj was the son of legendary Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renaming-of-cities-jurisdiction-of-centre-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-960298.html
10-03-2021||National||Parliament passes Bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi||Parliament on Wednesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi. While the Rajya Sabha had passed the Bill on February 9, it sailed through the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri told the Lok Sabha that the Bill would give protection to unauthorised colonies from sealing till December 31, 2023. Puri while replying to a debate on the Bill said the population of Delhi as per the 2011 census is 1.6 crore. "I expect the population of Delhi in 2021 census will be close to 2 crore, if not higher," Puri added. He said the "history of the problem of unauthorised colonies in the NCT of Delhi has been that prior to this, no government took up this issue with any degree of seriousness". There are around 1,700 unauthorised colonies in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-regularise-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-960306.html
10-03-2021||National||Doctors, restaurateurs urge Centre to remove smoking zones from public places||A group of doctors, cancer victims and restaurateurs has expressed concerns about passive smoking and urged the Centre to remove smoking zones from various public places. According to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce Production, Supply and Distribution) Act COTPA 2003, smoking is banned in all public places, but allowed in designated zones at restaurants, hotels, and airports, among others. The appeal comes on the occasion of 'No Smoking Day' with the idea to make the country 100 per cent smoke-free and to check the spread of Covid-19 infection. There is a growing evidence that smoking is a risk for Covid-19 infection, Pankaj Chaturvedi, Head Neck Cancer Surgeon, Tata Memorial Hospital, said, adding that smoking worsens lung function and reduces immunity. He also said that smokers who test positive for coronavirus have more complications and greater risk of fatality. "Smoking areas in hotels and restaurants and even airports should be abolished...most of these zones are rarely compliant as per the COTPA requirements and are actually putting the public at great health risk," Chaturvedi said. Exposure to passive-smoking, according to him, risks the lives of thousands of non-smokers. Nalini Satyanarayan, a passive smoking victim and health activist, agreed. According to Binoy Mathew from Voluntary Health Association of India, designated smoking areas facilitate the spread of Covid-19 infection as non-smokers cannot socially distance or wear masks and are trapped in close proximity in a smoke-filled environment. "Families prefer to stay in hotels which do not allow smoking. We are happy that the government is strengthening the COTPA provisions to make hospitality sector completely smoke free," said Mohammad Imran from Hotel Awadh International. In 2020, the government started the COTPA Amendment process by introducing a bill.  India has the second largest number of tobacco users (268 million or 28.6 per cent of all adults in the country) in the world. Nearly 27 per cent of all cancers in India are due to tobacco usage.  The total direct and indirect cost of diseases attributable to tobacco use was a staggering Rs 182,000 crore, which is nearly 1.8 per cent of India's Gross Domestic Product (GDP), he said. Tobacco use in all forms, whether smoking or chewing, is associated with severe Covid-19 casualties as per advisories issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doctors-restaurateurs-urge-centre-to-remove-smoking-zones-from-public-places-960307.html
10-03-2021||National||581 complaints received against IAS officers in 2020-21: Centre||As many as 581 complaints of corruption were received against the IAS officers in the current financial year till February, the Centre informed Parliament on Wednesday. The government was asked about the data on the departmental complaints and cases registered against Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Police Service (IPS) officers during the last five years. A total of 753 complaints were received against the IAS officers in 2019-20 and 643 in 2018-19, Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. He added that 623 complaints were received against the IAS officers in 2017-18, 484 during 2016-17 and 380 in 2015-16. Singh said the Central Bureau of Investigation registered 44 cases against IAS officers and 12 cases against the IPS officers between 2016 and till date. In the case of IAS officers, the data relating to number of complaints state-wise is not maintained centrally, Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/581-complaints-received-against-ias-officers-in-2020-21-centre-960311.html
10-03-2021||National||Won’t tolerate stone-pelting at any cost: J&K police||Stating that 39 youths, who were allegedly involved in creating law and order issue in Srinagar have been arrested, Jammu and Kashmir police on Wednesday asserted that stone-pelting will not be tolerated at any cost. “Let me clarify that we will not allow stone-pelting at any cost. We have arrested 39 stone pelters who indulged in stone-pelting in Srinagar recently. 15 of them will be booked under PSA,” Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said while addressing a press conference. The IGP was referring to the stone-pelting incident near historic Jamia Masjid in Srinagar last Friday. A group of youth had staged a protest in the Jamia Masjid market against the continued house detention of moderate Hurriyat Conference chairman Mirwaiz Umar and later clashed with the policemen by pelting stones at them. Kumar said some youth, whose faces are not clear in the videos (shot by the police), are being identified and they too will be arrested. To a query about the December 30 Hokersar encounter in which three alleged militants were killed, he said, “Police have evidence, both technical and human, and the same will be produced before the court soon.” Pertinently, families of the trio killed in Hokersar on the outskirts of Srinagar city had contested the police version by saying that their sons “were innocent and not militants.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/won-t-tolerate-stone-pelting-at-any-cost-jk-police-960314.html
10-03-2021||National||State govts should support Railways in completing pending projects: Piyush Goyal||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal said on Wednesday that the state governments should support the national transporter in completing all the pending projects. Participating in Question Hour proceedings, Goyal lamented that governments before 2014 announced railway projects "without allocating funds" for execution. He said the Modi government increased investment in railway infrastructure to Rs 2.15 lakh crore in Budget 2021-22 from Rs 40,000-45,000 crore in 2013. "Our government is working to complete all pending railways projects," Goyal said, adding that the Railways was not getting support from many state governments. "Work on one railway project in West Bengal is going on since 1974, the state government is not supporting us," he said. "Now time has come, all state governments should support railways (in completing pending projects)."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-govts-should-support-railways-in-completing-pending-projects-piyush-goyal-960321.html
10-03-2021||National||Why can't females be trained at NDA? SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Union government's response on a PIL against denial of opportunity to eligible and willing female candidates to join the National Defence Academy and give them a chance to emerge as future leaders of the Indian Armed force. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Union government's Ministry of Defence, National Defence Academy and the UPSC on the petition by advocate Kush Kalra. The petitioner cited February 17, 2020 judgement by the Supreme Court in 'Secretary, Ministry of Defence vs Babita Puniya and Others' , where the court laid down certain directions with respect to the issue of extension of permanent commission to the women officers of the Indian Army. The judgment also pointed out that limiting the role of women officers in the Army was not based on reason, but on sex stereotyping. "The categorical exclusion of eligible female candidates from entering the National Defence Academy is not constitutionally justifiable and is simply done on the basis of their sex," the plea contended. It is also violation of constitutional values of equality and non-discrimination, the fundamental right to equality of opportunity in matters of public employment and practice any profession, it added. The NDA, located at Khadakwasla, Puna, imparts training to cadets for services to Indian Army, Air Force and Navy to those who clear the examination conducted by the UPSC. While admitting the PIL for consideration, the court also allowed an impleadment application by Saharanpur-based Sunita who contended she was left distraught after she learned that she cannot have opportunity to train at National Defence Academy as females are not admitted there on sole ground of sex.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-cant-females-be-trained-at-nda-sc-asks-centre-960325.html
10-03-2021||National||MPs demand Dadra-Nagar Haveli administrator's removal over Delkar's death||Lok Sabha members demanded on Wednesday action against the Dadra and Nagar Haveli administrator over the death of MP Mohan Delkar. Raising the issue during the Zero Hour, Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut said the administrators of the Union territory had made life "miserable" for Delkar. Delkar, 58, a seven-time MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, was found dead in a hotel at Marine Drive area of south Mumbai on February 22. He had left a 15-page suicide note. "I demand suspension of the SP, collector and administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli," Raut said. JDU MP Kaushalendra Kumar demanded that the administrator should be removed. "If a member of Parliament is not safe, then how will people feel safe?" Kumar asked. Mumbai Police has registered an FIR on charge of abetment to suicide in connection with the death, an officer said on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mps-demand-dadra-nagar-haveli-administrators-removal-over-delkars-death-960329.html
10-03-2021||National||No proposal at present to release 2011 caste census data: Centre||The government has no proposal at present to release the report of the caste census carried out in 2011, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the Socio-Economic and Caste Census (SECC), 2011, was conducted by the Ministry of Rural Development (MoRD) and the then Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (HUPA) in rural and urban areas respectively. Rai said the SECC 2011 data, excluding the caste data, had been finalised and published by the MoRD and the HUPA. The Office of the Registrar General had provided logistics and technical support in conducting the SECC-2011. "The raw caste data has been provided to the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MoSJE) for classification and categorisation of the data. As informed by MoSJE, there is no proposal to release the caste data at this stage," he said in written reply to a question. The minister added that the intent of the government for conducting Census 2021 had been notified in the Gazette of India on March 28, 2019. The census schedule is designed in consultation with various stakeholders. In census, the castes and tribes that are specifically notified as Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as per the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order, 1950, and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, are enumerated. After independence, India decided as a matter of policy not to enumerate caste-wise population other than SCs and STs, Rai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-at-present-to-release-2011-caste-census-data-centre-960331.html
10-03-2021||National||SC issues notice on PIL for gender-religion neutral inheritance and succession law||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL for making gender and religion-neutral uniform grounds of succession and inheritance for all citizens in country. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a reply from the Union Ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice, and Women and Child Development on the petition by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The court, after hearing senior advocate Kiran Suri on behalf of Upadhyay, tagged the matter with a pending plea for uniform grounds of divorce. The plea contended that succession and inheritance is the most crucial and pivotal affair and directly affects right to life, liberty and dignity, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. "Discriminatory grounds of succession and inheritance not only reinforce patriarchal stereotypical notions but also contravene principles of gender justice, gender equality and dignity of women guaranteed under Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution," it said. The petitioner claimed that gender gap in property ownership is the most important reason for gender inequity. There is no logic behind providing separate succession and inheritance schemes on the basis of gender and religion.  He claimed that implementing uniform grounds of succession and inheritance will strengthen constitutional ethos, as laid down in Part-III and IV of the Constitution and regarded as the heart and soul of the Constitution. Due to State’s inaction, even after 73 years of independence and 70 years of becoming sovereign socialist secular democratic republic, gender-religion biased personal laws still exist, he added.  Upadhyay pointed out "Though the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005 entitled the daughter of coparcener to become, by birth, a coparcener in her own right just as a son would have, what is really saddening is that there has been no attempt to make other similar personal laws rational in spirit of Articles 14, 15, 21 and international conventions". The petitioner said the cause of action was accrued on September 13, 2019 when the Supreme Court in Jose Paulo Coutinho Case reiterated the need of uniform civil code by giving shining example of Goa, but the Centre has failed to provide even gender neutral and religion neutral uniform grounds of succession and inheritance for all citizens. He further pointed out existing personal laws are not only very complex and cumbersome but also against the goals of Preamble.  Hindus, Buddhists, Sikhs and Jains are governed by the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 and Christians, Parsis and Jews are governed by the Indian Succession Act 1925. Similarly, Muslims are governed by the Shariat Act, in which the share of female heir is half of the male heirs, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-issues-notice-on-pil-for-gender-religion-neutral-inheritance-and-succession-law-960332.html
10-03-2021||National||3 crore women from poor, rural families screened for cervical and breast cancer: Smriti Irani||Union minister Smriti Irani said on Wednesday three crore women from poor and rural families have been screened for cervical and breast cancer under the Centre's flagship Ayushman Bharat health scheme in the last two years. Speaking at an event by the National Commission for Women to celebrate the International Women's Day which was on Sunday, she said the figure shows that the women who earlier would have not even spoken about the disease now know that they have the government's support and are getting themselves screened. "In the past two years, under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana alone, three crore women from poor and rural families got themselves screened for cervical and breast cancer. It means the women who would have never spoken about the diseases now have support from the government and she utilised the policy and under that she got herself screened which means she is prepared for a medical challenge and she has prepared herself for solutions," she said. Irani lauded various efforts by the government to tackle issues faced by women, giving examples of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's initiatives to build 10 crore toilets under the Swachh Bharat Mission and distribute sanitary napkins at Re 1 under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Aushadhi Kendra scheme. "Today, when we see more and more men talk about women safety and health, that is an indication that together as a society, together as a nation we are working towards equality," she said. "I do not here prescribe that we will not be met with challenges but I can affirm that on that path of challenges we will not walk alone. "Today is a day when you celebrate men who have walked shoulder to shoulder with women and to them I say 'march on' because it is together that we will build just, inclusive and equitable society," she said, talking about the theme of the event which was 'men for women'. Union Secretary for the Women and Child Development Ministry Ram Mohan Mishra said the government is working towards developing 'Mission Shakti' for women empowerment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-crore-women-from-poor-rural-families-screened-for-cervical-and-breast-cancer-smriti-irani-960334.html
10-03-2021||National||Golden Chariot to make its first journey from March 14||IRCTC, the online ticket booking arm of the Indian Railways, has decided to resume the services of its luxury train Golden Chariot. The train will commence its first journey of the season on March 14, 2021. According to IRCTC, on March 14 the Golden Chariot will start a 6 nights/7 days journey on the pride of Karnataka starting and ending in Bengaluru, covering Bandipur, Mysore, Halebidu, Chikamangalur, Hampi, Aihole and Pattadakal and Goa. Another 3 nights/4 days trip is planned on March 21, 2021, which will also start and end in Bengaluru covering Mysore, Hampi and Mahabalipuram.  Owned by Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC), the Golden Chariot train, which commenced in 2008, was taken over by IRCTC in January 2020 for operations, marketing and maintenance. The Golden Chariot is again going to hit the tracks in a new look and feel on an exciting week-long itinerary, the statement said. The renewed train has a host of features including complimentary WiFi and OTT streaming onboard, complimentary house pours and wines, choice of international and Indian cuisines, services of an experienced Tour Director onboard, all monument entry tickets, off-board evenings with meals and cultural performances etc to make the train a completely memorable experience. Partial booking covering part of the itinerary for a short journey in this premium luxury train has also been allowed so as to enable tourists, experience the unmatchable journey of a lifetime. The unique position of the southern peninsula, surrounded by the Arabian Sea in the West, the Indian Ocean in the South and the Bay of Bengal in the East saw several dynasties having trade and political linkages with both the West and East. Destinations on the Golden Chariot route have been chosen to showcase the architecture, culture and history of this region. The Guest carriages of the Golden Chariot train are named after the dynasties which ruled South India over several centuries. Each guest carriage has four cabins with a mix of twins and doubles. The guest cabins are a mix of 13 Double Bed Cabins, 30 Twin Bed Cabins and 1 Cabin for specially-abled. The two restaurants, Ruchi and Nalapaka, serve delectable meals from across the world with an array of Indian options. Madira, the bar serves the choicest of wines, beers and spirits. Arogya, the Spa cum Fitness Center, combines traditional Ayurvedic Spa therapies with modern workout machines, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/golden-chariot-to-make-its-first-journey-from-march-14-960338.html
10-03-2021||National||1,829 arrested, 755 FIRs lodged: Centre on northeast Delhi riots||As many as 755 FIRs have been registered and 1,829 people were arrested in connection with the northeast Delhi riots last year, the Centre informed Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy told the Rajya Sabha the investigation was carried out in all the cases based on facts and evidence, using the latest scientific techniques, and without any regard to the affiliation or identity of the accused. Reddy said the Delhi Police conveyed that 755 FIRs had been registered in connection with the riots, out of which 62 heinous cases were investigated by the special investigation teams in the crime branch. One case is investigated by the special cell to unearth the criminal conspiracy behind the violence and the remaining 692 cases are investigated by the North East district police, the minister said in a written reply to a question. A total of 1,829 people have been arrested and charge sheets in 353 cases have been submitted in the court for trial, he added. The riots had erupted in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and also led to extensive destruction of property, including schools as well as religious places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1829-arrested-755-firs-lodged-centre-on-northeast-delhi-riots-960340.html
10-03-2021||National||CSC, GoodWorker tie up to boost jobs opportunities in rural areas||The Common Services Centers is partnering with GoodWorker, a job matching platform, for connecting blue-collar workers with employers through its extensive reach in rural India. The partnership promises to bring one lakh job opportunities through CSC Gramin Naukri Portal. These opportunities will include profiles like Sewing Machine Operator, Delivery Executive, Customer Support Executive/Tele caller, etc. Launching the partnership, Sonu Sood, noted actor and humanitarian said, “This partnership will help combine the technology and vision of GoodWorker with the reach and presence of CSCs – creating an ecosystem that will provide employment and help improve the lives of blue-collar workers across the country.” Elaborating on the partnership, Dinesh Tyagi, Managing Director, CSC SPV said, “The partnership with GoodWorker will enable us to bring job opportunities to rural youth across the country through our network of more than 3.75 lakh CSCs. We hope this initiative will help rural youth explore employment opportunities in emerging areas of economic growth and support employers get the desired manpower.” R C M Reddy, CEO, Schoolnet India Limited and Board Member, GoodWorker said, “This is a coming together of organizations with complementary strengths the best tech platform with the best distribution network. This is the beginning of a long and fruitful partnership with extensive impact on India’s employment landscape.” CSC Gramin Naukri Portal is a digital platform under the Common Services Centers to bridge the gap between blue-collared workers and job providers. Now job search or hiring-related to the blue-collar sector becomes simple and affordable through the last mile network of over 3.75 lakh CSCs across the country. GoodWorker(GW) is a platform that facilitates direct, trusted, and efficient job matches, and access to quality-of-life services.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/csc-goodworker-tie-up-to-boost-jobs-opportunities-in-rural-areas-960343.html
10-03-2021||National||Parliament passes Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021||Parliament on Wednesday approved a Bill to amend the arbitration law. On Wednesday, the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed through voice vote in the Rajya Sabha. The Bill was passed by the Lok Sabha on February 12, 2021. The bill will replace an ordinance issued on November 4, 2020. The bill seeks to ensure that all stakeholders get an opportunity to seek unconditional stay on enforcement of arbitral awards where the agreement or contract is "induced by fraud or corruption". Immediately after passage of the Bill, Deputy Chairman Harivansh adjourned the Rajya Sabha till Monday as opposition parties continued raising slogans demanding discussion on the three farm laws. Earlier in the day, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Vainkaih Naidu had disallowed notices of suspension of business of the day to take up discussion on farm laws which led to adjournment of proceeding till 12 noon and then again till 2 pm. Replying to the Bill in the House, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said it makes the provision to avoid payment of tax payers' money as award in those cases where the agreement or contract is "induced by fraud or corruption".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-arbitration-and-conciliation-amendment-bill-2021-960358.html
10-03-2021||National||Tirath Singh Rawat takes oath as Uttarakhand CM||Senior BJP leader Tirath Singh Rawat on Wednesday took oath as the ninth Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, a day after Trivendra Singh Rawat stepped down amid discontent over his four-year leadership of the state. 56-year-old Tirath Singh Rawat, who represented Garhwal in Lok Sabha, was sworn-in as Chief Minister by Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan in Dehradun. Tirath Singh Rawat’s name was finalised at the BJP Legislature Party meeting at the party office in Dehradun on Wednesday morning, which was also attended by members of Parliament from the state in the presence of central observers Raman Singh and Dushyant Kumar Singh. “He brings with him vast administrative and organisational experience. I am confident that under his leadership the state will continue to scale new heights of progress,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said shortly after Rawat took oath as Chief Minister.     The newly sworn-in Chief Minister has just about a year’s time to provide a healing touch to the state BJP which has been in throes over certain controversial decisions, including government control of numerous temples in the state and creation of Gairsain Commissionerate, by Trivendra Singh Rawat. “I will focus on health, education and, especially, on tourism which is a key sector in Uttarakhand,” Rawat told reporters in Dehradun. Rawat began his innings in public service as a pracharak in the RSS and moved on to student politics at the Hemwati Nandan Bahuguna Central University in Srinagar, the cultural capital of Uttarakhand. As he pursued studies in sociology and journalism, Rawat took interest in student politics and was the president of the Students Union. He was also associated with the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha. Rawat was the first education minister of the state from 2000-02 and served as the Uttarakhand BJP chief from 2013-15. During his tenure as state BJP chief, the party wrested four of the six municipal corporations in Uttarakhand. Rawat had held key organisational positions both in the state and at the Centre, and was the national secretary of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tirath-singh-rawat-takes-oath-as-uttarakhand-cm-960362.html
10-03-2021||National||Uttar Pradesh khap panchayat bans half pants, jeans, skirts||An Uttar Pradesh khap (caste) panchayat, in Muzaffarnagar district, about 500 kilometres from Lucknow, has banned half pants, jeans and skirts and warned men and women against wearing them. The decision was taken at a meeting of the members of the khap panchayat of the 'Thakur' community, at Pippalshah village in the district. According to the reports, the meeting was convened to discuss the strategy of the community in the forthcoming panchayat elections but a little later, the focus shifted to what the members termed ''social evils'' and stressed on strong measures to make people follow the age-old "culture" of the country. ''The men are seen wearing half pants, while the girls wear jeans and skirts....these dresses are against our culture and corrupt the society.'' said Puran Singh, who presided over the meeting. Singh said that there is nothing wrong in providing opportunities to the girls to study but they should not be allowed to wear jeans and skirts. He also said that those not following the panchayat diktat would face 'social boycott'.  Singh said that the community members should withdraw their children from schools and colleges, if they did not impose a similar ban on these dresses. Khap panchayats in Uttar Pradesh, especially in the 'Jat' dominated western region, have been known for their bizarre diktats. In the past also, they had imposed similar bans. The khaps have been against love marriages and marriages within the same clan. In the past, several girls were killed by members of their own families for "safeguarding family honour" after they eloped with their lovers or got married in a different caste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-khap-panchayat-bans-half-pants-jeans-skirts-960372.html
10-03-2021||National||Many terrorist training camps active in PoK: G Kishan Reddy tells Rajya Sabha||Many terrorist training camps are active in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) and such facilities are used for training and subsequently, infiltration into Jammu and Kashmir, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy also said the government has consistently emphasised to Pakistan to put an end to cross-border infiltration of terrorists and dismantle the infrastructure supporting terrorism on a permanent basis. "According to reports, there are several terrorist training camps in Pakistan-occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK), which are used for training and subsequently for infiltrating trained militants and terrorists into Jammu and Kashmir for terrorist activities. Some of these training camps are still active and imparting training to militants," he said. The minister said the government has repeatedly raised the issue of Pakistan's continued support to cross-border terrorism and terrorist infiltration in bilateral, regional and multilateral fora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/many-terrorist-training-camps-active-in-pok-g-kishan-reddy-tells-rajya-sabha-960402.html
10-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: P C Chacko resigns from Congress||In your evening news brief, Senior Congress leader P C Chacko resigns from Congress; Supreme Court seeks Centre's response on a PIL against denial of opportunity to eligible and willing female candidates to join the National Defence Academy and BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat to become the new chief minister of Uttarakhand.  Here is the top news of March 10, 2021: Senior Congress leader P C Chacko has resigned from the party ahead of Kerala Assembly polls, according to ANI.  "I'd been deliberating upon this decision for past many days. I come from Kerala where there's no Congress party as such. There are 2 parties - Congress (I) & Congress (A). It's a coordination committee of tow parties functioning as KPCC," he said.  Stating that the Congress is a "great tradition", Chacko said, "Being a Congressman is a prestigious thing but today in Kerala nobody can be a Congressman." The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought the Union government's response on a PIL against denial of opportunity to eligible and willing female candidates to join the National Defence Academy and give them a chance to emerge as future leaders of the Indian Armed force. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Union government's Ministry of Defence, National Defence Academy and the UPSC on the petition by advocate Kush Kalra. BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat to become the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat announced on Wednesday after a meeting of BJP legislature party in Dehradun.  Trivendra Singh Rawat had resigned as the chief minister yesterday.  Tirath Singh Rawat will be sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand in the evening, official sources said. They said preparations have begun at the Raj Bhawan here for the swearing-in ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-p-c-chacko-resigns-from-congress-960412.html
10-03-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee says she was attacked in Nandigram, calls it a conspiracy||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that she was "attacked" by some strangers who pushed her and slammed the door of her car, causing injuries to her legs, hands and head. The alleged incident took place in Nandigram after she filed her nomination for the Nandigram Assembly seat. “Four to five people whom I don’t know suddenly pushed me and slammed my car door on my left foot. It hurt me in my head, foot and hand. It is really painful. Although I had planned to stay in Nandigram tonight (Wednesday), I have to return to Kolkata (for treatment),” said Mamata. “This is definitely a conspiracy. No local police, not even the SP was at the spot,” said Mamata. District police sources said that an investigation has been launched.  Later TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, who is currently in Nandigram said in a statement “At about 6.15 pm, when Mamata was about to leave Birulia Anchal after performing Puja in a temple, a few unknown persons pushed her to the car and forcibly shut down the door, as a result of which, she sustained injuries in her left leg and waist. She, thereafter, left for Kolkata to get proper treatment.” Earlier in the day, Mamata filed her nomination for the Nadigram Assembly seat, setting the stage for an intense electoral battle against her former trusted aide Suvendu Adhikari, who is the BJP candidate from the constituency. After holding a 2 kilometre long road show and offering prayers at a local temple, the TMC supremo filed her nomination at the Haldia sub-divisional office in East Medinipur district. She was accompanied by TMC general secretary Subrata Bakshi. Mamata exuded confidence of emerging victorious from Nandigram. She said that the constituency never sent her back empty handed. “I am confident of my victory from Nandigram. I could have easily contested from Bhabanipur ( where she is the incumbent MLA),” said Mamata. She also said that seeing the mood of the people during her visit to Nandigram in January, she decided to contest from the constituency. “When I visited Nandigram, there was no MLA here as the incumbent MLA (Suvendu Adhikari) had resigned. Seeing the mood of the people, I decided to contest from Nandigram,” said Mamata. “Nandigram has never sent me back empty handed. It is not just a name but a movement. This is what Nandigram means to me,” said Mamata. She also said that she is confident that no one would be able to indulge in divisive politics in Nandigram as people from across communities took part in the land agitation in 2007. “Let me make it absolutely clear. No one can resort to divisive politics in Nandigram as people from all communities took part in the land agitation,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-says-she-was-attacked-in-nandigram-calls-it-a-conspiracy-960423.html
10-03-2021||National||India says it has direct stakes in maintenance of peace and stability in Myanmar||India on Wednesday said it has direct stakes in the maintenance of peace and stability in Myanmar and the recent developments in that country were of deep concern to it. Last month, Myanmar's military grabbed power in a coup against the civilian government and imposed a state of emergency after detaining Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD). In response to a question in Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan said India has urged that the rule of law and democratic process be upheld and called upon the leadership of Myanmar to work together to resolve their differences in a peaceful and constructive manner. He said India will closely monitor the situation in Myanmar and remain in discussion with the international community, including at the UNSC, on the issue. "India shares a land and maritime border with Myanmar and has direct stakes in the maintenance of peace and stability in the country. As part of our 'Neighbourhood First' and 'Act East' policies, India has supported socio-economic development in Myanmar and facilitated the process of democratic transition in the country," he said. "The recent developments in Myanmar are therefore of deep concern," he added. The minister also said India's relationship with Myanmar remains independent of its ties with any third country. Myanmar witnessed massive protests in the last few weeks against the February 1 coup. To a separate question on vandalisation of a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in the city of Davis in California on January 28, Muraleedharan said India has strongly condemned this "malicious and despicable act" against a universally respected icon of peace and justice. He said the Embassy of India in Washington DC has taken up the matter with the US Department of State for a thorough investigation and appropriate action against those responsible for this despicable act. "The Consulate General of India in San Francisco has separately taken up the matter with the City of Davis and local law enforcement authorities, which have initiated an investigation," he said. The minister said the US Department of State has conveyed that the act of vandalism is unacceptable and expressed hope that the perpetrators would be brought to justice as quickly as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-says-it-has-direct-stakes-in-maintenance-of-peace-and-stability-in-myanmar-960435.html
10-03-2021||National||Can probe coal theft case in WB sans State's consent: CBI to SC||The CBI has maintained before the Supreme Court that it can investigate into coal theft case, in which TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife was quizzed, in West Bengal without even consent from the State. It contended coal, and the theft thereof, which is the subject matter of the present case, is owned controlled and regulated, for and on behalf of the people of the entire country, by the Central government through the Coal India or Eastern Coalfield Ltd.  "Coal bearing areas are spread across various states in the country and therefore, it is imperative that the larger conspiracy and the inter-state dimension be thoroughly probed by an agency having national jurisdiction, like the Central Bureau of Investigation," the agency said in an affidavit. Responding to a contention filed by Anup Majee against the probe without State's consent, the CBI, in an affidavit, pointed out the offence pertained to illegal mining, excavation and theft of coal.  "Issue raised by the petitioner herein, apropos a lack of consent by the government of West Bengal to the CBI to investigate in its territory, would pale in to insignificance as the CBI is under a mandate of the Central Vigilance Commission to continue and complete the investigation," it said. It alleged that the object of the accused persons in the FIR was to siphon-off the depleting natural resources for their own gain running into hundreds of crores of rupees leading to a loss of revenue to the Central government.  The CBI maintained that not only can it conduct investigation in ‘Railway Areas’ without the prior consent of the state government but, such power in furtherance of the investigation, transcended to other areas, within the territorial jurisdiction of West Bengal. The agency said it was also relevant to point out that a report was prepared by the Vigilance team and the Task Force on August 20, 2020 which clearly revealed that there was a large-scale conspiracy to cheat the public at large.  It also said coal mine regulation in the country has been specifically declared by Parliament to be regulated by the Central government which has been considered to be expedient in public trust in the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1973. "Therefore, the doctrine of public trust will apply in the present case," it said. In the instant case, the ECL filed an application before the Central Vigilance Commission, passed an order on February 22, 2021 under Section 8 of the CVC Act for an investigation by the CBI in the entire case for the offence spread over in multiple states. The offences were also with regard to a very valuable natural resource upon which the energy security of the nation depended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-probe-coal-theft-case-in-wb-sans-states-consent-cbi-to-sc-960442.html
10-03-2021||National||952 cases of communal, religious rioting in 2018-19: Govt||A total of 952 cases of communal or religious rioting were registered across the country in a period of two years, with Bihar topping charts both in 2018 and 2019, the government told Parliament on Wednesday. Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy tabled the data, compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), in response to queries made by Rajya Sabha MP Jharna Das Baidya. As many as 512 cases were lodged across states and Union Territories in 2018 under "communal/religious rioting" while the number was 440 in 2019, according to the data. Bihar had 167 such cases in 2018 and 135 in 2019, it showed. Noting the "police" and "public order" are state subjects, Reddy added the incidents of communal violence show a declining trend during the period from 2018 to 2019. "Government of India monitors the internal security and law and order situation in the country and issues appropriate advisories from time to time to maintain peace, public tranquillity and communal harmony," he stated in a written reply. "Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) are deployed to aid and assist state governments, on their request, to maintain law and order and public tranquillity," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/952-cases-of-communal-religious-rioting-in-2018-19-govt-960444.html
10-03-2021||National||Kejriwal announces free visit for elderly to Ram temple once completed||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday announced facilitating free pilgrimage for Delhi's senior citizens to the Ram temple in Ayodhya and asserted that his government follows 10 principles inspired by the concept of 'Ram Rajya' to the serve the people. The 10 principles listed by him are providing food, education, medical care, electricity, water, employment, housing, security for women and honouring the elderly. Kejriwal's announcement about the pilgrimage came a day after his Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government presented a Rs 69,000-crore budget themed on "patriotism" under which installation of 500 flag masts and programs on the lives of freedom fighters are planned across the city. It also announced a "deshbhakti curriculum". The AAP dispensation already has a 'Mukhyamantri Teerth Yatra Yojana' that allows senior citizens from Delhi to undertake a free pilgrimage. All expenses related to travel, food and accommodation are borne by the Delhi government. Addressing the Delhi Assembly on Wednesday, Kejriwal took potshots at the Yogi Adityanath government over the alleged deteriorating condition of government-run schools in Uttar Pradesh. He said that he saw on social media a video of Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath inspecting a school in "Manish Sisodia-style". "I am happy that chief ministers and ministers are visiting schools now," Kejriwal said. The Delhi chief minister said his deputy, Sisodia, went to Lucknow recently to inspect an Uttar Pradesh government-run schools after a minister of the state "challenged" him. "But the minister chickened out and the UP Police stopped Sisodia from inspecting the schools himself." "I am a devotee of Lord Ram and Hanuman. We have been following 10 principles inspired by the concept of 'Ram Rajya' to serve the people of Delhi," Kejriwal said during a discussion on the address to the House by the Lieutenant Governor earlier this week. "We have taken many steps to honour our elderly, the most important being sending them on free pilgrimages. I want to tell all senior citizens in Delhi that I will send you to Ram temple in Ayodhya once the construction work is completed." The construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya is expected to be completed in 36-40 months. Elaborating on the 10 principles listed by him, the chief minister said no one should sleep on an empty stomach in Delhi. "Every child, irrespective of the social status, should get quality education and every person should get the best possible medical treatment," he said. The Delhi government has been providing free drinking water up to 20,000 litres to each household, Kejriwal said, adding, "We give free electricity up to 200 units to everyone. Delhi is the only city in the world where people get round-the-clock free power supply." The AAP government has taken a number of steps to generate employment, provide housing facilities to the poor and ensure women safety, the chief minister said.  The work done in the education sector in Delhi in the last six years is being seen as a "revolution", he asserted. Kejriwal also appealed to all residents of Delhi to participate in the Covid-19 vaccination drive and said the members of the Delhi Assembly should go to hospitals, stand in queue and take vaccine just like common people. The Delhi government on Tuesday announced in its annual budget that the Covid-19 vaccine would be administered to the people free-of-cost at its hospitals in future phases of the inoculation drive. Currently, vaccination at the hospitals run by the Centre and the Delhi government is free for senior citizens and those in the 45-59 age group with comorbidities, while Rs 250 is being charged at private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-announces-free-visit-for-elderly-to-ram-temple-once-completed-960449.html
10-03-2021||National||Centre decides to admit girl cadets in all Sainik schools from 2021-22 academic session||The government on Wednesday said it has decided to admit girl cadets in all Sainik schools across the country from the academic session 2021-22. At present, 33 Sainik schools are operating in the country. "After the success of pilot Project for admission of girl cadets in Sainik School Chhingchhip, Mizoram, in the academic session 2018-19, the government has decided to admit girl cadets along with boys in all Sainik Schools from the academic session 2021-22," Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said in Lok Sabha. He also said the government is proposing to bring a new scheme for setting up Sainik schools in the country in partnership with NGOs, private schools and state governments. "The endeavour is to provide schooling opportunities in 'CBSE Plus' type of educational environment by involving desirous government/private schools/NGOs to partner in establishing/aligning their system with Sainik schools ethos, value system and national pride," Naik said in a written reply. The Sainik schools are run by Sainik Schools Society which is under administrative control of the Ministry of Defence. The aim of establishing Sainik schools was to prepare the students from an early age for their entry into the Indian armed forces. Sainik schools are established on receipt of specific requests from state governments. Earlier, only boy cadets were allowed to enrol in Sainik schools. To a separate question, Naik said no formation or unit has been withdrawn from North-Eastern states during 2020-21. "In view of the security situation in the North-East region, re-alignment of operational role of some Army units has been carried out," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-decides-to-admit-girl-cadets-in-all-sainik-schools-from-2021-22-academic-session-960453.html
10-03-2021||National||Encounter breaks out between security forces, militants in J&K's Anantnag||An encounter broke out between militants and security forces on Wednesday in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said here. Security personnel launched a cordon and search operation at Kandipora in Bijbehara area of Anantnag following information about the presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces, who retaliated. There are no reports of any casualties so far on either side, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/encounter-breaks-out-between-security-forces-militants-in-jks-anantnag-960466.html
10-03-2021||National||SC forms committee for cases related to bounced cheques||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set up a committee headed by former Bombay High Court judge Justice R C Chavan for suggesting measures for early disposal of cheque-bounce cases across the country. A five-judge bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde decide to set up a committee after Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, agreed in principle to the court’s suggestion to establish additional courts for expeditious trial of cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments (NI) Act. Taking up a Suo Motu matter, the bench comprising Justice L Nageswara Rao, B R Gavai, A S Bopanna and S Ravindra Bhat noted that cheque bounce cases constituted almost 30 per cent of the total pendency of case at trial courts and High Courts. The bench added that this pendency is causing a logjam at all levels, particularly at the trial court and High Court level. The other members of the committee included officers from the Department of Financial Services, not below the rank of Additional Secretary, officers from Department of justice, corporate affairs, expenditure, Ministry of Home Affairs, a member nominated by RBI governor etc. The committee has to submit a report within three months.  The court also asked Mehta to submit the names of other members of the committee by March 12. Senior advocate Sidharth Luthra assisted the court as amicus curiae in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-forms-committee-for-cases-related-to-bounced-cheques-960468.html
10-03-2021||National||Mumbai Police register FIR in case of MP Mohan Delkar's death||Mumbai Police has registered an FIR for alleged abetment to suicide against Praful Kheda Patel, administrator of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, in connection with the death of Lok Sabha member Mohan Delkar, a senior police official said on Wednesday. Delkar (58), a seven-term MP from the Union Territory, was found dead in a hotel in Marine Drive area of south Mumbai on February 22. The FIR was registered on Tuesday after Delkar's family members visited the Marine Drive police station and lodged a complaint, the official said. The case was registered on the complaint of Abhinav Delkar, Delkar's son, under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 506 (criminal intimidation), 389 (putting person in accusation of offence in order to commit extortion) and also under the Prevention of Atrocities Act. It named administrator Praful Patel, the local district magistrate and the Superintendent of Police and others as accused. The police had recovered a 15-page suicide note from Delkar's hotel room which was written on his letter head, the official said, adding the note mentioned some names. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday announced that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) will probe the alleged suicide of Delkar. Deshmukh said in the state Assembly that Delkar's suicide note stated that the Union Territory's administrator Praful Kheda Patel was harassing the MP. Delkar's wife and son met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the Vidhan Bhavan here on Tuesday. Later, talking to reporters, his son Abhinav Delkar claimed Patel "left no stone unturned to humiliate" the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-police-register-fir-in-case-of-mp-mohan-delkars-death-960472.html
10-03-2021||National||'India in process of filing appeal against Cairn arbitration award'||India is in the process of filing an appeal against an arbitration panel asking it to return  $1.2 billion to British oil firm Cairn Energy Plc, sources said on Wednesday. If enforcement proceedings are initiated, India is confident to address them and will strongly defend its interests, the sources said, adding it is open to a constructive settlement of tax disputes within the existing legal framework. India is in the process of filing an appeal in the Cairn's arbitration award case, they said, adding in this case, it was well within India's sovereign powers to redress the situation of Double Non-Taxation and tax abuse. Cairn chief executive Simon Thomson had last month met the then Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey to discuss the arbitration award. The sources said Cairn is yet to respond based on the discussions. Cairn set up a tax abusive structure and did not pay taxes anywhere in the world on the gains that it made in India, they added. An international tribunal had in December unanimously ruled that India violated its obligations under the UK-India Bilateral Investment Treaty in 2014, when the income tax department slapped a Rs 10,247-crore tax assessment using legislation that gave it powers to levy taxes retrospectively. Soon after seeking Rs 10,247 crore in taxes over alleged capital gains made by the company over a 2006-07 reorganisation of India business before its listing, the tax department seized Cairn's residual 10 per cent stake in Cairn India. In its annual earning statement, Cairn Energy Plc had on Tuesday said it has identified Indian sovereign assets overseas, which it can seize in the event of New Delhi failing to return over $1.7 billion that an international arbitration tribunal has ordered after rescinding a retrospective tax demand. "Cairn is extremely confident that satisfaction of the award will be achieved either by negotiated settlement or by enforcement against Indian assets," the firm had said. So far, the government has not directly commented on honouring or challenging the Cairn arbitration award, but Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had last week indicated going in for an appeal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-process-of-filing-appeal-against-cairn-arbitration-award-960477.html
10-03-2021||National||Modi to launch Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's Bhagavad Gita||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Thursday launch the Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's 'Bhagavad Gita' and also speak on the occasion via video conferencing. The Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said the event has been organised to commemorate the sale of over five lakh copies of Swami Chidbhavananda's Bhagavad Gita. Swami Chidbhavananda is the founder of Sri Ramakrishna Tapovanam Ashram at Thirupparaithurai, Tiruchirapalli in Tamil Nadu. He has authored 186 books and all genres of literary composition, and his scholarly work on the Gita is one of the most extensive books on the subject. The Tamil version of the Gita with his commentaries was published in 1951, followed by the English one in 1965, the PMO said. The work’s translations into Telugu, Oriya, German and Japanese were undertaken by devotees, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-to-launch-kindle-version-of-swami-chidbhavanandas-bhagavad-gita-960482.html
10-03-2021||National||PM, Saudi Crown Prince review ties; Modi expresses wish to expand bilateral trade||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman spoke over phone on Wednesday during which the PM expressed his desire to further expand bilateral trade and investment, and highlighted the opportunities that the Indian economy offers to Saudi investors. Both leaders reviewed the functioning of the bilateral Strategic Partnership Council established in 2019 and expressed satisfaction over the steady growth in the India-Saudi partnership, the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said in a statement. During the call, the prime minister expressed his desire to further expand trade and investment between the two countries and highlighted the opportunities that the Indian economy offers to Saudi investors, it said. The leaders agreed to continue supporting each other's efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic in the spirit of the special friendship and people-to-people links between India and Saudi Arabia. They also reviewed regional and international developments of mutual interest, the PMO said. The prime minister reiterated his invitation to the Crown Prince to visit India at an early date, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-saudi-crown-prince-review-ties-modi-expresses-wish-to-expand-bilateral-trade-960488.html
10-03-2021||National||India terms social media reports about its role in deliberations on Myanmar in UNSC as 'mischievous'||India has been slammed on social media for allegedly joining China, Russia and Vietnam in an attempt to soften a statement by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) on the military coup in Myanmar. New Delhi, however, dismissed reports about its bid to make the Security Council avoid condemning the military junta for taking over power in Myanmar. “We have seen reports on social media about India’s role in deliberations on Myanmar in the UNSC. These reports are mischievous and biased,” the Embassy of India in Yangon posted on Twitter. We have seen reports on social media about India’s role in deliberations on Myanmar in the UNSC. These reports are mischievous and biased. UNSC is seized of the matter and let us wait for the outcome. India’s position on the issue is well-known and has been clearly articulated. The Security Council on Tuesday discussed a proposed statement drafted by the United Kingdom, warning the Myanmar Army of “further measures” by the council and nudging it to exercise restraint, apart from releasing the deposed State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders and activists of her party, National League for Democracy (NLD), from detention. The UNSC, however, could not reach a consensus, as Vietnam and India, both non-permanent members of the council at present, purportedly joined the two permanent members, China and Russia, to seek amendments to the draft. India, China, Russia and Vietnam reportedly sought softening or removal of paragraphs condemning the military junta for the coup as well as for its crackdown on protesters, agitating against its takeover of power. “The people of #Burma should know that when it comes to UN Security Council inaction on #Myanmar's military coup, these are the villains stopping any action – Russia, China, India, & Vietnam,” Phil Robertson, Deputy Asia Director of the Human Rights Watch, posted on Twitter. Several Myanmarese Twitter user reacted to the media reports on India joining China, Russia, Vietnam in bid to soften the UNSC statement. “Dear India, please stand for the Justice. Don't be friend with the Terrorists who are killing innocent people with no reason. The whole world can see it,” posted “Soe Soe Yee” using the handle @SoeSoeYer1. “We never thought that you are the one of them,” read another post from @YeeMon02744563. “Don’t you feel ashamed for standing with the terrorist! We’re unarmed against the ruthless terrorist military and we’re defenseless! We need to be protected by the international community. You have collective responsibility towards the Myanmar civilians! Not towards the junta!” posted another using the handle @852_ash. New Delhi, however, sought to dismiss the speculation about its stand on the issue. “(The) UNSC is seized of the matter and let us wait for the outcome. India’s position on the issue is well-known and has been clearly articulated,” the Embassy of India posted on Twitter. Meanwhile, V Muraleedharan, Minister of State for External Affairs, informed the Lok Sabha in a written reply to a question that India would closely monitor the situation in Myanmar and remain in discussion with the international community on the issue, including at the UNSC. “India has supported socio-economic development in Myanmar and facilitated the process of democratic transition in the country,” Muraleedharan informed the Lok Sabha. “The recent developments in Myanmar are therefore of deep concern. India has urged that the rule of law and democratic process be upheld and called upon the Myanmar leadership to work together to resolve their differences in a peaceful and constructive manner.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-terms-social-media-reports-about-its-role-in-deliberations-on-myanmar-in-unsc-as-mischievous-960490.html
10-03-2021||National||Farmer unions call for Bharat bandh on March 26||Farmer unions on Wednesday called for a Bharat bandh on March 26, when their protest at Delhi's borders against the Centre's three new farm laws completes four months. Farmer leader Buta Singh Burjgill said farmers along with trade unions will protest the hike in fuel prices and privatisation of railways on March 15. "We will observe a complete Bharat bandh on March 26, when our protest against the three farm laws completes four months. The peaceful bandh will remain effective from morning till evening," he told reporters at the Singhu border. On March 19, the farmers will observe "Mandi Bachao-Kheti Bachao" day, he said. The farmer unions have also decided to celebrate ‘Shaheedi divas’ of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev, Burjgill added. Farmers leaders also said that copies of the new farm laws will be burnt during ‘Holika Dahan’ on March 28. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at the Delhi border points --- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur --- for over four months, demanding the repeal of farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the MSP system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmer-unions-call-for-bharat-bandh-on-march-26-960499.html
10-03-2021||National||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin to visit India from March 19 to 21||US Secretary of Defence Gen Lloyd J Austin will visit India next week to hold a bilateral dialogue with his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh, kick-starting the top-level diplomatic engagement with the Joe Biden Administration that assumed charges at the White House in January. “The Secretary of Defence of the USA General Lloyd J Austin will visit India from March 19-21, 2021. During his visit Secretary Austin is expected to meet Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and other senior dignitaries,” a Defence Ministry spokesperson said here on Wednesday. The confirmation from the Defence Ministry came soon after Gen Austin tweeted his travel plans to India, Japan, South Korea and Indo-Pacific Command Headquarters in Hawaii. In Japan, he and Secretary of State Antony Blinken would be having a 2+2 meeting with their Japanese counterparts. “In India, Secretary Austin will meet with his counterpart, Minister of Defense Rajnath Singh, and other senior national security leaders to discuss deepening the US-India Major Defense Partnership and advancing cooperation between our countries for a free, prosperous and open Indo-Pacific and Western Indian Ocean Region,” said the Pentagon statement. Singh reciprocated saying he was looking forward to his meeting with Gen Austin. “Both sides are expected to discuss ways to further strengthen bilateral defence cooperation and exchange views on regional security challenges and common interests in maintaining a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. Secretary Austin’s visit to India as part of his first overseas travel emphasizes the strength of India-US strategic partnership,” the spokesperson said in a statement. “Discussions regarding defence cooperation would also focus on how both countries could consolidate military-to-military cooperation and defence trade and industry cooperation.” The Secretary of Defence is visiting India at a time when the Defence Ministry is actively considering purchasing 30 combat drones from the USA in a multi-billion dollar deal for use by the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force. If materialised, this will be the first tri-service purchase of a major weapon. The decision to purchase 30 UAVs was taken following the impressive performance of the two MQ-9B unarmed Sea Guardian drones that the Indian Navy has taken on lease from the US manufacturer General Atomics. While India initially looked at unarmed Sea Guardian for surveillance and armed Predator-B UAVs for the attack, the plan was later changed because of the prohibitive prices of these aircraft. The government now intends to buy the combat ones and use them for both purposes. The plan, however, is yet to be approved by the Defence Acquisition Council headed by Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-to-visit-india-from-march-19-to-21-960504.html
10-03-2021||National||Mithun Chakraborty gets central VIP security cover||The Centre has accorded 'Y+' VIP security cover to veteran actor Mithun Chakraborty who recently joined the BJP, official sources said on Wednesday. They said the security cover will be provided by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) that has a dedicated wing for this task, called the special security group (SSG). The 70-year-old actor had joined the BJP on Sunday at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mega rally at the Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata. "Chakraborty has been given a 'Y+' cover and armed CISF commandos will accompany him during poll campaign in West Bengal," a senior officer said. Election to the 294-member West Bengal assembly will be held in eight phases between March 27 and April 29. A threat perception report prepared by central security agencies recently recommended to the home ministry for a security cover to the national award-winning actor. BJP MP from Jharkhand Nishikant Dubey will also be accorded with a similar cover that involves about 4-5 armed commandos protecting the person. With these new inductions, the CISF now protects a total of 104 VIPs, including National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mithun-chakraborty-gets-central-vip-security-cover-960524.html
10-03-2021||National||MoEF forms team to advise Odisha govt on dousing Simlipal forest fire and assess loss||With the Simlipal national park, one of India’s oldest protected forests, on fire for the past fortnight, the Union Environment Ministry on Wednesday formed an expert team that would work with the Odisha government to douse the fire and make an assessment of the loss. The tiger reserve in the Mayurbhanj district has been burning since late February with the fire spreading to 8 out of 21 ranges of the park. According to the Forest Survey of India, there are more than 400 fire points in Simlipal. The three-member committee headed by Amit Mallick, Inspector General of Forest at the National Tiger Conservation Authority, would assess the status of fire incidents in all the reserves forests in Odisha including Simlipal and provide technical advice to the State for containment, the Union Environment Ministry said in a statement. The committee would also examine the status of loss of forest and wildlife in the tiger park and its relationship with poaching, if any. Other two members of the panel are Subratt Mahapatra, deputy director general at the environment ministry’s regional office at Bhubaneswar and Arti Chaudhary from the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education. A preliminary report from the central ministry blamed an early onset of heatwave for such a raging fire in Similipal. "Since the heat wave started earlier and the Sal forests have already shed the leaf during last week of January, the vulnerability for forest fire has increased this year," it said. A week ago, Baripada was the hottest station in Odisha as well as in India with the maximum temperature of 39.8 degrees Celsisus on March 2. A heat wave prevailed in Mayurbhanj district that recorded a maximum temperature of 38-39 degrees Celsius - an increase of 7 degrees Celsius from normal temperature. "It's not Simlipal alone. Every forest in Odisha is on fire. A few days ago, I was on my way back from Kandhamal to Bhubaneswar and every forest that I saw on that 300 km road was on fire,” Odisha based wildlife conservationist Aditya Panda told DH. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar announced formation of the expert panel after a group of Parliamentarians from Odisha met the minister seeking intervention. Two days ago, the Odisha government also formed an eight member committee for immediate containment and improving the SOPs for future. "There is a well established SOP to prevent such forest fires and none of the two committees would teach anything new. Over the last 20 years, there is a decay in forest department institutions in Odisha and there is not much interest in conserving the forest,” said Panda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moef-forms-team-to-advise-odisha-govt-on-dousing-simlipal-forest-fire-and-assess-loss-960533.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Truth about govt collecting high revenues from petrol, diesel clear now: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Tuesday launched a fresh attack on the government over rise in fuel prices, saying the truth about the government collecting high revenues from petrol and diesel is clear now. "By collecting tax indiscriminately on LPG-petrol-diesel from the common people, the central government is waiving the taxes and debts of its 'friends'. The truth is clear," he said in a tweet in Hindi. He cited a news report claiming that petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan in a reply in Parliament stated that in the last 7 years, LPG rates have doubled and tax collection on petrol and diesel has risen by 459 per cent in the same period. Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the government over high fuel prices, alleging that it has collected over Rs 21 lakh crore by way of taxes on petroleum products ever since coming to power in 2014. The Congress stalled proceedings in both houses of Parliament for the second day in a row on Tuesday over the rise in prices of petroleum products and demanded a discussion on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/truth-about-govt-collecting-high-revenues-from-petrol-diesel-clear-now-rahul-960120.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||BJP to meet on Wednesday to pick Trivendra Singh Rawat's replacement; multiple names in consideration||Names of at least half a dozen leaders, including Dhan Singh Rawat, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Satpal Maharaj, are doing the rounds to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat, who resigned as the chief minister of Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Though Trivendra Singh Rawat's substitute will be decided at a state legislature party meeting at the BJP headquarters here on Wednesday under the watch of party national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, political circles are abuzz with speculations. Sources said state minister Dhan Singh Rawat has emerged as a frontrunner to be the next chief minister. A man known for his polite ways, 48-year-old Dhan Singh, a resident of Paithani village in Pauri district, is said to be close to the outgoing chief minister. Singh became an MLA for the first time in 2017. Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj is also being looked at as a prominent contender. A former Congress heavyweight, Maharaj joined the BJP in 2014 after losing the race for chief ministership to Harish Rawat. Maharaj is an MLA from Chaubattakhal in Pauri district. He is also a spiritual guru having admirers across the country. The 69-year-old had been a Congress MP from Pauri in the past. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is another contender for the post. A former chief minister, Nishank is an MP from Haridwar. He was also a hill development minister in undivided Uttar Pradesh. The name of Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is also doing the rounds. Koshyari had held the Uttarkhand chief minister's post briefly after Nityanand Swami. He has also represented the state both in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. Names of BJP national spokesperson Anil Baluni and former state BJP president Ajay Bhatt are also in circulation. Baluni (50) is currently a Rajya Sabha member and his proximity with the central party leadership may help him get to the top office in the state. Bhatt represents the Nainital constituency in the Lok Sabha. He had defeated former chief minister Harish Rawat in Nainital in the 2019 general elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-meet-on-wednesday-to-pick-trivendra-singh-rawats-replacement-multiple-names-in-consideration-960142.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat is Uttarakhand's next CM||BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat to become the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat announced on Wednesday after a meeting of BJP legislature party in Dehradun.  Trivendra Singh Rawat had resigned as the chief minister yesterday.  Tirath Singh Rawat will be sworn-in as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand in the evening, official sources said. They said preparations have begun at the Raj Bhawan here for the swearing-in ceremony. Earlier, accompanied by party MLAs and MPs, Tirath Singh Rawat met Governor Baby Rani Maurya at the Raj Bhawan to stake his claim for forming the government. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has 56 MLAs in the 70-member Uttarakhand Assembly. Tirath Singh Rawat, a former Uttarakhand BJP chief, was the Education Minister from 2000-02, in the first government of the hill state. He will take oath as the chief minister at 4 pm today. Tirath Singh Rawat was the state BJP president from 2013-2015 and is currently the party's national secretary. He was also an MLA from Chaubattakhal constituency from 2012-17. His choice by the BJP comes as a surprise as he was not among the favourites. After being congratulated by the outgoing chief minister and BJP's central observer and national vice-president Raman Singh, Tirath Singh Rawat thanked the top leadership of the saffron party for giving him the new responsibility. "I have been a humble party worker. I had never imagined that I will be a given an opportunity like this by the party. I hope that with everyone's cooperation and blessings, I will do justice to my new role," he said. Though he has held important organisational positions both in the state and at the Centre, Tirath Singh Rawat is a first-time MP. He defeated his political mentor and BJP veteran Bhuvan Chandra Khanduri's son Manish Khanduri of the Congress by over three lakh votes to win from the Pauri Garhwal seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, whose report to the central leadership of the party set in motion the process of leadership change in the hill state, said, "With the kind of challenges facing Uttarakhand, it has got a good leader." Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal "Nishank", who was also being considered a contender for the post, said Tirath Singh Rawat was a good choice. "Tirath Singh Rawat is indeed a good choice. Now the BJP is sure to win the 2022 Assembly polls in Uttarakhand," he told reporters after coming out of the state party office here. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-mp-tirath-singh-rawat-is-uttarakhands-next-cm-960265.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 noon after Opposition uproar demanding discussion on farm laws||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned till 2 pm on Wednesday, for the second time in the pre-lunch period, after the Congress and other opposition party members created an uproar demanding a discussion on three new farm laws of the Centre. The proceedings were first adjourned till 12 noon and then again till 2 pm after the opposition members trooped into the Well of the Hosue raising slogans. The pleas by Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and then by Deputy Chairman Harivansh went unheeded as the opposition members continued to create a ruckus in the House. After the laying of papers on the table, Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said a notice has been given under Rule 267 for the suspension of the listed business for the day to discuss the three farm laws and issues related to farmers. "I am requesting you to allow under Rule 267 to discuss this issue...till then, it will not be fair without taking notice of this...we cannot proceed. I request you to suspend all the rules," Kharge said. As the opposition members raised slogans demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws, the chairman "disallowed" the notices, saying the issue was discussed in the first leg of the ongoing Budget Session. He asked the agitating members to return to their seats and said the farmers' issue could be discussed during the debate on appropriation bills and finance bills. However, the agitating members kept raising slogans and the Chair adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. When the house met at 12 noon, the deputy chairman called for the Question Hour to be taken up, but the opposition members continued with their protest in the Well. "The chairman has clarified his position on Rule 267 and it cannot be reopened," the deputy chairman said, urging the members to take their seats. As the Chair proceeded with the Question Hour, the protesting members raised their pitch and started sloganeering against the government demanding withdrawal of the farm laws. Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar tried to give his reply to a supplementary question raised by M Thambidurai of the AIADMK, but he could not be heard in the din. With the opposition protests continuing, the deputy chairman adjourned the house till 2 pm. This is the third day of the second part of the Budget Session when the House proceedings had to be adjourned due to an opposition uproar. The Rajya Sabha has not transacted any business since Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-till-12-noon-after-opposition-uproar-demanding-discussion-on-farm-laws-960277.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||'Amrit Mahotsav' will be celebrated to mark 75 years of India's Independence: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday requested MPs and all public representatives to take part in 'Amrit Mahotsav' to mark India's 75 years of Independence, which will start from March 12 in Gujarat's Sabarmati Ashram, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. Addressing the BJP's parliamentary party meeting, which was held almost after a year, Modi informed that the grand festival to commemorate the 75th year of Independence will be held at 75 locations across the country for 75 weeks, he said. The prime minister also gave a clarion call to the Members of Parliament that they should reach out to people and help in carrying out the Covid vaccination drive by the government, Joshi told reporters after the meeting. "Prime Minister Modiji told MPs that they should act as a facilitator in the ongoing vaccination drive like by arranging vehicles for citizens to take them to the vaccination centres, helping in making arrangements at the vaccination centres and through other possible means," he said. Modi also asked all public representatives to take part in 'Amrit Mahotsav' to commemorate 75 years of Independence, Joshi said. "The grand festival will be celebrated at 75 locations across the country for 75 weeks and will start from Sabramati Ashram in Ahmdedabad in Gujarat from March 12," he said. The BJP's parliamentary party also passed a resolution applauding the prime minister for his able and effective leadership during the Covid-19 pandemic. The resolution was moved by Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi. BJP president JP Nadda also addressed the party's parliamentary party meeting and said the party expanded its footprint and helped people during the pandemic, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amrit-mahotsav-will-be-celebrated-to-mark-75-years-of-indias-independence-pm-modi-960297.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Only 1 Uttarakhand CM has completed 5-year term till now||BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat to become the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat announced on Wednesday after a meeting of BJP legislature party in Dehradun. Trivendra Singh Rawat's resignation as the chief minister yesterday makes him part of a long list of chief ministers who didn't complete their full five-year term as CMs in the 20-year existence of the state. Only one among eight CMs of the state completed his full term in the office. Late CM and Congress leader Narayan Dutt Tiwari who led a Congress government from 2002 to 2007 with a small majority in the 70-seat Assembly, is the only CM to complete his full five-year tenure. Nityanand Swami of the BJP formed the first government in Uttarakhand after the state was formed in 2000 following the bifurcation of Uttar Pradesh. Swami was in power for 354 days before he was replaced by RSS veteran and present Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari till the first Uttarakhand polls in 2002. Koshyari lost power in 2002 to Congress's Tiwari. Retired Major General B C Khanduri of the BJP replaced Tiwari. His term lasted two years and 111 days. Current Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank took over from him in 2009 and remained in power for two years and 75 days. B C Khanduri completed the government's term later on after he took over for 184 days. Khanduri was known to have a strong anti-corruption stand and despite the change in leadership before the polls, the BJP was not able to retain power and in the 2012 election, Congress won 31 seats and BJP 31. With the support of three BSP, one Kranti Dal MLA and three independent MLAs, the Congress formed the government. In the full-year term of the government, however, Uttarakhand saw four chief ministerial terms. Vijay Bahuguna was the first CM for one year and 324 days. Bahuguna resigned in 2014 on the directive of the party high command.  Congress leader Harish Rawat took over the post. In March 2016, President’s Rule was imposed in Uttarakhand after nine Congress MLAs rebelled and joined hands with the BJP. However, the Speaker revoked their membership under the anti-defection law. The President’s Rule had to be withdrawn after Rawat won a court-monitored floor test in the Assembly. Following this, he continued as Chief Minister from May 11, 2016, till March 18, 2017. He also served as CM for a day, when the Supreme Court kept in abeyance a Uttarakhand High Court order setting aside President’s Rule. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the BJP with a huge majority of 57 seats and Trivendra Singh Rawat was the first CM of the government to be voted into power in 2017. He resigned on March 10, 2021, after serving a shade under four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-1-uttarakhand-cm-has-completed-5-year-term-till-now-960315.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Authorities shut down internet during tension, riots for maintaining peace: Govt||The government on Wednesday said authorities shut down the internet during tension and riots in the interest of maintaining law and order and in an emergency situation. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the challenges posed by cyberspace are many, which flow from its vastness and borderless character and that information in cyberspace flows fast and has the potential of being misused. "During tensions and riots, suspension of telecom services and internet shutdown is done by the appropriate authorities in the states and UTs concerned in the interest of maintaining public safety and averting public emergency, as per procedures defined in the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020," he said. The minister added that the centralised data of internet shutdown is not maintained by the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/authorities-shut-down-internet-during-tension-riots-for-maintaining-peace-govt-960328.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Deepika Padukone, Borosil India head among WEF's new Young Global Leaders||Actor Deepika Padukone and several Indian citizens and India-origin persons on Wednesday joined the list of the Young Global Leaders (YGLs) compiled by the World Economic Forum. Announcing its 2021 class of YGLs, the WEF said these are the world's most promising 112 tomorrow's leaders under the age of 40 and are involved in activities ranging from advocating for public healthcare to campaigning for inclusivity in medical research. They join a group of Nobel Prize recipients, Pulitzer winners, heads of state and chief executive officers committed to improving the state of the world, said the Geneva-based organisation that describes itself as an international organisation for public-private cooperation. The Forum of Young Global Leaders was founded in 2005 by Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman of the WEF, to create a world where leaders take responsibility for a sustainable future while meeting increasingly complex and interrelated challenges. Currently, there are 1,400 members and alumni from over 120 countries, and notable members include prime ministers Jacinda Ardern and Sanna Marin, Costa Rica President Carlos Alvarado Quesada, actor Yao Chen, lawyer Amal Clooney and filmmaker Wanuri Kahiu. "YGLs are active in today's most-exciting and dynamic fields and focus on impact. "In the past year, they have worked on more than 30 Covid-19-related initiatives, including expanding the use of free public digital health services, launching data challenges to build an ecosystem that can help tackle the pandemic, creating mobile intensive care shelters, opening mental health support platforms and working on vaccine development," the WEF said. It further said the class of 2021 is gender-equal and has representatives from 56 countries. These members will take part in a five-year programme, which offers executive education courses, expeditions and opportunities to collaborate and test ideas among a trusted network of peers. "The YGL Class of 2021 is comprised of thoughtful and courageous leaders who will shape a more sustainable and inclusive post-pandemic era," said Mariah Levin, head of the Forum of Young Global Leaders. "We are delighted to welcome the class of 2021 at a time when cultivating responsible leadership is needed more than ever to steer us through the multiple challenges the world is facing,” said Nicole Schwab, board member of the Forum of Young Global Leaders. The 2021 YGL class members from the academia and research field include Devi Sridhar (University Lecturer in Global Health Politics, University of Oxford, UK), Adriana Cargill (independent Journalist, USA), Mashrafe Bin Mortaza (captain of Bangladesh cricket team) and Rohan Ramakrishnan (founder and CEO of the ASEAN Post, Malaysia). From the business field, there are Nirvana Chaudhary (managing director of Nepal's Chaudhary Group), Shreevar Kheruka (managing director and CEO of Borosil India) and Srikanth Bolla (CEO of Bollant Industries, India). Members from the civil society and social entrepreneurship arena include Amit Paley (CEO of The Trevor Project, USA), Anulika Ajufo (principal of the UK's Soros Economic Development Fund) and Deepika Padukone (founder of the Live Love Laugh Foundation, India). Others on the list include Vasudha Vats (global commercial lead/ senior director, Pfizer, USA), Vivek Ramaswamy (founder and CEO of Roivant Sciences, USA), Ameya Prabhu (managing partner of UAP Advisors, India) and Maleeka Bokhari (parliamentary secretary for law and justice, Pakistan). The list also include Aditi Avasthi (founder and CEO of Indiavidual Learning, India), Gazal Kalra (co-founder of Rivigo, India), Hitesh Wadhwa (vice-president for strategic initiatives at Tech Mahindra, India), Hriday Ravindranath (chief technology and information officer, Global Services at BT Group, India) and Suren Aloyan (founder, chairman and CEO, Dasaran, Armenia).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/deepika-padukone-borosil-india-head-among-wefs-new-young-global-leaders-960413.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||NDA going ahead with full coordination to win Puducherry polls: BJP||The NDA, comprising AINRC, AIADMK and the BJP, is going ahead with a clear vision and in full coordination to romp home in the April 6 Assembly elections, BJP in-charge of Puducherry Nirmal Kumar Surana said on Wednesday. Already, Surana told reporters, the NDA has finalised that AINRC would contest in 16 out of the total 30 seats. The AIADMK and BJP which have been earmarked the remaining 14 seats would decide soon the number of seats the two parties would share between themselves. "We are going ahead with full coordination and in a smooth manner. Our alliance is now carrying out our poll-related works under the leadership of AINRC founder-leader and former Chief Minister N Rangasamy, who is an experienced leader and knows Puducherry fully," he said. He had said on Tuesday that the NDA would function in the Union Territory under Rangasamy's leadership. Surana said, "Our aim is to ensure that the Congress-DMK alliance is totally defeated and should not garner even a single seat in the forthcoming polls." He declared open the election office of the BJPtoday. Among those present on the occasion included former PWD Minister A Namassivayam, who joined the BJP after quitting the Congress in January; president of the Puducherry unit of BJP V Saminathan; and former legislators A John Kumar and E Theeppainjan. Namassivayam, speaking at the inauguration of the election office of BJP, said the party had emerged as a strong political party in Puducherry. "No dispensation will be possible without BJP in the Union Territory," he said. He called upon the rank and file of the parties attached to the NDA to put in hard work to ensure that it formed the next government here. Meanwhile, Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) which announced to fight the forthcoming polls on its own forwarded to the party founder S Ramadoss the list of its candidates for 15 constituencies for approval.  Convenor of Puducherry unit of the party K Dhanaraj said in a press release that the list of names relating to 12 constituencies in Puducherry and three segments in Puducherry was forwarded to the party founder for his approval. PMK had announced to fight the polls on its own as it was not associated with the seat-sharing exercise by the BJP for Puducherry polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nda-going-ahead-with-full-coordination-to-win-puducherry-polls-bjp-960438.html
10-03-2021||National Politics||Factionalism is the bane of Congress in Kerala, says P C Chacko after resignation||Q: Why did you resign from Congress? A: I have submitted my resignation. A letter has been sent to Sonia Gandhi. I have been deliberating about this move for the past few days. In Kerala, there is no Congress party but two parties -- Congress (I) led by Ramesh Chennithala and Congress (A) led by Oommen Chandy. The coordination committees of these two parties in Kerala are functioning as KPCC. Factionalism is the bane of Congress in Kerala. Kerala is facing an election. People want Congress to return to power but the stumbling block is factionalism. I had been continuously urging the High Command to put an end to this. Congress is contesting some 90 seats and it is divided between factions of Chennithala and Chandy. There is no democratic discussion in the party. The seats are shared by both the factions. There is a state Election Committee, which should decide on the names that could be considered by the national leadership. But names were not prepared by the state Election Committee. Only Chandy and Chennithala decide who will contest from their respective factions. This is disturbing and disappointing. Today in Kerala, one cannot be a Congressman. They can only be a faction member of Chennithala or a faction member of Chandy. So I decided to call it a day after 50 years of being in active politics. Q: There is speculation about your future plans. What are your plans? A: I have not thought about the future. This action is meant at prompting the party to rectify the mistakes. I am frustrated as the party is not rectifying. I have always taken a principled position. I was a Congressman who took the initiative to have a tie-up with the Left in 1980. I along with AK Antony had met EMS Namboodiripad. Later, Antony and his supporters left the coalition without valid reasons but I stayed back. I had taken a principled stand. I returned to the party along with Sharad Pawar when Rajiv Gandhi made a call asking all Congressmen to return to the mother party. Unfortunately, Congress is not able to function democratically now. Q: Will you join BJP? A: Absolutely no. Q: You have a personal relationship with NCP chief Sharad Pawar. Kerala NCP leaders have welcomed you to the party. Is NCP an option? A: There was speculation earlier that I will join NCP and that was my route to the Left Democratic Front in Kerala. I had denied it then itself. I have personal relations with Pawar but I had not joined him when he floated NCP raising the foreign-origin issue of Sonia Gandhi. I had then felt that he was wrong. Q: You say you take a principled stand on politics. You had taken a principled stand against the BJP. The resignation from Congress comes at a time when Kerala is facing an election. Do you think your action will help the BJP? Will you support the Left to defeat the BJP? A: BJP is not going to make any impact in Kerala. At the maximum, they may increase the number of seats from one to two. Nothing more even though they are spending money like anything. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah are visiting Kerala frequently. But they cannot change the mindset of Malayalis, who cannot accept a communal party. BJP is not a political factor in Kerala. In Kerala, the Left and Congress are fighting against each other. We are two parties who should be together. When Rahul Gandhi was contesting from Wayanad, I had told him that it was not right. The Left is a friend of Congress in its fight against the BJP. Ideologically, I don't think we are enemies. Q: Is candidature an issue? Will you contest? A: I have quit Congress without any plans. I am not contesting the elections. That was never my demand. I have not even suggested names of others who could contest. All I want is the party to follow democratic norms. Being a political person, I am interested in political developments. Beyond that I am not having any attachment. Q: Congress has given you Parliamentary and organisational responsibilities earlier. Is raising a rebellion at this juncture proper? I never snatched anyone's opportunities. I was a winnable candidate. Whenever my name was suggested for candidature, there were no protests. I was shifted to three Lok Sabha seats and I won from all the seats. Yes, factionalism was there earlier too, but it is different now. Even at the height of factionalism during K Karunakaran and A K Antony's times, there were inner-party discussions. But that is not happening now. Q: Did you reach out to High Command or state leaders? A: I  had sent a message to Rahul Gandhi ten minutes before I announced my decision through the press conference. He asked me whether it was absolutely necessary. I thanked him. I did not inform or call any state leaders. Q: The timing of your action could weaken Congress. What is your take? A: That question could arise. But the question is should I just swallow the questions in my mind and stay silent. Q: There have been questions against the national leadership of the Congress. How do you respond? A: Congress was functioning for one-and-half years without a proper leadership at the national level. Then despite her ill-health, Sonia Gandhi stepped in. Still, we are not able to find a President. The G-23 had contacted me. I told them it was not right. A signature campaign would mean questioning the leadership. However, none of them have questioned the leadership of Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi. The G-23 have only said that there should be elections to the post of President and CWC. Party affairs should be held as per constitution. It is not because of BJP's strength that Congress is not able to counter the saffron party. It is because of the weakness of Congress. It is because of a lack of strong leadership. It is unfortunate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/factionalism-is-the-bane-of-congress-in-kerala-says-p-c-chacko-after-resignation-960461.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to address farmers' rally in UP's Ballia on March 10||In a bid to give a boost to the agitation against the Centre’s new farm laws, BKU leader Rakesh Tikait will Wednesday address a farmers’ rally at Sikandepur here, just five kilometres away from the state’s border with Bihar. The incharge of the Bharatiya Kisan Sabha for the Purvanchal region, Ajit Rai, said the panchayat is being held in Sikanderpur to strengthen the movement against the new agricultural laws in eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The distance between Sikandarpur and Bihar is about five kilometers, he said. Rai said Wednesday’s “kisan mahapanchayat” is being supported by the Congress, Left as well as various farmers' organisations. Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police Dr Vipin Tada said necessary security arrangements have been made in view of the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-to-address-farmers-rally-in-ups-ballia-on-march-10-960118.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Minor girl raped by two in Uttar Pradesh||A 13-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped in the Sajeti area here, police said on Tuesday. The girl, a class 8 student, was admitted to Community Health Centre (Ghatampur) from where she was referred to a private hospital in Kanpur, a senior official said. An FIR has been registered against Deepu Yadav, his brother Saurabh Yadav and friend Golu Yadav in connection with the incident, Superintendent of Police (rural) Brajesh Srivastava said. Deepu and Saurabh are sons of a police sub-inspector, officials said. Srivastava said the girl had gone out to collect fodder for cattle on Monday when she was abducted by the accused and taken to an unknown place where she was allegedly raped by Deepu and Golu. Saurabh allegedly threatened the girl of dire consequences if she dared to speak to anyone about the incident, the SP said. The girl, somehow, managed to reach her house in the morning and narrated the incident to family members who lodged a complaint with the Sajeti Police Station. Five police teams headed by senior officials have been formed to nab the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-girl-raped-by-two-in-uttar-pradesh-960131.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Where was Rahul Gandhi when Jyotiraditya Scindia was in Congress: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday asked what did Rahul Gandhi do to ensure that Jyotiraditya Scindia did not leave the party. Commenting on Gandhi's reported remark that had Scindia, now with the BJP, remained in the Congress, he would have certainly become chief minister, Chouhan said Gandhi understands a situation a little late. "Where was Rahul Gandhi when Jyotiraditya Scindia was in the Congress?" Chouhan asked, speaking to reporters here. "That's why I say that Rahul's tube light glows late (he takes time to understand)," he quipped. The Congress had done "injustice" to Jyotiraditya's father late Madhavrao Scindia too and did not allow him to become chief minister of Madhya Pradesh, Chouhan claimed. Earlier, reacting to Rahul Gandhi's remark, Scindia said, "I wish Rahul Gandhi was as concerned when I was in the Congress as he is now." Scindia left the Congress along with several MLAs last March, bringing down the party's government in Madhya Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/where-was-rahul-gandhi-when-jyotiraditya-scindia-was-in-congress-shivraj-singh-chouhan-960137.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||BJP leaders meet to pick Trivendra Singh Rawat's replacement; multiple names in consideration||A meeting of Uttarakhand BJP's legislature party is under way at the state party headquarters to decide the successor of Trivendra Singh Rawat who resigned as chief minister on Tuesday. The meeting started at 10 am at the party office on Balbir Road. Central observer Raman Singh and state party in-charge Dushyant Gautam have also arrived here to oversee the appointment of the new chief minister. Six out of a total of seven MPs (five Lok Sabha and two Rajya Sabha) except Baluni have already arrived in the city. Trivendra Singh Rawat resigned on Tuesday after days of speculation about a leadership change in the state.  Names of at least half a dozen leaders, including Dhan Singh Rawat, Bhagat Singh Koshyari, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank and Satpal Maharaj, are doing the rounds to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat, who resigned as the chief minister of Uttarakhand on Tuesday. Though Trivendra Singh Rawat's substitute will be decided at a state legislature party meeting at the BJP headquarters here on Wednesday under the watch of party national vice-president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh, political circles are abuzz with speculations. Sources said state minister Dhan Singh Rawat has emerged as a frontrunner to be the next chief minister. A man known for his polite ways, 48-year-old Dhan Singh, a resident of Paithani village in Pauri district, is said to be close to the outgoing chief minister. Singh became an MLA for the first time in 2017. Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj is also being looked at as a prominent contender. A former Congress heavyweight, Maharaj joined the BJP in 2014 after losing the race for chief ministership to Harish Rawat. Maharaj is an MLA from Chaubattakhal in Pauri district. He is also a spiritual guru having admirers across the country. The 69-year-old had been a Congress MP from Pauri in the past. Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank is another contender for the post. A former chief minister, Nishank is an MP from Haridwar. He was also a hill development minister in undivided Uttar Pradesh. The name of Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari is also doing the rounds. Koshyari had held the Uttarkhand chief minister's post briefly after Nityanand Swami. He has also represented the state both in the Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha. Names of BJP national spokesperson Anil Baluni and former state BJP president Ajay Bhatt are also in circulation. Baluni (50) is currently a Rajya Sabha member and his proximity with the central party leadership may help him get to the top office in the state. Bhatt represents the Nainital constituency in the Lok Sabha. He had defeated former chief minister Harish Rawat in Nainital in the 2019 general elections. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-meet-to-pick-trivendra-singh-rawats-replacement-multiple-names-in-consideration-960256.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Former Haryana CM B S Hooda moves no-confidence motion in Assembly||Former Haryana CM and Opposition leader B S Hooda on Wednesday moved a no-confidence motion in the Haryana Assembly. "More than 250 farmers died on the border. I presented their names but I didn't find it in the newspaper," Hooda said.  The motion of no confidence against the BJP-JJP government, brought by the main opposition Congress, was on Wednesday taken up in the Haryana Assembly, with Speaker Gian Chand Gupta reserving two-hour discussion on it. After the end of the Question Hour, the Speaker admitted the notice of no-confidence motion against the Council of Ministers. "I have received no-confidence motion from the Leader of Opposition (Bhupinder Singh Hooda) and 27 other Congress MLAs," the Speaker said. The notice was admitted by the Speaker and two hours were kept for discussion. Hooda expressed want of confidence in the Haryana Ministry headed by Chief Minister M L Khattar. In the 90-member Haryana Assembly, currently having an effective strength of 88 members, the ruling BJP has 40 members, the JJP 10 and the Congress 30. Seven are Independents, five of whom are supporting the government, while one member is of the Haryana Lokhit Party, who has also extended support to the government. Talking to reporters after the day's proceedings in the state assembly ended on Friday, Hooda had said, "The no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers." He had said the party needed to move a no-confidence motion because the BJP-JJP government has "lost public confidence" and the coalition government, "betraying public opinion, is taking anti-people decisions one after the other".  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-haryana-cm-b-s-hooda-moves-no-confidence-motion-in-assembly-960263.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Meet Tirath Singh Rawat, Uttarakhand's new CM||BJP MP Tirath Singh Rawat is set to become the new Chief Minister of Uttarakhand, outgoing CM Trivendra Singh Rawat announced on Wednesday after a meeting of the BJP legislature party in Dehradun. He was elected as an MP from the Pauri Lok Sabha constituency in the 2019 general assembly polls. He defeated his nearest rival Manish Khanduri by over 3.5 lakh votes. Tirath Singh Rawat, a former Uttarakhand BJP chief, was the state's Education Minister from 2000-02, in the first government of the hill state. Currently, he is also a BJP national secretary, a former MLA from Chobatakhal Vidhansabha and former chief of the saffron party's state unit between February 9, 2013, and December 31, 2015. He was born in Pauri Garhwal district, the same district as Dhan Singh Rawat, who was widely considered a top contender for the post of the chief minister after Trivendra Singh Rawat. As Uttarakhand BJP President, he led the party to win four mayoral posts out of six in the 2013 municipal polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/meet-tirath-singh-rawat-uttarakhands-new-cm-960266.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Eight dead, 11 hurt as bus falls into gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Chamba||Eight people were killed and 11 others injured as a private bus fell into a deep gorge in Himachal Pradesh's Chamba district on Wednesday, police said. The accident occurred in Teesa sub-division in the morning, Chamba Superintendent of Police S Arul Kumar told PTI. During the ongoing budget session of the state assembly, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur told the House in the afternoon that he has ordered an inquiry to ascertain the exact cause of the accident. Expressing grief over the deaths in the accident, the chief minister informed the House that eight people lost their lives as the bus fell into about 200-metre-deep gorge near Colony Morh in Teesa at 10.15 am. The injured have been rushed to Medical College Chamba, Thakur said, adding that four of them are critical.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-dead-11-hurt-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-himachal-pradeshs-chamba-960289.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi High Court stays ED summons to Mehbooba Mufti||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday gave an interim stay on summons issued by the Enforcement Directorate to former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, her counsel said. The matter came up for hearing before a division bench of Justices Siddharth Mridul and Hairam Bhambhani. The court asked the ED to not press for her personal appearance and posted the matter for March 19. The PDP leader had challenged the validity of the summons issued by the ED for appearing before it on March 15 without specifying the case for which she was being investigated. She asked the court to quash the summons, her counsel S Prasanna said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-stays-ed-summons-to-mehbooba-mufti-960291.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan joins 'pawri' brigade with take on 'sacred' land mafia fears||From politicians, movie stars to cricketers, 'Pawri ho rahi hai' has been a hit with those who watched the viral video, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh being the latest to join the trend. Speaking an event in Indore on Tuesday, Chouhan added his 'pawri' take while commenting on the fear among land mafia due to the actions of the BJP-led state government. "Yeh main hoon, yeh meri sarkar hai, yeh meri prashasanik team hai aur aap dekho bhu mafia bhaag rahe hai" (This is me, this is my government, this is my administrative team and you see the land mafia running away), Chouhan said. Referring to the action taken against those involved in illegal activities, Chouhan said, "Tiger abhi zinda hai". "Yeh humari car hai, yeh hum hain, aur yeh humari pawri ho rahi hai" has become the new meme-obsession and multiple rib-tickling memes and funny recreations of the video have been splashed all over the internet. Dananeer Mobeen, a 19-year-old Pakistani student shot to fame recently after her five-second video went viral on social media across the subcontinent. It shows a group of youngsters enjoying themselves by the roadside. Swinging around the device she is filming on, Dananeer gestures behind her and says in Urdu, "This is our car, this is us, and this is our party taking place."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-cm-shivraj-singh-chauhan-joins-pawri-brigade-with-take-on-sacred-land-mafia-fears-960292.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Several Punjab MLAs condemn ED raids on Sukhpal Singh Khaira||Several members of the Punjab Assembly on Wednesday condemned the ED raids on rebel AAP legislator Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Khaira, who was present in the House during the Budget Session, said the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids were a "well-planned vilification and character assassination campaign" against him by the Centre and denied any wrongdoing. Raising the issue of the ED raids during the Zero Hour, another rebel AAP MLA Kanwar Sandhu sought a resolution in the House over the matter. He further said the House could also express "displeasure" over the ED action against Khaira. Sandhu said what has happened with Khaira could also occur with any other member of the House. Congress MLA and former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu backed Sandhu and hit out at the BJP-led Centre over the issue. "Are we allowed to question the Centre or not? Are we a free society, are we a fear society?" he asked while condemning the ED raids against Khaira. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Brahm Mohindra described the ED action against Khaira as "unfortunate, highly deplorable and highly condemnable". Speaker Rana K P Singh said Khaira was "restrained" from attending the ongoing Budget Session of the House, which was "wrong". Denying any wrongdoing, Khaira informed the House that the ED officials had taken some diaries from his residence. He further said he will continue to raise his voice even if the BJP tries to "intimidate and gag" him with such raids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/several-punjab-mlas-condemn-ed-raids-on-sukhpal-singh-khaira-960295.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Killing of Al-Badr chief a jolt for militancy in Kashmir: J&K Police||A day after that killing of Al-Badr chief Gani Khawja, Jammu and Kashmir police Wednesday said the slain commander was instrumental in recruiting youth into militancy and receiving new groups from across the LoC. Addressing a presser at police control room (PCR), here, Inspector General Police (GP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said while his two associates managed to flee when cordon was laid in Tujjer area of Sopore on Tuesday evening, Khawaja was killed. Giving the further timeline of Khawaja’s militant background, Kumar said, “Police arrested him in 2007 and he was booked under PSA. In 2008, he was released. Till December 2015, he was working as over ground worker (OGW). In January 2018, he became active with Hizbul and in 2020, he joined Al-Badr as its chief. The IGP said that Khawja was instrumental in recruiting youth into his outfit. “He would also receive new militant groups in north Kashmir and also help them to reach south Kashmir. He would provide logistics support to militants and his killing is a big success for police and security forces,” Kumar added. The IGP Kashmir also said that police achieved a major success by busting two modules of Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad, who were planning IED or fidayeen (suicide) strikes in south Kashmir. “Police foiled a bid wherein a Jaish module was planning to carry out vehicle-based IED. We arrested a B.A first-year student, who was motivated through social media applications (Sahil Nazir of Pampore). After interrogating him, four more youth were arrested. A vehicle bearing number JKO1 E 0690 was also recovered that was supposed to be used for carrying out a car bomb,” he said. In another operation, the IGP said that a Lashkar module headed by Umar Khanday, who was involved in Baghat, Srinagar attack, had persuaded one Musaib from Pampore. “We arrested Musaib and he revealed that at his home there was a container carrying 25 kgs of ammonium power that was supposed to be used as IED. Kumar said that the militants were changing their strategy to attack security forces. “We are alert and plugging the loopholes after conducting security reviews on regular basis,” he said The Kashmir police chief also said that they have received a tip-off about the presence of The Resistance Front (TRF) chief Abbas in the Chanapora area of Srinagar after which an alert has been sounded. “We received inputs about Abbas’s presence in Chanapora. Frisking has been intensified and all means of intelligence are in active mode,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/killing-of-al-badr-chief-a-jolt-for-militancy-in-kashmir-jk-police-960299.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Man shot at by motorcycle rider in south Delhi||A 45-year-old man was shot at allegedly by a motorcycle rider in south Delhi's Defence Colony area on Wednesday morning, police said. The injured man, Bhimraj, a resident of Chirag Delhi, works in BSES as a contractual driver, they said. The incident took place around 9 am when police received a call that a motorcycle rider had shot a man who was inside a car near electricity grid in Defence Colony's Andrews Ganj, police said. He sustained a bullet injury in his neck and was shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), where he is undergoing treatment, Atul Kumar Thakur, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South), said. Prima facie the motive behind the incident appears to be enmity and an investigation is underway, he said. "We have registered a case under appropriate sections and multiple teams are working to apprehend the accused," the DCP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shot-at-by-motorcycle-rider-in-south-delhi-960308.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||38 cases lodged after R-Day violence in Delhi: G Kishan Reddy||Delhi Police has registered 38 cases against people, including foreigners, following the January 26 violence in the capital during the farmers' protests, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Wednesday. Delhi Police has informed that no road has been dug up at the city's borders in view of the agitation but security is strengthened, the minister said in the Lok Sabha. "The Delhi Police has informed that 38 cases have been registered against the persons, including foreigners, who violated various legal provisions, including cyber crime, recently in Delhi, while protesting in the name of farm laws," he said replying a written question. The minister said Delhi Police had informed that the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha broke barricades on Republic Day in violation of the permission granted for taking out a tractor parade on a mutually accepted route. He said the protestors proceeded towards Central Delhi despite being stopped at other barricades inside the city and broke those barricades as well. In view of this experience, and the manner in which the protesting farmers used tractors as weapons for breaking the barricades and injuring policemen, the barricades at the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border were strengthened to prevent any possible repeat of the conduct displayed on January 26, he said. In order to alleviate the hardships caused to the commuting public due to the activities of the protestors, adequate deployment of police personnel is made for providing alternative routes to the general public, ensuring law and order and for ensuring smooth movement of traffic at borders, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/38-cases-lodged-after-r-day-violence-in-delhi-g-kishan-reddy-960318.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Day after filing gang-rape case, victim's father dies in road accident in Uttar Pradesh||The father of a gang-rape victim was killed in a road accident in Uttar Pradesh's Kanpur district, about 90 kilometres from here, a day after he lodged an FIR against two youths, one of whom was the son of a police inspector. According to police sources, one of the accused, identified as Golu Yadav, was arrested while efforts were on to nab the other one, identified as Deep Yadav, whose father was a policeman in the neighbouring Kannauj district. Sources said that Golu and Deep had kidnapped the 13-year-old girl from her home and allegedly gang-raped her after taking her to a secluded place on Monday. A case was lodged against the accused persons on Tuesday. According to the sources, the father of the victim accompanied the police, who had conducted raids at several places to nab the culprits. On Wednesday morning, he was knocked down by a speeding truck near the Anupur crossing in the district. He was rushed to the hospital but was declared dead. The family members alleged that he came under the wheels of the truck after being pushed by one of the policemen. ''We have been receiving threats since registration of the case,'' said the brother of the gang-rape victim. He said that Deepu Yadav's brother had also threatened them with dire consequences if they dared to file a case. ''My father has been murdered,'' the brother alleged. Irate villagers blocked traffic on the Kanpur-Sagar highway in protest against the incident and demanding the arrest of the culprits. The blockade was lifted after senior officials intervened and assured action in the matter. Police said that the driver of the truck was arrested and was being quizzed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/day-after-filing-gang-rape-case-victims-father-dies-in-road-accident-in-uttar-pradesh-960336.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Following 10 principles inspired by 'Ram Rajya' to serve people in Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government has been following 10 principles, inspired by the concept of "Ram Rajya", to serve the people in Delhi. Kejriwal also said once the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is completed, his government will send the elderly there for 'darshan'. "I am a devotee of Lord Ram and Hanuman. We have been following 10 principles, inspired by the concept of 'Ram Rajya', to serve people in Delhi," the chief minister said while participating in a discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the LG's address during the Budget Session. The 10 ten principles are providing food, education, medical care, electricity, water supply, employment, housing, women security, honouring the elderly, he said. No one should sleep on an empty stomach in Delhi. Every child, irrespective of social status, should get quality education, Kejriwal said. The chief minister said everyone, be it rich or poor, should get the best possible medical treatment. "We have improved government hospitals and set up mohalla clinics while working in this direction," he said. The chief minister also appealed to all residents of Delhi to participate in the Covid-19 inoculation drive. He also asked the members of the Delhi Assembly to go to hospitals, stand in queues and take vaccine like common people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/following-10-principles-inspired-by-ram-rajya-to-serve-people-in-delhi-arvind-kejriwal-960341.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Interactive | Timeline of Batla House encounter||On September 19, 2008, a week after serial blasts tore through the capital, police stormed into a house in Batla House locality searching for terrorists. What followed has been written into contemporary history as the ‘Batla House encounter’ that polarised the city, caused a media frenzy and was even cinematically recreated in Bollywood. On Monday, the much-debated Batla House gunbattle in which one Delhi Police officer lost his life, two of his colleagues injured and two terrorists were killed was back in focus with a court convicting alleged Indian Mujahideen (IM) member Ariz Khan. Khan, who was arrested on February 14, 2018, after being on the run for a decade, was held guilty for the murder of inspector Mohan Chand Sharma of Delhi Police's Special Cell and other offences in connection with the encounter. He faces a maximum punishment of death while the minimum sentence is life imprisonment. The case stirred a political storm, raised questions from rights activists on the actions of Special Cell officers, divided public opinion and became a raging controversial topic in the media that continues to date. Here is a timeline of the Batla House encounter case:||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/interactive-timeline-of-batla-house-encounter-960353.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Congress' no-confidence motion against BJP-JJP govt in Haryana defeated||In sharp contrast to Uttarakhand, where the BJP had to go for a change of guard to keep its flock together, Haryana lived up to its record of stability and continuity with BJP's Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar comfortably defeating a motion of no confidence brought against the ruling combine by the Opposition Congress. Khattar government defeated the motion with 55 members of the Assembly voting against the motion and 32 members from the Opposition camp backing it despite rumblings in NDA's new ally JJP headed by Dushyant Chautala, who was under pressure from his MLAs over the on-going farm protests. While in Uttarakhand no Chief Minister barring Congress' N D Tiwari completed a full term, Haryana came out of this phase of instability in 2000 and all its Chief Ministers starting from Om Prakash Chautala (one full term after two short terms in past), Bhupinder Singh Hooda (two-term) and Khattar (now in second term) completed their stints without much hitch. Before warding off the crisis of sorts, the Haryana Chief Minister had expressed confidence tweeting "If the Opposition keeps its flock together, this in itself is a big thing. There is no problem here. The no-trust motion being brought against the government will definitely fall." The motion was defeated in a division of votes carried out on the floor of the assembly after a six-hour long discussion. Along with 39 MLAs BJP and 10 of ally JJP, the alliance government also got the votes of five Independents and one legislator from  Haryana Lokhit Party headed by Gopal Kanda, a businessman turned politician who had courted many a controversy in past and had helped Congress' Hooda to muster support to form a government in the state after 2009 state polls. The strength of the Assembly is 90 and hence the BJP got nine more than the required majority number of 46.  Those who backed the no trust motion this time included 30 members of Congress and two Independents, who had earlier withdrawn support from the government. There was no breach in the Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), whose legislators had earlier voiced discomfiture with the party's support to the BJP government despite the on-going farm protest. BJP and JJP had earlier issued a whip to their legislators to be present in the assembly. Leader of Opposition Hooda slammed the government saying the ruling dispensation has lost people's trust and spoke at length over the on-going farm protests. He also sought the inclusion of nearly 250 farmers, who have died during their ongoing agitation, in the obituary references of the Haryana Assembly. Congress leaders asked MLAs from JJP, who had fought the last Assembly poll against BJP candidates to listen to the voice of the inner conscience and support the no-confidence motion. On  Tuesday JJP MLA Devender Singh Babli had said while he stands with protesting farmers, he alone can not take a decision. Babli and some others in JJP were in favour of the party withdrawing support from the government. They had flagged to Chautala that the ruling party legislators facing opposition from farmers in villages is not a good sign. Another JJP MLA Ram Kumar Gautam had earlier suggested that a resolution should be passed by MLAs that the laws be put on hold for three years and two months till the current term of the NDA government at the Centre is over. Yet another JJP leader Jogi Ram Sihag's demand was that the Haryana government frame a law on the minimum support price (MSP). He had earlier backed the farm protest. Congress, which had declared open support to on-going farmer protests, wants to breach the farmer base of JJP, whose leader Dushyant Chautala is the great-grandson of former Prime Minister and well-known farmer leader Devi Lal. Lal's son Om Prakash Chautala created a big base for INLD among farmers in Haryana but the family feud and corruption cases later took a toll on the party,  leading to the formation of a breakaway group JJP headed by Dushyant Chautala. A day before the trust vote, Hooda said, "the no-confidence motion will let people know which MLA stands with the government and which MLA stands with farmers." Haryana is a farmer dominant state, which contributes to nearly 15 per cent of total farm produce in the country despite having only 1.5 per cent of the country's geographical area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-no-confidence-motion-against-bjp-jjp-govt-in-haryana-defeated-960401.html
10-03-2021||North and Central||Parliament passes bill to regularise unauthorised colonies in Delhi||Parliament on Wednesday passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to regularise unauthorised colonies. While Rajya Sabha had passed the bill on February 9 in the first leg of the Budget Session, Lok Sabha passed it on Wednesday amid Opposition ruckus over farm laws. Minister of State (Independent Charge) of Housing and Urban Affairs Hardeep Singh Puri said in Lok Sabha that the bill would give protection to unauthorised colonies from sealing till December 31, 2023. "There is a public perception that the issue of unauthorised colonies has been delayed by some political parties when they were in office," Puri said while replying to a debate on the bill. The House later passed the bill by a voice vote. Puri said the problem of unauthorised colonies predates the assumption of office by the Narendra Modi dispensation in 2014, but no previous government took this issue up with any degree of seriousness. "In 1947, 17 per cent of India's population lived in cities. The population of Delhi was 8 lakh at that time.... The 1951 census showed Delhi's population at 22 lakh. The 2011 census showed Delhi's population at 1.6 crore. There will be another census this year and I expect the population of Delhi to be close to 2 crore, if not higher," Puri said. It is a matter of great shame that between 2006 when the process of regularisation started and 2014, all the governments which were in power in the city of Delhi did nothing, Puri said and sought cooperation from parties to bring relief to the citizens of Delhi. Citing a letter received by his ministry from the Delhi government in 2019 seeking the extension of timeline for conducting survey of unauthorised colonies, Puri said that it is then the Modi government decided to bring this bill. The bill replaces the Ordinance which was brought in December last year to extend protection from punitive action to unauthorised colonies, JJ clusters and constructions in Delhi's rural areas built on agriculture land for another three years till December 2023. The legislation will extend the legal protection for scores of illegal constructions and unauthorised colonies in the national capital from demolition or sealing till December 2023. There are around 1,700 unauthorised colonies in Delhi. The NCT of Delhi (Special Provisions) Second Amendment Bill, 2021, is an extension of a similar law first passed in 2011. When the 2011 law had expired, the government had in 2014 enacted the law again to grant a fresh extension. Since the law re-enacted in 2017 was ending soon and there was no winter session of Parliament, an Ordinance was brought in to extend the protection to unauthorised colonies from sealing for another three years till December 2023.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/parliament-passes-bill-to-regularise-unauthorised-colonies-in-delhi-960462.html
10-03-2021||Opinion||Read India’s tea leaves in bonds, not stocks||By Andy Mukherjee Consumers are feeling cheated at the petrol pumps. Investors are returning empty-handed from government bond auctions. The Indian state is struggling to make its fiscal math work without shortchanging the first group or disappointing the second. Each of these discontents could curtail a still-unfinished recovery from the massive Covid-19 disruption. But you wouldn’t see any of those concerns reflected in the stock market, which is floating on $85 billion of liquidity pumped into the banking system in less than two years. At the height of the optimism surrounding the 2014 election that brought Narendra Modi to power, the benchmark Nifty 50 index peaked at a price-to-earnings ratio of 23. The multiple is currently at 36 and climbing higher. The liquidity magic isn’t working on bond markets, though. Steepening US long-term yields, an offshoot of vaccine optimism and hardening inflation expectations, are setting the stage for a selloff in emerging-market debt. In India, the story is different. The entire yield curve has moved higher. This isn’t a sign of optimism about growth, but a worry about rising oil prices and the hard-to-square arithmetic of next fiscal year’s targeted budget deficit of 6.8% of gross domestic product, on top of an expected 9.5% shortfall in the current year that ends on March 31. Since the government announced those figures, only two-fifths of the sovereign notes put up for sale have been bought by investors. The rest of the auctions were partially cancelled or devolved on primary dealers. Investor anxiety has a lot to do with gasoline and the strain it’s putting on stretched household budgets. Monday’s price of 97.6 rupees a litre in Mumbai ($5 per gallon) was 65% higher than in New York. Between 2012 and 2014, when crude oil was hovering near the $100 level, the average price gap between the two cities was 30%. The discontent caused by that surge was masterfully utilised by Modi’s campaign, which blamed the previous government’s policies for causing people to suffer. But after he came to power as prime minister, his administration didn’t pass on the subsequent decline in international crude prices to consumers. It kept most of the windfall and spent it. Six years ago, fuel taxes made up less than 10% of the Indian government’s revenue. Now, they account for almost 20%. More than half of what customers pay goes into the kitties of federal and state authorities. Had petroleum products been put under India’s 2017 goods and services tax at the top rate of 28%, the burden on the common man today would have been no more than 75 rupees for a litre from an average imported crude oil cost of $60 a barrel, according to State Bank of India economist Soumya Kanti Ghosh. Households could have used the savings to increase discretionary spending. State governments, which were surrendering most of their local levies for a share of the nationwide tax on consumption, didn’t want to lose all leverage over their revenue. So petroleum products were kept out of the GST. But the new system didn’t live up to its billing, leading to a 1% of GDP revenue shortfall — an unacknowledged fiscal crisis — between April 2018 and March 2019. Then came the pandemic, which created a whole new fault line of vulnerability. It runs from consumers who are finding gasoline, diesel and cooking-gas prices unbearable to the government that can’t afford to cut its high fuel taxes — lest the bond market is spooked further. Sitting on this fractured ground is a state-dominated banking system that has yet to account for most of its pandemic-related stress. When it eventually does, a less-than-healthy consumer economy and small-and-midsize firms propped up by emergency state-guaranteed loans could lead to a fresh wave of loan losses. A 2.4% decline in private consumption last quarter “and reports of rising urban utility-bill defaults and social security withdrawals point towards stress among retail customers,” according to Fitch Ratings, which estimates a hole of anywhere between $15 billion to $58 billion in government-controlled banks’ capital base under varying degrees of loan losses. That dwarfs the $5.5 billion of new capital New Delhi has promised them. A bigger Band-Aid for banks will mean even unhappier debt investors. Amid the celebratory noises coming from liquidity-fueled equity markets, it’s worth remembering that Covid-19 hasn’t gone away yet. After almost normalizing in February, economic activity is once again almost 5 percentage points below the pre-pandemic usual, according to the latest Nomura India Business Resumption Index. Consumer sentiment is improving — but only a narrow elite is in a mood to splurge. Just 5% of Indians believe that now is a good time to buy consumer durables, according to Mahesh Vyas at the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy. This sobering reality is finding an expression in the apprehensions of global debt investors. They have pulled out more than $14 billion from India in the past 12 months even as the local equity market has witnessed $29 billion of net inflows from overseas. The latter may get more attention, but what buoyant stock prices are serving up as optimism about resurgent corporate earnings is weak, watery tea. For more reliable signals, it’s the bond market leaves that are worth reading.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/read-india-s-tea-leaves-in-bonds-not-stocks-960229.html
10-03-2021||Panorama||BBMP Act: Structural reforms needed||Bengaluru city has got a poorly designed and inadequate law – the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020. This is limited to facilitating municipal governance as the desired objectives cannot be realised from this Act, unless certain other structural reforms relating to the corporation authorities are incorporated in it. The Act has failed to achieve the desired objective of improving the decentralisation and integration of public participation at various levels of municipal governance and to ensure efficient decision-making by the corporation authorities specified for BBMP. Specifying the Mayor, Ward Committee and Area Sabha as corporation authorities may not be required. The Mayor exercises the collective power of the BBMP Council as per Article 243-S of the Constitution and does not comprise an authority in his/her individual capacity. The Chief Commissioner exercises his powers as per Section 64 of the Act. Specifying that inter-zonal matters must be referred to the Chief Commissioner by the Zonal Commissioner for a decision is incorrect. The respective Zonal Committees must place the matter before the BBMP Council for a decision. The Act specifies Zonal Committee statutorily as a corporation authority. The Zonal Committee can be construed as Ward Committee. Ward Committees and Area Sabhas need not be specified as corporation authorities as they comprise of non-councillors. The responsibility of governance is only with the directly elected councillors of BBMP as per the mandate of Article 243-S. The role and responsibilities of the Ward Committee should be limited to seeking community participation and eliciting their considered views for ward-level development. However, Area Sabha need not be specified as corporation authority as it consists of all voters in an area demarcated within a ward. Assigning any statutory powers to Area Sabha as a corporation authority may be imprudent. Constituency Consultative Committees: These committees, headed by the MLA of each constituency, have not been specified as corporation authority, but are assigned with some administrative powers to be exercised by them. The role and responsibilities of these committees should not facilitate an MLA to directly interfere with the day-to-day administration of BBMP as it would defeat the purpose of autonomy of the local self-government. Mayoral Executive Committee: To facilitate effective and collective decentralised governance, instead of the Mayor, a new layer of corporation authority between the BBMP Council and the standing committees/zonal committees called the Mayoral Executive Committee, headed by the Mayor and consisting of the chairpersons of all standing committees/zonal committees as members, and the Chief Commissioner as an executive member, is recommended. This Mayoral Executive Committee can exercise all executive powers of the BBMP Council except the passing of the budget. The Mayoral Executive Committee is not conceived under the BBMP Act, 2020; so, it is a new suggestion. The Mayoral Executive Committee can meet as many times as is administratively required for transaction of business assigned to it. Since this committee can meet frequently, it will be instrumental for ensuring effective and speedy decision support system in the BBMP. Mayor’s term: According to the Act, the Mayor will have a term of two-and-a-half years. The Mayor could be made more accountable and allowed to re-contest for a second term, ending with the five-year term of the BBMP Council. The removal of the Mayor through a no-confidence motion could be facilitated, like in the Karnataka Municipalities Act, 1964. Further, enabling an extension of term of the Mayor to five years, co-terminus with the BBMP Council, will imply longevity of his/her tenure for better governance. It will make the Mayor more accountable and facilitate his responsiveness for public administration. Providing for no-confidence motion for removal of theMayor democratically will enhance credibility of the institution of Mayor. BBMP Elections To fulfil the mandate of the Constitution under Article 243-U, elections to the BBMP Council ought to have been held before the end of the term of the previous BBMP Council, that is, before September 2020. Keeping in view this constitutional mandate, the state government must complete all administrative actions to notify the ward delimitation for the BBMP by carving out the BBMP area into a minimum of 225 wards and a maximum of 250 wards, either in the existing boundary or in the extended boundary as per the prevailing Census 2011 population figures, along with reservation of wards in the state gazette forthwith. This will facilitate proper conduct of elections to the BBMP Council by the State Election Commission. The state government must also incorporate zonal demarcation in the ward delimitation notification to facilitate constitution of the Zonal Committees as they are specified as corporation authorities statutorily. The Act, through Section 58, has omitted reservation to the categories of BCA and BCB for the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. In view of the uniform reservation policy applicable to all municipal corporations in the state to reserve the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor to BCA and BCB categories so far, the state government should take cognisance of the same and take appropriate action well in advance as the election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor is an integral part of the constitution of the BBMP Council. Overall, the Act is an inadequate and fragmented law. The development of a new, comprehensive legislation for governing the metropolitan city of Bengaluru for both municipal and metropolitan governance is the utmost need of the hour. This must be pursued in right earnest as early as possible. A piecemeal approach by bringing out amendments here and there will not serve any purpose. With the new Act, the demand of Bengaluru’s citizens for a robust metropolitan governance legislative framework remains a distant dream. (The writers are Directors, Centre for Urban Governance Studies & Policy Research)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bbmp-act-structural-reforms-needed-960188.html
10-03-2021||Panorama||How to manage PCOS||Ever since Lata entered puberty, she has had difficulty in managing her weight. She craved carbohydrates at all times, even skipped dinner, but her weight increased at a faster rate month over months. Apart from her weight problem, she faced issued of acne and Hirsutism (male pattern facial hair growth). She also has visited her primary care physician on several occasions, complaining of dizziness, feeling shaky, and irregular menses. Her doctor started her on birth control pills to regulate her periods but in vain. Later, she was detected with Hypoglycemia; her physician and her family encouraged her to follow a strict diet and exercise regimen. Lata is now married for two years and plans to begin a family, but is unable to conceive. She continues to struggle with severe Hypoglycemia, has elevated serum triglyceride levels and feels extremely miserable.  However, recently when Lata visited a reproductive endocrinologist she was diagnosed with Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS). Like Lata, many young women suffer from Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome (PCOS) or Polycystic Ovarian Disease (PCOD) and are unable to live a healthy life. These conditions bring along complications that deteriorate the quality of life among young women. Statistics state that one in every five women in India suffers from PCOS. Difference between PCOS and PCOD In women with PCOS, their Ovaries produce higher levels of androgen than usual, which interferes with the development and release of the eggs. Some of the eggs develop into cysts - which are the little sacs filled with liquid. Instead of being released during ovulation, these cysts build up in the Ovaries and at times even get enlarged. PCOD (Polycystic Ovarian Disease) is a condition where the Ovaries release a lot of immature or partially mature eggs, which eventually turn into cysts. Some of the common symptoms are abdominal weight gain, irregular periods, male pattern hair loss, and infertility. In this condition, the Ovaries usually become enlarged and secrete large amounts of androgens that can cause havoc with a woman’s fertility & her body. Effective ways to manage PCOS and PCOD Obesity is recognized as an important contributory factor in these conditions. So, diet control, exercise, and monitored weight loss are the first line of treatment. Even 10% weight loss helps quite a lot for hormone imbalance management and in bringing body mass index <25. This also improves menstrual disorders, infertility, insulin resistance, Hirsutism, and acne. Hormonal management with combined Oral Contraceptive Pills is effective in reducing Luteinizing Hormone and Testosterone Hormone. PCOD/ PCOS is not a disease, it is a hormonal imbalance where male dominating hormones increase, so with an oral contraceptive pill, we can control these hormonal changes. Insulin resistance is associated with Diabetes Mellitus, central Obesity, Dyslipidemia and Hypertension which can be managed to a large extent. Hormonal changes cause abnormal uterine bleeding, prolonged menses, and anovulation (absence of ovulation), for Endometrial Hyperplasia, sometimes endometrial biopsy has to be done. For young females presented with infertility, Ovulation induction is done with hormones. Sometimes if the person is not responding to medicine then Laparoscopic ovarian drilling is done. In rare cases where weight loss is not possible with diet and exercise, bariatric surgery is prescribed. Anti-androgen medicines are used for cosmetic purposes in Hirsutism patients. Laser is also used for hair removal. So, eating the right foods and avoiding certain carbohydrates and fat helps manage the symptoms. Try to consume whole foods that are free from sugar, hormones and preservatives; fruits, vegetables whole grains and legumes should be preferred. Moreover, plant-based proteins and unprocessed high carbohydrates can improve Insulin sensitivity. Try to consume more fibre in your diet and reduce the consumption of Coffee. Soy, Turmeric, Cinnamon Vit-D3, Calcium, Zinc, Primosa oil, and Cod liver oil should also be added to your diet.  (The writer is Consultant Obstetrics and Gynecology at a hospital in Kalyan, Maharashtra)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/how-to-manage-pcos-960189.html
10-03-2021||Panorama||Significance of choice and chance||Rukmini asked Lord Krishna, after the battle of Kurukshetra, “Hey Prabhu, Guru Dronacharya and Bhishma were scholars with a lifetime of righteousness behind them. Why did they have to die in the war?” Lord Krishna replied, “Devi, you are right, both of them are very learned and righteous, but both of them made a wrong choice which destroyed the fruits of the righteousness they practised throughout their lives. They both were elders present in the court of Hastinapur when Draupadi was being disrobed. They had the authority to stop the outrage but chose to turn a blind eye. This single crime overshadowed their lifetime of righteousness”.  Our life is a matter of choices and the choices have consequences. In the poem "The Road Not Taken"  by Robert Frost, he says “Two roads diverged in a wood and I took the one less travelled by and that has made all the difference”.  It allows one to think about choices in life, whether to be with the mainstream or go off-beat.  Our friends are our choice while chance makes our parents. Thus choice and chance converge to make our lives. William Shakespeare implied that chance favours only the prepared mind when he wrote in his play, Henry V: “All things are ready if our minds be so.” A famous example of the prepared mind is that of Isaac Newton when the famed apple fell from the tree, leading to his musings about the nature of gravitation. Another chance of discovery is attributed to Penicillin. Sir Alexander Fleming was experimenting with the influenza virus in 1928.  He left for a two-week vacation and returned to find that a mould had contaminated his staphylococcus cultures. But more importantly, he found that the bacteria were unable to grow anywhere near the mold. His keen observation and analysis resulted in the making of the antibiotic penicillin and would change the world of medicine forever.  We generally take credit for our successes and blame destiny for our failures. But destiny is not a matter of chance but a matter of choice we make, determined by our circumstances. Ralph Waldo Emerson said, “Work and acquire, and thou hath chained the wheel of Chance”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/significance-of-choice-and-chance-960192.html
10-03-2021||Right in the Middle||The Kalam way||The historical nuclear bomb trials at Pokhran on May 11, 1998, angered the US and sanctions were imposed against India. One major sufferer of this sanction was the indigenous Light Combat Aircraft (LCA) program. The US companies, General Electric which was providing the engine and Martin Marietta which was co-developing the Flight Control System of LCA, were compelled to stop their support. Both the heart and the brain of the LCA were throttled. European nations joined the US in imposing sanctions against the indigenous engine development programme--Kaveri. At this juncture, Abdul Kalam who was DG of DRDO decided to boost the morale of the scientists working on the LCA program. He initiated periodical review meetings of LCA at Bengaluru.   Kalam preferred taking the last flight of Indian Airlines from Delhi to Bengaluru reaching at 10:20 pm, on the previous day of such review meetings. Soon after deplaning at the HAL airport, he would visit the hangars that were building LCA. Prior to one such review meeting, we were struck with a complaint of a fuel leak from the aircraft tank. The issue got serious when the test pilot refused to take the aircraft for the next ground run. We were convinced that it was not a leak, and only sweating at the fuselage tank joint, that could be fixed.   Working late nights was not uncommon for the LCA team in those days. On that night, Kalam visited the hangar straight from the airport. The technicians focused a powerful light to draw his attention to the problem area. A tethered camera was capturing the spot for video display on the computer screen. Kalam added his usual wit and humour to our discussions on sweating and leaking. His experience on the issue was strengthening our line of argument.           Kalam took time to enquire after the wellbeing of technicians who were under the aircraft landing wheels.  While we were busy with the discussions Kalam had quietly slipped under the wheels of the aircraft.  He touched and personally felt the fuel sweat on the fuselage tank. He got up and smilingly said to the onlookers – "Now I can convince the pilot and the flight test team tomorrow in the meeting.  There is no fuel leak, and the aircraft is safe for ground run."  Feeling the surprise on our face, he added further, "See, you cannot fix the fuel tank on top of the aircraft for my convenience.  Aircraft tanks are always positioned underneath.  If one needs to understand a problem, he or she should personally visit the location."  That was Kalam and his down to earth approach in resolving technical issues.  No need to mention here that pilot was convinced and LCA prototype had its ground run the next day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-kalam-way-960185.html
10-03-2021||Second Edit||Karnataka Budget 2021: No grand projects is a good news||The Karnataka budget presented by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa bears the full imprint of Covid-19 on the state’s economy. Contrary to claims in some quarters that the economy has bounced back, an analysis of the budget proposals indicates that there could at best be some green shoots. A complete recovery is still far away. For the first time in about a decade, the state will be saddled with a revenue deficit of Rs 15,134 crore. Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy’s honest admission that it would take at least three to four years to bridge the revenue gap only shows how bad the situation is. Again, the fiscal deficit, projected at Rs 59,240 crore, or 3.48% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) is higher than the 3% ceiling mandated by the Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002. Similarly, the total liabilities, estimated at Rs 4,57,899 crore, account for 26.9% of the GSDP, while the state had in the past kept this below the stipulated 25%. Given the precarious financial position, Yediyurappa has done a balancing act by presenting a please-all budget, and it goes to the Chief Minister’s credit that he did not fall to the temptation of announcing any new big-ticket projects. While post-GST introduction, the state is left with few avenues to mobilise taxes, the common man has been spared any additional burden. The proposal to reduce stamp duty from 5% to 3% for first time registration of apartments valued between Rs 35 lakh and Rs 45 lakh is expected to spur real estate and promote affordable housing. While tipplers usually bear the brunt in every budget, Yediyurappa has left the excise duty on liquor untouched while increasing the revenue target from Rs 22,700 crore to Rs 24,580 crore. This is sensible. A rise in liquor prices tends to drive people to buy and consume spurious alcohol, causing loss of revenue and even lives. The allocation of Rs 50 crore for improving toilets in government schools, which are in a despicable state now, is also welcome. Bengalureans have some reason to cheer, with the budget allotting Rs 7,795 crore without taking on any new grand projects that would neither solve the city’s problems nor would be welcome in terms of environmental sustainability. Instead, there is a welcome allocation of Rs 850 crore for the one project that could actually help improve mobility: the much-delayed suburban rail system. The task before the Chief Minister now is to ensure strict discipline in the implementation of the budget. The state cannot afford leakage and wastage of funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/karnataka-budget-2021-no-grand-projects-is-a-good-news-960180.html
10-03-2021||South||Kerala assembly polls: JD(S) announces list of four candidates||The JD(S) on Tuesday announced the list of four candidates for the April 6 Assembly polls in Kerala. Kerala State JD(S) President Mathew T Thomas is among the candidates whom the party has fielded and he will be contesting from Thiruvalla assembly seat. The other three are Dr Neela Lohithadassa Nadar from Kovalam, K Krishnan Kutty from Chittur, and Jose Thettayil from Ankamali. In a letter to Thomas, JD(S) patriarch H D Deve Gowda said as the national president of the party he has approved the candidates contesting for the coming assembly elections on the party symbol "A Lady Farmer carrying Paddy on her Head". "Kindly permit them to contest in their respective Assembly Constituencies.I will send them the required 'A' and 'B' Forms to file their nominations well in time," the former Prime Minister said. The JD(S) is a constituent of Keralas ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) coalition, and had won three out of five seats it had contested in the 2016 assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-jds-announces-list-of-four-candidates-960126.html
10-03-2021||South||Telangana Legislature budget session from March 15||The Budget session of the Telangana Legislature will be held from March 15. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Tuesday issued notifications summoning the Legislative Assembly and Council to meet on March 15. The state budget for 2021-22 is expected to be presented during the session. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has recently held a meeting with state Finance Minister T Harish Rao and officials on budget preparation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-legislature-budget-session-from-march-15-960145.html
10-03-2021||South||Centre's VSP privatisation move: Workers intensify agitation; ruling YSRCP faces political heat||Protests have intensified in Visakhapatnam and the state politics heated up, following the Centre's declaration in Parliament that it would go ahead with privatisation of the Vizag Steel Plant. On Monday, replying to a question from Andhra Pradesh MPs in the Lok Sabha, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman confirmed that the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) has accorded ‘in-principle’ approval for 100 percent disinvestment of Government of India (GOI) shareholding in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited, “along with stake in its subsidiaries/joint ventures through strategic disinvestment by way of privatization.” RINL is the corporate entity of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant also popularly known as Vizag Steel.  The centre's announcement further agitated workers and locals of the steel city, where protests are on since last month.  Soon after the FM's statement, VSP workers erupted in anger and blocked the Kolkata-Chennai national highway 16 at Kurmannapalem, where the 7.3-million-tonnes-per-annum capacity plant is located. On Monday, workers held a protest meeting at the RINL administrative building and detained director (finance) Venu Gopal Rao for a few hours.  A statewide bandh, supported by all the parties except the BJP, was observed on Friday opposing the plan.  Despite such widespread public anger and opposition from the Andhra Pradesh government, the centre said that the “strategic disinvestment will lead to infusion of capital for optimum utilisation, expansion of capacity, infusion of technology and better management practices.”  The main opposition TDP blamed the Reddy government for “failing to stop the privatisation.” Workers, besides the TDP, are demanding the resignation of the elected representatives to send a strong message to the centre. Faced with the public anger and political heat, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy on Tuesday shot off a missive to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting an appointment for him to explain the options to revive the plant. The CM also sought to lead an all-party delegation to the PM. “I can emphatically say that VSP will again become a profitable venture given some support from the Government of India by implementing some turnaround measures such as allotting captive iron ore mines to bring down the input costs, swapping high cost debt with low cost debt, converting debt into equity through equity conversion and monetization of the vacant land,” the CM listed the alternatives to disinvestment, in reiteration of the submissions he made in his 6 February letter to the PM on the issue.  The FM on Monday stated that “the state government does not have any equity in RINL.” “(Disinvestment) will result in higher production and productivity and expansion of direct and indirect employment opportunities. While deciding the terms and conditions of the strategic sale, legitimate concerns of the existing employees and other stakeholders are suitably addressed through appropriate provisions made in the Share Purchase Agreement,” Sitharaman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/centres-vsp-privatisation-move-workers-intensify-agitation-ruling-ysrcp-faces-political-heat-960153.html
10-03-2021||South||TTV Dhinakaran's AMMK releases first list of candidates for Tamil Nadu Assembly elections||Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, led by TTV Dhinakaran on Wednesday released its first list of 15 candidates for the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Former state Ministers, P Palaniappan, G Senthamizhan, and C Shanmugavelu would contest from Pappireddipatti, Saidapet and Madathukulam respectively, AMMK general secretary Dhinakaran said in a party release. S Anbazhagan, and K Sugumar, both former MPs, have been fielded from Rasipuram and Pollachi segments respectively. Several former MLAs have also been named in the first list of the AMMK. Dhinakaran, nephew of late chief minister Jayalalithaa's close aide V K Sasikala, has decided to contest the elections despite his aunt announcing her decision to stay away from politics and urging her supporters to ensure the victory of the ruling AIADMK and defeat DMK in the polls. The AMMK has entered into a tie-up with Lok Sabha MP Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM, alloting it three seats. Tamil Nadu with 234 assembly constituencies will have a single-phase elections on April 6 in which fronts led by arch-rivals AIADMK and DMK are the main contenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttv-dhinakarans-ammk-releases-first-list-of-candidates-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-960250.html
10-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Election: CM, 6 CPI(M) ministers in fray; FM Thomas Isaac denied poll ticket||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and six of his Cabinet colleagues have been fielded by the ruling CPI(M) for the April 6 state assembly elections, while Finance minister Thomas Issac has been denied a ticket this time. The party on Wednesday released the list of 83 of its 85 candidates including nine CPI(M) supported independents. Health Minister K K Shailaja, Labour minister T P Ramakrishnan, Power minister M M Mani, Devaswom minister Kadakkampally Surendran, Fisheries minister Mercykutty Amma and Local Self Government minister A C Moideen are trying their luck once again. Vijayan will contest from Dharmadam constituency in Kannur district. However, five ministers have been denied seats -- T M Thomas Isaac, E P Jayarajan, R Ravindranath, G Sudhakaran and A K Balan as the party decided not to provide seats to those who had been elected twice. M V Govindan Master, K Radhakrishan, P Rajeev and K N Balagopal are the state secretariat members who are contesting. There are 12 women candidates in the list. Candidates for Manjeshwaram and Devikulam constituencies would be announced later, Acting state secretary, A Vijayaraghavan, told reporters here. The party's aim was not to deny tickets to anyone, but to give an opportunity to new candidates, he said. The CPI(M) led LDF is eyeing a second consecutive term this time. In the 2016 polls, the LDF had won 91 seats in the 140- member assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-election-cm-6-cpim-ministers-in-fray-fm-thomas-isaac-denied-poll-ticket-960286.html
10-03-2021||South||High command mute witness to disaster: P C Chacko resigns from Congress ahead of Kerala polls||Senior Congress leader P C Chacko has resigned from the party ahead of Kerala Assembly polls, according to ANI.  "I'd been deliberating upon this decision for past many days. I come from Kerala where there's no Congress party as such. There are 2 parties - Congress (I) & Congress (A). It's a coordination committee of tow parties functioning as KPCC," he said.  Stating that the Congress is a "great tradition", Chacko said, "Being a Congressman is a prestigious thing but today in Kerala nobody can be a Congressman." "The high command is a mute witness to this disaster and there's no remedy," he added. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-command-mute-witness-to-disaster-p-c-chacko-resigns-from-congress-ahead-of-kerala-polls-960312.html
10-03-2021||South||33% sitting Tamil Nadu MLAs have criminal cases against them: ADR||Thirty-three per cent of the sitting MLAs in Tamil Nadu — 68 out of the 204 — have declared criminal cases against them, according to a report by poll rights group ADR (Association for Democratic Reforms). Out of the total sitting MLAs from the poll-bound state, 38 (19 per cent) MLAs have serious criminal cases against them, it said. Serious criminal cases are non-bailable offences with over five years of imprisonment. The report also said that 157 (77 per cent) Members of the Legislative Assembly have declared their financial assets to be worth crores. About 89 (44 per cent) MLAs have educational qualification between fifth standard pass and 12th standard pass while 110 (54 per cent) are graduates and above. Three MLAs are diploma holders, it stated. The report said 78 (38 per cent) MLAs are aged between 25 and 50. While 125 (61 per cent) MLAs are between 51 and 70 years, one MLA is 77-years-old. Out of the 204, only 17 (8 per cent) MLAs are women. Among the major parties, 40 (47 per cent) out of the 86 DMK MLAs; 23 (21 per cent) of the 109 AIADMK MLAs; four (57 per cent) of the seven Congress MLAs have criminal cases against them. There are serious criminal cases against 22 (26 per cent) of the DMK; 13 (12 per cent) of the AIADMK and two (29 per cent) of the Congress. The poll body's report said that the only Independent MLA in the assembly has also declared criminal cases against him/her. A total of eight MLAs in the assembly have cases related to attempt to murder and two MLAs have cases related to crime against women. The report also mentioned details on their financial background. "About 76 (70 per cent) out of 109 MLAs from the AIADMK, 74 (86 per cent) out of 86 MLAs from the DMK, five (71 per cent) out of seven MLAs from the Congress and one MLA each from the IUML and Independent have declared assets valued over Rs 1 crore," it said.   The ADR said the average assets per sitting MLA in the state assembly is worth Rs 6.05 crore.   The next assembly election will be held in the state on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/33-sitting-tamil-nadu-mlas-have-criminal-cases-against-them-adr-960352.html
10-03-2021||South||Contempt case: Telangana HC awards jail term to District Collector, Dy Collector||The Telangana High Court has convicted three senior officials and awarded simple imprisonment to two of them, including Siddipet District Collector P Venkatrami Reddy, in a contempt case related to land acquisition for construction of a reservoir. Allowing the contempt pleas by a batch of 15 petitioners, Justice M S Ramachandra Rao, in a recent order, held the three officials guilty of willful disobedience of the court's orders related to acquisition of land in Siddipet District. He sentenced Siddipet DistrictCollector Venkatrami Reddy and Special Deputy Collector (LandAcquisition) Jayachandra Reddy to three months and four months simple imprisonment respectively. The Judge, however, suspended the sentence for a period of six weeks. The court imposed a fine of Rs 2,000 on Rajanna- Sircilladistrict Collector D Krishna Bhaskar, who had earlier served as Siddipet Collector. It also imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 and Rs 50,000 on Venkatrami Reddy and Jayachandra Reddy respectively, besides imposing a fine of Rs 2,000 each. The court further ordered that an adverse entry shall be recorded in the service records of these two officials. Incidentally, the judge had delivered a similar verdict in another contempt case related to land acquisition in Rajanna Sircilla district and had awarded three months simple imprisonment to Bhaskar, then joint collector Yasmin Basha and Revenue Divisional Officer for willfully disobeying the court's order. He had suspended the sentence for six weeks. In the latest order, the Judge observed notwithstanding an interim order, not only were the petitioners dispossessed from the subject land, but the natureof their land was also changed. Noting that the petitioners were not supplied material documents as directed by it and that they were disabled from filing proper objections, the court held there was a willful disobedience by the officials of its order. The court directed the officials to initiate fresh proceedings, and pay the petitioners compensation, relief and rehabilitation benefits they were entitled to by strictly following the provisions of the Right to Fair compensation, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The matter related to the state government's preliminary notification in 2017 for acquisition of land under the act for construction of Komaravelli Mallannasagar reservoir as part of the Kaleswaram Lift Irrigation scheme with astorage capacity of 50 TMC. Subsequently, a declaration and award enquiry notice was issued under the act. The 15 petitioners from Vemulaghatand nearby villages had approached the court against the project, contending that if the reservoir was built, the whole Vemulaghat and all agricultural land therein would get submerged along with four other villages. They had also submitted that objections filed by them were not considered and so the declaration issued be set aside. They also contended details of the project in Teluguwere not furnished to them. On July 5, 2018, the court directed that material documents were to be furnished to the counsel for petitioners. Later, in an interim order on December 13, 2019, it directed the authorities not to dispossess the petitioners from their lands and not to change the physical features of the lands until further orders. Subsequently, the petitioners alleged the interim order was violated by the officials and filed petitions seeking to punish them for contempt of court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/contempt-case-telangana-hc-awards-jail-term-to-district-collector-dy-collector-960437.html
10-03-2021||South||AIADMK's list of 171 nominees out, constituencies for allies||Tamil Nadu's ruling AIADMK on Wednesday released its second list of candidates for 171 assembly constituencies in which it retained over 60 legislators, including ministers. The party will contest 177 seats in total as candidates for 6 constituencies were announced last week. Two Rajya Sabha MPs – R Vaithilingam, and K P Munusamy – will be fielded from Orathanadu, and Vepannahalli constituencies in Thanjavur and Krishnagiri districts respectively, while former minister B V Ramana, named in the gutkha scam, will enter the fray from Tiruvallur seat on the outskirts of Chennai. Only three ministers – S Valarmathi, Nilofer Kafil, and S Baskaran – have been denied tickets, while around 45 sitting MLAs have been renominated. Except K T Rajenthrabalaji, who is shifting to Rajapalayam from Sivakasi probably due to anti-incumbency, all other ministers will be fielded from their current constituencies. Aadhi Rajaram, a long-time AIADMK functionary, will take on DMK President M K Stalin in Kolathur, while S P Velumani and P Thangamani – lieutenants of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami – will contest from Thondamuthur, and Kumarapalayam in western Tamil Nadu. Only 15 of the 171 candidates announced on Wednesday are women, while one woman candidate was announced last week. Meanwhile, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) led by T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala, and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan released candidates for 15 and 70 constituencies respectively. Dhinakaran gave seats to eight former MLAs, three former ministers, and two ex-MPs, in the first list.    The MNM fielded V Ponraj, Scientific Advisor to late President A P J Abdul Kalam, from Anna Nagar, former bureaucrat Santhosh Babu, who sought VRS from service, from Villivakkam, and social activist Sneha Mohandoss from Saidapet, and lyricist Snehan from Virugambakkam. The first list did not have Kamal Haasan's name.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmks-list-of-171-nominees-out-constituencies-for-allies-960447.html
10-03-2021||South||Situation peaceful in Telangana's Bhainsa town, 22 arrested||The situation in Bhainsa town of Nirmal district which witnessed communal violence on March 7 night with members of two communities clashing, remained peaceful on Wednesday, police said. A total of 22 people from both communities, who were allegedly involved in the violence were arrested, a senior police official told PTI. In addition to this, 28 people suspected to be involved in stone pelting and arson were taken into custody and were being interrogated. Prohibitory order under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which was promulgated in order to prevent gathering of people and to prevent violence, continued in the town and internet services also remained suspended. Depending on the situation on Thursday a decision on lifting or extending the prohibitory order and on restoring internet services will be taken, the official said. The violence was triggered following an altercation between two youths belonging to different communities over an incident of motorcycle accident, according to police. Supporters of both the communities gathered and hurled stones at each other followed by incidents of arson. Six people, including two journalists and three police officers, were injured in the violence. Two houses, two autorickshaws, two four-wheelers and five two-wheelers were set ablaze by miscreants. Additional forces were already deployed in the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/situation-peaceful-in-telanganas-bhainsa-town-22-arrested-960448.html
10-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls: Rifts in Congress over candidate selection||Groupism in the Kerala Congress has come into focus again as senior leader P C Chacko resigned from the party and other senior party members like K Muraleedharan expressed resentments. Top Congress leaders in the state, especially Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala, had been reiterating that the party would fight the elections unitedly. However, many leaders and workers allege that both these leaders are lobbying for their loyalists and no importance is being given to victory factors. Chennithala is considered to be heading the ‘I’ group and Chandy the ‘A’ group. A slew of allegations against the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front recently raised the hopes of Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) winning the elections. However, the ongoing groupism, open resentment by party leaders and poster campaigns against probable candidates in some constituencies are casting a shadow over their prospects. Soon after the setback faced by the UDF in the recent local body election, many senior Congress leaders had openly complained about the party's internal issues. The national leadership had chipped in and reportedly given strict instructions to the senior leaders to ensure that the criteria for candidate selection should be winnability factors and not group factors. But things seem to be back to square one as there were reports that both Chandy and Chennithala were trying to push for their loyalists. Sources in the Congress said that many sitting MPs, especially those who resigned their MLA post and contested in the Lok Sabha polls, were now exploring the chances of contesting the Assembly polls. This was mainly due to hopes of becoming a minister in the state if UDF comes to power and the diminishing strength of the Congress at the national level. MPs K Muraleedhran and K Sudhakaran, who have been openly flaying the party leadership in the state, were learnt to be among those who want to contest in state Assembly polls and the state leadership is now considering it positively, said party sources. Meanwhile, many Congress leaders in Kerala strongly feel that the present move of P C Chacko was not due to internal issues in Congress, but due to his plans to join the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-rifts-in-congress-over-candidate-selection-960479.html
10-03-2021||South||Anna Varsity pulled up for giving reservation to EWS||The Anna University was pulled up by the Madras High Court on Wednesday for allegedly providing 10 per cent reservation, within the 49.5 per cent reservation, to candidates belonging to economically weaker sections (EWS) in admission to M Tech Biotechnology and M Tech Computational Technology courses. "The (earlier) orders passed by this court should be carried out in full and any deviation will attract the consequences. The newly introduced reservation clause has created unnecessary confusion," Justice B Pugalendhi said. The judge made the observation when pleas from two aspiring candidates came up on Wednesday. The university had suspended the two courses, following the insistence of the Centre that it should adhere to its 49.5 per cent reservation alone and not the 69 per cent quota policy of the Tamil Nadu government in the admission of students to these two courses. The judge on February 19 had directed the University to admit students to the two courses following the Central government's 49.5 per cent reservation for the current academic year. The case of the petitioners might be considered under this quota, he had added. When the matter came up today, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted EWS reservation cannot be given by Anna University since it is an institution run by the State government and the State Cabinet had also passed a resolution that EWS certificates would be issued only for jobs in central government agencies and institutions. The judge also directed the institution to explain by Friday as to why it has introduced the 10 per cent reservation for EWS within the 49.5 per cent reservation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/anna-varsity-pulled-up-for-giving-reservation-to-ews-960508.html
10-03-2021||South||Floating population, pilgrimage spots causing Covid surge in Andhra Pradesh's Chittoor district||As many as 57 students of Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetham, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam-run vedic school at Tirumala have tested positive after the institution reopened a few days back. All the 435 students, learning vedas and other Hindu rituals and recitals, had rejoined the institution after submitting negative reports of the Covid-19 RTPCR tests taken in their hometowns last week. "When the rapid antigen tests were conducted on campus for all the students on Tuesday, 57 were found to be positive. They are all asymptomatic but were shifted to the Sri Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati for better treatment,” a TTD official told DH. “None of these students have shown any Covid-19 symptoms so far and everyone is healthy. We took their samples for RTPCR tests, reports of which are awaited,” the officials said. In view of the large number of positive cases noticed on the campus, the remaining 378 pupils and 10 faculty of Dharmagiri Vedapathashala were tested again. TTD authorities said that they have tested negative. Floating population, pilgrims Meanwhile, Chittoor district, neighboring Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, with several famous pilgrimage centres like Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Kanipakkam is topping the Covid-19 case chart in Andhra Pradesh for the last few weeks. Out of the 136 new cases reported in the state on Sunday, 49 are from Chittoor alone. Positive cases in this border district are hovering between 30 to 40 for the past few days, while the daily fresh cases are in single digits in over half of the 13 districts of Andhra Pradesh. “The challenge for us is the floating population. There are about 100 villages along the Karnataka border and another 100 villages on the Tamil Nadu border. And we have a large number of pilgrims now visiting Tirupati etc temples. About half of our daily cases would be from Tirupati,” Dr M Penchalaiah, Chittoor district medical and health officer, told DH. With the temple officials no longer ensuring the constant public announcement to caution the devotees, pilgrims, especially at Srikalahasti, could be seen crowding the queue lines with many of them without masks. “The Covid-19 fear and mask-social distancing discipline, it appears, is gone now. We will ask the temple authorities to see that the pilgrims follow the Covid-19 guidelines,” the officer said. The Tirumala Tirupati temple board is letting over 50,000 footfalls into the Lord Venkateshwara temple every day now, up from the 6000 pilgrims allowed when the temple reopened in June. The celebrated shrine was closed for about three months last summer due to the rise in Covid-19 cases across the country. The Tirumala temple used to attract about 75,000 pilgrims daily before the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/floating-population-pilgrimage-spots-causing-covid-surge-in-andhra-pradeshs-chittoor-district-960522.html
10-03-2021||South||Three from Nagaland held for hacking ex-Karnataka DGP's email ID||Police arrested three people from Nagaland including a woman who had allegedly hacked the email of former Director General of Police Shankar Bidari and took Rs 25,000 from his friends. According to police, the hackers recently sent a mail to Bidari's friend seeking financial help. Without suspecting any foul play,the friend transferred the money into the account number mentioned in the mail. Later, when he checked with Bidari, he realised the fraud and lodged a complaint. The investigation finally led to the arrest of the trio. Police have seized four mobile phones, 13 PAN cards in different names, six Aadhaar cards, two ATM cards and Rs two lakh in 20 bank accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-from-nagaland-held-for-hacking-ex-karnataka-dgps-email-id-960523.html
10-03-2021||State||Miscreants dig up temple premises in search of treasure||In an effort to find treasure, miscreants allegedly dug soil on the premises of Someshwara Swami temple in Thimmanahalli in Alur taluk on Wednesday. Dating back to the Chola period, the Someshwara temple is located near the bank of Yagachi river. It is in a dilapidated condition for several years. As no pujas or other rituals are conducted at the temple, it is covered with wild bushes. A cowherd, while grazing his cattle, found soil being dug at a few places around the temple premises and also near the sanctum sanctorum on Tuesday. The villagers have lodged a complaint with police alleging that miscreants have dug the premises in search of a treasure. Police visited the spot and a case was registered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/miscreants-dig-up-temple-premises-in-search-of-treasure-960525.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to build three-star hotels at state's famous tourist spots||In a bid to attract tourists and revive the tourism industry in Karnataka, the state government on Wednesday decided to build 4 three-star hotels at the world-famous tourism sites such as Hampi, Badami, Belur and Vijayapura at a total cost of about Rs 83.97 crore. The projects will be completed within 18 months according to Tourism minister CP Yogeeshwara. Holding a meeting with the tourism department officials, Yogeeshwara said, “The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) has entered into an agreement with M/S Rites Ltd for availing technical assistance in the project. We will lay a foundation for the hotels' work in April 2021 and it will be completed in 18 months.” The minister explained that in Hampi, the department is planning to build three-star hotels with about 75-100 rooms, another 72 rooms hotel in Badami, 57 rooms in Vijayapura and 75 rooms hotels in the Belur of Hassan district. The project in Belur would cost Rs 20.71 cr and Rs 18.32 cr in Badami. Similarly, the work at Vijayapura will cost Rs 16.74 cr and Rs 28.20 cr at Hampi. Stating that some of these popular tourist destinations had no proper accommodation facility to tourists, Yogeeshwara said, “The project has been conceived keeping in mind the tourists' inflow and future tourism potential both the domestic and international travellers.” The tourism department has already identified about 9.5 acres of area in Hampi and 6 acres of area near Yagachi reservoir in Belur. “The three star-hotel in Badami will come up near the famous Banashankari temple and on a 10-acres of area in Vijayapura with all modern facilities needed for travellers. The government will not compromise on the quality of construction. Directions have been issued to follow aesthetic architectural designs adding to the brand value of Karnataka tourism,” the minister explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-build-three-star-hotels-at-states-famous-tourist-spots-960339.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||ACB arrests police inspector Victor Simon after raiding his residence||The Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Wednesday have arrested police inspector Victor Simon who is attached with Bangalore Metropolitan Task Force (BMTF). He will be in police custody till March 13. According to senior officials, Simon was not cooperating with the ACB officials during the raid of his house in a disproportionate assets case, saying 'I don't know anything' for every question. The superintendent of police (SP) Kuldeep Kumar Jain, on taking the ground report from his subordinates, informed his seniors and decided to arrest Victor.  "We need to get many details from Victor about the valuables found in his house. So, we have taken him into custody," said a senior officer. On Tuesday, the ACB officials had raided nine government official's including Victor's residence in Kasavanahalli, his office and his father-in-law's residence in Mysuru. At the end of the raid, the officials had found that Victor has a flat in NGV, 129 sq ft house, two sites and a 1-acre agricultural land in Mysuru. A bond paper worth Rs 1 cr, 500 grams gold jewelry in bank lockers, Rs 7.26 lakh cash found in Bengaluru's residence, 22.36 litre liquor, a car, Rs 21 lakh worth household articles. The officials also found the documents pertaining to his travel abroad with his family. Similarly, in Bengaluru, the officials had also raided K Subramanyam's residence, who is the assistant director, Town Planning, Yelahanka Zone, BBMP, in Sahakaranagar and his office in Yelahanka. "All other officials have cooperated during the raid. So, we have issued notice to them to appear before the investigating officer for further investigation. We hope they will cooperate, if not we can arrest them whenever there is a need," said a senior officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/acb-arrests-police-inspector-victor-simon-after-raiding-his-residence-960350.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Breaching 50% cap on quota is inevitable: Karnataka government||Karnataka will convey its stand to the Supreme Court on reservation, Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai told the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, making it clear that it was “inevitable” to breach the 50 per cent cap on quota if demands made by various caste groups are to be fulfilled. Early this week, the Supreme Court said it would ask states for their views on breaching the 50 per cent cap on reservation fixed by a 9-member constitution bench in the Indira Sawhney case. “The Supreme Court’s latest view is like a beacon in solving the existing problem,” Bommai said in the government’s reply to demands from various communities seeking revision in their quota. “Unless the court realizes the importance of other communities that are really backward to be considered as backward, nothing can be done. The Indira Sawhney judgment can be superseded only by another full constitution bench,” Bommai said. The Scheduled Castes have demanded an increase in their state quota from 15 per cent to 17 per cent and the Scheduled Tribes from 3 per cent to 7 per cent. The Kurubas want to be included under ST whereas the Panchamshalis, a sub-sect of the Veerashaiva-Lingayats, want Category 2A status in the state. “All these demands are inter-linked in that each one will have a bearing on the other,” Bommai said, pointing out that increasing the SC/ST quota as recommended by the Justice Nagmohan Das Commission will take the reservation tally to 56 per cent. In the M Nagaraj vs State of Karnataka case, Bommai said the SC underlined the need for quantifiable data to show backwardness, inadequacy in representation and how reservation will help in administrative efficiency. “In 1994, Karnataka ordered 73 per cent reservation, which the SC struck down citing the lack of empirical study,” he said. The government is waiting for a genealogy report on the Kurubas whereas the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes has been asked to look into the Panchamasalis’ demand, Bommai said. “For SC/ST, the Justice Nagmohan Das Commission report has recommended taking the Schedule 9 route,” he said. All of this will be examined by a 3-member committee that the government has decided to constitute. “Our objective is to make sure the existing reservation is protected while fulfilling the demands made by other communities,” Bommai said. “I want to tell all communities seeking quota that the government is serious about their demands and we’re trying to bring them under a legal framework,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/breaching-50-cap-on-quota-is-inevitable-karnataka-government-960417.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt advises Wistron employees to approach authorities to solve problems||As production resumed in the iPhone manufacturing plant of Taiwan-based Wistron Corp in Kolar, months after it was vandalised over salary issues, Karnataka Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar appealed to the employees to never resort to violence and resolve problems with the government help. Shettar was at the Wistron's Narasapura facility in Kolar district, where a section of workers had gone on a rampage in December last causing destruction, over salary-related issues. The Minister said unnecessary incidents such as violence can affect the lives of thousands of employees. "If any problem arises in the future, bring the matter to the notice of the District authorities and authorities concerned," he said. Shettar interacted with the workers and inquired about their present status. The company had removed its vice president following the violence and admitted that there were lapses, which will be rectified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-advises-wistron-employees-to-approach-authorities-to-solve-problems-960436.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Home Minister announces SIT probe in Ramesh Jarkiholi sex scandal||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Wednesday that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) would probe the sensational sex scandal allegedly involving Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had to resign from the Cabinet.  The decision to constitute an SIT was taken after consulting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and other senior officials, Bommai said. The SIT will be headed by IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee, who is currently Bengaluru city’s Additional Commissioner of Police (west). Last year, he was awarded the Union home minister’s special operation medal along with other officers for busting the Al-Hind terror module in south India.  Ramesh had written to Bommai on Tuesday seeking a probe into the scandal. “He stated that this CD case was a conspiracy to assassinate his character, cause political damage and defame him. We discussed this with the CM and senior officials,” Bommai said.  “It has been decided that an SIT will be formed to conduct a comprehensive probe to identify those behind this CD case, the conspirators and find out where this CD was prepared,” Bommai said, adding that he has directed Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant on constituting the SIT. “Directions have been issued for the SIT to submit a report to the government.”  On March 3, a day after news channels aired videos of the alleged sex scandal, Ramesh resigned as the Water Resources minister. He has repeatedly claimed that the video is fake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-home-minister-announces-sit-probe-in-ramesh-jarkiholi-sex-scandal-960455.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt bans late-night parties amid Covid surge||Witnessing gradual spurt in the Covid-19 cases, especially in and around Bengaluru city, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Wednesday said that the government has banned all late-night parties that could turn out to be super-spreader later. Addressing media persons in Bengaluru, Dr Sudhakar said that instructions have been given to star hotels and restaurants to take necessary steps to prevent further spread. We have banned late-night parties because during such events more people gather in one place. Also, the neighbouring states have been witnessing a spike in the Covid-19 cases. Hence we have taken all steps to contain the spread of the virus both in Bengaluru and other parts of the state,” Sudhakar said. This apart, the minister stated that measures have been taken to restrict large gatherings at marriage ceremonies and other similar functions. However, Dr Sudhakar clarified that there have been no restrictions on interstate travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-bans-late-night-parties-amid-covid-surge-960459.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Golden Chariot train to restart operations from March 14||Indian Railways' online ticket booking arm IRCTC has decided to resume the services of the luxury train Golden Chariot. The train will commence its first journey of the season on March 14, 2021. "On its first journey of the season on March 14, 2021 on a 6 Nights/7 Days itinerary, Pride of Karnataka starting and ending in Bengaluru covering Bandipur, Mysore, Halebidu, Chikamangalur, Hampi, Aihole and Pattadakal and Goa. Another 3 Nights/4 Days trip is planned on March 21, 2021, which will also start and end in Bengaluru covering Mysore, Hampi and Mahabalipuram," the IRCTC in its statement said. Owned by Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC), the Golden Chariot train, which commenced in 2008, was taken over by IRCTC in January 2020 for operations, marketing and maintenance. The Golden Chariot will hit the tracks in a new look on a week-long itinerary, the statement said. The renewed train has a host of new features including complimentary Wi-Fi and OTT streaming onboard, complimentary house pours and wines, choice of international and Indian cuisines, services of an experienced Tour Director onboard, all monument entry tickets, off-board evenings with meals and cultural performances. Destinations on the Golden Chariot route have been chosen to showcase the architecture, culture and history of the region it traverses through. The Guest carriages of the Golden Chariot train are named after the dynasties which ruled south India over several centuries. Each guest carriage has four cabins with a mix of twins and doubles. The guest cabins are a mix of 13 Double Bed Cabins, 30 Twin Bed Cabins and 1 Cabin for specially-abled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/golden-chariot-train-to-restart-operations-from-march-14-960493.html
10-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Wistron iPhone manufacturing plant resumes operations||Taiwanese contract manufacturer for Apple Inc, Wistron has resumed operations at its Narasapura facility at Kolar from March 8, with all the requisite clearance, Karnataka Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said on Wednesday. The factory had been shut since December 12, as workers had gone on a rampage due to wage-related issues. "Due to wage-related issues that occurred in December, it had left many employees staring at a bleak future. We don't want a repeat of such incidents.Henceforth, bring to the notice of the local district administration and find a middle path to resolve the issues," Shettar was quoted as saying in an official release, during his visit to the Wistron facility. The minister, who was accompanied by senior officials of the department and the district, interacted with the labourers and inquired about their well-being and working conditions, it said. Shetter said no issue can be resolved through violence and the factory had to stop production due to violence on December 12 and it had led to lot of inconvenience for thousands of labourers. "In future, do not resort to any violent methods and try to find an amicable solution with the management and the district officials," he said. The workers explained to the minister that thousands of workers had to face the problem due to the indignation of a few people, the release said. After the violence, Wistron on its part had sacked its Vice President overseeing its business in India, as it admitted that some workers were not paid correctly or on time, and had offered an apology||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wistron-iphone-manufacturing-plant-resumes-operations-960502.html
10-03-2021||West||Thane, Palghar enforce restrictions to curb Covid surge||Stringent measures would be needed to contain the surge in Covid-19 cases and people should follow outbreak protocols strictly to help the administration, Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation chief Vijay Suryavanshi said on Tuesday. He said containment zones would be marked in KDMC and buildings where cases are detected will be sealed. In Thane, 16 hotspots have been placed under lockdown till March 31, an order issued by civic chief Vipin Sharma said. In Navi Mumbai, the owners of a marriage hall were fined Rs 50,000 for social distancing and mask violations during a function held there, an official said. The district administration in Palghar, meanwhile, banned fairs, temple festivals and other such gatherings till further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-palghar-enforce-restrictions-to-curb-covid-surge-960156.html
10-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren's death case: Sachin Vaze removed from Crime Branch||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze – who has come under the needle of suspicion behind the mysterious death of Thane-businessman Mansukh Hiran – has been removed from the elite Mumbai Crime Branch-CID. “An impression is being created that Vaze is Osama Bin Laden,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said in the closing news conference of the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature. He admitted that Vaze was in Shiv Sena in 2008; however, he does not have any relations with the party. “He did not renew the membership,” he said.Hiran’s Mahindra Scorpio SUV with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening note was parked near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani. The opposition BJP demanded immediate suspension and arrest of Vaze, who was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch-CID.The issue rocked both the Houses of the Maharashtra Legislature demanding the arrest of Vaze – with Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar leading the charge. In Council, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh announced that Vaze has been removed from the Crime Branch, in Assembly, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab made a similar statement. Parab requested Fadnavis to submit documents and papers, if he has any, related to the death. Deshmukh said that Vaze has been removed from the post and the process of investigations is underway. “We will proceed as per law and procedures,” Deshmukh said, adding that an FIR has already been registered into the death of Mansukh Hiran by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ARS), which has been entrusted with the investigations. "We will take appropriate action against Vaze if he is involved in his death,” he said. Fadnavis wanted to know why Vaze was being protected. “(Forest Minister) Sanjay Rathod had to resign (as his name came in Pooja Chavan death case) but Vaze is not being suspended...it is because Sanjay Rathod was not aware of secrets of some people in government....who is the government trying to protect,” he said. Meanwhile, Urban Development Minister and senior Shiv Sena leader Eknath Shinde said: “Maharashtra ATS and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) were probing the case of Mansukh Hiran's death and the recovery of explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence  of Ambani, respectively. The truth will come out after the probe is completed. It will be unfair to take action until the probe is completed. So Vaze will be transferred from his present posting.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hirens-death-case-sachin-vaze-removed-from-crime-branch-960270.html
10-03-2021||West||Mumbai Police lodge FIR in case of MP Mohan Delkar's death||In what could compound into a Centre vs State issue yet again, the Mumbai police has registered an FIR into the death of seven-time Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Praful Khoda Patel, the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, has been named in the FIR. The FIR was lodged in the Marine Drive police station. “The Mumbai Police has filed an FIR in the case involving the suicide of Mohan Delkar,” he said. Patel has been booked under the provisions of Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. On 22 February, Delkar (58), a seven-time MP, was found hanging from the ceiling fan in a room of the Sea Green Hotel in Marine Drive in Mumbai. The Mumbai Police initially registered an ADR, which has now been converted into a FIR. The development comes a day after Delker’s wife Kalaben Delkar, son Abhinav Delkar and daughter had requested the Maha Vikas Aghadi government for thorough investigations.An advocate for tribal rights, Delkar began his career as a trade union leader in Silvassa. Later, he started Adivasi Vikas Sangathan for the tribals in 1985. He had represented the seat seven times – the earlier being in 1989 as an Independent, 1991 and 1996 from the Congress, 1998 as a BJP candidate, 1999 as an Independent and in 2004 representing Bharatiya Navshakti Party, a political outfit floated by him. The Delkar family has accused Patel of harassing and humiliating Mohan Delkar||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-lodge-fir-in-case-of-mp-mohan-delkars-death-960278.html
10-03-2021||West||Devendra Fadnavis moves privilege motion against Anil Deshmukh||Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday moved a breach of privilege notice against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, accusing the latter of making a false allegation against him. Speaking in the Assembly, Fadnavis said Deshmukh on Tuesday accused him in the House of a "cover up" in the Anvay Naik suicide case in 2018. Naik, an Alibaug-based interior designer, allegedly killed himself in 2018. Journalist Arnab Goswami had been arrested in connection with the case. Fadnavis said a Supreme Court ruling clearly stated that the FIR filed by the state government under Indian Penal Code Section 306 regarding abetment to suicide was prima facie wrong. "What Deshmukh said was contempt of court and also amounted to preventing me from conducting my duties as a member of the Legislature," he said. Deputy Speaker Narhari Zirwal said he would examine the notice and take an appropriate decision. Later talking to reporters outside the House, Fadnavis said the state government decided to transfer API Sachin Vaze under pressure. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh On Wednesday announced the removal of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze from the Crime Intelligence Unit till the inquiry into the mysterious death of automobile parts dealer Mansukh Hiran is not completed. Fadnavis said, "If the government can decide to remove minister Sanjay Rathod from the cabinet, why is Vaze so important that the government is scared to take action against him." "We will continue to fight till Hiran gets justice," he added. Hiran was in possession of the SUV with explosives found outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. Police said the vehicle was stolen from Hiran's possession on February 18. The mystery deepened after Hiran's body was found in a creek last Friday in neighbouring Thane. Hiran's wife has alleged in her statement to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) that police officer Sachin Vaze might have killed her husband.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/devendra-fadnavis-moves-privilege-motion-against-anil-deshmukh-960282.html
10-03-2021||West||Maharashtra forms 7-point action plan to contain spread of Covid-19||To check the spike in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra health department has come up a seven- point action plan, including testing of close contacts, fast contact-tracing, mass testing in hotspots and audit of deaths. All district administrations have been directed to act upon these points immediately, as per a letter dated March 3 of the health department's principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas. The action plan also includes strict adherence to guidelines on social, political and religious gatherings, and to involve civil societies and religious leaders to motivate people to adopt Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. The Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra have been on a rise since the second week of February. On Tuesday, the state reported 9,927 new Covid-19 cases which took the caseload to 22,38,398, while 56 fatalities pushed up the death count to 52,556, as per official data. The action plan has been prepared following observations of a team from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, which recently visited Nagpur, Amravati, Yavatmal, Thane, Pune and Mumbai, where there has been a spike in cases of the viral infection. In the letter issued to all district collectors and civic chiefs, Dr Vyas said though the central team came out with observations based on its visits to the above-mentioned districts, a similar situation might be prevailing in other districts also. Hence, all the district administrations need to act on these strategies, he said. As per the letter, the districts have been asked to activate institutional quarantine or isolation facilities as there is no proper mechanism to monitor patients in home isolation on a day-to-day basis. Authorities have been instructed that as the test report of a patient's close contact is likely to be false- negative if the person is in the incubation period, there is a need to do or repeat the test around 5th to 7th day of the exposure. Till then, the person may be kept in institutional quarantine, the letter said. "Contact-tracing has to be really fast and most of the close contacts of the patient should be traced within 48 hours," the letter stated. The central team has also suggested that in Covid-19 hotspots, there could be universal testing of each and every person using a largenumber of rapid antigen tests, if sufficient RT-PCR test capacity is not available. If required, these tests may be repeated after 14 days so that hotspots could be eliminated, the letter said. Authorities have also been asked tostrengthen the death audit mechanism at the level of health institutions and medical colleges to find out gaps in the treatment protocols. To check crowds, district administrations and civic bodies have been asked to scrupulously follow the guidelines for marriages, and other social, political and religious gatherings. They have also been asked to rope in civil societies and religious leaders to motivate people towards adopting Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-forms-7-point-action-plan-to-contain-spread-of-covid-19-960330.html
10-03-2021||West||MahaGenco generates record 10,445 MW on Tuesday||The state government-run Maharashtra State Power Generation Co Ltd (MahaGenco) achieved the highest-ever record power generation in its history by generating 10,445 MW during the evening peak hours on Tuesday. Proper coal and fuel management are said to be a key factor behind the record generation, state Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut said on Wednesday. Raut said he focused on the maximisation of generation by using coal in a judicious manner and periodic review of the situation. He asked the officials for optimum utilisation of the plant load factor (PLF) to the capacity of at least 95 per cent while the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission (MERC) has set the benchmark of PLF to 85 per cent. The suppliers provided coal as per the norms and warned to take action for the violation of the agreement. When he took over the charge as an Energy Minister on January 6, 2020, MahaGenco generated 6,821 MW including 4,804 MW from thermal plants. However, on March 9, 2021, it reached 10,445 MW including 7,991 MW from thermal plants. The thermal power generation has almost doubled in one year. "I am constantly emphasizing on effective fuel management, adequate stock of coal, preventive maintenance to prevent breakdown of the generation sets. Efforts are also made to reduce the cost of generation. It will help to reduce the tariff", said Dr Raut, a senior Congressman. In the month of March, there has been a steady rise in the performance of MahaGenco. On March 5, nine thermal power plants in the state set a record by achieving at least 90 per cent or more PLF. “Breaking the earlier record of 10,098 MW generation on May 20, 2019, it generated 10,445 MW on 9 March including 7,991 MW thermal, 264 MW wind,  2,138 MW hydropower and 50 MW by solar power. It was the highest power demand of Mahavitaran was 22,129 MW and total the state power generation was 16,429 MW,” a MahaGenco statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahagenco-generates-record-10445-mw-on-tuesday-960346.html
10-03-2021||West||Female lifeguards to guide women to hit the surf at Goa beaches||In a bid to encourage more women to hit the surf, a private lifeguard agency manning Goa's beaches, has launched a special 'Swim with Lifesavers' programme, as part of which women lifeguards conduct special swimming sessions exclusively for women. The initiative was launched by Drishti Marine on Women's Day (March 8) in order to encourage women visitors to Goa -- many of whom are first-time swimmers -- to learn and enjoy the charms and challenges of sea swimming. "What we do know is that many women coming to Goa are first-time swimmers and some also come from more reserved backgrounds. By launching a women guided swim session on Women's Day we wanted to encourage more of them to take the step and enjoy the water without hesitation. We are proud to champion the idea of women empowering women," Divya Sharma, Head of Brand Culture and Communication at Drishti Marine told DH. "We hope more women literally - take the plunge and try swimming in the sea. We also hope seeing these young women (women lifeguards) out there on the beach in a tough job gives young women a lot of inspiration," she also said. Goa is one of the first states in the country to have women lifeguards on duty at its beaches spread over 100 kms and the 'Swim with Lifesavers' programme for women, tries to make the most of the USP. "Yes, Goa is unique in its scale of lifesaving operation, the only one of its kind in India. So seeing women lifesavers out there is something even more unique," Sharma said. Asked about the challenges faced by women lifeguards, Sharma said while some infrastructure-related challenges were looked into, there was just one instance of bullying by a drunk male tourist, which was tackled by a woman lifeguard herself. "Our women lifesavers are smart and tough young women who have made this interesting choice of career and if you asked them directly they would say no problems. Of course there are concerns that we are looking into such as whether they have safe, clean facilities (toilets) available to them while at work on any of the beaches," she said. "Besides that there has been for example an incident with one drunk male, but unlucky for him our lifesaver turned out to be a black belt!" Sharma added.ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/female-lifeguards-to-guide-women-to-hit-the-surf-at-goa-beaches-960454.html
10-03-2021||West||'Anxiety' looms over the autonomy of Sabarmati Ashram with its redevelopment plan||As the preparations for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's March 12 visit to Sabarmati Ashram pick up pace in Ahmedabad, the redevelopment plan to convert the place into a "world-class museum" has triggered worries about the Ashram's autonomy among the stakeholders. The project promises to restore the Ashram in its "original" state when it was set up by Mahatma Gandhi in 1917. While the revamp was mooted earlier, the Gujarat government's formation of a committee on March 5 has increased the anxiety of Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust. The thus-which manages the Ashram thronged by tourists-is worried over the "autonomy and independence" bestowed upon it since its inception. "We are anxious for sure but we don't have any clarity yet. We hope to get some ideas whenever the committee holds its first meeting. As on today, we are only hearing about the redevelopment of the entire premises," said a trustee of the SAMPT. "Everyone wants the restoration, but at what cost? The trustees are not even discussing where they will stand as an independent body in the new scheme of things. Who is going to decide who comes to the Ashram as a guest on days like Gandhi's birth and death anniversaries? Will it be the government officers who will dictate the terms or the trustees will have that independence?," sources close to the Ashram wondered. They said, "In the past, SAPMT has worked independently without government's interference. Except giving funds to run it and archive Gandhi's intellectual works and help preserve his physical heritage, the past governments have never interfered which may not be the case as there are many ideological differences with the government of the day." "There is no clarity yet on the issue of governance. We have no idea how the coordination among the other trusts will be managed. We are waiting for the committee to have its first meeting," said Kartikeya Sarabhai, one of the trustees of the Ashram and a noted environmentalist. The notification issued by the state government on March 5 stated that "Sabarmati Ashram is involved in a number of activities that serves both to preserve the history of Gandhiji and the freedom struggle and also to promote and educate people in the great philosophies, values and teachings of Gandhiji. Today, the Ashram serves as a source of inspiration and stands as a place of national eminence. The government of Gujarat has the vision for the comprehensive development of Gandhi Ashram Memorial and precinct. For the above mentioned purpose, the office of Tourism Corporation of Gujarat Limited has proposed...to constitute committees for the Project Gandhi Ashram Memorial and Precinct Development. The matter was under consideration of the government for quite some time." The notification announced formation of a governing council which will be headed by chief minister Vijay Rupani as its chairman and besides government officers BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Narhari Amin, MP Kirit Solanki, have been appointed as its members, besides "prominent national level Gandhian (as suggested by Chairman) and representative of SAPMT" as its members. The purpose of the committee is "to guide the development of the project by ensuring a smooth coordination between central government, state government, urban local body and formal-informal stakeholders of the project." The redevelopment aims to restore 62 heritage structures, spread over 32 acres of land, associated with Gandhi and remove constructions that came up in the last three to four decades. It will accommodate all the existing bodies including SAPMT, Sabarmati Ashram Gaushala trust, managed by National Dairy Development Board, Sabarmati Harijan Ashram Trust, Gujarat Harijan Sevak Sangh and Khadi Gramodyog Prayog Samiti. They were once part of the larger Ashram which was established by Gandhi in 1917. As on today, only Sabarmati Ashram is famous among tourists. The project is said to be costing Rs1,200 crore. The residents, about 200, will be accommodated in the periphery of the Ashram or compensated. "We are going to take care of everything. It is the committee which will take all decisions. This is a project involving Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation, state and central government. The idea is to promote Gandhi ji's ideology. We will renovate buildings associated with him, there won't be any high rise. Existing schools and activities which were not part of the original Ashram will be removed," Narhari Amin, the BJP MP and one of the members of the council. As a matter of fact, last week over 50 residents of the Ashram were taken to circuit house where architect Bimal Patel gave a presentation showing them the redevelopment plan and the tenements that will be built for them in the same scheme. They have been promised to be given ownership, which they don't have as on today as most of them are tenants. When the news of this project became public in 2019, these residents staged protests on several occasions against their eviction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anxiety-looms-over-the-autonomy-of-sabarmati-ashram-with-its-redevelopment-plan-960532.html
