11-03-2021||First Edit||Leave institutions, PhD theses alone||The recent controversy over a PhD dissertation by a scholar at the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Ahmedabad, again highlights issues relating to the autonomy of institutions of higher learning and the academic freedom afforded to students and faculty. There is a law that gives autonomy to the business schools but attempts at interference and control keep coming up. The latest that has come into the public realm is a move by the government to persuade the director of IIM-A to review the contents of a PhD dissertation on electoral democracy. The director, Errol D’Souza, resisted the pressure and stood his ground, though it is not known if the last word has yet been said in the matter.  BJP leader Subramanian Swamy wrote to the education ministry last year that a thesis submitted to IIM and approved by it contained references to the BJP and the BSP as “ethnically-constituted parties’’ and another mention of the BJP as “a pro-Hindu upper caste party.’’ He wanted the dissertation to be re-examined by "independent professors.’’ The ministry demanded from the IIM a copy of the dissertation, but the director refused to send it because the ministry has no right to sit in judgement over a PhD thesis. He also said that any matter relating to the content of the thesis should be raised with IIM’s Thesis Advisory and Examination Committee. But the ministry has sent him a reminder on the matter. It is unfortunate that the ministry did not pay heed to basic academic norms and practices. A PhD thesis does not represent the views of the institution that awards the degree. It only shows that the scholar has studied a topic and formed some well-argued and tenable conclusions about it. Examiners approve dissertations even when they disagree with their content.  The important point is that no person or agency outside the academic institution should have a say on the merits of a dissertation or the award of a PhD. That is why the IIM director’s stand is right and worthy of praise. Recently, the Ministry of Education had made a move to give itself powers to dismiss the board of governors of an IIM if it is found acting in contravention of the IIM Act. This was after disagreement over the IIM’s decision to start a one-year management course. But the law ministry vetoed it. The government also withdrew another directive requiring prior permission for virtual seminars, which would have affected all institutions, not just the IIMs. The IIM Act grants the business schools a fair amount of autonomy. But incidents and attempts keep coming up that endanger that autonomy. Other institutions are even more vulnerable in this respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/leave-institutions-phd-theses-alone-960567.html
11-03-2021||First Edit||Take the Vajpayee line||On April 22, 2002, then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee addressing Indian troops along the 740-km Line of Control (LoC) in Kupwara, which divides the two parts of Jammu and Kashmir, had thundered that India was prepared to go to war with Pakistan to end the menace of terrorism as he asked the soldiers "to be ready for sacrifice. Your goal should be victory. It's time to fight a decisive battle. We'll write a new chapter of victory." Nuclear-armed Indian and Pakistani militaries were on the brink of war. Troops had amassed on both sides of the LoC after a foiled attack to take hostage legislators in the Indian Parliament on December 13, 2001, allegedly by the terrorist outfit Jaish-e-Mohammad. On May 14, 2002, an attack on the Kaluchak army family quarters in J&K killed 31 people, including 10 children, eight women and five soldiers, further escalating tensions. Among the items recovered from the killed terrorists was a Sialkot cinema ticket.     Thanks to backchannel diplomacy, blessed by Vajpayee and then Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf, the tensions eased over several months. Surprising everyone, the two countries announced a ceasefire along the LoC on November 26, 2003. The LoC, which was marked by mortar and artillery shelling for years, suddenly went silent. Other steps followed, including regulated civilian traffic across the LoC through five points. On the table was the negotiated resolution of the Kashmir issue and possible demilitarisation of the Siachen heights, the world’s highest battlefield, among other issues.  The situation along the hilly LoC is often a barometer of Indian and Pakistani relations. That is why the February 25 surprise joint statement by both militaries to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the LoC becomes significant. The two sides claim that the announcement came after hotline discussions by the Director Generals of Military Operations (DGMO) of the two countries. Within the political establishment on both sides, there is caution in the air and there is reluctance to provide more details. On the Pakistani side, a comment was made by 40-year-old Mooed Yusuf, who enjoys a position analogous to National Security Adviser (NSA), as he denied media reports that the ceasefire was brokered by his meeting with his 76-year-old counterpart Ajit Doval. Understanding the context in which the ceasefire announcement was made may provide some cues at best. First, the announcement is merely a restatement of commitment by both countries to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire on the LoC. The 2003 ceasefire had lost its meaning on the ground. There were reportedly 5,100 instances of ceasefire violation along the LoC in 2020, the highest in nearly 18 years. Second, in the past, the overall regional security environment was seen as one of the factors that pushed Pakistan to agree to a ceasefire in 2003 as it needed troops to fight against the Taliban on its western border. The realities have not changed much for Pakistan, as stabilising the situation in the border areas along Afghanistan remains one of its core interests. In India’s case, in contrast to 2003, there is additional demand on the army to deter China’s aggressive posture along the Line of Actual Control, which divides the China-controlled Tibetan region from the Ladakh frontier. Both countries have claimed to agree to withdraw from the heights, though if the past is any guide, there is need for eternal vigilance so as not to be caught off guard. India gains in terms of its counterterrorism strategy as it makes available more troops to strengthen the internal counterinsurgency grid within J&K. With summer approaching, there will likely be greater infiltration from across the LoC as the snow melts. The threat perception rises within J&K, too. More than one lakh soldiers are reportedly posted along the LoC, apart from other security personnel. Third, the internal political environment in both countries is both enabling and disabling for further progress in their relations. In Pakistan, Prime Minister Imran Khan faces a political challenge from two established parties, the left-of-centre PPP, led by Bilawal Bhutto, and right-of-centre Nawaz Sharif-led Pakistan Muslim League, which have roots in two populous provinces Sindh and Punjab, respectively. There is a silver lining to the cloud. If Imran Khan takes some bold measures, which include possible concessions on Jammu and Kashmir, he may possibly face less opposition. The main resonance to the Kashmir issue is in the most populous Punjab province, where a large number of Muslim migrant families from southern J&K settled in 1947-48. Nawaz Sharif, who has been prime minister thrice, is in exile in the UK and has done the unthinkable by asking for the Pakistani military’s accountability for successive political interventions. He has accused the military leadership of sabotaging his efforts to bring peace with India, alluding to the Kargil misadventure in 1998 by the Pakistani military that led to war between the two countries just months after the Sharif-Vajpayee Lahore Declaration. In India, the clinching argument for making an effort towards peace is that only a party like the BJP, with its core appeal of Hindu nationalism, can take the political risk of finding a negotiated deal with Pakistan. If the past is any guide, in addition to dialogue with Pakistan, the Modi government also faces disaffection in Kashmir valley, which requires a more compassionate and sensitive handling. More than administrative micro-management, it is political messaging that could reduce that disaffection. And for that, the BJP has to look no further than the legacy of its founders. With his masterful poetic ambivalence, Vajpayee could reconcile several contradictions of the subcontinent by noting that "you can change friends, but not neighbours," and by simultaneously reaching out to the disaffected population in the Kashmir valley by promising them honour and dignity. (The writer is the author of “Across the LoC”, Columbia University Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/take-the-vajpayee-line-960568.html
11-03-2021||First Edit||You cannot silence the whole world||The Narendra Modi government is too easily provoked and is too sensitive to criticism of its policies and actions from within the country and outside. The latest instance of its lack of tolerance of criticism is the summoning of the British High Commissioner to India, Alexander Ellis, by Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to convey the government’s disapproval of the discussions on the farmers’ protest and press freedom in India in the British parliament. The government told the envoy of its “strong opposition to unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British parliament.” The debate on Monday saw several MPs of the Labour Party, Liberal Democrats and the Scottish National Party express concern over the Modi government’s handling of the protests. In a globalised and inter-connected world, events and developments in one place tend to evoke responses elsewhere, and this cannot always be scoffed at as interference in the internal affairs of countries. It should be noted that the debate was not about the agricultural laws, which are India’s internal matter, but about the way the Modi government handled the protests, which is a human rights issue, and the targeting of journalists covering the protests, which is a matter of press freedom. When the right to protest, which is a basic democratic right, is curbed or when protests are demonised, it is a matter of concern for people everywhere who attach value to democratic rights. The existence of a large population of Indian origin in the UK may also have been a reason for some MPs to take note of it but that does not make it just a matter of vote bank politics. India has seen increased suppression and violations of civil, political and human rights in the past few years. The country’s status was recently downgraded from ‘free’ to ‘partly free’ by the democracy watchdog Freedom House. It has slipped on other parameters like the Cato Institute’s freedom index. There is increasing concern over this outside the country. The farmers’ protest, which has continued for months, has evoked many responses from many quarters, including individuals and organisations. It is wrong to dub all this as a conspiracy against India or interference in its internal affairs. Government policies and responses should not be based on paranoia or intolerance of criticism. The right policy is to ensure that there is no reason for criticism of, or complaints about, the country over its human rights record and democratic practices. If the government thinks there is a wrong campaign against the country or a misunderstanding of its policies and actions, it can counter it with facts and a demonstration of its respect for the rights of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/you-cannot-silence-the-whole-world-960876.html
11-03-2021||In Perspective||Oil prices can be reined in||Skyrocketing prices of petrol and diesel (in some states such as Rajasthan, petrol has hit the Rs 100 per litre mark) has led to a war of words between the ruling dispensation and the Opposition. While the former has put the blame squarely on the erstwhile UPA regime for not doing enough to increase domestic petroleum production, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself leading the charge, the latter says the “steep increase in central excise duty (CED) under Modi” is the real culprit. Currently, India imports nearly 85% of its crude oil requirement, making it perennially vulnerable to rising international price.  Modi’s argument may not be convincing as pricing of oil products being linked to the international price (even domestic refineries are paid for their supplies on this basis), even if the share of indigenous production were to be, say, 50% or even higher, even then Indian consumers would have been paying what they pay today. Even if the government were to abandon the extant system of ‘linkage with international price’ and let oil companies price the products based on domestic market forces, then also, given the overall deficit situation, it is unlikely that they would have charged any less. Notwithstanding the above, to blame the spike in pump price entirely on the increase in international price is not tenable either. The pump price is arrived at by adding four components, namely, the ex-refinery price (ERP), freight charges, dealer commission and taxes. The ERP, in turn, is linked to the import parity price (IPP) and export parity price (EPP) of the respective fuels in the ratio of 80:20. For instance, around mid-February, in Delhi, the price of Rs 89.29 per litre included ERP plus freight: Rs 32.1; CED: Rs 32.9; dealer commission: Rs 3.68; VAT: Rs 20.61.  The tax component of Rs 53.51 per litre alone being 60% of the retail price (in case of diesel, it is 56%), how can the Modi government even think of exonerating itself over the high prices! It is also not correct to say that this is primarily due to high CED. Out of Rs 33 per litre, Rs 18 per litre is due to the Road and Infrastructure Cess, which is entirely retained by the Centre. Of the balance Rs 15 per litre, it retains 59% or Rs 9 per litre and gives the rest to the states (41% under the 15th Finance Commission devolution formula). On a net basis, therefore, the Centre gets Rs 27 per litre, while almost an equivalent amount, Rs 26.6 per litre, goes to the state, thereby implying that both the Union government and the state are equally responsible for the high prices. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has opined that bringing these products (besides crude, natural gas and ATF) under the Goods and Services Tax (GST) can help in reducing the tax burden. Has she thought this through? Can it be done? What is the track record? Let us take up the last question first. The GST constitutional amendment provided for inclusion of these products in the new system, but the purpose was defeated by branding them as ‘zero-rated’ – a misleading way of saying that they would continue under pre-GST regime. This was prompted by the fear of revenue loss. But the GST Compensation Act, 2017, along with an amendment to this Act, help garner resources by levying cess on goods falling in the highest GST slab of 28% to fund the compensation to the states for the loss of revenue. Yet, the decision to keep these products outside GST in the first place defies logic. The then finance minister and GST Council chairman, the late Arun Jaitley, had alluded to taking up the inclusion of natural gas in the Council’s 18th meeting, just before the launch of GST. But that did not happen. During 2018 and 2019 also, this issue was on the GST Council’s agenda but was deferred. Furthermore, replying to a question on a TV channel, Jaitley had said that he was “personally not in favour of excluding the aforementioned products.” Yet, the Centre and states decided to exclude them, and the position continues till date. Now, following the spike in oil prices, both Modi and Nirmala Sitharaman have reiterated the need to include petroleum products under GST. Even if the GST Council decides to put them under the highest tax slab (although by any stretch of imagination, oil and gas products cannot be termed as demerit or sin goods, so placing them in 18% or 12% slab would be more realistic), the applicable tax rate on petrol would be 28%. Against this, the current tax rate is a whopping 167% (53.51/32.1x100)!      Both the Centre and the states will shudder at the very thought of reducing the tax to a mere one-sixth of what they are collecting currently. They need to put their heads together to see how tax revenues from other sources can be boosted as bringing petroleum products under GST cannot be indefinitely postponed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/oil-prices-can-be-reined-in-960569.html
11-03-2021||In Perspective||The difficulty of being a good protester||The farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day sparked debates among the intellectuals, particularly regarding the hoisting of a flag at Red Fort. The form of the protest caused hue and cry amongst us. We condemned the incident, stating that while we support the cause of the farmers, we do not agree with their ‘unruly’ means of protest. The means adopted by protesters to express their dissent have been criticised in the past as well. Much of this condemnation comes typically from the urban middle class. We claim that we support the cause of the protests, but we disagree with the form of the same. For example, disappointment shrouded our apparent support when in the Black Lives Matter movement in the US, infuriated protesters raided shops or when buses were allegedly burned and train services were disrupted in some states during the CAA-NRC protests in India. Additionally, a recurring complaint of the urban middle class and elites is the disruption of traffic and their everyday activities due to ongoing strikes, protests, and rallies, and that protesters are unruly and violent. This class – our class -- is the primary beneficiary of the status quo, and thus we resent it if our usual way of life is hampered, irrespective of our stand in the matter. The functioning of this system has reduced the concern of our class of people to that of our own well-being alone. This self-centred individualism blurs our understanding of the larger class problem and exploitation of the oppressed. We put forth a typical argument, whereby protests are dichotomised between good and bad forms. We, the privileged, tend to dictate the methods and the language of protests of the oppressed by labelling them as 'violent' or 'peaceful' or too 'politically correct', according to our own whims and fancies. Our defining the ways of protests is but another form of oppression, inflicted on the basis of our privileged position. Our discussions on the correct ways of protests to be undertaken by the oppressed play into the hands of the establishment, which has  mentioned that a protest like that in Shaheen Bagh is unacceptable, and that the authorities should take steps to clear any obstructions. Further, the Supreme Court has reiterated that the right to protests cannot be “anytime, everywhere.” The tendency of us elite intellectuals to dictate the terms of protest from afar, reflects our assumed superiority in theoretical knowledge. It is disappointing to see the shift in the ‘debates’ and ‘discussions’ within intellectual circles from the actual oppression that certain sections of the community face to whether that was the ‘right’ way of protesting to put forth their demands. Such comments and complaints often come from a flawed understanding of society. We are so used to seeing the oppression of workers, Dalits and Muslims that we do not consider such systemic oppression as a form of structural violence meted out against them. Such a perception of society is a by-product of generations of nurtured indifference towards the structural discrimination and oppression faced by the deprived sections of society. When people suffering from generations of oppression spill over to the streets and there are sparks of violence by the oppressed for a change, the intellectuals get disturbed as it does not match their ideas of the ideal protest. We, therefore, end up condemning the protesters.  Besides, violence is often incited by the State by deploying goons, police and armed forces. Reports show the protesting farmers claiming that they had been attacked by government-sponsored goons with help from police. Similarly, the students of Jamia Milia University and Jawaharlal Nehru University were attacked because they had been protesting against CAA-NRC and fee hikes by the university administration. This brings to mind the statement of Max Weber -- that the State claims a monopoly on violence. It can take the form of structural and systematic oppression, as well as explicit violence through the deployment of police, goons, and using media houses as political pawns for spreading false propaganda. The systematic forms of violence are arguably more widespread and normalised -- to the extent that they do not generally warrant attention of the masses. However, violence is condemned only when exercised by the oppressed, as it is generally more explicit and primarily aims to upset the accepted functioning of the oppressive system. The elite intellectuals call for peaceful and non-violent protests, but we often ignore that it is not our decision to make. Only the victims of structural and explicit violence meted out by the State and the system can decide their forms of protests, whether they wish to sit in peaceful protest, like at Shaheen Bagh, or whether they cause disruption to the usual functioning of the system by calling for a chakka jaam. (Dasgupta is a graduate student at Colorado State University, Colorado; Mukherjee is a PhD Scholar at the Centre for Development Studies, Kerala)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-difficulty-of-being-a-good-protester-960877.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Suresh Angadi's mother passes away at 92||Somavva Angadi, the mother of late union minister Suresh Angadi, passed away at her residence at K K Kopp village in Belagavi taluk on Thursday due to age-related ailments. She was 92 years old and is survived by four sons and one daughter. Somavva was yet to come to terms with the death of her beloved son Suresh, who died due to Covid-19 in September last year. She was not able to attend his last rites too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/suresh-angadis-mother-passes-away-at-92-960674.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man with SA Covid strain and nine primary contacts quarantined||Nine primary contacts and 30 secondary contacts of a 58-year-old man from Shivamogga, who is Karnataka's first Covid-19 case with the South Africa variant 501.V2 of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, have been traced and are quarantined. The report of their samples is awaited.  Speaking to DH, District Health Officer Rajesh Suragihalli said the man was employed in a hotel in Saudi Arabia. He might have been infected by the variant while he was in Dubai for about a month. He is undergoing treatment in the Covid ward in district McGann hospital in the city and his condition is stable. His spouse and son have tested negative. Suragihalli said people of the district needn't panic as the situation is under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-with-sa-covid-strain-and-nine-primary-contacts-quarantined-960791.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Locals offer puja at M M Hill temple on Maha Shivratri; those from outside Chamarajanagr district denied entry||Maha Shivaratri was celebrated with religious fervour, as per the tradition, at Male Mahadeshwara Hill in Hanur taluk, Chamarajanagar district, on Thursday. However, the temple wore a deserted look as the district administration and the M M Hill Temple Development Authority had banned the entry of devotees from other districts, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The residents within the M M Hill Gram Panchayat limits were allowed to be a part of the annual festival. The sanctum sanctorum was decorated with apple, grapes, orange, sweet lime, corn and a variety of colourful flowers. After abhisheka on Wednesday night, the idol was taken on a procession to Salur Mutt, launching the five-day Shivaratri festival. Special puja rituals and night vigil (jagarane) were held on Thursday. Maharathotsava will be held on the last day of the festival. It may be mentioned that lakhs of people used to visit the pilgrim shrine every year, on Mahashivartri day. But, this year, it has been limited to locals, priests and temple management committee members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/locals-offer-puja-at-m-m-hill-temple-on-maha-shivratri-those-from-outside-chamarajanagr-district-denied-entry-960886.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Heritage city soaks in the spirit of Maha Shivaratri||Thousands of devotees thronged Shiva temples in the city, to offer puja on the occasion of Shivaratri festival, on Thursday. The devotees also observed fasting, meditation and chanted prayers throughout the day. The 11-kg golden mask (Kolaga) was adorned to the presiding deity at Trineshwara Swamy temple on Mysuru Palace premises. The mask was brought out from the District Treasury on Wednesday. The deity was decked up with a variety of flowers. Thousands of people had darshan of the deity from dawn-to-dusk. There was celebration at Suttur Mutt branch at the foot of Chamundi Hill, Hosamutt, Kuderu Mutt and other religious centres. Special programmes like bhajans and devotional songs were organised as part of the celebration. Kamakameshwari Temple on Ramanuja Road was decorated for the festivities. Various religious and cultural events were organised. Likewise, special events were organised at 108 Shivalinga temple at Gurukula. Celebrations were grand at Chandramouleshwara temple at Matru Mandali Circle, Mukkaneshwara temple on Ashoka Road, Prasanna Visveshwaraswami temple at Chamarajapuram, Amruteshwara Temple on Dewans Road, and Nageshwara Bhogeshwaraswami temple on Bogadi road. A Shivalinga measuring 21-foot in height, made of coconuts by Prajapita Brahma Kumaris Ishwariya Vishwa Vidyalaya on Lalitha Mahal Ground was a major attraction. It will be kept for public viewing until March 13, between 6 am and 10 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/heritage-city-soaks-in-the-spirit-of-maha-shivaratri-960887.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Rampant corruption in cooperative sector, alleges ex-CM H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader, also former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy alleged rampant irregularities and corruption in the cooperative sector, including Mysuru District Cooperative Milk Producers’ Societies’ Union Limited (MyMUL), which is going for elections on March 16. In a press conference here, Kumaraswamy said, “There is rampant corruption and irregularities in cooperative sector and everyone knows it. There is no proper law and I will bring in change if JD(S) is elected.” “I have never involved myself in cooperative election. But, this time, I will campaign for JD(S) syndicate for MyMUL election,” he said, adding that the Congress leaders are supporting the JD(S) and a Congress candidate is also in JD(S) syndicate, he said. Kumaraswamy slammed JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda, who has distanced himself from the party activities for the last two years. JD(S) had given the responsibility of MyMUL to a few leaders. But, they are looking for personal gains rather than the development of the party. Kumaraswamy said, “It is his responsibility to strengthen the party and to protect it. Victory and defeat is common in elections. I am not involving in the election for prestige.” Kumaraswamy also claimed that MyMUL election is not between him and G T Devegowda or between JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh and Devegowda. “We have not come to show our strength, but to protect the party,” he said.   Alleging rampant corruption in the recruitment process of MyMUL, Kumaraswamy alleged that the authorities have illegally collected Rs 60 crore while filling vacant posts. To a query about former JD(S) MLA Madhu Bangarappa’s meeting with Leade rof the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Kumaraswamy said, “Madhu is free to take a decision and it is a closed chapter.” Madhu Bangarappa, also son of former chief minister S Bangarappa, has announced joining Congress.    Sa Ra Mahesh, MLA M Ashvin Kumar, leaders Ravi Kumar and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rampant-corruption-in-cooperative-sector-alleges-ex-cm-h-d-kumaraswamy-960889.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Goa minister visits wildlife sanctuary in H D Kote||Rural Development Minister of Goa, Michael Lobo, along with his family members, visited the Dhammanakatte Wildlife Safari in H D Kote taluk, Mysuru district, on Wednesday and held discussions with the Forest department officials. Lobo and his family members went on a safari and spent some memorable moments surrounded by nature. He also enquired the officials on the wildfire incidents in the forests and also about how the ponds and lakes in the forest are being filled with water to quench the thirst of the animals. India is one of the countries which has a major tiger population and needs such sanctuaries. The development of the sanctuaries will improve tourism activities, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/goa-minister-visits-wildlife-sanctuary-in-h-d-kote-960890.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Stop unnecessary expenses for BIFFES, filmmakers tell CM B S Yediyurappa||Ten leading filmmakers have written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking his intervention to stop ‘unnecessary expenses’ for the 13th edition of Bengaluru International Film Festival (BIFFES) and prevent the Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy (KCA) from involving an event management group to organise the gala event. The government has allocated Rs 7 crore for the 13th Biffes between March 24 and 31.  The letter was written on March 9, three days after Congress MLC Mohan Kondajji’s letter to chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, to stop involving DNA company for organising the event. Kondajji wrote a letter to Yediyurappa on February 11, requesting him to stop spending Rs 2 crore for inauguration and valedictory, considering the current economic status. In the letter, Girish Kasaravalli, P Sheshadri, Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar, B Suresh, Kavitha Lankesh, Ramesh Bhat, among others, stated that about Rs 3 crore was being spent for the inauguration and valedictory, which did not serve any purpose. Instead, the amount could be used to organise mini film festivals in other cities. Efforts to involve an outsourced agency should be stopped to prevent ‘misuse of public money,’ it said. “In the past, about Rs 2 crore was given to Kareena Kapoor and Jaya Bachchan, the guests at the inauguration and valedictory as remuneration,” Sheshadri told DH. Sunil Puranik, chairman, KCA, rubbished such reports as false. “Misleading information is spread in the media. We haven’t involved any event management group. We have not issued any work order. We have invited tenders for various works strictly as per guidelines,” he clarified. “KCA will organise the 13th Biffes,” he stressed. Puranik justified the move to spend money on inauguration and valedictory. “Famous personalities and over 250 artistes participate. We should organise as per international standards. How can we have shown without inauguration and valedictory?” he sought to know. “We are yet to decide on how much to allocate for these two events. Technically, it is impossible to divert the funds to organise mini film festivals in other cities. Only the chief minister can approve it,” he explained. Puranik expressed displeasure that none of the filmmakers contacted the KCA seeking clarification.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/stop-unnecessary-expenses-for-biffes-filmmakers-tell-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-960903.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal threatens stir in Assembly over quota for Panchamasali Lingayat sect||BJP member Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has threatened to stage a protest in the Assembly if Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa fails to provide clarity on when the government will decide on giving Category 2A status to the Panchamasali Lingayat sect.  “I want the CM to say how long it will take... two, three, four months? Or, let him say he won’t do it at all,” Yatnal said, raising the issue in the Assembly. Yediyurappa was not in the House. He said he would stage a protest when the Assembly session resumes on March 15.  “When I met the CM yesterday, he said he’ll reply in the House positively. Now, he’s absconding,” Yatnal said. CM’s political secretary M P Renukacharya objected to the use of the word ‘absconding’ and engaged in a verbal duel with Yatnal.  “We will have to face people in two years. Even you will have to face people,” Yatnal told Renukacharya. “The CM is where he is today because of the support from our community,” he said.   A known critic of Yediyurappa, Yatnal has been doggedly pursuing the Category 2A status for the Panchamasalis, the sect that he belongs to. “This needn’t go to the Centre. The Cabinet can take a decision. We have to go to the Centre only when there’s a need to insert castes or communities into the SC/ST list,” Yatnal said.  At present, the Panchamasalis come under Category 3B with a 5% quota. Under Category 2A, they will get a share in the 15% quota.  Yatnal also found fault with the government’s decision to constitute a 3-member committee to look into the issue of reservation. “This is a trick to buy time,” he said. “When there’s a permanent (backward classes) commission, what’s the need for another panel?,” Yatnal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/basanagouda-patil-yatnal-threatens-stir-in-assembly-over-quota-for-panchamasali-lingayat-sect-960541.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||It's official: Madhu Bangarappa joins Congress||JD(S) leader S Madhu Bangarappa formally announced on Thursday that he joined the Congress, a move that was in the works for quite some time.  Madhu met Congress Legislature Party (CLP) Leader Siddaramaiah, which in a way was a ‘soft’ induction. A large convention will be organised in Shivamogga sometime in April to mark Madhu’s entry into the Congress.  Son of former chief minister, the late S Bangarappa, Madhu is said to have been sulking as he felt sidelined in the JD(S). His brother Kumar Bangarappa is with the BJP representing Soraba assembly constituency.  “In today's circumstances, the state and the country needs Congress and I believe there's space for me here to work, grow and express myself,” Madhu told reporters. “Starting today, I will begin my activities as a Congress worker.”  Madhu and Kumar have changed parties over the years. Madhu started off with the BJP while Kumar was with the Congress. Madhu then went to the Samajwadi Party and then JD(S) whereas Kumar shifted to the BJP.  Madhu defeated his brother Kumar in the 2013 assembly election in the Soraba constituency. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, Madhu was the Congress-JD(S) candidate from Shimoga and lost to Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Raghavendra. After this defeat, Madhu was made the JD(S) working president. He also served as the JD(S) youth wing president.  The change of party will not “alter” the respect he has for JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda and JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy, Madhu said. He was responding to Kumaraswamy’s statement in Mysuru hitting out at Madhu for “backstabbing” the JD(S) after having “enjoyed power” in the party.  “All of you know that I was quiet for the last one year. There’s contribution from both sides, but if (Kumaraswamy) feels like that, I can only say that he shouldn’t,” Madhu said. “I didn't enjoy power in JD(S), because I never got it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/its-official-madhu-bangarappa-joins-congress-960802.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Ramesh Jarkiholi scandal: SIT probe is of no use, says JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy||Former chief minister and JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday raised suspicions over a thorough probe in connection with a CD case allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and said the investigation is of no use. Speaking to reporters here, Kumaraswamy said the state government has handed over the  CD case to Special Investigation Team (SIT). “Against whom and on what basis the investigation will be conducted,” he questioned, adding, “I don’t know on what basis the probe was ordered.” The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) authorities might claim the CD is fake and nothing more can be expected. Several such cases, including former minister H Y Meti’s case, received a clean chit. No accused were punished in such cases, Kumaraswamy said. Ministers flayed Kumaraswamy slammed six ministers for seeking an injunction against newspapers and TV channels from publishing anything defamatory against them. “When the ministers are not capable of protecting themselves, how they will protect the people of the state? We would have accepted if they had sought an injunction against publishing or telecasting any matter against them but, they have sought an injunction against publishing reports of CD related to them,” Kumaraswamy said.   The six ministers are Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Health, Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, Municipal Administration Minister K C Narayan Gowda and Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj. The six ministers are among the 17 MLAs who joined BJP from JD(S) and Congress which resulted in the fall of the previous JD(S)-Congress coalition government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/ramesh-jarkiholi-scandal-sit-probe-is-of-no-use-says-jds-leader-h-d-kumaraswamy-960893.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Make Balachandra Jarkiholi water resources minister: Shrimant Patil||Textiles Minister Shrimant Patil has demanded that KMF chairman and Arabhavi MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi should be made water resources minister to complete the pending irrigation projects and take measures for the implementation of new projects for North Karnataka region until Ramesh Jarkiholi comes out clean of the CD scandal allegations. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Thursday, he said, "We have expressed our views to make Balachandra Jarkiholi as a minister in the interest of the region. Many of the irrigation projects have been stalled and need to resume again." He said Ramesh Jarkiholi had himself demanded an inquiry into the scandal allegations by the highest authorities. "The state government has formed a Special Investigation Team (SIT) and we hope the investigations will be completed soon and he would come out clean," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/make-balachandra-jarkiholi-water-resources-minister-shrimant-patil-960898.html
11-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Mosque committee asks trader to vacate shop for joining BJP||A businessman, whose utensils shop was in a mosque complex in Old Hubballi, has been issued notice by the mosque committee to vacate as he joined the BJP recently. According to Abdul Munaf Ainapuri, a resident of Mulla Oni in Old Hubballi, trouble started for him after he joined the BJP a few days ago. Abdul, a former president of the Bhankapur block of the Congress, joined BJP at district incharge Minister Jagadish Shettar’s house on March 7, along with a few of his supporters. “I have received a notice from Old Hubballi Waqf Committee to vacate my shop within next seven days, failing which I will be thrown out of the ‘Jamaat’. Who are they (waqf members) to decide which party I should support or not,” he said, and added that he had joined BJP on his own will after being impressed by the work of local leaders. He said, more than 200 members of the ‘Jamaat’ and senior Muslim leaders, including Jama Masjid administration committee president and vice-president, barged into his house and threatened him against joining BJP, which according to them is anti-Muslim. Abdul said, there is no question of leaving BJP now, as I am fed up with the Congress party, which has done nothing for the community over the years. “When I was in Congress (for 10 years), they did not take me seriously, and did not allow me to work for the betterment of my people. Now, when I have joined BJP, some Congress leaders are creating trouble for me, as BJP has been supporting my works for a long time now,” he said. He said, senior BJP leaders have assured him that the issue will be resolved soon. Speaking to DH, Hubballi-Dharwad city Congress president Altaf Hallur said, members of the Muslim community are in all political parties. Joining any political party is their personal choice. There is no connection between Congress and Abdul being issued notice, he said. The Jama Masjid administration committee office-bearers refused to comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mosque-committee-asks-trader-to-vacate-shop-for-joining-bjp-960909.html
11-03-2021||Main Article||Congress: All at sea||The G-23 is not a congregation of international leaders huddled in a swanky getaway in the Swiss Alps confabulating on climate change in a post-Trump world order. Neither is it a ragtag gang of disgruntled old men plotting a midnight putsch. In fact, it is an assemblage of 23 passionate politicians with immense self-respect for the political party they represent: the Indian National Congress, the ‘Grand Old Party’ of India. Yet, at various times, they have been uncharitably branded by craven followers as “BJP agents”, the deceptive Trojan horse. Or as self-serving superannuated over-the-hill sort who are looking for cosy sinecures in the December of their flagging political careers and who, on being denied the same, are behaving like petulant grumps. Or as those who are looking for the last hurrah before walking into the proverbial sunset (incidentally, the BJP has chosen octogenarian “Metro Man” E Sreedharan, 88, as their CM candidate for Kerala). But all these imaginative speculations are as off the mark as Englishman Joe Root’s bat at the turning ball from Ravichandran Ashwin. When eight of these political heavyweights, which included Ghulam Nabi Azad, Kapil Sibal, Anand Sharma, B S Hooda, etc., recently spoke from a public pulpit in Jammu, all hell broke loose. Effigies were burnt; “off with their heads,” was the vociferous call from lily-livered loyalists. They were missing the woods for the trees. The eight spoke for many within Congress. And outside. Rahul Gandhi made a sardonic dig at erstwhile colleague Jyotiraditya Scindia, calling him a backbencher in the BJP. In Congress, Scindia would have become Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh had he demonstrated patience and commitment to ideology, he suggested. Rahul’s tardy observation was a manifestation of his leadership myopia. While he exhibited schadenfreude in the perceptible discomfiture of the Nawab of Gwalior in the BJP, the more fundamental question remained unaddressed: Why did Scindia prefer that alleged mortification to being in Congress? Why did Rahul allow Scindia, who was his Lok Sabha compatriot, to leave? If apparently Scindia could walk into the sprawling 12, Tughlaq Lane bungalow anytime because they were close chums, how come Rahul never sensed that his buddy was upset at being sandbagged? It is this communication paralysis in Rahul’s handling of Congress generals, in particular, that has led to the current cul-de-sac in the Congress. Sachin Pilot, another popular ‘Young Turk’ almost left Congress as well last year in what would have been a terrible disaster for the party. After a serious drubbing in two Lok Sabha elections, losing Scindia and the state of Madhya Pradesh (which had been reclaimed from the BJP after 15 long years), Congress nearly blew away Rajasthan which, had it happened, would have been nothing short of suicide for the party. It was inexplicable absurdity in the art of handling an existential cataclysmic collapse. The party is gradually slipping down a quicksand but seems unable to understand the threat of extinction it faces. Maybe there is something Rahul and his cabal know that ordinary mortals don’t. Nothing illustrates Congress’ fatal death-wish than the recent Gujarat municipal election results. In 2017, a pugnacious Rahul brought about a spectacular turnaround in Congress fortunes in a state where it has been out of power since 1995. Albeit BJP still won, Rahul showed that he was willing and able to take the Modi-Shah bull by the horns. Fast forward to 2021, and Congress is in complete disarrangement. It has not just been obliterated from urban municipalities but deracinated from even its once traditional foothold in the rural councils (which had borne the brunt of Modi’s flawed ‘Gujarat model’). Instead of a mega-consolidation post-2017, Congress has become a woebegone mess. The inevitable must be asked: Who is responsible for such electoral meltdowns? Very few in Congress are ballsy enough to ask such questions, being conditioned to years of inglorious obsequiousness at the altars of the Delhi Durbar. It is this lack of organisational robustness, internal democracy and the absence of an accountable leadership that has sunk Congress. But is anybody listening? The summer elections are a litmus test for Congress; another dismal under-performance could prove catastrophic. Barring Tamil Nadu (where DMK+Congress looks formidable), the other four election-bound states see the party floundering. The fact that the Puducherry government was toppled by BJP’s Operation Lotus reflects how Congress barely has any operational leverage over its regional satraps. In Kerala, the Left, under Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, seems set to give a historic snub to Congress (the state has oscillated between Left and Congress in every election since 1987). In West Bengal, the feisty Mamata Banerjee is unlikely to give Congress much headroom. The real crowning glory for Congress would be winning Assam, whose complex ethnicity was meant to be ruthlessly exploited by BJP using the double whammy of CAA and NRC. May 2, 2021 could prove to be a watershed day for Congress’ immediate future. India is changing at a rapid speed, but Congress’ metabolism is not able to keep pace with it. There are many political analysts and Left-leaning historians who are convinced that the current feudal, monarchical avatar of Congress is in sync with its historical context, wherein powerful political personalities lorded over simmering inner chasms using their unfettered veto. They were the unquestioned trouble-shooters, and their verdict was sacrosanct. The Nehru-Gandhis, according to them, are not a conundrum, but a continuum of the same political culture. They think internal democracy or transparent elections within the party will damage its core unifying threads, create fissures. Funnily, that’s precisely what they expect from Prime Minister Modi for India -- translucency, openness. Isn’t what’s sauce for the goose, sauce for the gander too?   As I was writing this, another Congress veteran quit the party: P C Chacko. While Rahul displayed his stupendous fitness and freestyle swimming acrobatics in the ocean, Congress remains all at sea. While Rahul may have the six-pack abs, it is Congress that needs the proteins. (The writer is a former Congress spokesperson)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/congress-all-at-sea-960878.html
11-03-2021||National||Centre approves creation of PMSSN fund with an initial corpus of Rs 20,000 crore||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of a non-lapsable reserve fund with an initial corpus of Rs 20,000 crore to fund the flagship schemes of the Union Health Ministry including the family medical insurance provided under Ayushman Bharat for the poor and backward families. Named Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Nidhi, the new fund for the health sector has been created from the proceeds of health and education cess, which was announced by then Finance Minister Arun Jaitley in 2018 to infuse resources into the health and education sector. The fund would be managed and administered by the Health Ministry. In the current fiscal, the fund is likely to have a capital of Rs 20,000 crore, health ministry sources told DH. In any financial year, the expenditure on flagship schemes would be initially incurred from the PMSSN after which the resources allocated in the annual budget will be tapped. The major benefit, according to an official statement, will be enhanced access to universal and affordable health care through the availability of earmarked resources, while ensuring that the amount does not lapse at the end of the financial year. The PMSSN funds will be utilised for both arms of Ayushman Bharat - the medical insurance scheme for the poor and maintaining the health and wellness centres in villages, National Health Mission, Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana to improve health infrastructure, emergency and disaster preparedness and responses during health emergencies. Future programmes could also come under its ambit if they match the targets set out in the National Health Policy, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-approves-creation-of-pmssn-fund-with-an-initial-corpus-of-rs-20000-crore-960539.html
11-03-2021||National||Gadkari denies Scania bribery allegations||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Wednesday denied the media reports that Scania delivered a luxury bus to a company that had close ties with his sons. “Media reports that in November 2016, Scania delivered a luxury bus to a company that had close ties with Nitin Gadkari’s sons are malicious, fabricated and baseless. The minister and his family members have nothing to do with the purchase or sale of the bus,” said a statement from the minister office. The reports alleged that the Swedish bus maker had paid bribes to win bus contracts in India between 2013 and 2016, as reported by Reuters. Gadkari played a pivotal role in introducing Scania’s Ethanol-run bus in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-denies-scania-bribery-allegations-960547.html
11-03-2021||National||Kejriwal condemns 'attack' on Mamata, says those responsible must be arrested||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the alleged attack on his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee and said those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. The Trinamool Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during her election campaign in West Bengal's Nandigram, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. "I strongly condemn the attack on Mamta didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery," Kejriwal tweeted. I strongly condemn the attack on Mamta Didi. Those responsible shud be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery Banerjee alleged that no local police personnel were near her when four or five people might have deliberately pushed her causing the injury. Following the incident, she rushed back to Kolkata, around 130 km away, through a green corridor and taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital for treatment. The Election Commission of India has sought a report from the state police on the alleged attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kejriwal-condemns-attack-on-mamata-says-those-responsible-must-be-arrested-960581.html
11-03-2021||National||DH Toon | India summons UK envoy over 'unwarranted' discussion on farm laws||Irked by the discussion in the United Kingdom’s parliament on the continuing protests by the farmers in India, the government on Tuesday summoned the British High Commissioner in New Delhi, Alex Ellis, to the Ministry of External Affairs and served him a démarche. New Delhi conveyed to London that the discussion in the UK’s Parliament on the protest by the farmers was a “gross interference” in the politics of India. It also stressed that the members of the British Parliament should not practise “vote-bank politics”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-india-summons-uk-envoy-over-unwarranted-discussion-on-farm-laws-960634.html
11-03-2021||National||BJP brace yourselves: Abhishek Banerjee tweets Mamata's photo with injuries||Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, on Thursday, challenged the BJP over an alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. He said, "BJP, brace yourselves to see the power of people of Bengal on Sunday, May 2nd." On Wednesday, Banerjee sustained injuries on her left leg and waist as she fell on the ground after she was allegedly pushed by unknown miscreants while campaigning for assembly elections in Nandigram. The incident triggered a security scare as the chief minister gets Z-plus protection.   She has been admitted to IPGMER & SSKM Hospital in Kolkata.  Banerjee, who was supposed to stay the night in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district, was rushed back to Kolkata, around 130 km away, through a green corridor. The chief minister's nephew and TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee, Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien, and state ministers Partha Chatterjee, Firhad Hakim and Sujit Bose were present at the hospital, besides scores of party supporters who were shouting slogans against the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-brace-yourselves-abhishek-banerjee-tweets-mamatas-photo-with-injuries-960641.html
11-03-2021||National||CDSCO expert panel recommends Covaxin be moved out of 'clinical trial mode'||An expert panel of India's central drugs authority on Wednesday recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin while removing the condition for the vaccine to be administered in 'clinical trial mode', official sources said. The recommendations have been sent to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for consideration. If the vaccine is taken off clinical trial mode, then the beneficiaries will no longer have to sign a consent form for taking the jab. The subject expert committee (SEC) of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) went through the interim data of Covaxin's phase-3 clinical trial which showed that the vaccine has an efficacy of 80.6 per cent. Following this, the recommendations were made. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech recently had approached the drug regulator for it to consider removing the 'clinical trial mode' condition. India's drug regulator had on January 3 granted permission for the restricted use of Covaxin in emergency situation in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. "The vaccine (Covaxin) which has been given emergency use authorisation under clinical trial mode is accompanied by three documents. One is the factsheet which is read out and explained to beneficiaries, second is a consent form... and the third an adverse event reporting form where the recipient has to report adverse events for the first seven days," an official had said earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cdsco-expert-panel-recommends-covaxin-be-moved-out-of-clinical-trial-mode-960649.html
11-03-2021||National||India reports 22,854 new Covid-19 cases for the first time this year||The death toll increased to 1,58,189 with 126 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The total active cases have increased to 1,89,226 which now comprises 1.68 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease climbed to 1,09,38,146 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.92 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5, and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,42,58,293 samples have been tested up to March 10 with 7,78,416 samples being tested on Wednesday. A total of 2,56,85,011 doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered so far. On Wednesday, India had reported 17,921 Covid-19 cases and 133 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-22854-new-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-this-year-960653.html
11-03-2021||National||Aam Aadmi Party's Raghav Chadha tests positive for Covid-19||Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson and Delhi Jal Board vice chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. He said that no serious symptoms have surfaced yet but as a precautionary measure he is practicing self-isolation for the next few days. "I would like to inform you all that I have tested positive for Covid-19. No serious symptoms have surfaced yet but as a precautionary measure I am practicing self isolation for next few days," Chadha said on Twitter. I would like to inform you all that I have tested positive for COVID-19. No serious symptoms have surfaced yet but as a precautionary measure I am practicing self isolation for next few days. "My humble appeal to all who have came in direct contact with me in the last few days - if you notice any symptoms, please get yourself tested & take all necessary precautions. It is our responsibility to keep ourselves & others safe, preventing further spread of the virus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aam-aadmi-partys-raghav-chadha-tests-positive-for-covid-19-960655.html
11-03-2021||National||Twitter explodes with memes after Mamata Banerjee alleges attack||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was allegedly attacked on Wednesday, hours after she filed her nomination to contest from the Nandigram Assembly seat. Here's how political leaders and social media reacted to the incident: "The shameful attack on Mamata Banerjee is an assault on Indian democracy. The perpetrators of such a crime should be brought to justice immediately. Election Commission of India and the police dept should take stringent action to avoid such instances in the future," Stalin tweeted. Trinamool Congress' Derek O'Brien, too, joined in to wish Banerjee a speedy recovery. Trinamool Congress leader Abhishek Banerjee, on Thursday, challenged the BJP over an alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. He said, "BJP, brace yourselves to see the power of people of Bengal on Sunday, May 2nd." Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren tweeted: "Concerned & disturbed to know about the foot injury & hospitalisation of Mamata Didi during her election campaign in Nandigram. A high level investigation should be conducted to identify those behind this incident & punished. I wish her a speedy and healthy recovery." However, the BJP claimed the 'attack' was a drama move by Banerjee to garner sympathy, and cited eyewitness accounts to claim that her injury stemmed from an accident, rather than assault. Netizens, however, jumped at the opportunity to flood Twitter with memes and jokes. Here's a look at them:  Director: Prashant kishore hirani Haters from BJP may claim that this guy is former ManUtd manager Louis Van Gaal. Aap chronology samajhiye :||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-explodes-with-memes-after-mamata-banerjee-alleges-attack-960657.html
11-03-2021||National||Shashi Tharoor justifies British Parliament's move to discuss farm laws||After India summoned the British High Commissioner on Tuesday over an ‘unwarranted and tendentious’ discussion on farm laws in the UK Parliament, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that in democracies, elected representatives were free to give their point of view on this issue. “I don't blame the Government of India for doing its job, for speaking up for its point of view. But we must recognise there is another point of view & that in democracies, elected representatives are free to air their point of view on this,” Congress MP Shashi Tharoor told ANI. Tharoor, a former Foreign Minister, also stated that there was nothing surprising in this. “I don't think there is something so surprising. We should take it as a normal give and take that happen between democracies”, he added. “Just we, in India, can discuss say Palestine issue as we've done or can discuss if we so choose any other domestic issue of a foreign country, British Parliament has the same right,” the Congress MP further added. The Ministry of External Affairs said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had advised the envoy that British MPs should refrain from practising "vote bank politics" by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-justifies-british-parliaments-move-to-discuss-farm-laws-960663.html
11-03-2021||National||44% of Tamil Nadu MLAs are between 5th and 12th pass: ADR report||53 per cent of Tamil Nadu MLAs - 110 out of 204 - have declared their educational qualification to be of graduate or above, the Association for Democratic Reforms said in a report. Of those 110 MLAs, 45 MLAs have a post-graduate degree, amounting to 22 per cent of the total MLAs, while 5 MLAs have a doctorate. Three MLAs have a diploma. Meanwhile, 89 MLAs, amounting to 44 per cent, have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th pass and 12th pass, the report said. 1 MLA declared self to be just literate, while another MLA has not given any details of his educational quallification, the report said. Tamil Nadu goes to polls on April 6 in a single phase. The results for the state will be declared on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/44-of-tamil-nadu-mlas-are-between-5th-and-12th-pass-adr-report-960665.html
11-03-2021||National||From Shamli protest in 1987 to Delhi borders now, Mahendra Singh Tikait's legacy lives on with diya, hookah||Ahead of a clarion call given by Mahendra Singh Tikait almost 34 years ago in April 1987 for farmers of Western Uttar Pradesh to protest against a proposed hike in power tariff, a 'diya' was lit at his home here as a good omen and a hookah was set in the evening as per the routine. The agitation outside a powerhouse in Shamli soon became over-three-lakh-farmers strong and established 'Baba Tikait' as the most powerful farm leader of the region. The family ensured the 'diya' remained lit uninterrupted as Tikait went on to lead a lot many massive protests by farmers thereafter, including an unprecedented one at Delhi's Boat Club that brought the national capital to a standstill in 1988 with over five lakh farmers laying siege to the most central part of the national capital and made the Jat leader into an iconic figure known to bring any government to its knees with the sheer number of his supporters. It's been almost a decade since Tikait passed away, but his legacy continues and so does the 'flame' and now it is known as 'Akhand Jyot' (unbroken Flame). Also, the 'hookah' used by him is set every single evening in the room he used. On the ground floor of a two-story house in Sisauli, a little over 100 km from Delhi, his room continues to be maintained every day by his family and a lot many of his close supporters, including those who had closely worked with him. It is this room where the 'Akhand Jyot' is placed in front of a picture of the legendary leader and it requires almost 1.25 kg of ghee every day to keep burning. The 10X12 ft room has a single bed with a single pillow, a chair made of cane, a hookah, a plastic chair and an electric room heater, while many metal and plastic canisters of ghee lay on one side. "The bedsheet and the pillow cover are changed from time to time, while his 'hookah' is set every evening. All the day's happenings are then stated here in this room by one of us," Narendra Tikait, the youngest of the four sons of Tikait, told PTI. "The 'Akhand Jyot' will continue forever," he said. There are over a dozen cattle in the house which produce enough milk to make ghee at the home itself and often people who visit the house to pay homage to Baba Tikait bring some ghee with them. The visitors are from across India but mostly from Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, he said. "But we only take one spoon of ghee from them as a mark of respect to them as we make enough ghee at our home itself," he added. A tradition has been set where the eldest person of the family present at the home on that particular evening would sit in the room for half an hour and update 'Baba' on the day's developments relating to farmers. "If there is any protest or movement or any major issue, we all sit here in this room and even if it's been an ordinary day, then also it is a must for at least some of us to sit in the room to follow the tradition," he said. Many of Mahendra Singh's aides and old supporters also continue to flock to the courtyard of the house every single day, including 97-year-old Dariyau Singh, who are joined by locals to discuss anything and everything under the sun over a shared hookah as dusk sets in. These days, the main topic obviously relates to the longest-ever farmers' protest being witnessed by the country on Delhi borders. It is Tikait's second of the four sons Rakesh Tikait who is leading the protest against the Centre at Ghazipur border in the national capital for over a hundred days now, while the eldest of the lot Naresh Tikait, president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) founded by their father, is canvassing across the region to keep adding to the count of protestors seeking the repeal of three contentious central farm laws. Dariyau Singh, who once served as BKU's treasurer under Mahendra Tikait and is now a tad hard of hearing, exudes faith in the farmers' capacity to fight the government's decision. Wearing a benign smile on his face full of wrinkles, Singh points towards the source of inspiration and strength for the protests – 'Akhand Jyot'. Thousands of farmers are camping at Delhi’s border points in Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur with a demand that the Centre repeal three farm laws that were enacted in September 2020 and make a new law guaranteeing minimum support price (MSP) for crops. The farmers fear the new laws would destroy their livelihoods and leave them at the mercy of corporations. The government, which held 11 rounds of formal talks with protesting unions before the negotiations completely broke down, has maintained that the laws are pro-farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-shamli-protest-in-1987-to-delhi-borders-now-mahendra-singh-tikaits-legacy-lives-on-with-diya-hookah-960671.html
11-03-2021||National||Mahashivratri: Hundreds of thousands take holy dip in Haridwar||Naked, dreadlocked holy men were among hundreds of thousands of jubilant pilgrims who thronged the banks of the Ganges river on Thursday, ignoring any coronavirus threat, for one of the nation's most famous and colourful religious festivals. Authorities in Haridwar expect 2.5 million people for the Mahashivratri festival, one of three auspicious bathing days over the next month as part of a major gathering called the Kumbh Mela. Before dawn, men, women and children jostled for space along the several miles of riverbank before a brief plunge in the fast-flowing water, singing hymns and showering flowers into the Ganges. The highlight later was set to be a jubilant procession by groups of hundreds of Naga Sadhus -- naked holy men with long dreadlocks, their bodies smeared in ash -- before their dip in the holy town in the Himalayan foothills. Because of the pandemic the government has curtailed the Kumbh Mela, a mass event held regularly in different cities, and negative test certificates are in theory compulsory. Announcements on the public address system in Haridwar blared out reminders to wear masks and maintain distancing as hundreds of volunteers sprayed sanitiser on the pilgrims. But with coronavirus cases has fallen sharply in recent months and many aspects of life back to normal in the country of 1.3 billion people, in reality, masks are few and far between. "There is no fear of the pandemic and people are moving freely. India has already defeated the disease and there's nothing to worry about," pilgrim Nitesh Kumar, 31, told AFP. "I have been waiting for this day for years but because of the pandemic, I thought it will be cancelled. But our belief is stronger than the pandemic," said Rishab, another pilgrim. India has recorded more than 11 million coronavirus infections, the world's second-highest toll, and almost 160,000 deaths. On Thursday the country recorded almost 23,000 infections, down sharply from a peak of almost 100,000 in September but more than double the rates were seen in January. Cases are rising again in several regions, especially in the western state of Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai where authorities have reimposed restrictions. According to Hindu mythology, gods and demons fought a war over a sacred pitcher containing the nectar of immortality. Drops fell at four different locations, which now alternate as hosts for the immense Kumbh Mela gatherings. Recognised as an example of intangible cultural heritage by UNESCO in 2017, the last Kumbh Mela in Allahabad in 2019 attracted around 55 million people over 48 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mahashivratri-hundreds-of-thousands-take-holy-dip-in-haridwar-960673.html
11-03-2021||National||The Lead: The Yes Bank story||In this episode of the Lead, Furquan Moharkan talks about what went wrong with Yes Bank and his book "The Banker Who Crushed His Diamonds: The Yes Bank Story" Ahmed Shariff: Hi and welcome to another episode of the Lead by DH Radio. Today we are joined by Furquan Moharkan the author of "The Banker Who Crushed His Diamonds: The Yes Bank Story". Hi  Furquan and welcome to DH Radio. Furquan Moharkan: Thank you, glad to have you speaking to me. Ahmed: What pushed you to write this book? Furquan: I was covering the Yes Bank story before its collapse. 1-1.5 years before its collapse. When I was constantly doing the stories, I realised how rigged the system is. The system was rigged against the retail shareholders... To know more about the conversation listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-the-yes-bank-story-960676.html
11-03-2021||National||TMC, BJP to knock EC's door over 'attack' on Mamata Banerjee||A day after an alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, TMC and BJP delegations are planning to meet the Election Commission on Thursday.  A TMC delegation will mee meet Election Commission officers in Kolkata to file a complaint about the alleged attack on party chief Mamata in Nandigram yesterday, while the BJP delegation will meet the Commission to demand a proper enquiry into the incident. The three-member TMC delegation, led by state minister Partha Chatterjee, would register a complaint about the incident and demand a thorough probe. "We would seek a reply from the EC, how come the security was not in place despite Mamata Banerjee still being the chief minister of the state. It is the duty of the EC to ensure the safety of the candidates," a senior TMC leader said. Chatterjee would be accompanied by TMC's leader in Rajya Sabha Derek O'Brien and state minister Chandrima Bhattacharya. West Bengal: A TMC delegation to meet Election Commission officers in Kolkata today & file a complaint about the alleged attack on party chief Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram yesterday. A BJP delegation will also meet the commission to demand a proper enquiry into the incident. A delegation of the opposition BJP is also scheduled to meet the EC officials to demand a proper investigation into the incident. "We want the video footage of the incident to be made public so that the people get to know what actually happened," a state BJP leader said. Preliminary medical tests conducted on Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in her right shoulder, forearm and neck, they said. "A temporary plaster was done on her left ankle and she will undergo several blood tests this morning. Her ECG report was fine." Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-bjp-to-knock-ecs-door-over-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-960678.html
11-03-2021||National||Dilip Ghosh calls 'attack' on Mamata Banerjee a 'well-scripted drama'||BJP's West Bengal unit president Dilip Ghosh on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying that it needs to be seen whether the incident was a "well-scripted drama" to garner votes. Speaking to reporters, Ghosh said that the people of the state have seen such "drama" earlier as well. "It needs to be probed about what actually happened. How come a Z-plus protectee gets attacked is a matter that has to be looked into. The state should order a CBI probe to bring out the truth," he said. "It needs to be seen whether it was a true incident or a well-scripted drama," Ghosh said, referring to Banerjee's photos on the hospital bed with her leg plastered. Ghosh said that "such a drama" to garner sympathy votes, sensing defeat, would not yield any results this time. "The people of the state have seen such drama earlier too. Those who know they would be voted out of power can stoop to any level to get votes," he said. The chief minister is at present undergoing treatment at the SSKM Hospital in Kolkata with injury to her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck, according to doctors. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries. The Trinamool Congress alleged that it was a well- planned conspiracy to "remove her" from the poll campaign. "Many people don't want her to campaign for the elections. They want her to be removed from their path. The BJP should be ashamed of themselves that they have stooped so low that they are attacking a woman," TMC leader Sougata Roy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dilip-ghosh-calls-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-a-well-scripted-drama-960683.html
11-03-2021||National||At core of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth, values for humanity: PM||Asserting that a self-reliant India is good for the world, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that at the core of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' is to create wealth and values "not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity". Speaking at the launch of the Kindle version of Swami Chidbhavananda's 'Bhagavad Gita' via video conferencing, the prime minister said 1.3 billion people of India have decided their course of action which is that they are going to make India 'Atmanirbhar' or self-reliant.  "In the long term, only a self-reliant India is in everyone's interest. At the core of Atmanirbhar Bharat is to create wealth and values not only for ourselves but for the larger humanity. We believe that an Atmanirbhar Bharat is good for the world," he said. In the recent past, when the world needed medicines, India did whatever it could to provide them, he said "Our scientists worked in a quick time to come out with vaccines. Now, India is humbled that vaccines made in India are going around the world. We want to heal as well as help humanity. This is exactly what the Bhagavad Gita teaches us," the prime minister stressed. He said that when the Bhagavad Gita was born there was conflict and many feel that humanity is passing through similar conflict and challenges now, Modi said. "The world is fighting a tough battle against a once-in-a-lifetime global pandemic. The economic and social impacts are also far-reaching. In such a time, the path shown in Bhagavad Gita becomes ever relevant," he asserted. It could provide strength and direction to once again emerge victorious from the challenges humanity faces, he said "In India, we saw many instances of this. --our people-powered fight against Covid-19, the outstanding spirit of the people, the courage of citizens, one can say that behind this is a glimpse of what the Gita highlights," he said. Noting that E-books are becoming very popular especially among the youth, Modi said, therefore, this effort will connect more youngsters with the noble thoughts of the Gita. The beauty of the Gita is in its depth, diversity and flexibility, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-core-of-aatmanirbhar-bharat-is-to-create-wealth-values-for-humanity-pm-960685.html
11-03-2021||National||India downgraded to 'electoral autocracy', says Swedish institute||An independent research institute based at University of Gothenburg in Sweden has branded India as an “electoral autocracy” in its latest Democracy Report 2021 – just days after the “Freedom House” of the United States downgraded it from a “Free Country” to a “Partly Free Country”. The V-Dem Institute stated in its annual report that India, which was the largest democracy in the world, turned into an “electoral autocracy”. “A major change is that India — formerly the world’s largest democracy with 1.37 billion inhabitants — turned into an electoral autocracy,” it stated, adding, “With this, electoral and closed autocracies are home to 68 per cent of the world’s population.” The institute, which was founded by Professor Staffan I Lindberg in 2014, noted that liberal democracies diminished from 41 countries in 2010 to 32 in 2020, with a population share of only 14 per cent. The electoral democracies account for 60 nations and the remaining 19 per cent of the population, it added. India’s level of liberal democracy registered at 0.34 by the end of 2020 after a steep decline from its high of 0.57 in 2013. It represented a 23-percentage point drop on the 0 to 1 Liberal Democracy Index scale, making it one of the most dramatic shifts in the world over the past 10 years, alongside autocratizing countries like Brazil, Hungary, and Turkey, the V-Dem Institute reported. It claimed that India’s decline on the Liberal Democracy Index started after Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged victorious in the 2014 parliamentary elections. “The Indian government rarely, if ever, used to exercise censorship as evidenced by its score of 3.5 out of 4 before Modi became Prime Minister. By 2020, this score is close to 1.5 meaning that censorship efforts are becoming routine and no longer even restricted to sensitive (to the government) issues,” the V-Dem (or Varieties of Democracy) Institute noted. India is, in this aspect, now as autocratic as is Pakistan, and worse than both its neighbours Bangladesh and Nepal. In general, according to the report, the Modi-led government in India has used laws on sedition, defamation, and counterterrorism to silence critics. It cited the example of over 7,000 people being charged with sedition after the BJP assumed power. It noted that most of the accused were critics of the ruling party. The Freedom House, which is based in the US, recently gave 67 points out of 100 in its latest report, “Freedom in the World 2021”, — four points lesser than its performance last year. It scored 34 marks out of 40 in terms of “political rights” and 33 out of 60 in “civil liberties”. The country scored 51 out of 100 in a separate assessment of the extent of internet freedom.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-downgraded-to-electoral-autocracy-says-swedish-institute-960686.html
11-03-2021||National||Earn goodwill within country: HC slams Centre on export of coronavirus vaccines||The Delhi High Court questioned the Centre’s move of transporting coronavirus vaccines to other countries and said that goodwill had to be earned within the country first and then outside it. The high court was hearing a PIL initiated by the high court to examine the demand to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers, as “frontline workers” so that they could receive Covid-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition. It further said that the judiciary was an important wing and one of the three pillars of the state. The Centre must not compare it with others. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said the government is very sensitive to the needs of the citizens which would be clear from their affidavit filed in the matter, and India is way ahead of other countries in terms of vaccination. He clarified that he was not trying to compare one profession with the other and the executive should not and is not doing it. As the affidavits of the Centre filed through central government standing counsel Anil Soni, and Bharat Biotech were not on record, the court asked the counsel to take steps to place them on record and listed the matter for further hearing on March 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earn-goodwill-within-country-hc-slams-centre-on-export-of-coronavirus-vaccines-960690.html
11-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Complete lockdown in Nagpur for a week from March 15||As the surge in Covid-19 cases continues in Maharashtra, a complete lockdown will be imposed in Nagpur City Police Commissionerate area from March 15 to March 21, according to ANI. Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut said that shops of essential commodities will remain open, the minister said. Liquor will be sold online only during the lockdown period. The district has been reporting a spike in daily cases since the last month. Raut chaired a meeting of top district officials here and later told reporters that the lockdown will be enforced in the Nagpur Police Commissionerate limits from March 15 to 21. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had last year in January had appointed guardian ministers for all 36 districts of the state. During the lockdown, private offices will remain closed, while government offices will work at 25 per cent capacity, said Raut. Raut said people should not move out unnecessarily. On February 22, some restrictions were imposed in Nagpur, including strict curbs on weekends. On Wednesday, the district reported 1,710 new coronavirus cases, which pushed its overall tally to 1,62,053. There are 12,166 active Covid-19 cases at present in Nagpur. A total of 4,417 people have died due to the viral infection in the district so far, as per official figures. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-complete-lockdown-in-nagpur-for-a-week-from-march-15-960691.html
11-03-2021||National||Sunil Gavaskar joins congenital heart disease treatment campaign||At a time when the Covid-19 pandemic imposed major stress on healthcare resources, the Rotary Club of Bombay Airport raised around Rs 2.17 crore for free paediatric heart surgeries for children with Congenital Heart Disease (CHD) at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centre for Child Heart Care in Kharghar in the satellite township of Navi Mumbai. Legendary cricketer and former Team India skipper Sunil Gavaskar, who has been championing the cause of CHD through various awareness and non-profit programmes, joined the campaign initiative. Rotary Club of Bombay Airport president Nitin Mehta raised Rs 2.17 crore to give a new lease of life to around 150 children suffering from CHD. “It becomes more challenging for parents from the rural areas to access specialised medical care in a private hospital. Many families cannot afford the expensive treatment or reach facilities providing low-cost treatment in time. Awareness and early intervention can help ease the problems faced by them. There is a need for a proactive response from the corporates and HNIs to provide generous funding,” he said. The Little Maestro said, "In the game of cricket, the opening batsmen lay the foundation for the rest of the team to come forward and make a contribution. My request is for you to spread the message and to tell the world of the work that is being done here towards a healthier and better world.” Every year around 2,50,000 children are born with heart problems and only 50,000 of these are treated. Close to 25 per cent succumb to the disease within the first year, and the rest go untreated, creating a huge backlog nationally. This year, many hospitals across the country witnessed a reduction in their CHD programmes due to Covid-19; the availability of staff, equipment, resources, and operating rooms for Paediatric Cardiac Surgeries were affected, further burdening the long-pending list of children with CHD. The Rotary Club of Bombay Airport along with partner club Rotary Club of Fort Wayne, USA, Rotary Districts 3141 & 5360, and a global grant from Rotary International, raised USD 2,93,000, equivalent to Rs 2.17 crore for paediatric heart surgeries at Sri Sathya Sai Sanjeevani Centre for Child Heart Care. C Sreenivas, Chairman, Sri Sathya Sai Health & Education Trust said, “We thank Rotary Club of Bombay Airport who came forward to support the children with CHD during the Covid19 pandemic. Since the launch of the programme to date, around 85 surgeries were successfully performed and by May ’21, we will perform the other 65 surgeries. Around 750 surgeries and interventions are planned for this year, and from next year, this number would be around 1800 – 2000 annually”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunil-gavaskar-joins-congenital-heart-disease-treatment-campaign-960695.html
11-03-2021||National||17-year-old girl's charred body found in Uttar Pradesh's Chitrakoot: Police||The charred body of a mentally unstable girl, who had gone missing from her residence, was found from a village in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Thursday. The body of the 17-year-old was found from Kuriyadeeh village in the Bargarh area on Wednesday, Station House Officer (SHO) Ravi Prakash said. She had gone missing from her home on Monday. Her family has alleged that she was killed and the body was set afire. The body has been sent for post-mortem and a probe is on, the police said, adding that no arrest has so far been made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-year-old-girls-charred-body-found-in-uttar-pradeshs-chitrakoot-police-960699.html
11-03-2021||National||6 states account for over 85% of fresh Covid-19 cases in India: Health Ministry||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of fresh Covid-19 cases and together account for 85.91 per cent of the new cases of the coronavirus infection reported in the country in a span of 24 hours, the Union health ministry said on Thursday. A total of 22,854 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the country in the said period. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of fresh cases at 13,659 (almost 60 per cent of the number of cases reported in the country), followed by Kerala (2,475) and Punjab (1,393), the ministry said. Eight states -- Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the number of fresh cases. India currently has 1,89,226 active Covid-19 cases, which account for 1.68 per cent of its total caseload. Showing the change in the number of active cases for the states in the 24-hour period, the health ministry said Kerala reported the maximum decline in the figure while Maharashtra has shown the maximum increase. More than 2.56 crore (2,56,85,011) vaccine doses have so far been administered in the country through 4,78,168 sessions, according to a provisional report compiled at Thursday 7 am, the ministry said. The beneficiaries include 71,97,100 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been administered the first dose, 40,13,249 HCWs who have been given the second dose, 70,54,659 frontline workers (FLWs) who have been given the first dose and 6,37,281 FLWs who have received the second dose. Besides, 9,67,058 beneficiaries aged above 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 58,15,664 beneficiaries aged above 60 years have also received the first dose of the vaccine. On the 54th day (March 10) of the ongoing vaccination drive, a total of 13,17,357 vaccine doses were administered -- 10,30,243 beneficiaries inoculated across 20,299 sessions for the first dose and 2,87,114 HCWs and FLWs given the second dose. A total of 126 Covid-19 deaths were reported in the country in the 24-hour period. Six states account for 82.54 per cent of the new deaths, with Maharashtra accounting for the maximum casualties (54), followed by Punjab (17) and Kerala (14), the health ministry said. Nineteen states and Union territories -- Gujarat, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Odisha, Goa, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh, Manipur, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh -- have not reported any Covid-19 death in the said period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-states-account-for-over-85-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-india-health-ministry-960709.html
11-03-2021||National||Akhilesh Yadav targets Yogi Adityanath, says due not given to SP regime for works||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath of taking credit for works done in the SP regime. A day after Adityanath visited Bundelkhand region and took a selfie at the Lahchura dam, Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi, "Thankfully the picture is his own, though the work is of someone else!". Yadav also tagged a photograph of the CM on which it was written, "Taking a selfie in front of the Lahchura dam built in the SP regime...thank you for shining light on the work done during our time". Adityanath had on Wednesday accused previous state governments of looting the wealth of the Bundelkhand region, and said it will become a paradise under the BJP dispensation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-targets-yogi-adityanath-says-due-not-given-to-sp-regime-for-works-960710.html
11-03-2021||National||As cases surge, who's in line for Covid-19 vaccination in the next phase?||India is ramping up its vaccination drive as the number of cases are on the rise again and the next set of beneficiaries will be high priority groups over 50 years of age, according to a report. In the first phase, healthcare workers and frontline workers were given the Covid-19 vaccine. In the following phase, those above 60 years of age and those aged above 45 with specific comorbidities were targeted. Next in line are individuals above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities. This is according to the priority groups drawn up by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). “The government had to prioritise. Health care and frontline workers were a top priority as this category is directly involved in Covid-19 management and is at maximum risk. Now that it has opened for the general population, which is a larger number, the age group has been further sub-divided.” The 'above 50' category had been subdivided for feasibility, into 60+ group and in the specified comorbid group aged between 45-59 years, upon recommendation from NEGVAC. “Now that there has been a sharp vaccination scale up over the past few days, it is being deliberated to also open up the next category in line, which is above 50. NEGVAC recommended including 50 plus population group also, and the process could start soon as the capacity is clearly in place,” the official is quoted as saying. On Tuesday, the Health Ministry had announced that at least 2 million doses of vaccine were administered across India, making it the highest daily count in the drive so far. India recorded 22,854 cases of coronavirus infection in a day, the highest in around two-and-half-months, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,12,85,561. This is the first time in this year that the country saw a daily Covid-19 spike of over 22,000 cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of fresh Covid-19 cases and together account for 85.91 per cent of the new cases of the coronavirus infection reported in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-cases-surge-whos-in-line-for-covid-19-vaccination-in-the-next-phase-960719.html
11-03-2021||National||Noisy scenes in assembly over northeast Delhi riots issue; BJP MLA marshalled out||The Delhi assembly witnessed heated exchanges between Aam Aadmi Party and opposition BJP members on Thursday after the ruling party's MLA Amanatullah Khan accused a political party of playing a role in the last year northeast Delhi riots. Speaker Ram Niwas Goel directed that BJP MLA Anil Bajpai be marshalled out of the House after he entered the Well to lodge his protest. The BJP member was also directed by Goel to remain absent from the House for the remaining part of the day. Goel adjourned the House amid the commotion. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member Khan, who is the chairman of the Minority Welfare Committee of the Assembly, made the allegation while presenting its report on the communal riots in February last year. Goel got the political party's name expunged from the records as he intervened to restore order in the House. He also discontinued Khan from speaking on the committee's report amid vociferous protests by BJP members. The riots had erupted in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and also led to extensive destruction of property, including schools as well as religious places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/noisy-scenes-in-assembly-over-northeast-delhi-riots-issue-bjp-mla-marshalled-out-960730.html
11-03-2021||National||Enforcement Directorate attaches assets of Jamtara-based cyber criminals||The ED has attached assets worth about Rs 66 lakh of alleged cyber criminals based in Jharkhand's Jamtara district, the central probe agency said on Thursday. It said the assets, provisionally attached under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), include three immovable residential properties situated at Mirga village in the district, four vehicles as well as bank deposits of accused Pradeep Kumar Mandal, Pintu Mandal, Ankush Kumar Mandal, Santosh Mandal and Ganesh Mandal. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) slapped criminal charges under the PMLA against the accused after taking cognisance of a Jharkhand police FIR and chargesheet that charged them with illegal withdrawal and transfer of money from ATMs and bank accounts of gullible people in the guise of being bank officials. The ED said its investigation found that the accused "in connivance with other persons acquired funds in their bank accounts and family members' bank accounts by cheating bank customers, some other individuals and invested the same in the construction of houses and purchase of vehicles". The agency had filed a chargesheet in the case before a special PMLA court in Ranchi in May, 2019 and "charges against all the accused persons have been framed and the trial is underway".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enforcement-directorate-attaches-assets-of-jamtara-based-cyber-criminals-960755.html
11-03-2021||National||PM Modi's image excluded from Covid-19 vaccine certificates in poll-bound states||The Union Health Ministry has applied filters in its Co-Win platform in poll-going states and union territory to exclude the picture of the prime minister from the Covid-19 vaccine certificates, sources said on Thursday. In a letter to the Election Commission on March 9, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan is learnt to have said that "technical measures to comply with the directions of EC have been explored promptly." "Necessary filters" in Co-WIN have been applied for the vaccination centres situated in the four states of Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Union Territory of Puducherry, as suggested by the Commission. Following a complaint by the Trinamool Congress, the Commission had asked the health ministry to follow the model code in letter and spirit. It had suggested the use of filters in the Co-Win platform to exclude the picture of the prime minister in Covid-19 certificates being given to people in the poll-bound states and the UT. Sources aware of the correspondence between the Election Commission and the ministry said the panel has not referred to any individual or personality but had asked the health ministry to follow the provisions of the model code in letter and spirit. The poll panel had suggested the use of filters to comply with the provisions of the poll code. The model code had come into force in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry on February 26, the day the EC announced polls in these four states and union territory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-image-excluded-from-covid-19-vaccine-certificates-in-poll-bound-states-960758.html
11-03-2021||National||Saffron activists recite 'Shiv Chalisa' inside Taj Mahal on Mahashivratri||Some Saffron activists once again managed to dodge the security personnel and recited 'Shiv Chalisa' (hymns praising Lord Shiva) inside the Taj Mahal complex in Agra on 'Mahashivratri' on Thursday. According to the police sources, three members, including the state president of Hindu Mahasabha, Meena Diwakar, were taken into custody in this connection.  Police said that Diwakar, who entered the Taj Mahal on Thursday morning with two other members of the outfit, occupied what is known as 'Diana Bench' (a bench inside the Taj Mahal premises, where Princess Diana once sat during her visit to the monument in 1992...since then it has become popular as Diana Bench) and started reciting the 'Shiv Chalisa'. The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) jawans reached the spot after getting the information and took Diwakar and the other activists in custody. They were later handed over to the police, sources said. Scores of saffron activists laid siege to the police station, where the three were kept, demanding their release.  Diwakar had earlier also been arrested after she recited hymns inside the Taj Mahal premises. She had also tried to enter the monument with 'kanwar' (earthen pitcher carrying Ganga waters to be offered to Lord Shiva). In January this year, four members of the outfit Hindu Jagaran Manch, including its district president Gauravn Thakur, were arrested by the police after they waved saffron flags inside the monument.  The saffron outfits consider Taj Mahal to be a Shiva temple, which was 'demolished' by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan and converted into a mosque. They call it 'Tejo Mahal'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/saffron-activists-recite-shiv-chalisa-inside-taj-mahal-on-mahashivratri-960766.html
11-03-2021||National||Unable to pay school fee, Class 12 student shoots himself dead in UP's Shahjahanpur||A Class 12 student allegedly died by suicide in this Uttar Pradesh district as he was "upset" over his father's failure to pay his school fee, police said on Thursday. Anup Kumar (18) shot himself with a countrymade pistol on Wednesday, after his father told him that he could not arrange the money for his school fee, Deputy Superintendent of Police Mahendra Kumar said. The deceased's father, Parmeshwar Dayal, who works as a labourer, told the police that two months ago, his son had asked for Rs 8,000 to pay his school fee. On Wednesday, he again asked his father about the money. The body of the deceased has been sent for post-mortem, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/unable-to-pay-school-fee-class-12-student-shoots-himself-dead-in-ups-shahjahanpur-960770.html
11-03-2021||National||When DMK and AIADMK came close to merging||In the current days, the DMK and the AIADMK, the two biggest local parties in Tamil Nadu, are bitter rivals. Each tries to one-up the other, and the efforts have intensified as the Assembly election inch ever closer. But there was a time when the two parties would have become a single party, had former Union Minister and ex-Odisha CM Biju Patnaik's efforts paid off. Meanwhile, AIADMK's MG Ramachandran was two years into his stint as the CM of Tamil Nadu. His party had lent support to Charan Singh and was in talks with Gandhi as the shadow of a general election loomed overhead. But when a meeting between the two parties failed, Patnaik entered the picture. The former Union Minister had been the Minister of Steel for Moraji Desai's and Charan Singh's governments and held good relations with M Karunanidhi, the DMK chief. He brought up the idea of merging the DMK with AIADMK to Karunanidhi, saying that it was Ramachandran who suggested it and sought Karunanidhi's terms, the report said. To Patnaik's elation, Karunanidhi's terms were simple: The merged entity would retain the DMK name with AIADMK's flag. MGR would be the CM and Karunanidhi would be the head of the merged entity. Pleased with the terms, Patnaik arranged for a meeting between MGR and Karunanidhi at the Chepauk Guest House in Chennai. Over there, MGR and Karunanidhi held a one-on-one meeting, and after agreeing to the terms, decided to convene an emergency executive council meeting the next day, to pass resolutions on the merger. However, when the meeting occurred, MGR did not mention the merger, but the DMK came under attack from his ministers. Over three decades after the failed meeting, the DMK chief said that MGR's cabinet minister Panruti Ramachandran played spoilsport to the merger. While the meeting with MGR was cordial, “he left for Vellore after the meeting. I do not know what happened in the car,” said Karunanidhi, and hinted that an ‘undesirable’ person who was with MGR may have turned him away, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/when-dmk-and-aiadmk-came-close-to-merging-960772.html
11-03-2021||National||Indian footballer Sunil Chhetri tests positive for Covid-19||Indian football team captain and star striker Sunil Chhetri on Thursday said he has tested positive for Covid-19, a development that is set to rule him out of the international friendly against Oman on March 25 in Dubai. He is also likely to miss the March 29 friendly against United Arab Emirates at the same venue. The Bengaluru FC star forward took to social media to post the update and said that he is feeling fine. "In a not-so-happy update, I've tested positive for Covid-19. In better news, I feel fine as I continue my recovery from the virus and should be back on a football pitch soon," Chhetri wrote on his Twitter handle. "No better time to keep reminding everyone to continue taking all the safety precautions always." The 36-year-old was competing in the Indian Super League (ISL) till last month in Goa in a bio-secure bubble. His campaign got over after Bengaluru FC failed to make the semifinals. The team's last game was on February 25, which Chhetri played and also scored a goal. Bengaluru FC were placed seventh on the table at the end of the league stage. The former champions logged 22 points after winning five matches, drawing seven and losing eight games. Chhetri, the second highest goal scorer in international football among active players, scored eight times in the 20 ISL games this season. As part of the preparation for the two matches against Oman and UAE, the national team is scheduled to assemble for a preparatory camp in Dubai from March 15. India last played an international match in November 2019, in the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers against Afghanistan (in Tajikistan) and Oman (in Muscat). Already out of contention for the second round of World Cup qualifiers, India are scheduled to play two home matches against Asian Champions Qatar and Afghanistan, and an away game against Bangladesh. In a not-so-happy update, I've tested positive for COVID-19. In better news, I feel fine as I continue my recovery from the virus and should be back on a football pitch soon. No better time to keep reminding everyone to continue taking all the safety precautions always.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-footballer-sunil-chhetri-tests-positive-for-covid-19-960773.html
11-03-2021||National||PIL in SC seeks guidelines for compensation on wrongful prosecution||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court for a direction to the Centre to frame guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and implement the recommendations of the Law Commission’s report number 277.  Being custodian of the Constitution and protector of the right to life, liberty and dignity, the Supreme Court may use its plenary constitutional power, as an alternative, to frame the guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions, it said. Petitioner, BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay contended the cause of action for instant PIL that arose on January 28, 2021 when a division bench of Allahabad High Court declared one, Vishnu Tiwari, as innocent, who remained in jail for 20 years after being booked for rape and atrocities under SC/ST Act, due to a land dispute. The petitioner said the injury caused to the citizens for wrongful prosecution is extremely large as citizens’ right to life, liberty and dignity, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, is being brazenly offended.  He pointed out the Law Commission submitted its report number 277 on August 30, 2018, after undertaking a comprehensive examination of issue of relief and rehabilitation to victims of wrongful prosecution and incarceration, on a direction by the Delhi High Court, on November 30, 2017. The plea claimed there has been a spurt in false cases. "Wrongful prosecution and incarceration of innocent persons with no effective statutory and legal mechanism, is causing “miscarriage of justice” and has created a black-hole in the criminal jurisprudence of our country," it said. According to Prison Statistics India, 2015 (PSI), there were 4,19,623 prisoners across the country, out of which, 67.2 per cent i.e. 2,82,076 were under trial; substantially higher than the convict population i.e. 1,34,168 (32.0%). The petitioner said absence of any effective statutory and legal scheme for providing mandatory compensatory scheme to victims of wrongful and malicious prosecutions and incarceration infringes fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution. "It is need of the hour to have a set of specific guidelines and for the State and its agencies to prevent police and prosecutorial misconduct to check false cases which destroyed lives of innocent," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-in-sc-seeks-guidelines-for-compensation-on-wrongful-prosecution-960787.html
11-03-2021||National||17 states operationalise 'One Nation-One Ration Card' system||Seventeen states have operationalised 'One Nation-One Ration Card' system with Uttarakhand being the latest to complete the reform, the finance ministry said on Thursday. States completing the One Nation-One Ration Card system reform are eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25 percent of gross state domestic product (GSDP). Accordingly, these states have been granted additional borrowing permission of Rs 37,600 crore by the Department of Expenditure, the ministry said in a statement. Implementation of the One Nation-One Ration Card system ensures availability of ration to beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes, especially the migrant workers and their families, at any fair price shop (FPS) across the country. The reform especially empowers the migratory population mostly labourers, daily wagers, urban poor like rag pickers, street dwellers, temporary workers in organised and unorganised sectors, domestic workers etc, who frequently change their place of dwelling to be self reliant in food security. This technology-driven reform enables the migrant beneficiaries to get their entitled quota of food grains from any electronic point of sale (e-PoS) enabled fair price shops of their choice anywhere in the country. In view of the resource requirement to meet multiple challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, the Government of India had on May 17, 2020, enhanced the borrowing limit of the states by 2 per cent of their GSDP. Half of this special dispensation (1 per cent of GSDP) was linked to undertaking citizen centric reforms by the states. The four citizen-centric areas for reforms identified by the Department of Expenditure were — implementation of One Nation-One Ration Card system; ease of doing business reform; urban local body and utility reforms; and power sector reforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/17-states-operationalise-one-nation-one-ration-card-system-960788.html
11-03-2021||National||Medicine body to study UP, Bihar models to combat Covid||The Uttar Pradesh and Bihar models of combating the Covid-19 pandemic is worth emulating by states where the cases of the viral infection is spiralling, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG) said on Thursday However, the federation of professional medical organisations in India feels that the two North Indian states must speed up the vaccination drive. According to OMAG Secretary General Dr IS Gilada, somehow the constituent states of BIMARU - Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh -  are keeping a very low profile in Covid-19 numbers. “Especially the states of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh are blessed with only 1.2% and 1.9% of test positivity rate  -- Covid positive cases from among those tested for Covid, respectively, against the national average of 5% and 13.2% test positivity rate of Maharashtra,” said Dr Gilada, who who is also the President, AIDS Society of India and Governing Council Member, International AIDS Society. Dr Gilada said that Uttar Pradesh is almost double than Maharashtra's population and has a fourth of Maharashtra's Covid -19 numbers, so eventually a ratio of 1:8 or 12% of Maharashtra's cases. Bihar has a population of the same as that of Maharashtra but has only 11.6% (2,62,864) of Maharashtra's Covid-19 cases (22,52,057) as on yesterday.  On Wednesday, Bihar reported only 44 cases and Uttar Pradesh reported only 121 cases - just less than 0.4% and 1% - as against Maharashtra's 13,659 cases. “Low virulence of the virus, early lock-down, strict containment strategies, high-volume testing - whatever may be the reasons, Bihar and UP should keep the numbers this way,” he said. Dr Gilada  said that Bihar and Uttar Pradesh currently lack the vaccination drive, with 54,000 in Bihar and a minuscule 22,000 in UP on Wednesday. The vaccine uptake in Bihar and UP for eligible people should be as fast as possible to keep the numbers perpetually low. Let people know in the languages they understand that it's a choice between 'Vaccine or Virus'!  “I appeal to the scientific community and administrations in other states to study the Bihar and UP model and see what and how best that can be emulated elsewhere,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/medicine-body-to-study-up-bihar-models-to-combat-covid-960807.html
11-03-2021||National||Kangana Ranaut challenges warrant in case filed by Javed Akhtar||Actor Kangana Ranaut has approached a sessions court here challenging a bailable warrant issued by a magistrate in a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. Ranaut's plea, filed on Wednesday, is slated to be heard on March 15, court sources said. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court had on March 1 issued a bailable warrant against the actor after she failed to appear before the court. The magistrate had issued a summons in February, directing her to appear on March 1. Earlier, the police had submitted a report on Akhtar's complaint, saying an offence of defamation was prima facie made out against Ranaut. Akhtar has accused the actor of making false statements about him and damaging his reputation when she spoke about a `coterie' in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput's death last June.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kangana-ranaut-challenges-warrant-in-case-filed-by-javed-akhtar-960808.html
11-03-2021||National||DH Radio | From the Newsroom: Report ranks India among top 10 countries where democracy has declined||In your evening news brief, a report ranks India in top 10 countries where democracy has declined; Mamata Banerjee says she would be back for the poll campaign in a few days and use a wheelchair if needed; Danish health authorities say they were temporarily suspending the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine and China’s Parliament adopts plan to build hydropower project on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet close to the Arunachal Pradesh border.    Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of March 11, 2021: According to a report by Sweden-based institute Varieties of Democracy (V-Dem), India is now among top 10 countries globally along with Brazil and Turkey where democracy has declined.  In an electoral autocratic regime, "ruling governments first attack the media and civil society and polarise societies by disrespecting opponents and spreading false information," the report said. Currently, countries moving toward autocratization outnumber countries where democracy is advancing. *** West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday urged her supporters to maintain peace and not do anything that would cause problems to the public. In a video message from the hospital bed, Banerjee said she would be back for the poll campaign in a few days and use a wheelchair if needed. Mamata was injured during the election campaign in Nandigram. *** Danish health authorities said Thursday they were temporarily suspending the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine after some patients developed blood clots since receiving the jab. The move comes "following reports of serious cases of blood clots among people vaccinated with AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine", the Danish Health Authority said in a statement. But it cautiously added that "it has not been determined, at the time being, that there is a link between the vaccine and the blood clots". *** China’s Parliament on Thursday adopted the 14th Five-Year Plan, the mega blueprint containing billions of dollars worth of projects, including the controversial hydropower project on the Brahmaputra river in Tibet close to the Arunachal Pradesh border over which India has raised concerns. The National People’s Congress (NPC), China's legislature with over 2,000 members mostly drawn from the ruling Communist Party, adopted the 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025) for national economic and social development and the long-range objectives through the year 2035, on the last day of its six-day session on Thursday, official media reported. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-radio-from-the-newsroom-report-ranks-india-among-top-10-countries-where-democracy-has-declined-960812.html
11-03-2021||National||85% passenger trains to be operated within a month: Piyush Goyal||Around 85 per cent of passenger trains will be operated within a month, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said. Railways will gradually restart services based on the demand coming from passengers, the minister told media. “As of now, 95 per cent of suburban trains are operational. Mail and express trains are back to 75 per cent of what it was before the pandemic and will be 85 per cent within a month," he said. "On the other hand, we are handling more freight trains than what it was during the normal time,” he said. The national transporter is expected to handle at least 10 million tonne (MT) more freight traffic by the end of this financial year compared to the pre-Covid level. During the first nine days of March, freight traffic was seen up by 6.75 per cent compared to the same time last year, he said Separately, in a written reply in Lok Sabha, the Minister said Indian Railways has prepared a National Rail Plan (NRP) to create a "future ready" Railway system by 2030. The NRP is aimed to formulate strategies based on both operational capacities and commercial policy initiatives to increase the modal share of the Railways in freight to 45 per cent. The objective of the National Rail Plan is to create capacity ahead of demand, which in turn would also cater to future growth in demand. It will also increase the modal share of Railways to 45 per cent in freight traffic, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/85-passenger-trains-to-be-operated-within-a-month-piyush-goyal-960816.html
11-03-2021||National||Tanzania opposition leader says Magufuli in India with Covid-19||Tanzania's main opposition leader said on Thursday that President John Magufuli, an avowed Covid-19 sceptic out of public view for nearly two weeks, is in India receiving medical treatment for the virus and is in a serious condition. Tundu Lissu, who lost last year's election to Magufuli, cited medical and security sources in Kenya for his information that the president had been transferred from hospital in Kenya to India and was in a coma - but did not provide evidence. Tanzanian government spokesmen have stayed mum during days of speculation over the 61-year-old Magufuli's whereabouts and health. Representatives of Kenya's and India's governments also contacted by Reuters have not given information either. In power since 2015 and nicknamed "The Bulldozer," Magufuli was last seen on Feb. 27 looking his normal robust self during a ceremony at State House in Dar es Salaam. Lissu told Reuters that Magufuli was flown to Kenya's Nairobi Hospital at the start of this week and then on to an unknown destination in India. "He’s comatose since yesterday morning," he told Reuters, without elaborating. Kenya's Nation newspaper cited unidentified political and diplomatic sources on Wednesday saying that an African leader, which it did not name, was being treated for Covid-19 on a ventilator at Nairobi Hospital. Hospital representatives told Reuters they had no information to disclose. Magufuli's director of communications Gerson Msigwa and government spokesman Hassan Abbas have not responded to Reuters messages seeking comment. India's foreign ministry and its high commission, or embassy, in Nairobi had no immediate comment. 'Covid denialism in tatters' Magufuli has played down the threat from Covid-19, saying God and remedies such as steam inhalation would protect Tanzanians. He has mocked coronavirus tests, denounced vaccines as part of a Western conspiracy to take Africa's wealth, and opposed mask-wearing and social distancing. "His Covid denialism in tatters, his prayer-over-science folly has turned into a deadly boomerang," Lissu tweeted in the early hours of Thursday. According to Tanzania's constitution, Vice President Samia Suluhu Hassan would take over for the rest of the five-year term if the president is unable to discharge duties. Tanzania stopped reporting coronavirus data in May last year when it said it had 509 cases and 21 deaths, according to data held at the World Health Organization (WHO). WHO Africa director Matshidiso Moeti told a news conference on Thursday that she had no direct information on Magufuli's health and it would be unwise to speculate. She noted that Tanzania now recognised the danger of Covid-19 following two senior officials' deaths and said more data would be welcome. "Whatever is the case with President Magufuli, we can only wish him well if these stories are indeed true, and we very much reiterate our preparedness to support the government and the people of Tanzania," she said. Magufuli, a former chemistry professor from the village of Chato in northwest Tanzania, rose up the political ladder fast after winning a parliament seat in 1995. Elected president in 2015, he has faced accusations from Western countries and opposition parties of eroding democracy, which he denies. TV footage showed Magufuli on Jan. 8 thanking China's senior diplomat Wang Yi for turning up without a mask to meet him during a tour of Africa. Magufuli said that demonstrated the minister was aware Tanzania was free of Covid-19 and proceeded to shake his hand in front of cameras as both men smiled. Other Chinese officials present did wear masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tanzania-opposition-leader-says-magufuli-in-india-with-covid-19-960832.html
11-03-2021||National||India no longer a democratic country, claims Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Thursday claimed India was "no longer" a democratic country, quoting media reports on Swedish Institute's democracy report that downgraded India. "India is no longer a democratic country," he said on Twitter, tagging a news report citing Sweden's V-Dem Institute's democracy report that has downgraded India from 'world's largest democracy' to 'electoral democracy'. This comes after another global report by a US government-funded NGO, Freedom House downgraded India's status from "free" to "partly free" and claimed that "political rights and civil liberties have eroded in India since Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014". The government has strongly rebutted the Freedom House report and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced", while asserting that the country has well established democratic practices. Gandhi has been attacking the government over the issue of freedom to speech and expression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-no-longer-a-democratic-country-claims-rahul-gandhi-960838.html
11-03-2021||National||Need for clarity on redressal of Prevention of Sexual Harassment cases: Report||There is a need for more clarity on reporting about the Prevention of Sexual Harassment (POSH) cases by India Inc in a bid to create a safer workplace environment, according to a new report.  A new report by the corporate governance watchdog Excellence Enablers states that in FY 2019-20, 678 POSH cases were reported by the Nifty50 firms, and 600 cases were shown as disposed of. "However, according to the report, the companies have not made it clear that in how many of these 600 cases, the allegations were established, and appropriate remedial action was taken," the report stated. In 2018-19, the reported cases stood at 663 in Nifty50 companies, while 634 were disposed of.  Interestingly, in both years, 10 companies reported receiving zero POSH-related complaints. Out of these, eight companies, including 2 PSUs, had received zero complaints in both FYs, the report added. "The absence of complaints would seem to indicate either an ideal workplace or the lack of confidence among employees in reporting cases of this nature," the report stated. In FY 2018-19 and FY 2019-20, the maximum number of cases received by a single company were 142 and 125 respectively. As per Section 22 of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, the employer shall include in its report the number of cases filed, if any, and their disposal under this Act in the annual report of his organisation or where no such report is required to be prepared, intimate such number of cases, if any, to the District Officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-for-clarity-on-redressal-of-prevention-of-sexual-harassment-cases-report-960844.html
11-03-2021||National||Bharat Biotech's Covaxin granted restricted emergency use authorisation||The Centre on Thursday said Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin is out of the "clinical trial mode" and that it has now been granted the restricted emergency use authorisation. Addressing a weekly press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said Covaxin has been granted the permission for restricted use in emergency situation in public interest and that both Covid-19 vaccines Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute have the same licensure status now. "The condition of it (Covaxin) being required to be administered under clinical trial mode is no more there," Paul said. "Both the Covid-19 vaccines Covaxin and Covishield have the same licensure status. Covaxin has stood the test of time in terms of great safety. Only 311 individuals had minimal side effects. It is the triumph for India's research and development enterprise and science and technology enterprise," he said. India's drug regulator on January 3 had granted permission for the restricted use of Covaxin in emergency situations in the public interest as an abundant precaution, in clinical trial mode, especially in case of infection by mutant strains. The Subject Expert Panel on Covid-19 of the CDSCO had recommended granting emergency use authorisation to Bharat Biotech's indigenously developed Covaxin while removing the condition for the vaccine to be administered in "clinical trial mode". Replying to a question whether the government has a timeline in mind for phase 3 vaccination drive and who gets included in that, Paul said, "We are now focused on the relatively large group of individuals above the age of 60 as well as those aged 45- 60 with comorbidities. We are building a momentum to cover this significantly large group." "We will see progress and moving forward, yes, further increase in the circle of those who are eligible will be considered," Paul said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-biotechs-covaxin-granted-restricted-emergency-use-authorisation-960845.html
11-03-2021||National||Don't lower guard, Covid-19 pandemic not over yet: Centre on rise in active cases||Expressing concern over the rise in active Covid-19 cases in a few states, including Maharashtra, the Centre on Thursday advised people to be "careful and watchful" and not lower guard as the pandemic is not yet over. At a press conference, NITI Aayog member (Health) V K Paul termed the coronavirus situation, especially in Maharashtra "worrisome". He referred to the lockdown imposed in Nagpur from March 15 to 21 to say, "We are reaching a situation where these approaches (to tackle the spread of Covid-19) are being brought back." "We are very worried about the rise in cases in Maharashtra. Don't take this virus for granted. It can come up unexpectedly. If we have to remain free of this virus, Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy as well as vaccination has to be brought in," Paul said. He advised that in districts where Covid-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. Sounding a word of caution for Delhi and its neighbourhood, Paul said the national capital is seeing a rise in positivity rate, so is Gurgaon, Faridabad and to an extent Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad. "Be careful, be watchful. We still have a huge population at risk of this virus. This pandemic is not yet over. Be vigilant," he said. "Today, using the force of vaccination, we are in a position to give even a stronger fight (to the pandemic). We plead again, do not lower your guard and please embrace the vaccines that are available," Paul added. Asked whether a mutant strain of the coronavirus is responsible for the rise in cases, ICMR Director General Dr Balram Bhargava said it has not been found incriminating in the surge in Maharashtra. "At the moment, it is just related to reduced testing, tracking and tracing as well as Covid-inappropriate behaviour and large congregations," he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said Nagpur, Pune, Thane, Mumbai, Bengaluru Urban, Ernakulam, Amravati, Jalgaon, Nashik and Aurangabad districts have the highest number of active Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-lower-guard-covid-19-pandemic-not-over-yet-centre-on-rise-in-active-cases-960846.html
11-03-2021||National||Plea filed in SC against 'illegal detention' of Rohingyas||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court for release of 150-170 Rohingyas from “illegal detention” in Jammu earlier this month. An application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refuge, pointed out these people faced deportation back to Myanmar following verification by their embassy.  It sought a direction to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to intervene and determine the protection needs of the Rohingya refugees not just in the Jammu but also in camps across the country and complete the process of granting them Refugee cards. Even though the Supreme Court is seized of the matter, disturbing reports from the Rohingya families have come stating that subsequent to a biometric verification of Rohingya refugees undertaken by the Jammu and Kashmir administration, some people never returned to the camps but were detained and jailed by the police, it said.  “This is despite the fact that most of the Rohingya refugees have cards issued by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) acknowledging their status as refugees and granting them protections. Media reports detail how panic has gripped this already marginalised refugee community in Jammu after the verification drive and disappearance of family members,” it pointed out. The plea contended the situation for the Rohingya refugees is precarious in Jammu as it was reported that the government has repeatedly stated that they did not recognise the UNHCR refugee cards, given to them. It also pointed out the national security restriction can emphatically never permit mass refoulement as it is by default arbitrary for without any application of mind into the particular antecedents of each individual refugee. Expelling Rohingya due to their ethnic or religious origin cannot amount to a reasonable and individualised threat assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-against-illegal-detention-of-rohingyas-960857.html
11-03-2021||National||Surge continues as Maharashtra reports over 14,000 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 14,317 new Covid-19 cases as infections continued to surge in the state. There are over 1 lakh active coronavirus cases in the state at present. According to a Health Ministry statement, the state reported 7,193 discharges and 57 deaths in the last 24 hours. Cumulative cases in the state were 22,66,374. Mumbai and surrounding districts (MMR) reported over 2,800 cases. The Maharashtra government is mulling a lockdown in some parts of the state over the rising number of Covid-19 cases. The government announced a complete lockdown in Nagpur on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surge-continues-as-maharashtra-reports-over-14000-new-covid-19-cases-960859.html
11-03-2021||National||One group of ex-babus asks farmers to continue their stir, another group cautions them not to be misled||A group of retired bureaucrats from Uttar Pradesh Thursday appealed to farmers protesting against the three central farm reform laws to end their agitation saying the laws are in their interest. The retired bureaucrats, including former UP Chief Secretary Atul Gupta, also appealed to the farmers "not to be misled by any misinformation campaign unleashed by some vested interests against the farm laws". The appeal was made two days after another group of former bureaucrats and some prominent people from the state extended their support to the ongoing farmers' agitation. "The protesting farmers should not get misled by the misinformation campaign unleashed by some vested interests against the farm laws and try to understand the government’s motive behind them and the benefits the laws have for the farmers on their own," said Atul Gupta in a statement here. The former UP chief secretary added that the new farm laws have helped farmers increase their income, noting that the budgetary provisions are aimed at both strengthening agriculture and enhancing farmers' income. He further explained how the government does not at all intend to end mandis and instead seeks to link them electronically through eNAM (National Agriculture Market), which guarantees an increase in the rates of their produce by one and a half times. As for contract farming, Gupta said while the new laws allow farmers the freedom to end the agreement with the contractor, it does not give the same liberty to the contractor. The contractor is also bound by the law to pay a bonus to the contracting farmer if the farm produce yields more than the anticipated income, he said. Contract farming is not a new concept in India, said former IAS officer Sudesh Ojha, adding baseless rumours are being spread that the new laws would lead to farmers losing their land to contractors. Former UP Director General of Police Sulkhan Singh said the Centre and state government have taken several steps in the recent past to help farmers join the mainstream and contribute to the development of the nation while benefiting from the government's farmer-friendly policies. He said the UP government did not only pay Rs 1.15 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers but also reopened several sugar mills which had been shut down. The ex-UP DGP stressed that the new laws will not end mandis, or the Minimum Support Price mechanism provided by the government and, on the contrary, enhance farmers' income. Singh said the agitation has been causing problems for common people on a daily basis for months. Devendra Tiwari of Bharatiya Kisan Manch said the new laws allow farmers the freedom to sell their crops wherever and whoever they want to. Tiwari said while the government has increased the MSP, many baseless rumours are being spread about the farm laws. He added that the new laws make it binding for the buyers to pay on time. Earlier on Mar 9, several retired government officials and prominent UP people had extended their support to the ongoing farmers' agitation against the Centre's farm laws. In a statement issued here on Tuesday, former IAS officer and secretary to the government of India, Vijay Shankar Pandey and former IPS officer S N Singh had said a meeting of the retired senior officers and prominent people from various fields was held recently to discuss the farmers' issue. The group had called upon the farmers to continue their ongoing stir for the repeal of farm laws and for ensuring minimum support price for their produce, the statement said. The group had also decided to support the Uttar Pradesh Kisan Mazdoor Morcha of Sardar V M Singh and all other farmers’ outfits which have raised issues concerning the plight of the small and marginal peasants and are agitating at the village level for the repeal of the three farm laws and passing legislation on the MSP, the statement had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-group-of-ex-babus-asks-farmers-to-continue-their-stir-another-group-cautions-them-not-to-be-misled-960863.html
11-03-2021||National||India faced cyber attacks from foreign countries like China, Pakistan during lockdown: Centre||At a time when India was under lockdown to curb spreading of Covid-19, the country faced series of cyber-attack attempts from foreign countries, especially, from China and Pakistan, the government informed a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology. The 24th report of the standing committee on IT, tabled in Lok Sabha by panel chairman Shashi Tharoor, said the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (Meity) apprised the House panel that there were increased cyber-attack attempts from foreign countries, especially, China and Pakistan. "There was an increased demand for Antivirus and Vulnerability Assessment for hosting new applications and services related to Pandemic and lockdown," the report said quoating  government. The government also informed the panel that,  "Additional security controls were deployed for monitoring and countering attack attempts from these countries. Additional resources were deployed in shifts to meet these requirements round the clock. Security Audit initiated and completed using trusted networks (VPN) and restricted required port access was opened for Audit." "In order to provide endpoint security during Work from Home, roaming client of Antivirus solution were provisioned. National Informatics Centre (NIC) had rolled out guidelines and rosters, in line with guidelines from Ministry of Health, for all the employees commuting to office," Meity informed the panel. On specific challenges faced by NIC during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Ministry stated that "the pandemic has been an unfortunate and unique experience for all of us. NIC managed to provide its un-interrupted seamless services during such difficult times." The primary challenge for the NIC was to keep the critical services up and running. It was challenging to keep the services like video conferencing, web portals, IT domains and citizen centric applications up and running with zero downtime, the IT Ministry said. To sustain seamless functioning of critical government applications, it was imperative for Data Centre facilities to be up and running all the time. The second major challenge was 24x7 functioning of the Data Centre and associated IT infrastructure, the Meity informed the panel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-faced-cyber-attacks-from-foreign-countries-like-china-pakistan-during-lockdown-centre-960865.html
11-03-2021||National||Maharashtra has 8 of top 10 worst Covid-19 hit districts||Bengaluru Urban and Ernakulam are the only two non-Maharashtra districts accounting for the most number of active Covid-19 cases, Union Health Ministry said on Thursday, flagging that eight of the 10 top districts are from Maharashtra. Worryingly for the first time in nearly three months, India's case tally reached close to 23,000 with 22,854 fresh Covid-19 cases, riding high on the growing epidemic in Maharashtra and Punjab while Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana are at a “tipping point”. The last time India reported close to 23,000 cases was December 24. With 18,474 active cases, Pune now tops the list of districts with most active cases followed by Nagpur (12,724), Thane (10,460) and Mumbai (9,973). Bengaluru Urban (5,526) and Ernakulam (5,430) occupy the fifth and sixth slots. The remaining four Maharashtra districts are Amravati (5,259), Jalgaon (5,029), Nashik (4,525) and Aurangabad (4,354). Even though the western state was one of the epicentres of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic in India from the very beginning, it witnessed a steady decline in the number of cases from September till early February 2021. Numbers began to rise again after this. On February 11, the state had 36,917 active cases but the numbers ballooned to 1,00,240 on March 11. “We are very worried about several districts of Maharashtra. Don’t take the virus for granted. There is a lockdown in Nagpur now and vaccination should be prioritised in the affected districts,” NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said in a press conference. The health officials, however, ruled out any role by the mutant strains behind the current surge. “The mutant strains are not causing the surge. Reduced number of testing and tracking coupled with Covid-inappropriate behaviour, congregation of people and resumption of trains may be the factors behind the rise,” said Balram Bhargava, director-general of Indian Council of Medical Research. While central expert teams are visiting Maharashtra since February, the reason behind the surge has not been determined. “The exact causes of surge are not known as behavioural laxity is not specific to Maharashtra,” says a report made by the ministry experts. None of the factors cited above by Bhargava and the health ministry report is unique, yet the kind of rise being seen in Maharashtra has not been seen in any other state. Punjab is another worry, though not on the scale of Maharashtra. On February 11, the northern state had 2,112 active cases but the number shot up to 9,402 a month later. “Gujarat, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh are at a tipping point,” said Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Paul said the Centre would further expand the circle of people eligible for vaccination but did not disclose much about the plan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-has-8-of-top-10-worst-covid-19-hit-districts-960866.html
11-03-2021||National||India agrees 'significantly lower' AstraZeneca vaccine price||The Indian government has lowered the price at which it buys AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine doses being produced by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the federal health secretary said on Thursday. "The renegotiated price is significantly lower than 200 rupees ($2.75) per dose," Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a news conference. The SII, the world's biggest vaccine maker, has licensed the vaccine from AstraZeneca and Oxford University and markets it as COVISHIELD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-agrees-significantly-lower-astrazeneca-vaccine-price-960867.html
11-03-2021||National||LPG consumption up 7.3% despite price rise: Oil cos||Cooking gas LPG consumption rose 7.3 per cent in the last three months despite a steep price rise, with usage among the PMUY beneficiaries, who are mostly poor rural households, jumping near 20 per cent, state-owned oil companies said. "LPG consumption has improved amongst PMUY customers," Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said in a statement. Cooking gas consumption between December 2020 and February 2021, the period that saw a massive Rs 175 per cylinder increase in rates across all categories, jumped 19.5 per cent among the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) beneficiaries -- the over 8 crore poor households that got free connection since 2016. An identical statement was also issued by privatisation-bound Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd (BPCL). The statements came amid opposition parties such as Congress and the TMC attacking the government over the relentless increase in fuel prices impacting the common man. Reports also suggested that some PMUY beneficiaries had abandoned buying LPG following the price surge. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had told the Lok Sabha earlier this week that cooking gas prices have doubled since the BJP came to power seven years back. The retail selling price of domestic gas was Rs 410.5 per 14.2-kg cylinder on March 1, 2014. This month, the same cylinder costs Rs 819. While there was an overall 23.2 per cent surge in LPG consumption in the initial quarter of the current fiscal year mainly due to free LPG cylinders provided to PMUY beneficiaries to tide over problems of the Covid-19 lockdown, cooking gas demand continued to improve in December-February with a 7.3 per cent year-on-year growth, the statements said. PMUY customers consumed 10.1 lakh tonnes of LPG during the three months, up from 8.45 lakh tonnes a year back. "Compared year-on-year, the overall domestic LPG sales have registered a handsome growth of 10.3 per cent during the current fiscal (April 2020 to February 2021)," it said. To alleviate the problems faced by the marginalised during the lockdown, PMUY beneficiaries were provided with three free LPG refills at a cost of Rs 9,670 crore, it said. The aggressive rollout of clean cooking fuel to replace polluting fuels such as firewood and coal has led to an improvement in LPG penetration to more than 99 per cent, up from 55 per cent in 2014. "The widespread acceptance of LPG as the preferred kitchen fuel of almost every Indian showcases the surging popularity of LPG as the primary kitchen fuel as compared to other traditional fuels such as firewood," the statements said. IOC said while the upfront per kg cost of firewood is cheaper, LPG is a more economical fuel in the long run when costs such as the total volume of fuel consumed and handling costs are factored in. "Even at the current rates, LPG is cheaper than firewood/ other traditional fuels in many states, largely on account of its overall heating efficiency," it said. Besides, using LPG has significant health benefits. "The financial savings on account of LPG as fuel, in addition to other benefits such as better health and time saved, make it an enduring choice of every Indian," the statements said. Under PMUY, 8 crore poor households were given free cooking gas connections at an expenditure of Rs 12,800 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lpg-consumption-up-73-despite-price-rise-oil-cos-960869.html
11-03-2021||National||ISRO, JAXA review cooperation on joint lunar polar exploration satellite mission||Indian and Japanese space agencies on Thursday reviewed their ongoing cooperation to launch a joint lunar polar exploration (LUPEX) mission. Scientists from Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) have been working on the mission that aims to send a lander and rover to the Moon's south pole around 2024. Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan and JAXA President Hiroshi Yamakawa led their delegations at a bilateral meeting held on virtual mode. "Apart from reviewing on-going cooperation in earth observation, lunar cooperation and satellite navigation, both sides have agreed to explore opportunities for cooperation in space situational awareness and professional exchange programme", an ISRO statement said. "On this occasion, both agencies signed an 'Implementing Arrangement' for collaborative activities on rice crop area and air quality monitoring using satellite data", the Bengaluru headquartered space agency said. On March four, India and Italy decided to explore opportunities in the field of earth observation, space science and robotic and human exploration. On February 28, ISRO successfully launched the 637-kg Brazilian satellite Amazonia-1 on board PSLV-C51 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport. Brazil's Minister of Science, Technology and Innovation, Marcos Pontes visited ISROs Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), Sriharikota in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kms from Chennai, and witnessed the launch. Union Minister Jitendra Singh, who heads the DoS, also had a virtual interaction with Pontes and officials of the Brazilian space agency. "Brazil has requested India's support in procurement of material and systems for its launch vehicle programme," a DoS statement said. "Cooperation possibilities in future space science missions, utilising ISRO's PS4-orbital platform (PS4-OP) space weather studies etc. were discussed", the official statement said. PS4-OP refers to a novel idea formulated byISROto use the spentPS4stage (fourth stage of PSLV) to carry out in- orbit scientific experiments for an extended duration of one to six months. Sivan also had a virtual meeting with Head of Australian Space Agency, Enrico Palermo, on February 17. "Both leaders have also reviewed the status of on-going cooperation activities in earth observation, satellite navigation, space situational awareness and establishment of transportable terminal in Australia to support Indias 'Gaganyaan' programme", ISRO had said at the time. According to ISRO, India has always recognised that space has dimension beyond national considerations, which can only be addressed along with international partners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-jaxa-review-cooperation-on-joint-lunar-polar-exploration-satellite-mission-960871.html
11-03-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari to send legal notices to Swedish media houses||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari has decided to send legal notices to two media houses in Sweden that published news reports about his alleged involvement in a luxury bus deal. The Minister will send legal notices through his lawyer to two Swedish media houses SVT and ZDF, sources in the government said. The Swedish media houses in their investigative story alleged that Scania, a Swedish bus maker, had paid bribes to win bus contracts in India between 2013 and 2016. News agency Reuters quoted a Swedish media report saying Scania delivered a specially equipped bus to a company with connections to Gadkari that was intended for his daughter’s wedding and was not fully paid for. Interestingly, Gadkari played a pivotal role in introducing Scania’s Ethanol-run bus in Nagpur as a part of his drive to bring in green public transport in India. Dismissing the media reports, the Minister's office in a statement said, "Media reports that in November 2016, Scania delivered a luxury bus to a company that had close ties with Nitin Gadkari's sons are malicious, fabricated and baseless. The minister and his family members have nothing to do with purchase or sale of the bus." "Since the entire episode of the Scania bus was an internal affair of the Swedish company, the statement of the Scania spokesperson has made it clear that Shri Gadkari and his family members have absolutely nothing to do with the purchase or sale of any Scania bus. Nor do they have anything to do with any firm or individual who might be linked with the purchase or sale of the bus," the statement from the minister's office said. "In light of the Scania spokesperson’s clarification absolving Gadkari and his family, we request the media, especially the foreign media, to desist from making unsubstantiated allegations against Gadkari and his family," the statement said.  "If the media fails to refrain from indulging in witchhunt of Shri Gadkari and his family, the Union Minister and his family may take all necessary legal measures to protect their reputation and integrity," the statement read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-to-send-legal-notices-to-swedish-media-houses-960872.html
11-03-2021||National||Not to indulge in politics over CM's injuries, want probe: Bengal BJP||A day after West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was admitted to a facility here after getting hurt during her Nandigram visit, the Bengal BJP said the party will not indulge in any politics over her injuries, and called for a comprehensive probe into the incident, as she had alleged conspiracy behind it. Noting that the fight with the TMC is a political one and on ideological and development issues, BJP spokesman Samik Bhattacharya wished her a speedy recovery and said, the party hoped for her return to the electoral arena as soon as possible. "We will not do any kind of politics over the chief minister's injuries. We pray for her early recovery and return to the political stage," he told a press conference at the BJP headquarters. According to information received by the BJP state leadership from local party workers and eyewitnesses, it was an accident, but a high-level inquiry is necessary when the chief minister herself has claimed that it was a conspiracy, he said. Soon after the incident at Birulia bazar in Nandigram on Wednesday evening, the TMC supremo had claimed that it was an "attack". Banerjee, who filed her nomination papers for Nandigram assembly constituency before the incident, had alleged that she was attacked by four or five people who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of the vehicle, injuring her left leg, waist, shoulder and neck as she fell on the ground. She was rushed back to the city and was admitted to state-run SSKM hospital in south Kolkata, less than a couple of kilometres away from her residence. "We demand a comprehensive investigation into the incident since the chief minister has claimed that it is a conspiracy and not a mere accident," he said. The BJP spokesman and party leader Tathagata Roy, a former governor of Tripura and Meghalaya, went to the hospital on Thursday morning to visit the chief minister. He said, they chose not to react after TMC supporters raised "go back, BJP hai hai" slogans when they went to the hospital. "They may have done it out of temporary excitement, but such behaviour is not welcome inside hospital premises when a political worker goes to meet the chief minister of the state to wish her speedy recovery," Bhattacharya said. He said they were told by the hospital authorities that visitors were not being allowed to meet her since she was undergoing treatment in her cabin. "We conveyed our concern to the TMC leaders present, including minister Arup Biswas, and wished the chief minister a speedy recovery," Bhattacharya said. He said, the chief minister avails Z-plus security and there are at least 12 vehicles in her convoy. Banerjee had said that there were neither any police personnel nor the Purba Medinipur police superintendent present near her. Bhattacharya said, if the chief minister faces such a situation despite having a three-layered security, then there is need for a comprehensive inquiry and fixing of responsibility for any lapse. The BJP leader questioned how could anyone reach near a leader of Banerjee's stature breaking the security cover, when the director and additional director, security, were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-to-indulge-in-politics-over-cms-injuries-want-probe-bengal-bjp-960892.html
11-03-2021||National||NCPCR asks Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' over inappropriate portrayal of children||The apex child rights body NCPCR has asked Netflix to stop streaming 'Bombay Begums' citing inappropriate portrayal of children in the web series. In a notice to Netflix on Thursday, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the OTT platform to furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which it said it will be constrained to initiate appropriate legal action. Objecting to the alleged inappropriate portrayal of children in the series, the commission said this type of content will not only pollute the young minds but may also result in abuse and exploitation of children. The commission took action based on a complaint which alleged that the series normalises minors indulging in casual sex and drug abuse. "Netflix should take extra precaution while streaming any content in respect of the children or for the children and shall also refrain themselves from getting into such things," the commission said in its notice. "Therefore, you are directed to look into this matter and immediately stop streaming of this series and furnish a detailed action report within 24 hours, failing which the Commission will be constrained to initiate appropriate action pursuant to the provisions of Section 14 of the CPCR (Commission for Protection of Child Rights) Act, 2005," the commission said. 'Bombay Begums' delves into the lives of five women from different sections of society who all want different things in life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncpcr-asks-netflix-to-stop-streaming-bombay-begums-over-inappropriate-portrayal-of-children-960908.html
11-03-2021||National||IAF to raise 2nd squadron of Rafale at Hasimara base by mid-April||Indian Air Force will raise its second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal by the middle of next month, bringing the fourth generation fighters closer to the Sino-Indian boundary in the eastern sector. The French-origin aircrafts are currently being flown by the 17 ‘Golden Arrows’ Squadron from its home-base at Ambala. Out of the 36 jets contracted by India, French aviation major Dassault has delivered 11 so far, while the rest would come by 2022. “The second Rafale Squadron is being raised at the next Main Operating Base Hasimara in mid-April this year,” said a source. Meanwhile, Group Captain Harkirat Singh, the Commanding Officer of the 17 Squadron has been moved to the Eastern Air Command at Shillong just seven months after the Rafale aircraft was inducted in the IAF. Group Captain Singh would be replaced by Group Captain Rohit Kataria. IAF sources said there was nothing unusual in Group Captain Singh’s transfer to the Eastern Air Command as he had completed a two-year tenure. “Three group captains have been trained for Rafale in France including Gp Captain Harkirat Singh. Now with the Rafale squadron being formed in the Eastern sector, Harkirat is moving logically to the next level with responsibility of steering raising of the second squadron. He will carry forward the experience and expertise gained, thus, far and play the role of a mentor, while the other Gp Captains will command the Squadrons,” they said. “He is being moved along with other Group Captains as part of a routine deployment with one month's notice. The assumption that he has been removed is baseless," the sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-to-raise-2nd-squadron-of-rafale-at-hasimara-base-by-mid-april-960913.html
11-03-2021||National||Private sector helped in fast delivery of Covid vaccine: Centre||The Centre on Thursday said the acceleration in delivering Covid-19 vaccine shots has been achieved in collaboration with the private sector which administered more than 23 per cent of the doses. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 71.23 per cent of coronavirus vaccine doses have been administered in government hospitals, while 28.77 per cent of these doses have been contributed by private facilities. "The acceleration has been achieved with active collaboration with private sector facilities," he said. Bhushan also gave data of the states/UTs where the vaccinations in private facilities are below the national average. He also gave the data of percentage of private facilities in these areas. These states/UTs include Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshadweep,  Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan, Meghalaya, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. "These are the states/UTs where we requested that private hospitals need to scale up," he said. The senior official said vaccine doses are being administered in private hospitals empanelled under the Ayushman Bharat Yojna, Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and state government health schemes. "In places like Odisha, Maharashtra, Delhi and Telangana, these also include such private facilities which are not covered under the above three categories. These have been permitted because they have adequate number of space, cold chain, vaccinators and arrangements to address adverse event following immunisation," he added. Talking about accelerating deliverance of vaccine doses, Bhushan said on March 4, 10 lakh vaccines were administered in 24 hours, while on March 8, 20 lakh vaccines were given in 24 hours. Asked if the pace of vaccination has dropped, the health secretary noted, "What we are looking at is a steady increase. We are not trying to win a race. He said the government has made its system flexible so that those private facilities that have the capacity can do Covid-19 vaccination 24 hours seven days a week. "While for state government hospitals, the advice is they should do it for minimum of four days a week because they have other work also which is non-Covid essential facilities. The states have been given discretion, we do not want to adversely impact the non-Covid essential health services which are delivered by the same hospitals," he said. Bhushan added that till 1 pm on Thursday, 2,56,90,545 Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered, out of which, 67,86,086 doses were given to those above 60 years and people aged 45-60 years with comorbidities. As many as 71,97,541 healthcare workers have been given the first dose, while 40,13,890 have been given the second dose. As many as 70,55,074 frontline workers have been given the first dose, while 6,37,954 have been given the second dose, the official said. "Till yesterday (Wednesday), we completed 53 days of vaccination administration in India. According to Our World in Data, in the first 53 days, US vaccinated 3.68 crore doses which started its vaccination in December last year. India which started its vaccination programme on January 16 has given 2.56 crore vaccine doses, Brazil which started its vaccination process a day after India has administered 1.13 crore doses, while the UK which started the same on December 8 last even before the US has administered 94 lakh doses," he said. "Just 0.020 per cent adverse event post immunisation has been reported with 0.00025 per cent resulting in hospitalisation in India," Bhushan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/private-sector-helped-in-fast-delivery-of-covid-vaccine-centre-960920.html
11-03-2021||National||Modi government to reprise Dandi march for India@75||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will kickstart celebrations for the 75th anniversary of India's Independence on Friday by re-tracing Mahatma Gandhi's iconic salt satyagraha with events planned till August 2023, months before the next general elections. Modi will launch the 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav' at Ahmedabad on Friday, the 91st anniversary of the Dandi March, which had forced the then British government to withdraw the infamous Salt Act. A group of 81 youths – the number of people who had accompanied Mahatma Gandhi in 1930 – will walk the same route spreading the message of strides made by the country since Independence. Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel will lead another group of 81 youngsters on a foot march from Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad to Nadiad, the district where Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel was born. The minister will take part in the 75 km padayatra that is expected to continue till March 16. “Government will not be the organiser but a facilitator of these events in the run-up to the 75th anniversary of Independence,” Patel told reporters here adding that the celebrations would continue till August 2023. In Karnataka, the state government has planned a cultural programmes at Vidurashwatha, Kittur and Shivpura – places associated with the freedom struggle. The Archeological Survey of India has planned events in Bengaluru and Chitradurga Fort. Symposia, cycle rallies, exhibitions, cultural events have been planned across all states and union territories as part of the launch of 'India@75'. Patel said the Gujarat government has lined up events at 75 locations across the state on Friday, while in Madhya Pradesh all Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members will take part in the celebrations in their respective constituencies. “We have also taken permission from the Election Commission for programmes in election-bound states,” Patel said adding that events were being planned for every week across the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-government-to-reprise-dandi-march-for-india75-960921.html
11-03-2021||National||Farmers withdraw dharna on rail tracks near Amritsar after 169 days||A group of farmers squatting on railway tracks near here to protest the Centre's new farm laws withdrew their agitation on Thursday after 169 days, as suspension of trains had caused losses to them and traders. Savinder Singh, a leader of the Kissan Mazdoor Sangarsh Committee which had been spearheading the stir, said they decided to withdraw the rail blockade at Devidaspura on the Amritsar-Delhi route after a meeting of all protesting farmer unions. Devidaspur near Jandiala station is about 25 km from Amritsar railway station. "Farmers were blocking only passenger trains but the Centre decided to stop goods trains as well which caused huge losses to farmers, traders and industrialists. In the light of current circumstances, farmers have unanimously resolved to end the stir here," he said. Officials said that with the farmers ending their stir here, normal movement of trains will resume within a couple of days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-withdraw-dharna-on-rail-tracks-near-amritsar-after-169-days-960936.html
11-03-2021||National||AstraZeneca suspension: India won’t halt Covishield use, says govt||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday said it would continue with the Covishield vaccine, same as the AstraZeneca vaccine, as it had not encountered any blood clot issue even after inoculating lakhs of senior citizens with it. “We have so far not seen blood clots in elderly population subsequent to administration of Covishield vaccine to them in India,” Health Ministry sources told DH when asked about the Centre’s plan in the wake of temporary halts imposed on the AstraZeneca vaccines by a few European nations. Denmark was the first to announce its suspension, "following reports of serious cases of blood clots" among people who had received the vaccine, the country's Health Authority said in a statement. Norway and Iceland followed suit. The Danish health authority, however, made it clear that they were putting a brake on the AstraZeneca vaccine as a matter of abundant precaution as no links have been established between the shots and the blood clots. India has administered nearly 2.6 crore doses of the two Covid-19 vaccines including one dose to nearly 60 lakh senior citizens. Most of these shots are Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/astrazeneca-suspension-india-won-t-halt-covishield-use-says-govt-960940.html
11-03-2021||National||All-India tourist permit for buses to start from April 1||The all-India tourist permit for buses will kick in from April 1. Under this scheme, all tourist buses will have to pay a one-time permit fee for seamless travel across states. This will likely reduce fares of tourist buses, said an official in the Union Road Transport Ministry. Currently, operators are required to obtain an authorisation certificate to operate tourist buses and they need to pay separate permit charges for plying in different states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-india-tourist-permit-for-buses-to-start-from-april-1-960943.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal condemns attack on Mamata Banerjee||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the alleged attack on his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee and said those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. The Trinamool Congress supremo was injured in the leg after being allegedly pushed by unidentified people near a temple at Reyapara area during her election campaign in West Bengal's Nandigram, where the BJP has pitted her protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari against her. Banerjee alleged that she was pushed by four to five men while she was trying to get into the car, following which fell flat on her face. "I strongly condemn the attack on Mamta didi. Those responsible should be immediately arrested and punished. I pray for her speedy recovery," Kejriwal tweeted. Banerjee alleged that no local police personnel were near her when four or five people might have deliberately pushed her causing the injury. Following the incident, she rushed back to Kolkata, around 130 km away, through a green corridor and taken to the state-run SSKM Hospital for treatment. The Election Commission of India has sought a report from the state police on the alleged attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-condemns-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-960594.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||MK Stalin rues attack on West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee||DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday criticised the alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in the state's Nandigram assembly constituency, saying it was "an assault on Indian democracy". Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she was attacked by four to five men who manhandled her during an election campaign in Nandigram because of which she sustained an injury in the left leg. "The shameful attack on Mamata Banerjee is an assault on Indian democracy. The perpetrators of such a crime should be brought to justice immediately. Election Commission of India and the police dept should take stringent action to avoid such instances in the future," Stalin tweeted. The Leader of Opposition in the Tamil Nadu Assembly also wished a speedy recovery to the TMC supremo.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mk-stalin-rues-attack-on-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-960596.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||TMC defers manifesto release after Mamata Banerjee injured following 'attack'||The Trinamool Congress on Wednesday postponed the release of its manifesto for the upcoming elections in West Bengal, following the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, party leaders said. Banerjee, the party's chairperson, was scheduled to release the manifesto in the afternoon at her residence in Kalighat. "The manifesto release has been postponed for the time being. It will be released after Mamata Banerjee gets well and is back home. Although our manifesto is ready, there is no question of releasing it without her," a senior TMC leader said. Banerjee alleged on Wednesday evening that during her campaign in Nandigram, she was attacked by four-five men who pushed her, besides banging on her the door of her car, leading to the injuries. Preliminary medical tests conducted on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee late on Wednesday night detected severe bone injuries in her left ankle and foot, and injuries in the right shoulder, forearm and neck, a senior doctor of the state-run SSKM hospital told PTI. Doctors at the hospital decided to closely monitor Banerjee, who has been complaining of chest pain and breathlessness since the alleged attack at Nandigram in Purba Medinipur district earlier in the evening, for the next 48 hours, he said. The Trinamool Congress chief has a slight fever and has been shifted to a special ward at the hospital's VVIP Woodburn Block after the MRI at the Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, he added. Banerjee had released the party's list of 291 candidates on March 5. "We will keep her under observation for the next 48 hours. There will be more tests needed to be done, and after evaluating her condition we will decide on our next course of treatment," a doctor, part of the team treating Banerjee, told PTI. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-defers-manifesto-release-after-mamata-banerjee-injured-following-attack-960661.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi wishes Amarinder Singh on his birthday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday extended best wishes to Congress leader and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on his 79th birthday.    Singh is one of the most prominent leaders of the Congress and is serving his second term as Punjab chief minister.  In a tweet, Modi said, "Best wishes to Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh Ji on his birthday. Praying for his long and healthy life. @capt_amarinder."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-wishes-amarinder-singh-on-his-birthday-960662.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Ramesh Chennithala accuses Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan of violating poll code||Opposition Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala has approached the Election Commission against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for allegedly violating the model code of conduct in his press meets after the declaration of the April 6 Assembly polls. In a letter to the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), Chennithala said the Chief Minister had held media conferences on March 4 and 6 at the CPI(M) headquarters during which he announced new activities and policies of the government. "In these press meets, he has announced new activities and policies of the government which is in violation of the model code of conduct," the Congress leader alleged.  He said as per established norms, either the Chief Secretary or the Public Relations Department is the authorised authority to talk about the government policies after the election date is announced. "However, the Chief Minister in violation of the norms and model code of conduct has announced new policies with an intention to lure voters," the senior Congress leader alleged. Chennithala, in his letter, requested the CEO, Teeka Ram Meena to "prohibit" Vijayan from making statements and announcements on government initiatives and policies. He also requested the CEO to direct the Chief Secretary to make any routine announcements, if any.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ramesh-chennithala-accuses-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-of-violating-poll-code-960693.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Centre failed to implement Manual Scavenging Act of 2013: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday attacked the government over deaths of 389 people in the country while manually cleaning sewers from 2015 to 2019 and alleged that it had "failed" to implement the Manual Scavenging Act. Gandhi's criticism of the government came after the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry informed the Rajya Sabha that 389 people died in the country while manually cleaning sewers from 2015 to 2019. "This shows how badly GOI has failed to implement the Manual Scavenging Act of 2013," Gandhi tweeted. "Proactive measure must be taken to ensure no further indignity to our fellow citizens and our collective national conscience," he said. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said FIRs have been registered against 266 people for engaging people for hazardous cleaning of sewers and septic tanks that resulted in fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-failed-to-implement-manual-scavenging-act-of-2013-rahul-gandhi-960722.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||170 MLAs left Congress to join other parties during polls held between 2016-2020: ADR||As many as 170 MLAs left Congress to join other parties during the elections held between 2016-2020, while only 18 BJP legislators switched parties to contest the polls in this period, according to a report by poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The ADR, in a new report, said between 2016-2020, 182 of the 405 re-contesting MLAs, who switched political parties, joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), followed by 38 who joined the Congress and 25 who joined the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS). Five Lok Sabha MPs left the BJP to join other parties during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls while seven Rajya Sabha MPs left the Congress to join another party to contest elections between 2016-2020, the report said. As many as 170 MLAs left Congress to join other parties during the elections held between 2016-2020, while only 18 MLAs left the BJP to join another party to contest polls in this period, it added. "It is to be noted that the recent fall of governments in Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Goa, Arunachal Pradesh and Karnataka State Assemblies were due to defections of their MLAs," the report said. It said between 2016-2020, 10 of the 16 re-contesting Rajya Sabha MPs who switched political parties joined the BJP and five of the 12 Lok Sabha MPs who changed parties joined the Congress during the 2019 parliamentary polls. For the report, the National Election Watch and the ADR have analysed the self-sworn affidavits of 433 MPs and MLAs, who changed parties and re-contested elections held in the last five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/170-mlas-left-congress-to-join-other-parties-during-polls-held-between-2016-2020-adr-960746.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee urges supporters to maintain peace, says she will be back to campaign even on wheelchair||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that despite being badly hurt in the alleged attack on her on Wednesday in Nandigram, she would not waste a single day of campaigning and will campaign on a wheelchair if need be. The feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, in a video message from the hospital bed, also urged her party workers and supporters to remain calm and peaceful and not do anything which will cause problems for others. She alleged that she was greeting people standing near the bonnet of the car when suddenly she felt a strong shove and her feet were pressed against the car resulting in injuries. “I took whatever medicines I had and returned to Kolkata. Since then I am under treatment,” said Mamata. Earlier, she alleged that she was attacked by four to five people in Nandigram who pushed her against the car. “I want to urge everyone especially our workers to be calm. It is true that I was badly hurt yesterday. I have sustained bone and ligament injuries on my hands and feet. I also felt pain in my chest and head after the incident,” Mamata said in the video message. “I will not let this incident affect any of my programmes and will be back on field in the next few days. Perhaps I will have to be on a wheelchair for a couple of days but I will do it with your cooperation,” said Mamata. She was speaking from her hospital bed at special cabin number 12.5 at the Woodburn Bloc of the Government-run SSKM hospital.   Sources in the SSKM Hospital said that the Chief Minister sustained bone injuries on her left foot and ankle as well as on her right shoulder, neck and forearm. “The medical board set up for her treatment examined her in the afternoon and it was decided that further radiological investigation will be conducted to trace any pathology arising from post-traumatic syndrome,” said a senior doctor of SSKM Hospital. Following the alleged attack on Mamata, TMC workers staged road blockades across the State in places such as Kolkata, Howrah, Hooghly, Jalpaiguri, West Bardhaman and West Medinipur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-urges-supporters-to-maintain-peace-says-she-will-be-back-to-campaign-even-on-wheelchair-960759.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Covid-19: PM Modi's nonagenarian mother Hiraba gets vaccinated||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's mother Hiraba took the coronavirus vaccine dose on Thursday. "Happy to share that my mother has taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine today. I urge everyone to help and motivate people around you who are eligible to take the vaccine," the prime minister tweeted.   Happy to share that my mother has taken the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine today. I urge everyone to help and motivate people around you who are eligible to take the vaccine. Hiraba, who is over 95 years old, lives with the PM's younger brother Pankaj Modi at Raysan village near Gandhinagar city. Over 17.13 lakh persons, including those over 60 years of age, have taken the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine in Gujarat. Gandhinagar district collectors office, health department of Gandhinagar municipal corporation and Gandhinagar civil hospital authorities were not aware where Hiraba got vaccinated, adding people can also take the vaccine in private hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/covid-19-pm-modis-nonagenarian-mother-hiraba-gets-vaccinated-960785.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Ravneet Bittu to lead Congress in Lok Sabha in Budget Session||Lok Sabha member from Punjab Ravneet Singh Bittu has been given the temporary charge to lead the Congress party in the lower house of Parliament for the remaining part of the Budget Session. Congress President Sonia Gandhi made this temporary arrangement as the party's leaders in the Lok Sabha were busy with the election campaign in their respective states. Congress' Leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, who is also the President of the party's West Bengal unit, is busy with election campaigns in his home state. Similar is the case with deputy leader Gaurav Gogoi, who is campaigning in his home state of Assam. Congress' chief whip in the Lok Sabha Kodikunnil Suresh and whip Manickam Tagore are busy with elections in Kerala and Tamil Nadu respectively. Bittu, a three-term member of the Lok Sabha, had taken the lead in organising a parallel protest of lawmakers from Punjab at Jantar Mantar to support the farmers' agitation at the borders of the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ravneet-bittu-to-lead-congress-in-lok-sabha-in-budget-session-960814.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||TMC's 'khela hobe' jingle goes viral; BJP uses it to hit back at Mamata Banerjee camp||TMC's popular poll jingle 'Khela Hobe' (game is on) seems to have also caught the fancy of rival BJP, as political heavyweights of both the parties draw references to its lyrics, sometimes even building slogans around the song, at their public metings in Bengal. Originally written and uploaded on YouTube by TMC leader Debangshu Bhattacharya in January, the jingle has since undergone many variations, with the party's Birbhum strongman Anubrata Mondal first giving it a spin and chanting 'bhoyonkor khela hobe' (fierce game will be played) at a rally. "The song 'Khela Hobe' has been able to establish an instant connect with people. It has received a favourable response from youth across the state," Bhattacharya said. At a recent rally in Kamarhati constituency addressed by Bhattacharya, a thousand-strong crowd lapped up every word of the song delivered in a rap format. Former minister and the ruling camp's candidate from the constituency, Madan Mitra, has recorded his own version of 'Khela Hobe', while the party's Ghatal MLA Shankar Dolai was recently seen dancing wildly to the beats of the song at a roadshow. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has also been asking voters at rallies if they were ready for the game to begin (Khela Hobe?), drawing loud cheers from the crowd. "Khela Hobe. Ami goalkeeper. Dekhi ke jete," (the game is on. I will do the goal keeping. Let's wait and see who wins," Banerjee said at a meeting. The BJP, which had initially criticised the TMC for likening the political battle with a game and "trivialising" the democratic process, co-adopted the slogan later, with defence minister Rajnath Singh, among other saffron camp leaders, bringing 'khela hobe' references in their speech, in a bid to take a jibe at Banerjee and her party. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while addressing a public meeting here recently, had said 'khela khatam, vikas shuru' (game ends, development begins). "Election can never be equated with a game. There is an element of threat hidden in the slogan," BJP spokesman Shamik Bhattacharya said. BJP state president Dilip Ghosh, however, does not mind borrowing the slogan from the TMC to give the opponents a befitting reply. "Let the game begin. People of the state will vote for the BJP and give a befitting reply to TMC for its misrule. Paribartan (change) will happen very soon," Ghosh said. The jingle penned by Debanshu says, "Baire theke bargi ashe/Niyom kore proti mashe/Amio achi, tumio robe/Bondhu ebar khela hobe! (Looters from outside are visiting the state every month, but we are ready to face them. The game is on).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmcs-khela-hobe-jingle-goes-viral-bjp-uses-it-to-hit-back-at-mamata-banerjee-camp-960817.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Anti-CAA rumblings face election test in Assam||CAA or no CAA? The debate is set to take the centre stage in the campaigns for Assembly elections in Assam as the opposition parties are banking on the controversial amendment to counter the ruling BJP and its claim of development since 2016. In fact, the anti-CAA agitation, which turned violent in Assam in December 2019, prompted the opposition Congress to inch closer to Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), its rival since 2005, and stitch a grand alliance of seven parties ahead of polls.  The agitation also led to the birth of two new parties, Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) led by former general secretary of All Assam Students' Union, Lurinjyoti Gogoi, and Raijor Dal headed by anti-CAA activist, Akhil Gogoi. Both Lurin and Akhil led the anti-CAA agitation. Akhil was arrested amid the violent protest and is in judicial custody since then. The anti-CAA stand also led AJP and Raijor Dal to join hands for the polls.  The two parties refused to join the grand alliance but CAA is their poll-plank against the BJP. The two parties, which are contesting in 68 and 20 seats respectively are focussing on the eastern and North Assam constituencies (Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Sivasagar, Jorhat, Golaghat, Dhemaji, Lakhimpur, Sonitpur and Biswanath districts), where the Assamese sentiment is stronger.  Assam has 126 Assembly seats and the state will witness elections in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.  Those opposing the CAA fear that the controversial amendment would reduce the indigenous people into minority as it seeks to give citizenship to a large number of non-Muslim migrants from neighbouring Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan till 2014. They demand that citizenship should be given, irrespective of religious consideration, based on the cut-off date of March 24, 1971, which was promised in the Assam Accord of 1985. "Come what may, we will not allow CAA, when we come back to power," Congress leader, Rahul Gandhi announced while addressing a rally in Sivasagar on February 14.  Damage control: The ruling BJP, on the other hand, claims that CAA is no longer a factor in the election. The party claims that people would vote for them again for the development work the BJP-led government has done since 2016. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal says the land patta (land document) given to 3.65 lakh indigenous families and removal of encroachers (they suspect illegal migrants) from Kaziranga National park were major steps his government took to protect identity of the indigenous people. "We are committed for protection of identity, culture and language of the Assamese people," Prime Minister Modi said recently in two public meetings in Sivasagar and Dhekiajuli (Sonitpur district) in Assam.   When asked about possible impact of the CAA in the elections, BJP' strategist, Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday claimed instead of the CAA, voters are worried about the threat from 'Miyas' (the Bengali-speaking Muslims) and Ajmal.  As the anti-CAA agitation threatened to dampen BJP's prospect in the elections, the Sonowal government initiated compulsory study of Assamese language upto class X in all schools, except in the Bengali-dominated Barak Valley and in the Bodoland area; it exempted three autonomous councils set up under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution (Bodoland Territorial Council, the North Cachar Hills Autonomous Council and the Karbi Anglong Autonomous Council) from the purview of the CAA and formed three new autonomous councils for Koch Rajbongshis, Moran and Motor, communities whose support will be  crucial in several constituencies.  The government also implemented two cash transfer schemes for tea garden workers and 22 lakh disadvantaged families, in what is seen as a counter strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/anti-caa-rumblings-face-election-test-in-assam-960841.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||AIADMK MLA crosses over to Dhinakaran camp after ticket denial||AIADMK MLA M S R Rajavarman on Thursday switched over to the rival Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam camp, a day after the ruling party did not re-nominate him from his Sattur constituency in southern Tamil Nadu. The AIADMK immediately expelled him from the party for anti-party activities, the party said in a statement. Rajavaraman, who represented Sattur in Assembly, said he and other office-bearers from his region have joined the AMMK. He accused the ruling party of not giving opportunity to those who slogged for the party. After the Assembly election results in May, he claimed that AMMK general secretary TTV Dhinakaran would "determine who would form the government." After 'Ehirkottai' S G Subramanian, who was elected on the AIADMK ticket from Sattur was disqualified in 2017 following his support to Dhinakaran, Rajavarman was picked by the ruling party and he won the May 2019 bypoll. However, due to his reported 'differences' with Minister K T Rajenthra Balaji, the AIADMK did not field him again and instead named R K Ravichandran, Virudhunagar east district secretary as its nominee from Sattur segment. Incidentally, S G Subramanian days ago rejoined the AIADMK after tendering an apology for siding with Dhinakaran about three years ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiadmk-mla-crosses-over-to-dhinakaran-camp-after-ticket-denial-960861.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||TMC memorandum over Mamata injuries 'full of insinuations and averments', Election Commission responds||The Election Commission on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the Trinamool Congress on its memorandum over injuries to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party". The EC said at the outset, it needs to be stated that injuries sustained by Banerjee at Nandigram "is indeed an unfortunate incident and deserves to be inquired into with promptitude and dispatch." "Having said that it is rather unfortunate that the memorandum in question is full of insinuations and averments, which in fact questions the very basis of creation and functioning of Election Commission," the letter said. It is completely incorrect to suggest that the Election Commission has taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections and appropriated the whole governance structure, the poll panel said. "This virtually tantamounts to undermine the very foundation of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in democratic polity. The Commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state including West Bengal...," it noted. The EC said, "It looks undignified even to respond to the allegations of all this being done on the behest of a particular political party, etc". The poll panel said West Bengal Director General of Police Virendra was not removed summarily and without any application of mind. "It was the outcome of the recommendation given by Special Observers Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube. In fact, yesterday also when the Commission became aware of the unfortunate incident from the electronic media, report was immediately sought from the Chief Secretary, West Bengal and from both the Special Observers, at present in West Bengal, within 48 hours.... Till such time the reports are available to the Commission it will not be possible to draw any empirical conclusion let alone start linking it to the removal of earlier DGP Virendra." The Election Commission on Tuesday ordered removal of Virendra as the Director General of Police of poll-bound West Bengal with immediate effect, and appointed P Nirajnayan in his place. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Wednesday that she suffered injuries in her left leg after being attacked by "four-five men" in Nandigram during election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-memorandum-over-mamata-injuries-full-of-insinuations-and-averments-election-commission-responds-960870.html
11-03-2021||National Politics||Pressure on Congress's top leaders in Kerala to face tough fight as resentment against groupism mounts||While more voices of dissent against groupism is putting the Kerala Congress in a tight spot, the party national leadership is learnt to be actively considering to field top leaders in seats that may witness tight fights in the upcoming election. According to sources, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy may be fielded at Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, which is the lone seat the BJP won in Kerala for the first time in 2016 Assembly polls. The aim is to send a strong message of putting up a strong fight against the BJP. Oommen Chandy has been representing Puthupally in Kottayam district for over 50 years. Chandy's son Chandy Oommen, who is also active in politics, is being considered at Puthupally, said sources. Chennithala, who is now representing Harippad constituency in Alappuzha district, was asked to consider Vattiyoorkavu in Thiruvananthapuram, which is also likely to witness a tight triangular fight. Congress MP K Muraleedharan, who was a former MLA of Vattiyoorkavu, was also learnt to have expressed his desire to contest from any key constituency in Thiruvananthapuram. There has been widespread resentment in the party that senior leaders often opt for easy seats and newcomers are fielded at seats where the chances are feeble. Congress is expected to finalise the candidate list by Friday evening. Meanwhile, more voice of dissent against groupism by leaders were coming up. After senior leader P C Chacko quitting the party expressing protest against groupism, a senior party leader and former MLA from Palakkad district also came out in the open flaying groupism in the party and made a threat to leave the party. A V Gopinathan, who is a district Congress committee president of Palakkad district, is locking horns with the party leadership. He even gave an ultimatum to the party till Friday to take a decision on his demands. Groupism in the party should end, he said. Weakening of the Congress in Palakkad district may benefit the BJP which is trying to cash in on the Hindu vote banks of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pressure-on-congresss-top-leaders-in-kerala-to-face-tough-fight-as-resentment-against-groupism-mounts-960895.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Married woman made to drink alcohol, raped by 3 in Uttar Pradesh||Three people have been arrested for allegedly making a married woman drink alcohol and raping her in Puranpur Kotwali police station area here, police said on Wednesday. A case was registered in this connection on Wednesday against Pawan Kumar, Chote and Umesh, Superintendent of Police Jai Prakash Yadav told media. In the complaint given to the police, the woman alleged that one of the accused from her neighbourhood offered to take her to her parents’ house. She said he made her drink liquor and raped her along with two of his companions. The accused later dumped her at a deserted place, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/married-woman-made-to-drink-alcohol-raped-by-3-in-uttar-pradesh-960586.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||BJP solves Uttarakhand crisis with new chief minister yet again||Uttarakhand has a new chief minister yet again. Tirath Singh Rawat, who was sworn in today replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat, is the ninth chief minister in terms of personalities. This is the 12th time that a new CM took office at Dehradun, the capital of the hill state. It has been a saga of unstable governments and short-lived chief ministerships in a short span of 20 years in this small state. Uttarakhand came into being in 2000 after it was split from the expansive Uttar Pradesh. Of the nine chief ministers, six have been from BJP and three from Congress. The state all through has seen a two-party rule. Except for a little over eight years, it was the BJP which ruled the state for most of the two decades. And it has the forgettable record of replacing chief ministers quite often – its longest-serving CM was T S Rawat – unseated on Tuesday. He served just under four years – three years and 357 days.  The shortest stint by a BJP CM was by Bhagat Singh Koshiyari – the controversial governor of Maharashtra currently – who could rule only for 122 days before he was shown the door.  That the BJP had to change its chief ministers so many times is also a mirror to non-performance, corruption and intense factionalism in the party that prides on a “party with a difference”.   While BJP had to change its chief ministers so often, it was a Congress CM – the late Narayan Dutt Tiwari – who had the distinction of being the only chief minister from the state who could complete his term of five years. The other Congress CMs – Vijay Bahuguna and Harish Rawat – were not so lucky. Following his ham-handed handling of the floods relief operation, Bahuguna was replaced by Harish Rawat. As the BJP engineered defections and took away Rawat’s MLAs, the state was put under President’s rule twice. The state saw defections, court battles and heated exchanges in the Assembly. When he took over as CM for the second time, Harish Rawat could stay in that position for just one day. However, finally, as the court allowed him to prove majority, he was back and ruled till the Assembly term ended in 2017. As the BJP won the elections that year, T S Rawat, said to be a favourite of both the RSS and Union Home Minister and BJP strategist Amit Shah, was chosen as CM. But charges of corruption, inefficiency, controversial decisions and being unpopular among party MLAs forced the party to replace its CM one more time, just a year ahead of elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-solves-uttarakhand-crisis-with-new-chief-minister-yet-again-960620.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh man gets life imprisonment for raping minor daughter||A special court in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal district has sentenced a man to life imprisonment for raping his five-year-old daughter. Special Additional Sessions Judge Kumudini Patel convicted the 40-year-old accused under section 376 (rape) and other relevant provisions of the Indian Penacl Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, the prosecution said on Thursday. The court also imposed a fine of Rs 3,000 on the convict, it was stated. In its judgement on Wednesday, the court observed, "It is the social and legal duty of the father to protect his children, but this incident is totally against it. The accused has not only acted against the nature, society and system of law, but also raped his own innocent five-year-old daughter who did not even have any knowledge about physical relations, and committed a painful and heinous act with her." The incident came to light in May, 2019 when the girl's mother reported the matter to the police, the prosecution said. According to the police complaint, the girl had confided in her mother that her father abused her whenever the woman was away at work. When the woman confronted her husband, he quarrelled with her and attempted to commit suicide by pouring petrol on himself. The prosecution stated that the girl's medical reports also confirmed rape and injuries to private parts. The girl deposed against her father in the court, following which he was awarded life imprisonment on three counts, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-man-gets-life-imprisonment-for-raping-minor-daughter-960717.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Schools in J&K asked to put up signboards with national flag||In a significant development, the Jammu and Kashmir government has asked all the schools in the Valley to install a signboard of standard design with the national flag in the background. A local English daily reported that the school education department has directed heads of all institutions to adopt a “grey and white colour scheme” for government school buildings besides installing “a signboard of standard design with tricolour of national flag in the background.” A deputy director rank officer in the department has been appointed to monitor the district wise progress of schools in adoption of the colour shades and installation of signboards while the activity has to be completed by April 30 and the weekly report has to be submitted to the administrative department. A senior official in the department said that a format for the schools to submit the details of the progress has already been devised. “The initiative was started in February this year and most of the schools have started working on it,” he said and added the department is seriously monitoring its progress. Earlier in January, the Union Territory government had made hoisting of the tricolour must for all government buildings on the eve of Republic Day. Till the abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 in August 2019, the erstwhile state had its own flag besides the national flag. The red flag with a plough and three stripes is no longer in use. J&K had adopted a separate constitution in 1956, under which it was permitted to fly its own flag till August 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-in-jk-asked-to-put-up-signboards-with-national-flag-960724.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Two militants killed in Jammu & Kashmir’s Anantnag||Two unidentified militants were killed in an overnight gunfight with the security forces in Kandipora area of Bijbehara in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Thursday. The gunfight erupted on Wednesday evening after a joint team of police and army launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Kandipora, 52 km from Srinagar, following a specific input about the presence of militants in the area, a police official said. The operation was suspended during the night due to darkness, he said. However, the operation resumed at the first light this morning and two militants were killed. The identity of the slain militants couldn’t be ascertained yet. As a precautionary measure, internet services were suspended in the district. The latest encounter comes just a day after security forces in a major success killed Gani Khawaja, chief commander of Al-Badr militant outfit in a gunfight in Tujjer area of Sopore in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Tuesday evening. According to official figures, 17 militancy-related incidents were reported in Kashmir from January 1 till date in which 11 militants were killed. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-militants-killed-in-jammu-kashmir-s-anantnag-960754.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||HC sets aside order granting divorce to husband due to non-appearance of wife during Covid pandemic||The Delhi High Court has set aside an order granting divorce to a husband on the ground of non-appearance of wife before the family court during the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said that the family court’s September 24, 2020 judgement cannot sustain as it has been passed without granting due opportunity to the woman to contest the divorce petition in which she had already filed her written statement. “On March 16, 2020, when the matter was fixed before the family court, the pandemic had already set-in and the functioning of the courts was also severely restricted. In fact, the courts subordinate to this court were specifically instructed not to pass any adverse orders against those who did not appear either physically or in proceedings through video conferencing due to the pandemic,” the bench said. The high court also said that no doubt the woman’s counsel did not appear before the family court on March 16, 2020, but “we are of the view that in the light of the then prevailing circumstances, the family court should have waited for the woman to appear and contest the proceedings, rather than hurriedly proceeding ex-parte against her”. It set aside the trial court’s judgement granting the divorce and remanded the case to the family court for re-adjudication from the stage the woman, represented through advocate Preeti Singh, was proceeded ex-parte. It also made clear that while setting aside the judgement, it has not gone into the merits of the case and it shall not influence the mind of the family court in deciding the divorce petition. The couple got married in February 2013 and have been living separately since March 2013. One son was born out of marital wedlock and the husband had filed a divorce petition before the Patiala House family court here on the ground of cruelty. Since the woman or her counsel did not appear before the family court on March 16, last year, she proceeded ex-parte. Thereafter, the family court fixed the matter for hearing through video conferencing as physical hearings were not being held on account of the pandemic. As the woman did not appear in those proceedings, the court passed an ex-parte judgement and allowed the divorce petition filed by the husband. Challenging the family court’s order, advocate Singh submitted that the wife had been regularly appearing before the court since filing of the petition but she could not appear on one day, that is, March 16, 2020, and the family court hurriedly proceeded against her ex-parte. The counsel also referred to the high court’s March 13, 2020 notification in which it had asked the lawyers to advise their clients not to visit the court unless directed by the court. It was also directed that no adverse orders would be passed due to the non-appearance of parties during the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-sets-aside-order-granting-divorce-to-husband-due-to-non-appearance-of-wife-during-covid-pandemic-960760.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Devotees throng temples on Mahashivratri in Punjab and Haryana||A large number of devotees on Thursday thronged temples across Punjab and Haryana, including Chandigarh, on the occasion of Mahashivratri. The devotees thronged the temples since early morning to offer prayers and perform special 'pujas'. Lord Shiva temples were decorated for the occasion. The famous Saketri temple, near here, was bedecked for the celebrations. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar have extended greetings to the people on the sacred occasion of Mahashivratri.    समस्त देशवासियों को महाशिवरात्रि के पावन पर्व की हार्दिक बधाई एवं शुभकामनाएं।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devotees-throng-temples-on-mahashivratri-in-punjab-and-haryana-960797.html
11-03-2021||North and Central||Kedarnath temple to reopen to devotees on May 17, Badrinath on May 18||The portals of Kedarnath Temple will be reopened for devotees on May 17, a spokesperson of the Uttarakhand Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board said on Thursday. The idol of Lord Shiva will be moved out of its winter abode at Ukhimath's Omkareshwar temple on May 14. The famous temple will reopen for devotees at 5 am on May 17. The temple was closed on November 16 last year. Badrinath Temple, which was closed on November 19, will reopen to devotees on May 18, the spokesperson said. Gangotri and Yamunotri temples will reopen on May 14. The Char Dham Yatra will begin this year after the reopening of the four temples. The portals of the four famous Himalayan shrines -- Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri -- are opened every year between April and May after a six-month closure during which they remain snowbound.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kedarnath-temple-to-reopen-to-devotees-on-may-17-badrinath-on-may-18-960847.html
11-03-2021||Opinion||How things have changed - a look at cool new-age parents and parents-in-law||Two women giggle over a pair of bright orange stilettos at a mall. The younger one in her mid-20s urges the older one in her late 40s to try it out. Two men, one in his early 50s and the other in his late 20s, are chilling out, drinking beer at a club on a lazy Sunday afternoon. Welcome to the era of the new-age parents and parents-in-law. Hip, cool, trendy. The two women you bumped into at the mall were a mother-in-law and daughter-in-law shopping for a theme party and the two men you saw were a father-in-law and son-in-law bonding over beer and barbecue. For the new-age parents-in-law, a daughter-in-law and a son-in-law are people they can hang out with. They are people who mirror the mindsets, aspirations and values of their own children. The new-age parents have been quick to realise that these new additions to their family are people with strong minds and opinions, just like their own children. And these youngsters are not scared about voicing their opinions or following their minds. That’s one of the reasons that the approach of the trendy parents-in-law towards the youngsters has changed through the years in every sphere: be it their choice of clothes, careers, friends or hobbies. It’s not unusual nowadays to hear a parent-in-law gushing over their daughter-in-law’s or son-in-law’s professional achievements or hobbies. Or trying to bond with them in ways that were unheard of in earlier days. "New-age parents have learnt and understood that their offspring have a greater knowledge of themselves, who they are and what they want from life," says parent and children counsellor Mary Chelladurai. "Their equation with the growing adult child is one of a friend, a guide and a support. There is less preaching from parents and in-laws. The very idea of what marriage constitutes has gone through a sea change. The new-age parents and in-laws understand that this generation seeks equality in marriage and seeks space in life. Parents know that their children and their respective spouses have a solid sense of who they are and what they want in a marriage." Echoing this sentiment, Maya M says she realised that wisdom lay in allowing her daughter-in-law's choice of career even though it entailed her working many late nights. "My daughter-in-law is an emcee," says Maya. "Though I wasn’t happy with my daughter-in-law’s emceeing at parties, I didn’t want to get in the way of her dreams. To keep family peace intact and to keep her happy, I accepted her choice." Today, it's quite normal to see a mother-in-law shopping and lunching with her daughter-in-law or discussing the merits of a BB cream versus an anti-ageing cream. They join each other for yoga classes and even visit tattoo artists to get inked together. One would also not be surprised if one were to see a father-in-law swimming, cycling or playing snooker with his son-in-law. Today, the daughters-in-law and the sons-in-law of the house no longer have the stiff distance or the formality of earlier days. They behave informally and the relationships with their in-laws echo the tones of their relationships with their parents. This changing mindset has been simmering for quite some time. Parents have been indulging in joint activities with their children to spend as much time as possible with them, to understand them better and to bond with them. It's no wonder then that these activities now extend to the spouses of their children. Parents today show leniency when it comes to accepting their children's choices of careers, lifestyles and life partners. For parents whose children haven’t gone down the love marriage route, they join in to scout around for suitable matches only when they receive the green signal from their children. The marriage search has been tweaked and adjusted to suit their children's tastes and sensibilities. The children steer the search in their chosen direction. While on the hunt for brides and grooms, parents keep their children's demands in mind. The C for caste has now become the C for compatibility, the gotra has given way to wavelength and the horoscope has given way to hobbies and similar interests. It won’t be unusual if you see a mother join her daughter or son to scroll through the profiles of prospective brides and grooms on various matrimonial sites. They will then discuss the pros and cons of their professions or family backgrounds. The parents are now aware that their children will not be content with a typical arranged marriage scenario. The very fact that they educated their children to think for themselves, encouraged them in their choice of professions and supported their hobbies and interests makes the son or daughter headstrong when it comes to going along with their own choice. Navya N.T., working as a freelancer, believes that her parents will be cool with her choice of spouse "as long as they are convinced that he will provide a secure life for me and has a decent family background." On being asked whether she would go along with an arranged marriage, she says with conviction that "they will never force me to go with their choice." Even in today's arranged marriage route, the children would prefer to meet the arranged match either in a coffee shop or in a common friend’s place minus the inquisitive eyes of the elders. The meeting can last anywhere from half an hour to several hours or there may be several meetings and everything is discussed from past relationships and lifestyle goals to career objectives. The boy or girl concerned can also decide to keep in touch for some time before they make a final decision. New-age parents have also changed tactics. They know that the traditional route won’t work for their children. They use every opportunity, event and occasion to set up their children with suitable matches. Parents push children into community functions to accidentally bump into suitable boys/girls and ask them to accompany parents to weddings and other social events to increase the chances of meeting suitable matches. The parents also put up their profiles on various matrimonial sites and singles networks. Most new-age parents are quite tech-savvy, so they upload their children's profiles on various matrimonial sites to widen their search and log in regularly to check the expressions of interest that the profile has attracted. "The parenting style has changed through time and a parent today gives space and makes the child feel important," says Mary Chelladurai, who has first-hand experience with counselling parents on several issues. "The size of today's family gives a view about the attention and care that each individual child gets. Today's parents value and regard their children's needs. Parents no longer use power trips on children. They want more and more to be caring and loving parents and are happy to meet the offspring's wants and needs." Earlier, the parents used to deliver the verdict. Those tables have now turned. They now need their children's permission to hunt around for a spouse for them. And parents have to conduct the search under the terms and conditions decided by their children. More than anything, the new-age parents and in-laws are very concerned about their children's happiness and are prepared to go to any lengths to make things happen the way their children want it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/how-things-have-changed-a-look-at-cool-new-age-parents-and-parents-in-law-960756.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||In Rajasthan, a Ashok Gehlot-Sachin Pilot truce as bypolls loom ||It’s nearly nine months since Sachin Pilot raised a flag of rebellion, if only unsuccessfully, against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, precipitating a month-long political crisis in the state. And while the Congress party in the state may present a picture of unity today, the internal feud hasn’t yet fully faded away. It has since been a fragile truce between Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Pilot. For most of this time, they have kept their distance from each other. When Pilot returned to the Rajasthan Assembly in August 2020 after the month-long rebellion, he found that he no longer had a front bench seat. Instead, he had been allotted a new seat at the edge of the treasury and opposition benches. In October 2020, a case was registered against his media manager and a journalist for reporting “phone tapping of Congress MLAs” of the Pilot camp during the rebellion. However, the case was withdrawn after two months. Pilot was also kept away during the recent panchayat and municipal polls. Last month, Pilot was not allowed to speak during public events attended by Rahul Gandhi. That Pilot is not too pleased with all this was apparent when he chose to remain silent on the completion of two years of the Gehlot government and did not congratulate the party or the CM. Moreover, Pilot and MLAs loyal to him mobilised their supporters through the Kisan Mahapanchayat rallies in support of the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws. These rallies, spearheaded by Pilot, former cabinet minister Vishvendra Singh and others, were seen as a show of strength by the Pilot camp, much to the Gehlot faction’s displeasure. Truce for by-polls However, in the last few weeks, there is a change in political winds, with Gehlot seeming to soften up towards Pilot. This could be gauged by three recent moves by the party. First, Congress chief whip Mahesh Joshi, who had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the Rajasthan High Court's directive on July 24, 2020 ordering status quo on the demand to disqualify 19 MLAs of the Pilot camp for violating the party whip, told the apex court that following the “subsequent developments”, he is no longer interested in pursuing the case. Second, during the ongoing budget session, Pilot is back on the front benches in the Assembly. Insiders say this happened on the intervention of the party’s Rajasthan state in-charge Ajay Maken. Third, Gehlot and Pilot have stood together for photo-ops while addressing rallies together, sharing a helicopter ride after a gap of almost a year, and have made common cause in criticising the Centre’s farm laws. The reason for this patch up is the upcoming state by-polls in four constituencies -- Sujangarh (Churu), Sahara (Bhilwara), Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) and Rajsamand – due to the death of their sitting MLAs during the last few months. Three of the four seats were with the Congress, while the Rajsamand seat was held by the BJP’s Kiran Maheshwari. The dates for the by-polls have not been announced yet but both parties have started campaigning. Pilot has considerable influence among voters in three of the constituencies. The by-polls are a test for the Gehlot government, especially after the crisis in the party, which has also weakened its organisational structure. "The recent patch-up between the two leaders is, of course, because of the by-polls. Congress cannot ignore Pilot's hold over at least three constituencies which have sizeable Gujjar populations. They will involve him in all the rallies and will leave no stone unturned to win these seats,” says political analyst Om Saini. “Moreover, the collective efforts put together in the polls will also help rejuvenate the party workers who are otherwise unhappy, with no appointments taking place at the state or district levels." In July 2020, amidst the party’s crisis, Pilot had been removed as state party chief and replaced by Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasara. Pilot’s demands remain Over seven months ago, as Pilot agreed to end the rebellion, the party had formed a three-member committee, comprising of Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken, to present their report on the issues highlighted by Pilot. The committee is yet to submit its report. Ahmed Patel passed away in November 2020. Asked about the report and his demand that MLAs loyal to him be elevated to the rank of ministers, Pilot told this reporter, "Seven months have passed, we are hopeful that the committee will look into all the issues that I raised and take appropriate action soon. Unfortunately, Mr Patel passed away, but I am told by Mr Maken that many rounds of discussions have taken place. I am hopeful that timelines will be met and whatever we have deliberated will be put in motion by the Congress president. I had shared my views on what could be done in the government as well as in the party, but whatever decision the Congress president takes after listening to the committee will be final." Asked about his role in the upcoming by-polls, Pilot said, "Our priority is to make the organisation strong. In panchayat and municipal elections, we gave our best. The next challenge is the by-polls. Three of the seats were held by Congress and we have to give our best. Whoever the party fields, we will be forthcoming to ensure that the candidate wins. People had voted us out badly in the 2013 polls. We were reduced to 21 seats. But we bounced back with 100 seats in 2018. So, people have many expectations and so have party workers, who expect promises to be fulfilled. I think party workers who have really worked hard need to be rewarded. They must feel that they are part of the system."||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-rajasthan-a-ashok-gehlot-sachin-pilot-truce-as-bypolls-loom-960571.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||Animals deserve better from us||Four years ago, a sordid incident involving a white police horse, by the name Shaktiman, in Uttarakhand, singed the collective conscience of the nation, after it was attacked with a stick by a politician. One of its legs had to be amputated to stop the spread of gangrene.  The horse died after a few days. German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche would have been apoplectic with rage at this unconscionable human brutality. In 1889, while leaving his hotel in Turin, Nietzsche witnessed the unedifying spectacle of a horse being beaten by a coachman with a whip. Shaken by a visceral shudder, he rushed towards the hapless animal and put his arms around the horse’s neck and broke into tears. Czech writer Milan Kundera once said, “Mankind’s true moral test, its fundamental test, consists of its attitude towards those who are at its mercy: animals.” The notorious William ‘Bill’ Sikes in Charles Dicken’s Oliver Twist thrashes his bull terrier until it needs stitches.  Human beings, at times, can be capable of unspeakable cruelty towards helpless and defenceless animals. This form of cruelty is not merely limited to throwing stones at street dogs and cats; it also extends to the execrable practise of disloyal owners abandoning their loyal pets and leaving them to fend for themselves. The name of Odysseus’ faithful dog Argos also comes to mind. In “The Odyssey” when Odysseus returns home to Ithaca after 20 years, Argos recognizes him more than anybody else in the kingdom. Genuinely happy to see his master alive, Argos can now die a peaceful death. Dogs have also been a popular theme in English poetry. In 1893, an anthology, “The Dog in British Poetry” was published. American poet Ogden Nash was known for his love of dogs. In his famous poem, “An Introduction to Dogs”, written in 1920, he writes, “The dog is Man’s Best Friend/He has a tail on one end/Up in front he has teeth/And four legs underneath.” But it goes without saying that animals continue to suffer for various reasons. Talking of cruelty towards animals, have we ever wondered how the high-decibel fire-crackers affect animals and birds? Imagine their pathetic plight when the sound of crackers builds up to a deafening crescendo during festivals and marriage functions. So, this is also another form of cruelty that we, albeit unknowingly, mete out to these helpless creatures, who cannot even talk about their discomfiture like we humans do. In 2019, a Cuban crocodile died at Chennai zoo, unable to withstand the noisy revelry of party-goers of the resort nearby.  I often think we are doing animals a great injustice by confining them to an enclosed place like the zoo. Human beings take perverse pleasure in treating dumb animals with undisguised contempt. It appears that to appease the bemused, wonder seekers, these animals are inveigled into captivity, away from their wild habitat for betrayal. In a visit to the zoo recently, I saw the tiger in a cage growling in anger at the commotion created by the voyeuristic and sadistic people thick on the ground. At the enclosure for the birds, an eagle tries in vain to spread its wings in the limited space and returns to its iron perch, resigned to the fact that, its wings are bereft of significance. French philosopher Rene Descartes once said that man is master and proprietor, while the animal is merely an animated machine, a machina animata. There are people who are hell-bent on proving Descartes right by exerting control over animals which involves the gratification of their superior cognitive faculties. It has been seen that animals often suffer from “zoochosis”, a psychological problem that affects animals in captivity, usually resulting in repetitive behaviours. However, humanity has still not gone to dogs, as animal lovers and animal care centres have gone the extra mile to undertake animal rescue initiatives and adopt abandoned pets and animals who struggle for food every day and have no roof over their heads. In his famous novel, The Unbearable Lightness of Being, Milan Kundera talks about “dog time”, which is circular, and infers that it is only an animal that can give man “the gift of the idyll’’. In the novel, the dog, Karenin, becomes Tereza’s main source of happiness in life. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/animals-deserve-better-from-us-960572.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||The call for change||Here is an amusing but cautionary tale that many will identify with because what it describes takes place often enough. A man, keen to give up smoking, saw an advertisement that promised the applicant instant cures for many habits. The request had to be accompanied by a nominal charge, which the man complied with willingly. Soon he received an envelope which he eagerly opened. It contained a small card on which were the words: 1. ‘Don’t buy any cigarettes.2. Don’t borrow any from a friend.’ Should the man have asked for his money back? Perhaps, but this could well turn out to be a futile task. The incident however is a definite eye-opener. It conveys clearly that when we want change, we must be prepared to take action and also face the consequences that this will inevitably bring. First of all, this means that we need to examine ourselves and understand in which areas of our lives we need to make changes. This will entail looking closely, as it were, into a mental mirror, identifying and not glossing over flaws. This alone will make the resolve to change truly firm and prevent one from using half-measures that takes one nowhere.  The next step is to decide whether the change should be drastic or incremental. This depends on one’s personality. In other words, it means asking oneself whether one has the necessary will to make a complete break or whether the regime has to be a slower, gentler one. For instance, if one is in the habit of angry outbursts, it is not easy to break it all at once. Here it is not just behaviour, but one’s inner nature that needs to be altered. We also need to give thought to a hidden obstacle. It is the refusal to take responsibility for our own actions. We might say that we want change, but are we really prepared to face the challenge? The easy way out is to blame others, but when we criticize and find fault with others, we often avoid some truth about ourselves. Gandhiji remarked that when one is pointing a finger at others, three are pointing at our own self, adding what he practised all his life, ‘Be the change you want to see.’||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-call-for-change-960573.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||The EU’s Covid-19 vaccine rollout: Stronger together or compromised?||That many nations in the developing world would struggle with Covid-19 vaccine procurement was expected. But amidst vaccine nationalism and a global drive to secure enough doses to vaccinate their respective populations, one leading entity was unexpectedly found scrambling -- the European Union. Recognised as a world leader in healthcare and amongst the world’s richest markets, the EU was found trailing behind other wealthy nations such as Israel, the US and the bloc’s former member Britain despite its goal of vaccinating 70 per cent of its more than 400 million citizens by summer 2021. The EU’s collective vaccine effort, spearheaded by the European Commission, was meant to showcase how the bloc makes its 27 member-states stronger, and boost European solidarity that had crumbled during the pandemic’s initial stages when member-states imposed national export bans on much-needed medical equipment. Memories of China swooping in to exploit the divisions within the bloc, whilst Brussels struggled for a coherent response, are still fresh. Understandably, the Commission wished to do things differently this time. But what is good in principle may not always work in practice, and collective is not always effective. Fast forward to the pandemic’s latter stages, and the EU’s centralised, sluggish vaccine rollout appears to be costing many member-states, alongside blame games targeting pharma companies, national governments, and everyone’s favourite punching bag -- Brussels.  So, what went wrong? Joining the Brussels effort, while certainly benefitting lower-income European states in securing more favourable negotiating terms on behalf of the EU’s huge market power, prevented many richer nations like France and Germany from securing doses through bilateral deals with pharmaceutical companies. Despite its immense political and financial power, the EU’s structure of consultations, coordination and consensus amongst 27 member-states was bound to slow down the effort. Add to this the bloc’s sluggish bureaucracy and lack of transparency. Following disputes with drug-makers AstraZeneca and Pfizer over vaccine supplies, the EU resorted to protectionism in a desperate bid and imposed export controls on EU-produced vaccines. In addition, thorough yet slow approvals by the European Medicines Agency failed to inspire confidence in a highly vaccine-hesitant European populace and delayed orders. Besides, health policy is traditionally under the purview of member-states, and the EU has no experience in vaccine procurement. Brussels tasked the low-profile DG SANTE, in contrast to the UK, which put a bioscience specialist proficient in vaccine procurement in charge of negotiations. As a result, some have critiqued how the EU handled negotiations with pharma companies like it does its laborious trade deals. But there’s a stark difference between negotiating trade deals under regular circumstances and securing maximum vaccine doses to end a pandemic, save lives and re-start economies. Reports say that the EU is paying below $2 per dose for an AstraZeneca shot while the US is paying $4. But many have questioned the European Commission’s prioritisation of price over speed and access, alongside the EU’s whopping 750-billion-Euro Covid recovery fund, given that the price for a dose equals that of a serving of fries in Brussels. Long-drawn negotiations mean lost time and more lockdowns, with huge social and economic costs, plus lives lost. Reports predict that the EU could face a $90 billion hit to its economy if it continues its slow pace of vaccination. In addition, unlike Britain, which gambled better and signed deals with many drug-makers, the overcautious EU bet on only a few companies, thereby limiting its supplies. Since then, as part of its efforts to tackle criticism of its rollout, the European Commission has tripled its orders of the Moderna vaccine. Yet, photos of empty vaccination centres in Europe, alongside headlines of Britons receiving shots, have prompted backlashes even in the most pro-EU member-states of Germany and France. By mid-February, Britain had administered at least one shot to 19 per cent of its population, compared to only 1.5 per cent in the EU. What’s particularly hard-hitting is that many European states exhibited better leadership and a more coherent Covid response than the US and Britain. But the latter’s proactiveness in their vaccination efforts has provided a more effective raison d’etre for Brexit than even what the ‘Leave’ campaign had concocted. Irrespective of what happens now, Brussels needs to introspect on its many avoidable mistakes and miscalculations. The road ahead is long, but public memory is short. The EU still has time to sort things out and turn the public narrative in its favour. Remember the fable of the tortoise and the hare? Sure, the EU did not get off to a head start, but it can make up for lost time by ramping up production. Perhaps, its more thorough vaccine approvals could push more people to receive the shots. And in case of side effects, the EU’s foresight in ensuring companies retained liability would be important. If poorer member-states struggled for doses while the richer ones gained access, a similar narrative such as the one at the beginning of the pandemic would have stuck. National approaches would also mean another dilemma for the EU to contend with -- the prevalence of the virus in some countries would warrant restricting border-free travel and impact the bloc’s founding principle of open borders and free movement. Worse, the geopolitical consequences for the EU of potentially Russia or China coming to the rescue of lower-income European nations would effectively render European solidarity a Disneyland concept. The EU’s joint vaccine rollout has implications beyond Europe, for a world currently teetering on the brink with chauvinistic nationalism and transactionalism. Its success could make the case for some semblance of a return to international cooperation. For the EU, the stakes are particularly high. By coming together, setting aside power equations, and establishing a level playing field when it matters, the gains to the European project in terms of deeper solidarity and integration would be remarkable. Maybe, just maybe, idealism and solidarity could triumph over pragmatism and self-interest. (The writer has worked with the European External Action Service -- the official foreign policy wing of the EU – and with think tanks in India and Europe)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-eu-s-covid-19-vaccine-rollout-stronger-together-or-compromised-960879.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||Eldercare reforms are necessary||When I glanced through the Economic Survey 2020-21, I was disappointed that I could not find any discussion on the growing elderly population. I went deeper into the document, I realised that the DoEA (Department of Economic Affairs) has been overwhelmed with the basic healthcare issues that our country is facing and hence eldercare is still taken backstage. India was ranked 145th out of 180 countries on quality and access to healthcare (Global Burden of Disease Study 2016). Despite improvements in healthcare access and quality, India continues to underperform in comparison to other Low and Lower Middle Income (LMIC) countries. Only a few sub-Saharan countries, some pacific islands, Nepal and Pakistan were ranked below India. India ranks 179th out of 189 countries in prioritization accorded to health in its government budgets. The state expenditure on healthcare is highly variable across states and is not fully explained by the income level of the state. India has the highest levels of “Out of Pocket” (OOP) expenditures in the world. An increase in public health expenditure from the current levels to three per cent of GDP can reduce the OOP expenditure from 60 per cent currently to about 30 per cent. This has been demonstrated by China, Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and Pakistan as well. An increase in life expectancy has a positive correlation to per-capital public health expenditure.  At three to four per cent, the hospitalisation rates in India are among the lowest in the world. The average for middle-income countries is 8-9 per cent and 13-17 per cent for OECD countries (OECD Statistics). Low hospitalisation rates reflect lower access and utilisation of healthcare in India. India is still low on healthcare human resources be it doctors or nurses/midwives. Around 74 per cent of outpatient care and 65 per cent of hospitalisation care is provided through the private sector in urban India. There is information asymmetry which leads to failures especially in an unregulated private sector market. The economic survey clearly recommends an increased public spend on healthcare to improve accessibility and affordability. It also recommends a redesign of our healthcare system and approaches towards it. In the short span of time since its introduction, the PM-JAY in 2018 (PM Jan Arogya Yojana) has demonstrated positive outcomes. About 50 crore Indians are benefitting from the scheme which provides for the cover of up to five lakhs per annum.  A lot needs to be done in the healthcare domain in general. But the rate of growth of the older population in India warrants urgent attention from policymakers. Initiatives such as PM-JAY which benefits the marginalised are welcome, however, these initiatives don’t solve the larger eldercare issues. According to the earlier report, it is estimated that by 2041, the population would touch 151 crores, of which about 24 crores would be 60 and above (approximately 16 per cent). Healthy life expectancy at the age of 60 now stands at 12.9 years (12.5 years for males; 13.3 years for females), and it is lower than that of other major developed and emerging economies A comprehensive policy document will need to be released covering various aspects that can be dealt with by both the centre and states. This should take into account both the healthy and the sick of this population. Geriatric care needs to be taken to the grassroots levels starting from preventive care and a robust primary care system. Social security of these elderly besides their productive engagement must form the core of policy thinking. Development and investment in appropriate infrastructure development keeping this population in mind is very important. While the economic survey of 2018-19 dealt with the issue of ageing in detail, we haven’t seen much in this direction thereafter. Considering the enormity of the issue on hand, I urge the government to accelerate work in this direction. (The author is co-founder of a geriatric care specialist brand providing supportive, nursing, rehabilitative, palliative and memory care for the elderly, in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/eldercare-reforms-are-necessary-960881.html
11-03-2021||Panorama||The mind is what we make of it||Two days ago, there was this friend on a telephonic chat, tirelessly talking of the times, she had spent in various top-notch clubs. Being the sole progeny of pelf-loaded parents, she was perpetually into profligate money-frittering, that aided her pleasure-seeking pursuits. Revelling in a real sybaritic lifestyle, no wonder her racy descriptions always revolved around her roistering in ritzy clubs with her rich friends. The way ‘her mind’ constantly churned out copious thoughts, circling only around clubs, looked like ‘it’ had turned itself into an all-day-open club!  In contrast to this above pleasure-centric prattle, on the same day, there was yet another call from a relative. The relative, who generally goes gaga over all the temples she visits, this time, was giving graphic details of all the grandeur inside one particular temple she had visited. Then, she went about expatiating on exquisite flower-bedecked deities, the inexplicable numinous feel, the ineffable peace/tranquillity… Obviously, by her constant temple-related chats, her mind had assumed the calmness of a temple! Then, there is a friend’s nephew, a fitness fiend, who is firmly fixated with his fitness regimes. His chats are pretty much pivoted around pumping irons in his gym, or propelling himself to run miles during marathons. With his gym obsession, he goes overboard talking about his six-packs and sculpted muscles. Often, he overtly expresses fears of old age, an ominous threat to his toned body!   If this youngster had made his mind into a gym, there is an associate of mine, whose chatter ever hinges around her workplace. Thus, making her mind a never-shut office! Whenever I try talking to her, within moments, I find her mind, meandering towards the office-related matters – right from stenchy washrooms to workshy juniors, wiseacre-like seniors, world-weary office gofers, wisecrack-spewing team leaders, etc.   Apparently, when we constantly get cleaved to certain obsessive thoughts, they start making a strong abode in our mind to stay on forever. As ‘our mind’ is what we make it, it is up to us whether to make ‘it’ into a magnificent place or a menacing hell!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-mind-is-what-we-make-of-it-960882.html
11-03-2021||Right in the Middle||A left jab from an intrepid fighter||You could have mistaken it for a wedding gathering. Celebration was in the air. The large shamiana, the welcoming smiles of our hosts and many of us ‘guests’ greeting one another through our masks. We had taken care to dress for the occasion. Kurtas with short sleeves, blouses which could move upwards with ease. As we were invited to take a seat in the pandal outside, the significance of this momentous day slowly crept in. We were all gathered to bless not the newlyweds but the newly created vaccines and all the negotiations that went before. We were here to get our jabs and rejoice! As senior citizens, we are apt to ask questions and seek reassurance repeatedly. But the staff were equal to that. Courteous, patient and cheerful they saw to it that this process went smoothly and pleasantly. After a short wait, we were ushered in for the next phase and given a form to fill in. Some of us had carried pens and spectacles but for those who had not, pens and clipboards were available, neighbours offered their glasses and the sense of one big family continued. After the forms were done and submitted, the next job was to pay. Even that was handled with care. Only one of us went up to the counter to pay and to meet the smiling eyes of the cashier. Finally the moment arrived, and one by one we were ushered in to the sanctum sanctorum. The warrior there was gentleness personified. I told her how much we appreciated the cheerful and almost joyous response we had got since we entered “We have been waiting for this moment for a year, Ma’am !” was her reply. It hit me then that for frontline workers like her who had taken care of Covid patients night in and day out, this was indeed a momentous breakthrough.  Next was the observation room. Here the air was one of socialising. People who had not met for long were enjoying the luxury of chat. So much so, that nurses would gently remind us that the mandatory half hour was over. We came out clutching our cards as proof of this miraculous event. As we walked home we saw young nurses in freshly starched uniforms standing outside another hospital looking eager and excited to welcome their guests! It reminded me of the young girls who would line up with their trays of Attar and roses at every wedding. Was this an augury of those times happening again soon? To the creators of the vaccine, to the people who participated in the trials to make this moment a reality, and to all the warriors we met, “for this relief, much thanks.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-left-jab-from-an-intrepid-fighter-960570.html
11-03-2021||Second Edit||Bengaluru City Civil Court's injunction orders uncalled for||The Bengaluru City Civil Court appears to have seriously erred in passing an ex parte interim order restraining the media from publishing any potentially defamatory material against six Karnataka ministers. Such injunction orders not only go against several judicial pronouncements in similar cases but have the effect of preventing the media from exposing the misdeeds of politicians by granting them blanket protection. The public may well conclude that the six ministers -- K Sudhakar, Shivaram Hebbar, B C Patil, S T Somashekar, Narayana Gowda and Bhyrathi Basavaraj, – had sought the injunction orders because they have something to hide. All of them had changed parties and were instrumental in bringing down the previous Congress-JD(S) government and paving the way for the BJP to come to power in the state. But for the courts to pass such restraining orders on the media based merely on the fears of politicians that they may be defamed in the future is uncalled for. Politicians who fear for their reputation must show in their conduct -- public and private -- that they are above reproach, not hide behind injunction orders.     This is not the first time that Karnataka politicians have sought the sanctuary of the court to gag the media, but in previous instances, they have been rebuffed, and rightly so. In 2019, a Bengaluru sessions judge dismissed a plea for an injunction order by BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar against a digital news site, observing that restraining the media from publishing any information about public servants would amount to curtailing the right of the press to discharge its duties. Similarly, the Karnataka High Court had set aside a restraint order obtained from a lower court by the then Bengaluru (South) BJP candidate Tejaswi Surya in an alleged harassment case. In another case, the Delhi High Court had cautioned against courts stifling news and debate through prior gag orders. No doubt, the media, too, should act with utmost responsibility in doing its job, keeping in mind the Madras High Court observation that the media cannot publish anything and everything in the guise of public interest because all matters that may be of interest to the public are not necessarily matters of public interest. At the same time, people who hold public office must be ready for constant scrutiny of their conduct. The Bengaluru court should have refused to grant injunction or, at the very least, issued notices to media houses seeking their response before granting an interim order. In a democracy, there can be no compromise on the people’s right to know, for otherwise politicians will become law unto themselves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bengaluru-city-civil-courts-injunction-orders-uncalled-for-960566.html
11-03-2021||Second Edit||Push Myanmar junta to halt crackdown||The Myanmar military’s escalating crackdown on civilians protesting the February 1 coup has claimed dozens of lives. The Tatmadaw is using increasingly aggressive tactics to intimidate anti-coup demonstrators and shut down the protests. At least 54 people have been killed over the past six weeks and nearly 1,800 others have been arrested. In addition to tear gas and rubber bullets, soldiers are firing live rounds at unarmed protesters. Images coming out of Myanmar are disturbing. In one video, heavily armed soldiers with guns drawn can be seen entering a school building. In another, a nun kneels before soldiers, pleading with them to stop shooting protesters. Apparently, her pleas fell on deaf ears; the soldiers reportedly opened fire soon after. Little is known about what is happening behind closed doors, in jails and detention rooms. At least two officials of the National League of Democracy (NLD) have died in custody so far. NLD leader Aung San Suu Kyi has been slapped with obscure charges and her trial is being conducted behind closed doors. On the day of the coup, India issued an official statement expressing its “deep concern” over events in Myanmar and reiterating Delhi’s “commitment to democratic transition” in the country. However, the Modi government has remained silent on the terrible violence being unleashed on Myanmar’s people. This is unconscionable. The use of police and military muscle to crush protests for democracy must be condemned. Indeed, as immoral as the violence of Myanmar’s junta is our silence and the mute response of the international community to the cries of Myanmar’s people. As Myanmar’s neighbour, one that is already caught up in a geopolitical battle with China, undoubtedly India is in a difficult spot. To align with the NLD against the junta would undermine gains made over the past two decades. But India can and must raise its voice against the military rulers’ violence against their own people. People are fleeing the junta into India. Among them are eight Myanmar police personnel. The junta has demanded their return. India must not oblige. Delhi may not be a signatory to the UN refugee convention but it has other international obligations under which it must respect their right to non-refoulement. India must avoid condoning the junta, as China has, or publicly censuring it, as western powers have. Neither approach is useful. Instead, it should quietly push the military to release Suu Kyi and other political prisoners and halt the violent crackdowns on civilians. Delhi has influence over the generals. This can work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/push-myanmar-junta-to-halt-crackdown-960875.html
11-03-2021||South||KTR extends TRS's support to Vizag Steel protests; says BJP capable of even privatising state governments||The agitation in Andhra Pradesh against Vizag Steel Plant's privatisation has received an unexpected support from neighbouring Telangana. Telangana IT, industries minister KT Rama Rao has extended his party TRS's support to the protests led by the VSP workers, people's organizations and political parties opposing the Narendra Modi government's bid. KTR, as the Telangana minister is popularly known, accused that the BJP led Centre “is even capable of mulling privatization of the state governments.” On Monday, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has confirmed that the centre would proceed with 100 per cent disinvestment of its share in Vizag Steel, by way of privatization. The firm stand, despite the month-long protests and a statewide bandh held on Friday, has intensified the resistance from the workers and locals of the steel city. On Wednesday, KTR said that the Modi government is not honouring the AP Reorganization Act 2014 assurance of setting up an integrated steel plant at Bayyaram in Telangana, through the Steel Authority of India Limited. “And now in Vizag, the centre is selling off the steel plant, which our Andhra brethren had achieved decades back with the war-cry, “Visakha ukku – Andhrula hakku,” (Vizag steel is Andhra's right)” KTR said addressing an MLC election campaign meeting in Hyderabad. “I am assuring our moral support to the thousands of workers agitating there on Vizag roads. If needed, we will go there to join their protests, taking CM K Chandrasekhar Rao's approval.” “If we turn a blind eye to the VSP problem today, tomorrow the (BJP led government) would come after the PSUs like BHEL, Singareni Collieries here. And then they might even say, ``Let's plan privatization of the state governments,” KTR said while seeking Andhra people's support in Telangana issues in return. While the Telangana statehood agitation had created a rift between the two regions, since their reorganization in 2014, the two Telugu states have been warring over several issues like river water sharing. Elections for the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar and Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC graduate constituencies would be held on 14 March. The TRS has sharpened its attack on main rival BJP maintaining that the Modi government is biased against Telangana, pointing at non-starter projects like the Hyderabad ITIR, Kazipet rail coach factory, and Bayyaram steel plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ktr-extends-trss-support-to-vizag-steel-protests-says-bjp-capable-of-even-privatising-state-governments-960534.html
11-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls: Congress (M) announces candidates for 12 seats||The Kerala Congress (M), a new ally of the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF, on Wednesday announced candidates who would contest the April 6 Assembly polls from 12 seats. Party chairman Jose K Mani, however, has not announced the candidate for the Kuttiady constituency in Kozhikode, considering the protests by local CPI(M) activists against allocating the seat for KC(M). Hundreds of CPI(M) workers had hit the streets of Kuttiady on Wednesday in protest against giving the party's strong seat to KC(M). The KC(M), which joined the LDF after severing its decades-old ties with the Congress-led UDF, said the candidate for the Kuttiady seat would be decided after consulting with the CPI(M) leadership. The KC(M) has been allocated 13 seats by the LDF. According to the list, Jose K Mani would contest from Pala Assembly constituency, the seat held by his father and veteran Kerala Congress leader late K M Mani for over 50 years till his demise in 2019.  Party leaders and MLAs Roshy Augustine and Dr N Jayaraj would fight from their sitting seats of Idukki and Kanjirappally respectively. Sindhumol Jacob is the lone woman in the list. She has been fielded from Piravom. Other candidates are: Job Michael (Changanassery), Stephen George (Kaduthuruthy), Sebastian Kulathumkal (Poonjar), K I Antony (Thodupuzha), Babu Joseph (Perumbavoor), Pramod Narayan (Ranni), Dennis Antony (Chalakkudy) and Saji Kuttyanimattom (Irikkur).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-congress-m-announces-candidates-for-12-seats-960584.html
11-03-2021||South||This politician from DMK is the richest MLA in Tamil Nadu||Out of the 204 sitting MLAs in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, 157, or 77 per cent, are crorepatis. The average assets per sitting MLA are worth Rs 6.05 crore, according to a report by Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The most number of wealthy MLAs belong to the ruling AIADMK, with 76 of the 109 MLAs (70 per cent) having declared assets worth over Rs 1 crore. In DMK, 74 of the 86 MLAs (86%) are crorepatis. Five of the seven MLAs of the Indian National Congress, one MLA from IUML and one Independent MLA also have assets over Rs 1 crore. Average assets of MLAs belonging to AIADMK are worth Rs 3.49 crore. DMK MLAs' average assets are worth Rs 9.49 crore, while the 7 INC MLAs have average assets of Rs 3.72 crores. The MLA with the highest assets is DMK's Mohan M K, from the Anna Nagar constituency, with assets to his name worth over Rs 170 crore. The MLA with the lowest assets is Eswaran S of AIADMK with assets worth over Rs 4 lakhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/this-politician-from-dmk-is-the-richest-mla-in-tamil-nadu-960713.html
11-03-2021||South||Kerala CPM Minister expresses regret over Sabarimala row||Kerala Devaswom Minister and CPM leader Kadakampally Surendran said that he was quite sad about the incidents at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in connection with the women entry issue in 2018. Surendran, who is contesting again from Kazhakkootam constituency in Thiruvananthapuram, said that whatever be the decision of the Supreme Court on the Sabarimala issue, the government would implement it only after discussions with the devotees. Tensions at Sabarimala should have been avoided, he said. The BJP and Congress, who have been banking on the Sabrimala issue to undermine the government before elections, questioned the genuineness of the statement. While opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that it was a bid to fool the voters, BJP said that the injury caused to the devotees could not be soothed easily. The CPM suffered a major setback in the 2019 Lok Sabha election by losing 19 of the 20 seats. The party evaluated that the Pinarayi Vijayan government's stand on implementing SC's order lifting restrictions imposed on women in the 10-50 age group to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple was a reason for the setback. The left front government had also recently softened its stand on the issue, deciding to withdraw cases registered against hundreds of persons who took part in protests against allowing women to the Ayyappa temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cpm-minister-expresses-regret-over-sabarimala-row-960790.html
11-03-2021||South||Senior Congress leader Valsaraj not to contest Assembly elections in Puducherry||Senior Congress leader and former Puducherry Health Minister E Valsaraj on Thursday announced he would not contest the forthcoming Assembly polls in the union territory as he wanted to give opportunity to the youth. The former Mahe MLA, however, said he would remain in the party which is a 'mass-based political outfit.' "I wanted to give opportunity for youth to jump into poll fray and hence decided to retire from poll battle," the vice-president of Puducherry Pradesh Congress Committee told reporters at the party office here. Valsaraj had won the lone Assembly seat in Mahe, an enclave of Puducherry in Kerala, every time since his maiden victory in 1990 and lost from the constituency in the 2016 polls. "I have been Health Minister of Puducherry whenever Congress formed the government in the past and I have been able to ensure development of Puducherry as a whole," he said, adding the government medical college and also a maternity hospital were planned and designed by him. Valsaraj said he had informed the party high command about his decision to stay away from electoral battle. He further said that he had intended to stay away from contesting the polls in 2016 but was persuaded by the party to do so. The Congress leader had lost to an independent candidate N Ramachandran in 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-congress-leader-valsaraj-not-to-contest-assembly-elections-in-puducherry-960803.html
11-03-2021||South||After return of 1,300 students, 2,000 more allowed to enter University of Hyderabad campus||The University of Hyderabad has allowed the return of an additional 2,000 students for in-person academic activities on the campus. 1,300 students were allowed earlier, after the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions were eased last year. One of the top universities in the country, UoH has a total strength of over 5,700 students and 425 faculty. “The latest decision allows the presence of about 60 per cent of the total students on the campus,” a UoH official told DH. Returning students must produce a Covid-19 negative report from RT-PCR test, sign an undertaking, and spend a minimum of three days in isolation at a campus facility. Those students returning from Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Punjab, Haryana and Gujarat, that are reporting a surge in cases, are required to spend seven days in isolation. All the departments are advised to continue instruction in a blended mode (of offline and online). Vice-Chancellor Podile Appa Rao has approved the return of all terminal semester post-graduate students completing their programmes and graduating in June, based on the recommendations of a UoH task force preparing the road-map for resumption of academic activities amidst the global pandemic. All the Ph.D. students, except those who joined in 2020-21, can come back to resume their research work on campus. For now, all Master’s students who joined the University in 2020 will continue to have online classes. “The return will be entirely voluntary and the university will continue teaching-learning activities online for those who wish to remain at their homes,” the university said in a statement on Thursday. UoH had commenced online teaching in August and provided remote access to digital resources to all the students and faculty. The permission now, the official said, is in addition to the 1,300 students already allowed, including research scholars and final semester students in the science and practical disciplines such as performing arts and fine arts, to return and stay in the hostels. The university had earlier facilitated senior research scholars to complete their thesis submissions, and also reopened the main library.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-return-of-1300-students-2000-more-allowed-to-enter-university-of-hyderabad-campus-960923.html
11-03-2021||State||TV content shall be in conformity with Cable TV Act: Karnataka High Court||In an interim direction, the High Court has said that programmes aired on television channels shall be strictly in conformity with the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995. Justice P S Dinesh Kumar passed the order in response to a petition filed seeking the court’s interference into cases of intrusion of privacy by media houses. The petition is filed by Atma V Hiremath, who claimed to be an active member of the BJP. The petition claimed that airing of certain content on media platforms, in the case of a former minister, had violated the fundamental rights under Article 21. The petition has prayed for a direction to the union government and the state government to take appropriate steps in implementing the Supreme Court judgment in K S Puttaswamy case, on the issue of the right to privacy. “By an ad-interim direction, it is directed that any broadcast in the Cable Television Network shall be strictly in conformity in terms of ‘Programme code’ as defined under Section 5 of the Cable Television Networks (Regulation) Act, 1995 (‘Act’ for short) read with Rule 6 of the Cable Television Network Rules, 1994,” the court said. The petition has also sought a direction to the Bengaluru City Police Commissioner to take action under Section 19 of the Act. The additional advocate general assured the court that the commissioner shall examine and take appropriate action, wherever required.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tv-content-shall-be-in-conformity-with-cable-tv-act-karnataka-high-court-960535.html
11-03-2021||State||Seats in 'sheenless' medical PG subjects go abegging||A few subjects in medical courses at the postgraduate (PG) level are losing sheen in the state as there are no takers, amid a dearth of specialists in the field of medicine.  The demand for pre- and para-clinical subjects at the PG level is going down drastically, with 500 plus seats left vacant during the 2020-21 academic year. The number of seats available in pre- and para-clinical PG courses this year was 801.   Details available from the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) show that subjects like anatomy, biochemistry, physiology, community medicine, forensic medicine, microbiology, pharmacology and pathology have no demand. Technical hurdle Though experts recommend freezing admissions to subjects that have no takers, it is not possible technically. Speaking to DH, a senior official from the department of medical education said, “It is compulsory to have pre- and para-clinical courses while opening new PG departments at medical colleges, according to the National Medical Council norms. We cannot make any changes at the state level.” Students in MBBS say the demand for any subject/course depends on the job market. “If we take up any of the clinical subjects, we can attend to patients and take up practice. But a majority of the pre- and para-clinical subjects have no job opportunities,” said a final year MBBS student. ‘Redundant subjects’ “We all have studied anatomy in graduation itself. It is better to scrap such subjects at PG level and convert or transfer those seats to subjects where there is more demand and a need for specialists,” said Dr Charitra, pursuing her MD in anaesthesia.  Seconding the opinions expressed by students, Dr S Sacchidanand, Vice Chancellor of RGUHS, said, “Yes, the job market is one of the main reasons for students not taking up pre- and para-clinical subjects at PG level. There are very few opportunities for practice in pre- and para-clinicalcourses.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/seats-in-sheenless-medical-pg-subjects-go-abegging-960537.html
11-03-2021||State||Raichur airport: AAI team visit this month amid RoW issues||A team of experts from the Airports Authority of India (AAI) is scheduled to visit Raichur this month even as the state government told the Legislative Assembly that the proposed airport there had some right-of-way issues.  Infrastructure Development Minister Anand Singh, in his reply to a starred question by Raichur Rural MLA Basanagouda Daddal, said the proposed airport’s land was surrounded by power lines of the Yeramarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS). Also, the height of the YTPS chimneys would obstruct flight operations.  Laying the answer on behalf of Singh, who was absent, Primary & Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the government had already acquired 400 acres of land for the airport. The airport, he said, will have the capacity to operate 20-seater aircraft. “Soon after the AAI submits its report, we will take further action,” he said.  Lamenting the delay, Daddal said an airport in Raichur would help the backward district. “Because of the delay, Raichur is losing out on investments. The lack of air connectivity also led to Raichur losing IIT to Dharwad,” he said.  When Daddal pointed out that the state budget had no mention of funds for the airport, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, the minister in charge of Raichur, said Rs 62 crore under the Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB) had been set aside for the project.  Savadi added that he had discussed the project with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. “We will go ahead with the detailed project report this year and take up works next year,” he said.  Congress MLAs Priyank Kharge, Bheema Naik and others objected to the use of KKRDB funds for the airport project. “The government should stop using KKRDB funds. It’s not a kamadhenu,” Kharge said. “On one hand, you say there are right-of-way issues. On the other hand, you say land has been acquired and funds earmarked. There’s still no technical approval. The AAI process itself will take 2-3 years,” he said.  Taking exception, Savadi said KKRDB funds were set aside for the airport after the consent of MLAs from the Kalyana Karnataka region. “Didn’t you want an airport at Raichur,” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/raichur-airport-aai-team-visit-this-month-amid-row-issues-960540.html
11-03-2021||State||Fee cut: Karnataka High Court asks schools, state not to take coercive steps||In an interim order, the Karnataka High Court has directed the members of Association of India Schools, running central syllabus schools, and the state government not to take any coercive measures in the matter of payment of reduced fees. Justice R Devdas asked the school managements to be considerate in the matter of those parents who pay lesser fees, than last year. Meanwhile, the state government has also been directed not to initiate any coercive action against the schools on the basis of January 29, 2021 circular. Through the circular, the government reduced the fees payable for the present academic year to 70% of the fees charged during the previous academic year. The associations, representing the managements of private schools as well as some individual schools, have challenged the January 29, 2021 directive. The petitions were filed by Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka (KAMS), Karnataka State Minorities Educational Institutions Managements Federation and others. The petitioners claimed that some parents have stopped paying fees as the circular bars from taking any coercive action. They also contended that though the government permitted collection of 70% tuition fees, in actual calculation, it comes to only 50% as there are no admission fees and other charges collected by the schools for the academic year 2020-21. The schools claimed that they are spending more on online teaching, which is continuing for more than six months On Wednesday, the court posted further hearing to March 24. The court indicated that the prayer for interim relief will be considered on the next date of hearing. It also directed the government to file a statement of objections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fee-cut-karnataka-high-court-asks-schools-state-not-to-take-coercive-steps-960542.html
11-03-2021||State||KPSC puts off SDA, junior assistants’ exams||The Karnataka Public Services Commission (KPSC) has put off the examinations, supposed to be held for second division assistant (SDA) and junior assistant posts, the recruitment for which was announced in 2019. According to the earlier schedule, the Kannada language entrance exam for these posts was expected to be held on March 20, while the competitive exam had to be held on March 21. The examinations have now been rescheduled as the Commission needs more time to organise the examinations. This was a result of a previous postponed exam (of first division assistants scheduled to be held in 2020) being recently held in February 2021. Fresh dates will be announced soon, according to an official release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kpsc-puts-off-sda-junior-assistants-exams-960543.html
11-03-2021||State||Shut down Udupi Power Corporation Ltd, demands MLC Pratapchandra Shetty||Demanding a detailed study into the alleged pollution caused by the Udupi Power Corporation Ltd (UPCL), Congress MLC Pratapchandra Shetty on Wednesday urged the state government to shut the facility down pending an investigation. Raising the issue in the Zero Hour in the Legislative Council, Shetty said people in at least 15 villages in the vicinity, were affected by the pollution caused by the UPCL.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shut-down-udupi-power-corporation-ltd-demands-mlc-pratapchandra-shetty-960544.html
11-03-2021||State||No decline in arrivals at APMCs: Somashekar||Though there has been no decline in arrivals at Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs), revenues have dipped due to a reduction in cess, Cooperation minister S T Somashekar said on Tuesday. He said that the government would not waive cess at APMCs, as it has reduced it from the 1.5% earlier to 0.6%. In copra, chilli and other markets, transactions have remained the same. However, farmers can now sell their produce anywhere and get the right price for the products. Commenting on the budgetary announcement to set up a 42-acre fruit market at Anekal and a 50-acre flower market at Devanahalli, he said that the markets, to be set up by APMCs, would provide a fillip to agricultural activities in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/no-decline-in-arrivals-at-apmcs-somashekar-960545.html
11-03-2021||State||How Covid-19 had taxing effect on Karnataka's revenue flow last year||The Covid-19 pandemic reduced the amount of commercial tax collected in the state, data shows. According to the information, commercial tax collection last year was at its lowest in seven years due to the lockdown, government sources said.  From April 2020 to February 2021, the government collected only 93.35% of the previous fiscal year’s total, amounting to Rs 49,441.95 crore. Commercial Tax Collection   “The numbers reflect the reduction of economic activity in the state especially during the first half of the year,” a senior government official acknowledged, adding, however, that monthly tax collection figures have picked up over the course of the last three months. April-May crisis Just how precarious is the fall in state revenue? In April 2020, tax revenue dipped to a staggering 39.86% of the previous fiscal’s total for April, with only Rs 2,029.98 crore collected during that month. In May, which was also witness to restrictive lockdown, tax collection amounted to 60.79% of the previous total, with Rs 2,667.34 crore collected. In contrast, the average collection usually obtained in April over the last six years is Rs 4,402.62 crore, while the figure is Rs 3,745.09 crore on average for May.  The revenue data hints at the level of the decline of economic activity in the state and the fact that it did not recover even when the state government allowed industrial activity to resume in May.  “The problem was that a major chunk of the industrial workforce had migrated to their home states, and because of this, the economy could not reactivate itself,” a government source said. The source added that tax data is a means to gauge the scale of economic activity, because compliance in filing monthly tax is high in Karnataka.  1 million workers absent According to the information given by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, while 10-20% of industries started operations within four days of being granted exemption from lockdown activities, activity suffered from the absence of nearly one million migrant workers across all sectors from commercial shops to construction. Only in September 2020 did tax revenue bounce back to normal. The data shows that Rs 4,854.24 crore of tax revenue was collected, which is 101.14% of the previous fiscal year. Coincidentally, the state’s first Covid-19 wave had peaked on September 23, coupled with the government’s relaxed curbs on public transport, interstate travel and public gatherings.   October peak The collection percentage peaked in October with 118% of the previous fiscal year being collected (Rs 5,114.73 crore), while the collection amount itself peaked in January 2021 with Rs 5,639.64 crore (or 106.17% of the previous year) being collected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/how-covid-19-had-taxing-effect-on-karnatakas-revenue-flow-last-year-960546.html
11-03-2021||State||Karnataka government says technical glitches delaying payment to silk farmers||At a time when several silk farmers are complaining about payment delays at government cocoon markets, the state said it was aware of the dues. In a written response to the Legislative Council recently, the government acknowledged the delay in transactions from at least a month. This was due to technical glitches caused by the merger of a few banks, it said. Farmers, however, said it was a longstanding issue. Apparently, silk farmers coming to the Ramanagara cocoon market are the worst-hit, with dues pending over a year. “Instead of immediately transferring money into our accounts, some reelers assure to make payments through private payment portals. Others give cheques. In the end, we end up making several trips to the market to claim the dues,” one farmer explained.  There are farmers coming from far-off districts including Haveri, Gadag, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Davangere to sell cocoons.  The government’s sericulture secretary Rajender Kumar Kataria said the department had already held meetings in this regard and the issue would be resolved soon. Such instances were not the norm and were hardly 0.5% of cases, he said. While the department had not made it mandatory for all reelers to have an e-wallet, it would onboard everyone this fiscal. At present, online transactions account for 30-40% of overall transactions, Kataria said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-government-says-technical-glitches-delaying-payment-to-silk-farmers-960891.html
11-03-2021||State||Shivapura Sathyagraha Soudha part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’||Sathyagraha Soudha at Shivapura in Maddur taluk, Mandya district, will be part of ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav’ (Platinum Jubilee of Independence) to be flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Sabarmati Ashram in  Gujarat today.  The prime minister will launch the programme virtually at 12 noon. The 21-day ‘Dandi March’, started by Mahatma Gandhi at Sabarmati Ashram, on March 12, 1930, concluded on April 6, at Dandi as a non-violent protest against the British salt monopoly. Preparations are already on to celebrate the 75th year of Independence. The day-long programmes begin at Shivapura Sathyagraha Soudha at 6 am with 75 enthusiasts performing Yoga and conclude at 7.30 pm with a laser show. Most of the events have 75 in common, as Shivapura is among the 75 places identified to be part of the celebrations. Shramadan is organised to clean all wards under Maddur Town Municipal Council from 6 am to 7 am. An all-faith prayer session will be held from 7 am to 7.15 am. Akshara Dashoha personnel will hold a Rangoli contest for groups and individuals, with millets, on the theme of Independence, around the Soudha from 7.30 to 8.30 am. The sports department will hold a cycle rally from 7.15 to 8 am with 75 cyclists and a half marathon from 8 am to 8.30 am. The events include traditional bullock cart parade, fancy dress, police band, parade of NCC, Scouts and Guides and students, three-dimensional recreation of Dandi March in flowers, exhibition of Khadi products, books exhibition, philatelic (postal stamps) exhibition, cultural programmes, planting of 75 saplings on the premises of government residential school, planting of medicinal plants and judo show by girls. Patriotic Kannada films will be exhibited in all theatres of Maddur and Shivapura. Historical event Shivapura Dhwaja Sathyagraha (Flag Sathyagraha) marked the hoisting of the tricolour, on April 9, 1938, on the farmland of Thirumale Gowda on the banks of River Shimsha at Shivapura village to protest against the taxes levied on farmers, by the British government through the Maharaja of Mysuru. Around 10,000 people, including women, had assembled on the land of Thirumale Gowda for the first Mysore Congress convention at Shivapura. The then deputy commissioner of Mysuru warned against hoisting the tricolour. Instead, he suggested them to hoist the Gandabherunda flag. Mysore Congress president T Siddalingaiah was slated to hoist both the tricolour and Gandabherunda flag. The flag post was guarded by around 25 women members of the Sevadal. Everybody knew that unfurling of the tricolour would land them in jail. When Siddalingaiah was about to hoist the flag, police arrested him. Freedom fighter M N Jois, who was with Siddalingaiah, pulled the rope and hoisted the flag, in a flash of a second. The police arrested all those who participated in the agitation. Later, Sathyagraha Soudha was built at Shivapura to commemorate the Dhwaja Satyagraha. It was inaugurated by then Chief Minister D Devaraj Urs and former chief minister Kengal Hanumantaiah on September 26, 1979.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivapura-sathyagraha-soudha-part-of-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-960904.html
11-03-2021||State||Karnataka reports 783 new Covid-19 cases, two deaths||Karnataka reported 783 new cases of Covid-19 and two related fatalities on Thursday, taking the total number of infections to 9,57,584 and the death toll to 12,381. The day also saw 406 patients getting discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-783-new-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-960906.html
11-03-2021||State||Security Agency Act applies to agencies, not firms hiring own guards: Karnataka High Court||The Dharwad bench of the High Court has held that the provisions under the Private Security Agency (Regulation) Act, 2005, apply only when a person or agency is running a security agency and not when a person or a business entity hires its own security guards. The court quashed the case registered against a showroom owner in Belagavi by the Internal Security Division (ISD). The petitions were filed by Rohit R, who runs two showrooms in Belagavi. The allegation in the FIR registered by the ISD was that the petitioner is running showrooms and had appointed security guards without taking licence/permit under the provisions of the Act. The petitioner contended that he has employed his own staff and assigned some of them exclusively to perform security duty and also provided certain uniforms to them. According to the petitioner, the provisions under the Act are not at all applicable to his business as he is not running any business of a security agency. Justice P Krishna Bhat observed that the conditions of operation, including eligibility criteria fixed to be a private security guard and the requirement to exhibit licence, are enjoined upon the private security agency, within the meaning of the Act only and not upon others. The court observed that upon a notice issued by the ISD inspector, prior to registration of FIR, the owner of the showroom has stated that the guards appointed by him are his regular employees and in order to demonstrate it he had mentioned their PF and ESI account numbers. “Accordingly, the whole case registered by the police Inspector, ISD, Bengaluru in Crime No 8/2018 for an offence punishable under Section 20 of the Act is misconceived and the same has no sanction under the law and therefore, it is liable to be quashed,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/security-agency-act-applies-to-agencies-not-firms-hiring-own-guards-karnataka-high-court-960910.html
11-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports first Covid-19 case with South African variant||Karnataka reported its first Covid-19 case with the South Africa variant 501.V2 of the SARS-CoV-2 virus on Wednesday.  Jawaid Akhtar, additional chief secretary, Health, said, “The initial report that he is from Bengaluru is wrong. The 58-year-old man is from Shivamogga. Five of his contacts are in-home quarantine. Three other contacts are in institutional quarantine with him.”  Dr Trilok Chandra, Health Commissioner, told DH, “This patient is from Shivamogga. Initially, there was a miscommunication that he’s from Bengaluru. He and his primary contacts, three in all (family members) are in institutional quarantine. They’re all asymptomatic.” Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, district health officer, said, “He travelled from Dubai to Bengaluru on February 22. He then came to Shivamogga. He resides near Tipu Nagar. At present, we have identified only eight of his contacts. We are yet to do his mobile tracing. He and his family members will be shifted to McGann Hospital. We have intimated the police and our epidemiologist.”  Covid-19 patients with the SA variant have been reported from West Bengal, Surat (Gujarat) and Maharashtra. The SA strain is said to affect the younger population more.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-first-covid-19-case-with-south-african-variant-960613.html
11-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No deadline for SIT to probe Ramesh Jarkiholi sex scandal, says Bommai||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has not been given any “time frame or deadline” to submit a report to the government, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Thursday.  The state government constituted the SIT, headed by IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee, on Wednesday.  “The SIT will do a comprehensive probe. It will look into all developments, including the withdrawal of the complaint given to the Cubbon Park police station and everything that has happened. We have to give police full freedom and we can’t fix a time frame or deadline,” Bommai said.  “But, we have told the SIT that it should do it soon so that the truth comes out before the people of the state,”  the minister added.  On March 3, a day after news channels aired videos of the alleged sex scandal, Ramesh resigned as the Water Resources minister. He has repeatedly claimed that the video is fake. On Tuesday, he wrote to Bommai seeking a probe into this “conspiracy” against him.  “Based on whatever comes out of the preliminary inquiry, an FIR will be filed and further investigation will continue,” Bommai said.  Responding to Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar’s argument that a probe was unnecessary if the video itself was fake, Bommai said: “We still have to investigate who made the fake CD, where and when.”  BJP legislator and Ramesh’s brother Balachandra Jarkiholi has said that a complaint will be filed soon naming people who were behind the conspiracy. Bommai said he had no further information on this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-deadline-for-sit-to-probe-ramesh-jarkiholi-sex-scandal-says-bommai-960734.html
11-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivamogga man with South African Covid-19 variant tests negative||In a big relief, the 53-year old Dubai returnee, who had tested positive for South Africa variant 501.V2 of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, was tested negative on Thursday. Speaking to DH, District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Suragihalli said the samples of nine primary contacts and 30 secondary contacts of the man from Shivamogga, who was Karnataka's first Covid-19 case of South Africa variant, also tested negative. Dr Rajesh said, "He might have been infected by the South Africa variant while he was employed in a hotel in Dubai for about a month. He is undergoing treatment in the Covid ward in the District McGann Hospital and his condition is stable. His spouse and son have been tested negative. People of the district need not panic as the situation is under control."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivamogga-man-with-south-african-covid-19-variant-tests-negative-960900.html
11-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools conducting physical classes for Class 1 to 5 under lens||Several private schools across the state have been accused of commencing offline classes for Class 1 to 5, though the state government has not granted permission for the same, considering the pandemic situation. Both the Primary and Secondary Education Department and Health and Family Welfare Department have received complaints from parents and the public against such schools. And as per the complaints, some schools have started physical classes for primary schools from January 2021 itself, when the government allowed it for Class 10 and 12. Raising the issue and expressing concern over the same, Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar requested Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar to look into the issue and initiate stringent action against such school managements. In a Tweet, Sudhakar said, “It has been noticed that some of the private schools are conducting offline classes even for grades 1 to 6 though there is no permission from the government. We have received complaints too. I request the Minister for Primary and Secondary Education to initiate stringent action, including disaffiliating such schools for violating the norms.” According to official sources from the Department of Public Instruction, in some cases, even parents are willing to send children to schools. “In rural areas, schools are functioning with the consent of parents. The working class, labour class are demanding to reopen schools,” said a source from the department. Responding to a Tweet by minister Sudhakar, many parents/public said that the schools are open in most places. Reacting to it, D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Management of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “Even we have brought it to the notice of the department. Technically speaking, when the state government itself is running Anganwadis, why the restriction to start grades 1 to 5. We once again request the government to consider reopening all grades and let the parents decide whether they want to send their children or not.” Presently, the state government has granted permission to conduct offline classes for grade 6 and above, across the state, except Bengaluru Urban and districts bordering Karnataka and Kerala. At these districts, only class 8 and above is allowed. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S Suresh Kumar said, “The Health Minister has discussed the issue with me. Even this has come to the notice of the Department of Public Instruction and the deputy directors at the district-level have been directed to initiate action against such schools which are conducting classes by violating government norms. There is no provision for anyone to take decisions, by overtaking the decision taken by the government, in the interest of the children.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-conducting-physical-classes-for-class-1-to-5-under-lens-960902.html
11-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka reports 783 infections, two fatalities||The uptrend in fresh Covid-19 cases in Karnataka continued with the 783 more testing positive on Thursday, taking the infection count to 9,51,600 as the active cases rose by over 2,000 since this month beginning. Two more deaths took the Covid-19 toll to 12,336, the health department said. According to a bulletin, 9,37,353 people have been discharged cumulatively so far including 406 on Thursday. There were 7,831 active cases in the state which includes 110 in the intensive care units, the department added. Active cases stood at 5,824 on March 1 and have been climbing steadily since then. Maximum cases of the day in the state were contributed by Bengaluru urban district, which reported 492 infections whereas both the deaths happened in the city while the rest of the districts reported zero coronavirus-related deaths. Cumulatively, the city has reported 4,09,655 infections, 4,514 deaths, 3,99,315 discharges, including 191 on Thursday, and 5,825 active cases. There was zero infection and zero fatality in Haveri whereas, one infection and zero fatalities were reported in Kolar, Koppal and Ramanagar. A total of 73,101 tests were done on Thursday with 68,466 of them using the RT-PCR method, taking the total tests done so far to 1.96 crore, the department added. On Thursday, 9,344 people were vaccinated including the first dose to 7,388 general public. There were no instances of adverse event following immunization (AEFIs), the department added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-reports-783-infections-two-fatalities-960925.html
11-03-2021||West||Fire breaks out at biscuit manufacturing factory in Maharashtra's Thane||A major fire broke out in a biscuit manufacturing factory at Ambernath in Maharashtra's Thane district on Thursday morning, a civic official said. No casualty was reported so far, he said. The blaze erupted around 5.45 am in the unit located in an industrial area of Ambernath town, Thane Municipal Corporation's Regional Disaster Management Cell chief Santosh Kadam said. Eight fire engines from Ambernath and neighbouring Badlapur town were rushed to the spot, he said. Firefighting is still on, the official said. "No casualty has been reported so far. The cause of the fire is not yet known," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-biscuit-manufacturing-factory-in-maharashtras-thane-960647.html
11-03-2021||West||5 years after return to India, Geeta may have found her family in Maharashtra||No DNA test has been conducted yet but for 29-year-old Geeta, who returned to India from Pakistan in 2015 after going there when she was nine, the search for her biological mother may have ended, an NGO says. Geeta, who returned to India on October 26, 2015 after intervention by then External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj, was initially lodged at a facility of a hearing and speech impaired institute run by an Indore-based NGO. The over five-year-long search to find Geeta's family led to Parbhani in Maharashtra, where she is now being trained in sign language by Pahal, an NGO working for the hearing and speech impaired. Speaking to PTI, Dr Anand Selgaokar of Pahal said Geeta was handed over to Anand Services Society, another Indore-based NGO, on July 20, 2020 and Gyanendra Purohit of that NGO first came to Parbhani in December last year. The search in the last five years involved screening process of at least a dozen families from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana and Rajasthan after claims that they were Geetas blood relations. Purohit said the search led the NGO to Meena Waghmare (71) who lived in Jintur in Parbhani district, when her daughter Radha (Geeta) went missing. "Meena told us that her daughter has a burn mark on her stomach and when we checked, it turned out to be true," Purohit said. Geeta's father and Meena's first husband Sudhakar Waghmare died some years ago and she now lives near Aurangabad with her second husband, Purohit said. Tears rolled down Meena's eyes as she met Geeta for the first time, he said. Geeta did not understand a word of what Meena said as being speech and hearing impaired, she communicates only through sign language. It is likely that Geeta reached Parbhani and boarded the Sachkhand Express to Amritsar and later boarded the Delhi-Lahore Samjhauta Express, Selgaonkar said. Geeta has now spent around a month-and-a-half in Parbhani and often meets with Meena and the latter's married daughter, who also lives in the Marathwada region. "It is for the government authorities to decide on when to conduct a DNA test. Till then Geeta will continue to receive training at Pahal," Selgaonkar said. Pakistani media reported that Geeta, who was rescued by a social welfare organisation in Pakistan after she mistakenly ended up in that country before being sent back to India in 2015, has been reunited with her real mother in Maharashtra. Bilquees Edhi the wife of late Abdul Sattar Edhi, who now runs the world famous Edhi Welfare Trust and who developed a close bond with Geeta said the Indian girl had finally been reunited with her real mother in Maharashtra state, Dawn newspaper reported. "She has been in touch with me and this weekend she finally told me the good news about meeting her real mother," Bilquees said. Bilquees said they had found Geeta when she was around 11-12 years old at a railway station and gave her shelter at their centre in Karachi. "Somehow she strayed into Pakistan and was shelterless when we found her in Karachi," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/5-years-after-return-to-india-geeta-may-have-found-her-family-in-maharashtra-960659.html
11-03-2021||West||After MahaGenco, MahaTransco creates record in power transmission||The Maharashtra State Transmission Co Ltd (MSETCL) recorded the highest ever power transmission of 25,800 MW at 11.16 am on Wednesday owing of the use of latest technology and preventive maintenance. This is the highest ever power transmission recorded in the history of the MSETCL or MahaTransco. Soon after assuming the office, the state Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut asked the MSETCL to use the latest technology and preventive maintenance to improve availability of transmission network. “We encouraged the MSETCL to use infrared, thermal and drone cameras for outage management. Hence technical snags and hotspots were detected in time. It minimized the incidents of breakdown in transmission networks improving the availability of power. The power demand in the state is on rise as the state economy is now returning to normalcy,” Dr Raut said. MahaVitaran recorded demand of 22,339 MW. Earlier the MSETCL recorded power transmission of 24,200 MW on October 22, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-mahagenco-mahatransco-creates-record-in-power-transmission-960667.html
11-03-2021||West||68-year-old man held for raping street dog in Mumbai: Report||Ahmad Shah, a vegetable vendor and a resident of Juhu Galli, was arrested after Vijay Mohnani of NGO Bombay Animal Rights submitted a video to the police in which Shah could be seen raping the dog. According to the FIR, Mohnani had received a call from a resident of Juhu Galli who told him there is a man in the area who rapes street dogs, and was caught on camera. The man said he had warned him against the act, but the accused kept repeating it. An FIR was registered under Sections 377 (unnatural offences) and 429 (killing or maiming an animal) of the IPC and Section 11 (treating animals cruelly) of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/68-year-old-man-held-for-raping-street-dog-in-mumbai-report-960679.html
11-03-2021||West||Maharashtra may be moving towards another lockdown||Amid the nearly month-long surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the government is preparing for another phase of lockdown. However, it would be selectively done in cities and urban conglomerations where cases are unusually high. In terms of Covid-19 cases on a 24-hour-basis, the state is reporting cases similar to the first fortnight of last October. The assertion came from Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray himself, who drove to the Sir JJ Hospital to take a vaccine on Thursday. Over the weekend, the government is expected to have a detailed review of the emerging situation and take a final call on the steps to be taken, which would include measures like lockdown, night-curfew and restricted movement of people. “Coronavirus cases are on the rise but the situation has not gone out of hand,” Thackeray told reporters in Mumbai. “In few days we have to arrive at a decision, in some places a decision of lockdown needs to be taken,” Thackeray said. According to him, cases are increasing in some places, however, people need to take care and follow protocols and SOPs. “All those who are eligible for a vaccine at this stage should get it,” he said. In Maharashtra, over the last week, cases have increased by around 11,000 on an average, while in the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) more than 2,000 cases are being reported daily.  Cases are also on rise in places like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati. In Pune, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar would review the situation on Friday and decide on the measures that needs to be taken besides the current movement restrictions during the night hours.  In Nagpur, state Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut announced a lockdown in Nagpur city between 15-21 March, however, there are no curbs on movement of essential services.  The Amravati city is already under lockdown, while Aurangabad and Nashik have various measures to ensure that less people are on road.  As far as the MMR comprising the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and large parts of neighbouring districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad is a big area of concern as here the cases have largely shot up because of the rush in public transport particularly the suburban local trains of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR).  From Wednesday, night curfew was imposed in Nandurbar, while Dhule district administration called for a four day janata-curfew. In the financial capital of Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation is shifting focus from slums to buildings and high rises. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani has asked people to ensure that they follow Covid appropriate behaviour. “Most of the cases are coming from buildings, 90% or more so now. We have shifted our focus from densely populated areas, slums, to buildings," Kakani said. BMC has warned that if Covid-19 positive patients and high-risk individuals violate home-quarantine norms they would be put in institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-may-be-moving-towards-another-lockdown-960698.html
11-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Jaish-ul-Hind's Telegram channel 'created in Tihar'||A Telegram channel through which an organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here was "created in the Tihar" area of Delhi, a senior Mumbai police official said on Thursday. The Delhi police have been informed about it, he added. The police took the help of a private cyber agency to track the location of the phone on which the Telegram channel was created, the official said. During the investigation, the location of the phone was traced near Delhi's Tihar Jail, he added. A Mahindra Scorpio car with gelatin sticks was found parked near "Antilia", the multi-storey residence of Ambani, in south Mumbai on February 25. According to police sources, the Telegram channel was created on February 26 and the message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Ambani's residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late in the night on February 27. The message had also demanded payment in cryptocurrency and mentioned a link to deposit the same. During the probe, the link was found as "not available", due to which the investigators suspected it to be mischievous, the official said. On February 28, another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident. The investigation in the case was initially conducted by the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police. After the mysterious death of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV that was later found parked outside Ambani's residence, the probe was transferred to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). On Monday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-jaish-ul-hinds-telegram-channel-created-in-tihar-960729.html
11-03-2021||West||Boxing coach held for raping 14-year-old student in Mumbai||A 30-year-old boxing coach has been arrested for allegedly raping his minor student at a club in the eastern suburb of Mulund here, police said on Thursday. The police on Wednesday arrested the accused from Vashi naka in Chembur, an official said. The incident took place on Sunday, when the accused took the victim to the club, raped her and later threatened to destroy her boxing career if she told anyone about the attack, the official said. The victim confided in her family three days after the incident, following which a complaint was lodged at Tilak Nagar police station, he said. The accused has been booked under section 376 (rape) of the IPC and relevant provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act (POCSO), the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/boxing-coach-held-for-raping-14-year-old-student-in-mumbai-960753.html
11-03-2021||West||At the end of Maharashtra Budget session, BJP and MVA govt continue to exchange barbs||The rocky Budget Session in Maharashtra drew to a close but the war of words between the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and opposition BJP continues. The BJP spearheaded by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis managed to corner the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government on multiple issues like the suicide of social media star Pooja Chavan in which Forest Minister Sanjay Rathod had to resign, the planting of explosives-laden Scorpio SUV near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the death of prime witness Mansukh Hiran in the case. The MVA responded by saying an FIR has been registered into the suicide of seven-time Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar, in which Praful Khoda Patel, the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, has been named. Senior BJP leader and former Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said that days are numbered for the MVA government and it would collapse within three months. Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut laughed off the claims and said, “One months....12 months...three months...stop giving dates...the government is running for one-and-a-half-years, it will run for next three-and-a-half years....there is nothing to worry....Sudhir Bhau makes good jokes.” Taking a dig at the BJP, he said, “They have played a good role as an opposition during the Budget Session....people will be happy if (BJP leaders) Devendra Fadnavis, Sudhir Mungantiwar and Ashish Shelar continue to play their roles.” When pointed out that the Congress seems unhappy, he said: “Who says so.....ask (state Congress President) Nana Patole....he is very happy, he is the happiest person.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-the-end-of-maharashtra-budget-session-bjp-and-mva-govt-continue-to-exchange-barbs-960764.html
11-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: Vaccination centres given nod to operate 24x7||The Maharashtra government has allowed all Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state to operate round-the-clock if they have adequate staff, to speed up the immunisation drive in the state. So far, 21.25 lakh people have been inoculated against the viral infection in the state, a health official said on Thursday. "At present, it is an in-principle nod (for operating round-the-clock). It is up to the medical facilities, depending upon the availability of staff, to decide on the number of hours to carry out the vaccination," state health departments principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said. Currently, medical staff, frontline workers as designated by the government, people above 60 years of age and those between aged between 45 and 59 with co-morbidities are eligible to get the vaccine shots. The state government wants to speed up the vaccination process to cover the eligible population, said another health official. The state is also adding more vaccination centres in the state. A number of private hospitals have also been roped in for the inoculation drive. However, health officials are facing the challenge of some people coming up with fake medical certificates to show they are eligible for taking the vaccine. "We found some people in their late 40s who came up with fake medical certificates of co-morbidities to get the vaccine. When we asked them to describe their illness, we found they were lying. It is unfortunate," a health official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation said. This was affecting other eligible people from getting vaccinated in time, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-vaccination-centres-given-nod-to-operate-24x7-960771.html
11-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: MPSC exam postponed; Chavan, Fadnavis slam decision||The Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) on Thursday again postponed a preliminary examination for government jobs scheduled for March 14 in view of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The decision came in for flak from leaders of the ruling coalition members Congress and NCP as well as opposition BJP. The Relief and Rehabilitation Department announced the decision in a circular. Earlier the examination was to take place in April last year but was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak. Senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan questioned the wisdom of the decision. Speaking to reporters in Pune, he said, "If the government can permit weddings, hold budget session and conduct exams for the health department, then it is wrong to cancel the MPSC examination." It was injustice to the candidates, the former chief minister said, adding, "How much longer they should prepare for MPSC? If the government can allow other events, it should not apply a different yardstick for MPSC." BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded that the decision be reversed. "The exams have been pushed forward already and it would result in the loss of opportunity for many students who invest their best years in preparation," he tweeted. Rohit Pawar, NCP MLA and grandson of party chief Sharad Pawar, tweeted that the examination can be conducted in a fair and safe manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mpsc-exam-postponed-chavan-fadnavis-slam-decision-960830.html
11-03-2021||West||Maharashtra CM urges asymptomatic patients to home-quarantine||As fresh Covid-19 infections in the past 24 hours crossed the 14,000-mark in Maharashtra on Thursday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray expressed concern over asymptomatic patients not following the home-quarantine norms. “More than 80 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic...(patients and high-risk contacts) need to take precautions...ensure that it does not spread further,” Thackeray told a webcast on Thursday night. “We have seen families after families getting infected,” he said, adding that home-quarantine needs to be followed and people should not get out of their homes. He also said that in the next couple of days, the government will come out with guidelines. “Numbers are increasing in the state... If we see other countries, their health infrastructure collapsed during the second wave.  But we have good infrastructure,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-urges-asymptomatic-patients-to-home-quarantine-960868.html
11-03-2021||West||Anvay Naik case: Kin accuse Fadnavis govt of suppressing probe||The family of interior designer Anvay Naik, who allegedly committed suicide in 2018, on Thursday accused the previous BJP-led Maharashtra government of suppressing the investigation in the case. The BJP, however, claimed that the Supreme Court has already given its "verdict" in the case and cleared the previous government from charges of suppressing the probe. Anvay Naik's daughter Adnya and his widow Akshata made the allegation while speaking to reporters at Prabhadevi in central Mumbai. "The previous state government 100 per cent suppressed the case of my father's suicide and I think there should be an investigation into it," Adnya said. The then investigating officer in the case was trying to forcibly take our signature on the case-closing form, she alleged. Akshata Naik said, "On whose instructions these things were happening? The police should investigate the entire chain behind it. There should be a thorough inquiry of the previous government in connection with the case." Reacting to it, Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye told PTI, "We share the family's grief. However, the apex court has already given its verdict in Anvay Naik suicide case and cleared the previous BJP-led government from charges of suppressing the investigation." Akshata Naik further said that the family moved from pillar to post to seek justice, but they are yet to get it. "We are again requesting everyone to give us justice in the case...One person gets justice within two days and people are transferred only on the basis of suspicion. But in our case, there was a suicide note, an FIR was registered under IPC section 306 (abetment of suicide) and there were names of three accused...When we will get justice?" she asked. "Is it that only if you are the richest person of Asia, you will get justice?" she asked. Adnya said, "After the arrest of the accused persons, we have been continuously getting threats." "The accused threatened that they will see how we are able to run our business and how I get married. They said they will beat us in Prabhadevi," she alleged. Republic TV Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4 last year by Raigad police in connection with the suicide of Anvay Naik and his mother. They were granted bail by the Supreme Court a few days later. In May last year, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had ordered re-investigation into the case after Adnya Naik complained that Alibaug Police in neighbouring Raigad district did not probe the non-payment of dues which had driven her father and grandmother to suicide. Akshata Naik said, "There is one video on social media in which the accused threatened us by saying that the 'game has now begun'. Since that day, we have not been able to sleep properly." Welcoming the SIT probe announced by the state government in the case, she said it was needed. "An in-depth investigation should be carried out in the case," she said. "We saw that the (suicide) issue was raised in the recently-concluded budget session of the Assembly. But why was it not taken up in the House immediately after the suicide of my husband?" she asked. She sought to know that if there were debates in the recent state Assembly for three days over Naik's suicide, why no debate took place in the House under the previous government. The opposition is now producing call detail record (CDR) (in Mansukh Hiran case), so why wasnt's any CDR produced in our case? she asked. Adnya said, "The Supreme Court has only given interim bail in my father's case. It is not a verdict. The case is yet to stand in the court."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anvay-naik-case-kin-accuse-fadnavis-govt-of-suppressing-probe-960905.html
