12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Payment delay keeps silk farmers away from government markets in Karnataka||Shivakumar, a silk farmer in Kanakapura, of late prefers to sell his produce to private dealers rather than going to the government cocoon market.  The state government has introduced an online payment system for directly depositing money into the accounts of farmers like Shivakumar. However, inordinate delay in payment coupled with rampant irregularities are forcing several farmers like him further away from government markets. Farmers allege that they are often forced to make several trips to the markets over unpaid dues. Their next best bet is to accept cash, for which they are asked to pay at least Rs 100 to local officials. "There is a minimum delay of over a fortnight in transferring money. We need it to be credited immediately to buy manure and other raw materials for rearing cocoons. Hence, we are now banking on local dealers. They give us cash immediately and buy cocoons at competitive prices. That these dealers are making transactions of nothing less than two tonnes every day gives a glimpse into how several farmers have stopped going to the government market," Shivakumar narrated. The government is aware of the unpaid dues. In a written response to the Legislative Council recently, the government acknowledged the delay in transactions from at least a month. The delay was a result of technical glitches caused by merger of a few banks, it said. However, farmers said the problem was a longstanding issue. Apparently, silk farmers coming to the Ramanagara cocoon market are the worst-hit with dues pending over a year. "Instead of immediately transferring money into farmers' accounts, some reelers assure to make payments through private payment portals. Others give cheques. In the end, we end up making several trips to the market to claim the dues," one farmer explained. There are farmers coming from far-off districts including Haveri, Gadag, Raichur, Kalaburagi and Davangere to sell cocoons.  When contacted, government's sericulture secretary Rajender Kumar Kataria said the department had already held meetings in this regard and the issue would be resolved soon. Nonetheless, these instances were not the norm and were hardly 0.5% of cases, he maintained. While the department had not made it mandatory for all the reelers to have an e-wallet, it would onboard everyone this fiscal. At present, online transactions accounted for 30-40% of overall transactions, according to Kataria.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/payment-delay-keeps-silk-farmers-away-from-government-markets-in-karnataka-960952.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka looks to revive Bedti river project||More than 25 years after it was first proposed, the state government is considering reviving the controversial Bedti-Varada river link project with a tweak, raising the hackles of people in Uttara Kannada and environmentalists, who had been opposing the project. With the ‘Yettinahole model’ in mind, officials are now looking to pump the “excess” water to a place near Hirewaddatti in Gadag district instead of diverting it to Varada to feed the Tungabhadra left bank canal as was planned earlier. The project to utilise excess water in the rivers of the Western Ghats was conceived by the National Water Development Agency (NWDA). In 1995, the NWDA came up with a pre- feasibility report for diverting about 8.5 tmcft water from two streams of Bedti river. The Karnataka Neeravari Nigam Limited (KNNL), which sought approval for the project from the Union Environment Ministry, put it on the backburner after opposition from the Bedti and Aghanashini Valley Conservation Committee that was supported by the Sonda Swarnavalli Mutt and the people’s representatives. The state government is now considering a new plan to take the water from the two streams to a place near Hirewaddatti, where officials have identified an area that can store up to 100 tmc of water. “We are planning to draw 22 tmcft of excess water from Aghanashini-Bedti rivers at Sirsi for supplying drinking water to arid regions of Raichur, Gadag and Koppal district that do not get Tungabhadra water. The work involves installing pipes for about 100 km,” a highly placed source in the government told DH. However, the project’s endorsement in the state budget has already raised eyebrows of activists in Uttara Kannada.  “We have already seen the damage caused by the Yettinahole project where officials are finding it difficult to get even half of the water projected earlier,” said Vighneshwar Hegde of the Aghanashini Valley Conservation Committee. “In Sirsi, not only will the project cause large-scale damage to the forest and environment, officials will find that the projection of excess water is entirely wrong.” The committee has called for a mass meeting on March 24 over the project. An official, however, said they were considering the tunnel system and reduce the ‘cut and cover’ method to install pipelines. “The project is subject to the approval of the Centre. It would be carried out under the guidance of the NWDA,” he said. Keshava H Korse, a conservation biologist based in Sirsi, said officials should first conduct a study about the carrying capacity of the two rivers as well as the Western Ghats. “It is not a Sirsi Vs Haveri issue. Water is essential for all. But the plan to draw water is not only unscientific but unsustainable,” he said. Korse further added that the water running into the ocean is essential for the development of marinelife. “In fact, there has been a drastic fall in the fish yield in Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada coastal area due to the decline in fresh water and salt entering the ocean. Many areas fed by Bedti, especially Ankola, are already seeing drought in summer,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-looks-to-revive-bedti-river-project-960957.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga Covid-19 patient with SA variant has more secondary contacts: District officials||Days after arriving in Karnataka, the 53-year-old man, who was found to have the South Africa (SA) variant of the coronavirus here on Wednesday, has left a trail of secondary contacts for the district administration to trace as he travelled by bus from Bengaluru to Shivamogga. Dr V Ravi, state nodal officer for genetic confirmation of SARS-CoV-2 virus, said, “South Africa variant is recognised by two signature mutations: N501Y and E484K. The former is present in the UK variant and Brazilian variant also. The latter is also present in the Brazilian variant but there are some other mutations that typify SA and Brazilian. This is how we distinguish.” “When compared to the virus circulating in the country, the UK variant is 40 per cent more infectious. SA variant has the same propensity as the UK variant. For every case contact tracing is important, more so for variants. Both symptomatic and asymptomatic transmit. There is no doubt about that,” he added.    Shivamogga district health officer Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, said, “As per the information given to us, he travelled by bus from Bengaluru to Shivamogga. He reached Bengaluru on February 21 and reached Shivamogga on February 22. He did not stay anywhere in the city and has undertaken an overnight journey.” He reached the capital late evening and reached Shivamogga early in the morning the following day. “At present, we have got only nine primary contacts. He was not very cooperative and was very annoyed when he was brought to the hospital. He was reluctant to come and a mob was starting to form so we couldn’t disturb him much,” he said. The district authorities have left one official with him who the patient is comfortable with to have a one-on-one conversation. “I have asked our official to take day-wise movement history from February 21 right until Wednesday night when he was in our care. He has not met anyone in Bengaluru. He was in home quarantine for seven days as that is what he was advised at the airport. Since there was no communication from the department after that, he started moving about. Since he has moved about in the local area more, we have more secondary contacts to trace,” Suragihalli said. “When they sequenced his samples, it must have been seven to eight days since arrival. I don’t know why there was a time lag in testing. March 10 was day 18 of his arrival so we think he is not a carrier. It is important for us to trace those he’s met between day 7 and day 9,” he said. Shivamogga district surveillance officer Dr B S Shankarappa told DH, “We are still yet to take his movement history...By Friday morning we may be able to get some details.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-covid-19-patient-with-sa-variant-has-more-secondary-contacts-district-officials-961016.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five ancient Jain sculptures unearthed in Halebeedu||Five ancient sculptures were unearthed in Adaguru in the presence of Jain Muni Veerasagara Maharaj on Friday. The sculptures of Theerthankaras include two feet tall Munisamruta Theerthankara, 1.5 ft tall Adinatha Theerthankara, one-foot-tall Parshwanatha Theerthankara, one foot tall Jain Yakshi and three inches tall goddess Padmavathy statue. The sculptures were excavated and places at the Jain temples and the Mastakabhisheka was performed. According to Jain tradition, abhisheka should be performed for ancient sculptures excavated from earth with 27 kalashas. The ritual was performed on the sculptures on Friday with many from the Jain community participating. A few passers-by noticed a small portion of the sculpture protruding above the soil. When the soil was loosened, they found it to be an ancient Jain sculpture following which the place was leveled with the excavator. They immediately informed the Jain temple authorities, as they suspected more such idols could be buried at the place. The excavation has gained significance, as it was found on the same day when the Jains were observing the Moksha Kalyana day of Adinatha Theerthankara.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-ancient-jain-sculptures-unearthed-in-halebeedu-961284.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Platinum jubilee of Independence celebrated at Shivapura||The Satyagraha Soudha at Shivapura in Maddur taluk, Mandya district, was decorated as part of Platinum Jubilee of Independence celebrations, with a number of programmes held day-long to mark the occasion. The programme was organised at 75 monuments across the country and Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the event virtually from Sabarmati Ashram, Gujarat on Friday. Akshara Dashoha organised rangoli contest for groups and individuals. Colourful rangolis with millets on the theme of Independence, and rangoli with tri-colour were drawn in front of the Satyagraha Soudha, adding glitter to the festival. In the morning, 75 enthusiasts demonstrated yoga on the premises. School children and youth numbering 75 took out cycle jatha on the occasion. In all, 75 people, who have achieved in various fields were felicitated on the occasion. Most of the events have 75 in common, as Shivapura is among the 75 places identified to be part of the celebrations. District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda inaugurated the event in Maddur by spinning the charaka. MLA D C Thammanna, Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, MLA M Srinivas, Zilla Panchayat president Nagarathnaswamy, MLC Srikantegowda and others participated. The events included bullock cart parade, fancy dress, police band, parade of NCC, Scouts and Guides and students, three dimensional recreation of Dandi March in flowers, exhibition of Khadi products, books exhibition, philatelic (postal stamps) exhibition, cultural programmes, planting of 75 saplings on the premises of government residential school, planting of medicinal plants and judo show by girls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/platinum-jubilee-of-independence-celebrated-at-shivapura-961307.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Palace to be active all round the year: Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara said that the state government is committed for the development of tourism and a series of programmes will be organised all round the year on Mysuru Palace premises, to attract more tourists. The minister disclosed the plans of the government to boost tourism, while interacting with journalists, at Mysuru District Journalists’ Association here on Friday. An annual timetable for cultural activities is prepared for all 365 days on the Palace premises. “Programmes will be held between 4 pm and 10 pm. We will get advise of historians, writers and prominent personalities in the cultural field, about the events,” he said. Yogeeshwara said, “A Disneyland-like project at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) dam in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, will be taken up and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is considering the plan. It will be taken up under a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model soon. The project is an extension of the Brindavan Garden and it will be taken up without harming the KRS dam.” The minister said, “The government is committed to develop a rope-way to Chamundi Hill as a tourists’ attraction. As the project is opposed by eco-activists, the rope way will be developed without disturbing the ecology. The rope-way can be developed without harming the nature using modern technology.” “We have planned to develop the rope-way at Nandi Hills also. There are many rope-ways in North India. Rope-ways are planned to boost tourism and to attract tourists. A few indigenous companies, having experience in developing rope-ways, have approached the government,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-palace-to-be-active-all-round-the-year-karnataka-tourism-minister-c-p-yogeeshwara-961309.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Government funds are of no help to clean this polluted river||Lakshmanatirtha, a tributory of River Cauvery, that passes through Hunsur town, is an eyesore with wild growth of algae, emanating unbearable stench. Lakshmanatirtha originates in Brahmagiri hills of Kodagu district and joins the River Cauvery near Ramenahalli, Bilikere hobli, Hunsur taluk. Although sufficient funds have been released by the government for cleaning up the river, there are no results. Drain water from Hunsur town is still polluting it. The department of Environment has decided to issue notices to the Town Municipal Council, Town Panchayat and local bodies in this regard. The state government is planning a cleanliness campaign, on the lines of Clean Ganga, to protect River Cauvery and its tributaries. Minister C P Yogeeshwara said, “Notices would be served to the departments concerned, for polluting Cauvery and its tributaries. As the rivers have been polluted, rendering their water is not fit for domestic use and stern measures would be taken. I am aware of the condition of Lakshmanatirtha river. Cleanliness campaign would be held across the stretch of the River Cauvery. We are polluting the river water and drinking its dirty water in Bengaluru.” “Around 98 tributaries join Cauvery in Kodagu, Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts. As there is no proper drainage system in villages situated by the riverside, drain waters enter the river. Karnataka State Pollution Control Board recently wrote a letter to the government, highlighting that drain water is let into the river, instead of recycling. This can be seen at Kushalnagar, Hunsur, Nanjangud, Srirangapatna, T Narasipur and Kollegal towns.” he said. Besides, the number of homestays and resorts are increasing by the river side, adding to pollution. The river is also polluted with coffee pulping effluent. The people, who come to bathe in the river and perform various rituals leave behind used clothes, vegetables, rice, fruits and others. Retired professor N S Rangaraju, who submitted a report to the UGC on the issue, said, “There is a wild growth of bushes and other plants at several places along the River Cauvery. The waste materials accumulate, blocking the flow of water, resulting in stagnation and algae.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-funds-are-of-no-help-to-clean-this-polluted-river-961311.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 norm violations: Karnataka High Court for criminal action||In view of rising Covid-19 cases, the High Court on Friday directed the state government to deal with violations of regulations with a heavy hand. The court observed that the state has to initiate criminal proceedings for not wearing a mask and failure to maintain social distance. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka made the observations after perusing the statement filed by the state government with regard to the February 21 rally organised by the Panchamasali community. The government stated a police notice was issued to former MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar, the president of All India Lingayat Panchamasali Mahasabha, on February 24,2021. The organiser was imposed Rs 10,000 as a penalty and Amresha Nagur, a representative of the organiser, made payment of the penalty amount. The court said that the state government will have to take a definite stand whether in this case section 5 (1) of the Epidemic Diseases Act is attracted. "If yes this is a case of violation covered Section 5 (1) and criminal law will have to be set in motion,” the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-norm-violations-karnataka-high-court-for-criminal-action-961334.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hosapete, Hubballi tourists stranded in Jammu and Kashmir due to snowfall||Two residents of the town and their eight relatives are stranded at a private hotel in Sonmarg in Jammu and Kashmir following heavy snowfall. Prakash Meharwade, his wife Sudha and their eight relatives reached Srinagar on March 5 on a tour. They are staying at a private hotel in Sonmarg. Meharwade told DH that the whole area was filled with snow and the power supply hit from Thursday. The diesel stock in the hotel is also exhausted. But there is no problem with food, he said and added that Minister Anand Singh had called and enquired about their condition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hosapete-hubballi-tourists-stranded-in-jammu-and-kashmir-due-to-snowfall-961338.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Two persons from Ballari test positive for SA coronavirus variant||The South Africa variant of coronavirus has been traced in two persons who have arrived in the city from Dubai. District health officer Dr H L Janardan said a man and his sister came to the city via Bengaluru from Dubai on February 18. One among them developed a fever after two days. Upon testing, the viral disease was confirmed in one person. Later, another person also found to be infected by the virus. Their primary contacts have been also traced and tested, he added.  The infected persons have been given treatment at a trauma centre and are under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/two-persons-from-ballari-test-positive-for-sa-coronavirus-variant-961343.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Five ancient Jain sculptures unearthed near Halebid||Five ancient sculptures were unearthed at the premises of a Jain temple at Adaguru near here on Friday. The sculptures include a two-foot-tall Munisamruta Theerthankara, a 1.5-foot-tall Adinatha Theerthankara, a one-foot-tall Parshwanatha Theerthankara, a one-foot-tall Jain Yakshi and a three-inch-tall Padmavathi. The land, belonging to the Jain temple trust, was levelled with an excavator a few days ago. A few passersby noticed a small portion of the sculpture protruding above the soil surface. When the soil was loosened, they found an ancient Jain sculpture. They immediately alerted the Jain temple authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-ancient-jain-sculptures-unearthed-near-halebid-961347.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wild elephant tramples man to death at village in Mandya||A wild elephant trampled a man to death at Soolabaradoddi village near Halagur on Thursday night. Muninanjaiah (65) was on his way to a temple on the outskirts of the village as part of Maha Shivaratri when the elephant attacked him. Others who were nearby ran and escaped the attack. Muninanjaiah fell into a canal due to the impact. Both his legs were broken and he died on the spot. According to the villagers, they were walking in the dark and could not spot the elephant. As the deceased was attired in white clothes, the jumbo spotted him easily and attacked him, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-elephant-tramples-man-to-death-at-village-in-mandya-961349.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cow killed in tiger attack in Kodagu||A tiger has killed a cow even as the operation to capture it is in progress at Ponnampet. A cow belonging to Ramachandra has been killed in a tiger attack at Nalkeri. Meanwhile, the protest by Belluru residents has continued, demanding that the tiger must be shot and killed by the authorities. More than 150 personnel from the forest department are engaged in an operation to capture the tiger using tamed elephants and trained dogs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cow-killed-in-tiger-attack-in-kodagu-961351.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mini lorry that dumped waste into sea seized||The Ullal police succeeded in seizing the mini lorry that had emptied a load of garbage into the sea at Ullal Kodi. The truck was handed over to Ullal City Municipal Council for further action. A mini lorry had dumped thermocol boxes into the sea a week ago at Kodi. The visitors to the beach videographed the incident and posted it on social media. As the video went viral, Ullal CMC Commissioner Rayappa wrote to Traffic police on seizing the truck. The police acted swiftly and seized the lorry. DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said that the municipality has powers to fine up to Rs 1 lakh. As per records, the truck was owned by G Usman of Ullaibettu and the driver was Abdul Khader, also a resident of Ullaibettu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mini-lorry-that-dumped-waste-into-sea-seized-961352.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Male Mahadeshwara fair to begin on March 15||The annual fair of Male Mahadeshwara Temple on Maletirike betta will be held between March 15 and 20, said temple committee chairman Koluvanda Cariappa. Addressing reporters on Friday, he said that the ‘Bhandara’ procession will be taken out from Kundira house at 4 pm on March 15, followed by religious rituals. Prasadam meals will be served after Mahapuja at 8 pm. A special puja will be held at Nagadevara Temple on March 16 and 17. ‘Nerupu’ and ‘Etth Porata’ will be held on March 18. ‘Mahapuja Seve’ and ‘Avamritha Snana’ will be held on March 19. Mahapuja and mass meals will be held on March 20. Joint secretary Chokanda M Ramesh said that a bus transport facility has been made for the devotees from Kodagu Institute of Dental Sciences at Maggala. Temple trust chairman Vaterira Shankari Poovaiah and secretary Bollachanda Prakash were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/male-mahadeshwara-fair-to-begin-on-march-15-961353.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Need to develop playgrounds in Kodagu villages, says Olympian Baleyada Subramani||There is a need for a full-fledged playground in villages to promote and support rural sports talent. The playground will help them to come to the mainstream, said Olympian Baleyada Subramani. He was speaking after inaugurating the district-level Bengnad Phoenix Hockey Club Tournament organised by Bengnad Phoenix Club. "There are several sports talents in the district. To support them, playgrounds in rural areas should be developed," he added.  Lauding the development of two school grounds in Cherambane by social worker Telapanda Shivakumar Nanaiah, he said Kodagu needs a sports university. "I will also join the delegation that will meet the government pressing for the demand of setting up a sports university in Kodagu," he said.  BJP executive member Telapanda Shivakumar Nanaiah said that Kodagu has contributed thousands of sports talents to the country. Realising the contribution of sports talents, the government should set up a sports university in Kodagu.  Thousands of hockey talents take part in the Kodava family hockey tournament every year in the district. To support the hockey tournament, the government should set aside Rs 5 crore in the budget, he added. He said with the help of donors, he will make an effort to develop playgrounds in rural villages.  Hockey Coorg president Paikera Kalaiah and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/need-to-develop-playgrounds-in-kodagu-villages-says-olympian-baleyada-subramani-961362.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: Village-level task forces to be strengthened||In the backdrop of rise in Covid-19 cases in neighbouring Kerala, village-level task forces will be strengthened across Dakshina Kannada district, Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V said on Friday. “All regular travellers and passengers arriving in Dakshina Kannada will be monitored by these task forces near the border entry points in the villages.” Swab collection centres will also be set up at entry points, along the border, to facilitate the testing of those arriving from Kerala. A swab collection centre is already operational in Talapady, Rajendra told mediapersons at DC Hall. The daily travellers have to produce RT-PCR negative certificate once in 15 days and they can get themselves tested in private or government establishments. “We encourage daily commuters to go for testing once in 15 days,” the DC stressed. Rajendra said that under an action plan, the testing capacity at the laboratory in Wenlock hospital will be increased to 4,000 samples per day. “A list of additional requirements like lab technicians and data entry operators has been submitted to the government. A private firm has already set up testing facility at airport in Mangaluru and provides results within 24 hours,” DC said. The uploading of Covid-19 negative report takes time and thus 15 data operators have been recruited. Efforts are on to furnish negative and positive results within 24 hours, he said. After 12 students of a college in Mangaluru were tested positive for Covid, the efforts are on to trace primary and secondary contacts of the students, he added. Vaccination Rajendra said that Information Education Communication (IEC) activities will be taken up at places of worship in order to ensure that people above 60 years and those over 45 years and having serious comorbidities get their vaccination doses. Temple committee members, priests, masjid heads and church priests and Bishop will be asked to spread a message on the vaccination drive. Awareness will also be created through public announcement systems, he added. Efforts are on to use the services of school and college buses to ferry inmates of destitute homes to the nearest vaccination site for vaccination, the DC said. Asha workers and anganwadi workers have been asked to create awareness on vaccination. Vaccination sites are opened at 66 PHCs, 10 urban PHCs, four taluk hospitals, eight medical colleges, one district hospital, and six CHCs in DK. Based on District Health Officer’s (DHO) recommendation, vaccination sites will be opened in private nursing homes, Rajendra added. DHO Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that the target is to cover 8.5% of the population coming under above 60 years and above 45 years with comorbidities. Till March 11, a total of 7,346 persons (above 60 years) and 913 persons with comorbidities had been vaccinated in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-village-level-task-forces-to-be-strengthened-961363.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Not targeting JD(S), says Congress leader D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Friday denied speculation that he was targeting the JD(S) by luring its leaders.  Shivakumar’s denial came on a day when he met Madhu Bangarappa, who has decided to switch from JD(S) to Congress.  Another JD(S) leader Geetha Shivarajkumar is also in talks to join the Congress. Also, the Congress is said to be wooing the regional party’s leaders R M Manjunath Gowda and Sharada Pooryanaik. All of them are from Shivamogga, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s home district.   Shivakumar told reporters, “I’m not targeting anyone. The JD(S) is a party in itself and they’re doing their work. I’m doing everything I can to strengthen my party. Our goal is to keep the BJP away from power.”  “I have given a call that anyone who accepts the Congress’ ideology and its leadership is welcome,” he added.  On Geetha joining the Congress, Shivakumar said he will have to discuss this with the top brass. “Geetha is no ordinary woman. She belongs to a respected family. I will discuss this with our Delhi leaders because there are processes that need to be followed,” he said. Geetha is Madhu’s sister, the daughter of former chief minister late S Bangarappa and wife of Kannada actor Shivarajkumar. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Shimoga as a JD(S) candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/not-targeting-jds-says-congress-leader-d-k-shivakumar-961336.html
12-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Dubai returnees likely to be retained at airport till Covid-19 results||Questions are being raised over the protocol for international passengers after it emerged that three patients, carrying the South African (SA) variant of the virus travelled from Bengaluru to their hometowns, allowing wider social contact all the way. While one patient travelled in a KSRTC bus from Bengaluru to Shivamogga on February 21, leaving a trail of primary contacts who are yet to be traced, on Friday, officials said a brother-sister duo who returned from Dubai to Bengaluru on February 17 and went to Ballari by train from Bengaluru, were both found to have the SA variant of the coronavirus.  Now, there are three SA variant cases in the state, all Dubai returnees. They were admitted to a trauma centre in Ballari and then put in home quarantine. The district officials said their parents have tested negative and are the only primary contacts known so far. Ballari Deputy Commissioner Pavan Kumar Malapati told DH the siblings had tested negative at the airport were positive in Ballari.  Dr H L Janardhan, District Health Officer, Ballari, told DH, “They are engineering students who were home quarantined. They had tested negative in Bengaluru. After coming here, one of the siblings developed some symptoms and a repeat test showed a positive result for both of them. They came by train.” “We will be tracing their contacts. They will be in home isolation for the next 14 days. If no new positives come up in their area, we can discharge them,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dubai-returnees-likely-to-be-retained-at-airport-till-covid-19-results-961337.html
12-03-2021||Main Article||Rationalise GST structure||Skyrocketing oil prices have once again brought out the need to include petroleum products within the ambit of GST. The Union Finance Minister has recently made a case for its inclusion and going by the press reports, finance ministers of even some opposition-ruled states are not averse to the idea so long as their revenues are safeguarded. Besides the inclusion of petroleum products within the ambit of GST, there have been demands to rationalise the GST rates to minimise the inverted rate structure, merge 12% and 18% to evolve one general rate in addition to the merit rate of 5% and sin rate of 28%. Thus, there are expectations that the 44th Meeting of the GST Council, scheduled to meet this month, would move in the direction of rationalising the structure of GST. This, indeed, is an opportune time to rationalise the rate structure. The economy is in recovery mode. GST revenues have shown a reasonably high buoyancy with collections of over Rs 1 lakh crore in the last five months. The revenue increase has not come about only due to economic recovery but more because the GST Network has stabilised as its technology platform. Mandating the issue of e-invoices for all businesses above Rs 100 crore has enabled better invoice matching and detection of fake invoices that were used to claim input tax credit.  This has helped to improve compliance as also enabled better tax enforcement. With the passage of time, GSTN should be able to enforce e-invoice requirement to all businesses above Rs 10 crore and that will cover more than 95% of taxpayers. With this development, we can expect high revenue buoyancy and that should provide comfort to undertake further reforms. The main focus of reforms should be rationalisation of the structure of the tax and to undertake measures to aid recovery. First, it is necessary to restructure the rates to avoid inverted duty structure, where tax rates on inputs are higher than those on outputs. Electrical transformers, railway wagons, some textile products, plastic bags and solar modules are some of the items where rationalisation is needed, and there may not be any difficulty in this. Second, it should be possible to unify the two general rates of 12% and 18% to 15% without any loss of revenue. This could considerably reduce classification disputes and the inverted duty structure. Third, there are some items in the 28% category that must be brought down to the general rate to help in the recovery process. The most important set of items relate to building and construction materials which are now taxed at 28%. Construction is a labour-intensive activity, and the second advance estimate of GDP for 2020-21 shows the sector contracting by 10.3%. Thus, reducing the rate would not only increase employment but also reduce housing prices and spur demand. Fourth, the time is opportune to include petroleum products within the ambit of GST, not only to check spiralling prices but to minimise cascading and to improve competitiveness of the economy. It may be noted that in 2019-20, the revenue collected from excise duty and sales tax on petroleum products constituted over 40% internal indirect taxes collected by the Centre and states.  The adverse effect on the competitiveness of Indian manufacturing on account of this has been enormous as cascading caused by the high taxes on transportation of goods and goods are enormous.    It is mainly for revenue reasons that petroleum products have been kept out of GST, and neither the Union nor the state governments have any incentive to include them in it. It is important that these short-term considerations should not overwhelm long-term productivity gains and benefits for the economy from including them. The revenues from GST are likely to show higher buoyancy in the medium term, with economic recovery as well as due to better compliance. Even in the short term, the revenue loss can be minimised by reviewing the large exemption list. In fact, the exclusion of petroleum products from GST has led to exempting passenger and goods transport, except first class and airconditioned train and air travel, and removal of this exemption will bring in additional revenues. Besides, at present, as many as 148 items under the four-digit HSN classification, and having almost 50% weight in the consumer price index (CPI), have been kept in the exempted list. The ostensible reasons for this are administrative ease, equity and to minimise impact on prices. It is important to bring most of them within the ambit of GST. Similarly, ways have to be found to comprehensively cover legal services in the tax net and to ensure better tax compliance by professionals like doctors, architects and contractors. Third, it is important to expand the coverage by introducing the reverse charge mechanism. With the stabilised technology platform and experience gained so far, it should not be difficult to operationalise this.  In the prevailing situation, rationalising GST on the lines suggested above would help in the recovery process, rationalise the tax system and increase revenue productivity. GST has been implemented with tremendous hope, and realising this will crucially depend on how well and how fast the initial shortcomings of the tax are removed. As Richard Bird and Pierre-Pascal Gendron state in their seminal work, The VAT in Developing and Transitional Countries, “…some ‘bad’ features – such as too high or too low thresholds, overly extensive exemptions, or multiple rates – may be essential to successful adoption in the ﬁrst place…but such features may prove to be extremely difﬁcult to remove.” Perhaps, the GST Council should take this up as a challenge and remove these ‘birth defects’ from the structure of GST.  (The writer is Chief Economic Adviser, Brickwork Ratings, and was formerly Member, 14th Finance Commission and Director, NIPFP, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/rationalise-gst-structure-961238.html
12-03-2021||Mysuru||Bhyrappa launches ‘Parva’ play||The much-awaited ‘Parva’, a seven-and-a-half-hour play, based on the novel penned by writer S L Bhyrappa, a mega-production of Rangayana-Mysuru, received a good response on Day One, on Friday. Launching the play at Kalamandira here, Bhyrappa said that the play is well-directed and the artistes are giving their best. Film director P Seshadri said, “Adapting Parva novel into theatre was a typical attempt. Creating literary works into other medium is a good sign.” The special show of the play, directed by Prakash Belavadi, will be staged on March 13 and 14 at Kalamandira at 10 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/bhyrappa-launches-parva-play-961305.html
12-03-2021||Mysuru||‘Gandhian principles provide solutions to global challenges’||Vice-Chancellor of the University of Mysore G Hemantha Kumar said Mahatma Gandhi’s philosophy of truth and non-violence is a solution to many problems of the world. The VC was addressing a gathering, after launching ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’, organised by Centre for Gandhian Studies and National Service Scheme (NSS) of UoM, ahead of the 75th Independence Day, and to commemorate 91 years of the Dandi March. Gandhi’s theories are a guide to the world and they are an inspiration to lead a meaningful life. Every citizen must know about Gandhi’s principles, he said. Gandhi embraced truth and non-violence in all struggles. He is immortal as father of the nation in the hearts of the people. He was the leader of the national movement. He succeeded because of his strong faith in struggle, the VC said. UoM Registrar R Shivappa said, “Dandi Satyagraha was a non-violent movement led by Mahatma Gandhi and it was a direct action campaign of tax resistance against the British salt monopoly.” Retired professor Yashwant Dongre delivered a special lecture on ‘Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav’. Gandhian K T Veerappa was present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/gandhian-principles-provide-solutions-to-global-challenges-961308.html
12-03-2021||National||Supreme Court to hear PIL for appointment of regular CBI Director||The Supreme Court is scheduled to consider on Friday a plea by an NGO for a direction to the Centre to immediately appoint a regular CBI director.   The petition, filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO 'Common Cause' contended that a proper appointment as per the statutory law is necessary for upholding the rule of law and for enforcement of the rights of the citizens under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat would take up the matter on March 12. The plea said the CBI director is the final authority in the organisation, that is why the court and Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance his functional autonomy and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment. The CBI director is appointed by a committee of the prime minister, leader of the single largest party and the CJI or his nominee. In its petition, the NGO said the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, on the expiry of the term of Rishi Kumar Shukla on February 2 and instead appointed Praveen Sinha as an interim director.  It said that the top court has time and again entrusted important cases of corruption and violation of human rights to the CBI for investigation. The CBI has, sometimes under the monitoring of the top court, investigated important cases involving powerful and influential individuals.  The plea urged the top court to issue a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI Director well in advance, at least one to two months before the vacancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-hear-pil-for-appointment-of-regular-cbi-director-960958.html
12-03-2021||National||SC to hear lawyers' body's plea against SoP on hybrid hearing||The Supreme Court is set to hear on Friday a plea by a lawyers' body for quashing the Standard Operating Procedure issued on March 5 for hybrid hearing without due consultation with it. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta would consider the writ petition on March 12. The SC Bar Association, which contended a written suggestion given by its president Vikas Singh on March 2 for the resumption of physical hearings, has not been considered by the top court. The body maintained that if virtual hearing allowed to continue permanently, it would disturb the level-playing field. "Bar is an equal stakeholder in the dispensation of the justice delivery system and the suggestions given by it ought to have been taken into consideration. There is general feeling in the Bar that for the last few years Registry has been issuing Circulars without taking it into confidence even though such orders issued directly affect the lawyers practicing before this court," their plea said. In a circular issued on March 5, the Secretary General of the Supreme Court said that Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has issued directions on commencing of hybrid mode of hearing in the apex court from March 15. While proximity cards remained suspended, entry of lawyers would be allowed through special passes and wearing of masks. Frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms was made mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the courtrooms, during this period. The lawyers' body was also aggrieved with the absence of oral mentioning for urgent hearing and muting and unmuting of lawyers in virtual hearings, which were being conducted for the last one year or so, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "Judges have a sterile route to and from the court room and there are glass partitions which separate the judges from the lawyers and litigants. So basically it is the lawyers and litigants who would be at some risk if at all so the SoP dated 05.03.2021 ought to have been issued after consulting the Bar, which had already written for the resumption of physical hearing," their plea stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-lawyers-bodys-plea-against-sop-on-hybrid-hearing-960959.html
12-03-2021||National||Undermines the very foundation and fabric of the Constitution of India: EC on TMC's allegations||After the Trinamool Congress blamed it for the “attempt on life” of its supremo Mamata Banerjee, the Election Commission (EC) on Thursday countered allegations against it, claiming that it did not take over the day-to-day governance of West Bengal or any other poll-bound state. The EC, however, also stated that it was not legally mandatory for it to consult the Government of West Bengal before transferring senior police officers in the state as the assembly elections had already been announced. The Trinamool Congress had on Wednesday accused the EC of replacing Virender with P Nirajnayan as the Director-General of Police (DGP) of West Bengal at the behest of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). It had also alleged that the EC had replaced the Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Jawed Shamim with Jagmohan on the instruction of the BJP. The EC on Thursday stated that it looked undignified for it “even to respond to the allegations” by the Trinamool Congress that it had made changes in the higher echelons of the state police at the behest of “a particular party”. It had also dismissed the Trinamool Congress’ contention that the EC had taken over the law and order machinery in the state in the name of conducting elections. The poll panel said that the allegation of the Trinamool Congress against it virtually tantamounted “to undermine the very foundation and fabric of the Constitution of India, the most sacrosanct document in any democratic polity”. After Banerjee, the Chief Minister of West Bengal was injured while campaigning in Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district of the State, the Trinamool Congress alleged that “the attack” was a “deep-rooted conspiracy to take the life” of its chairperson. It also alleged that the BJP’s complaint against the erstwhile DGP, the EC’s unilateral move to replace him another officer and the absence of the Superintendent of Police of the district during the “brazen attack” on the Chief Minister were all apparently linked. “(The) Commission does not appropriate or take over the day-to-day governance of any state including West Bengal, which keeps on functioning as or shall as per the extant Rules of Business and distribution of work normally approved by Hon’ble Chief Minister in a State,” the poll-panel wrote to the Trinamool Congress. It stated that Virender was not removed from the office of the DGP of West Bengal “summarily and without any application of mind”. The move was the outcome of the recommendation given by EC’s Special Observersin West Bengal, Ajay Nayak and Vivek Dube. Similarly, it added, the ADG (Law and Order) of Police was also changed after considered application of mind by the Special Observers. “When the elections have already been announced, it is not legally necessary or mandatory to consult the state government because these are normally temporary measures for the period of elections,” the EC wrote to the Trinamool Congress, responding to the party’s allegation that the DGP and the ADGP (Law and order) had been summarily removed without any consultation with the State Government. The commission stated that it had on Wednesday written to the Chief Secretary of West Bengal as well as the Special Observers it had appointed for the poll-bound State, seeking a report on the incident that left the Chief Minister injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/undermines-the-very-foundation-and-fabric-of-the-constitution-of-india-ec-on-tmcs-allegations-961021.html
12-03-2021||National||India lost 36.94 lakh man-days in 210 strikes in three years||India lost 36.94 lakh man-days in 210 strikes and lockouts in public and private sectors in the past three years with south Indian states Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka topping the list, according to Ministry of Labour and Employment data. The public sector lost the highest number of man-days at 19.91 lakh between 2018 and 2020 though the number of strikes was less compared to the private sector. The private sector lost 17.03 lakh man-days. The public sector witnessed 89 strikes during this period while the private sector saw 89 strikes, the report prepared by the Ministry of Labour using the returns and clarifications received by the Labour Bureau. According to the data, Kerala witnessed the highest number of man-days lost at 8.80 lakh in 20 strikes during the past three years with the private sector accounting for 7.67 lakh man-days lost in 17 strikes. Tamil Nadu, which witnessed the highest number of 51 strikes, came second with 4.39 lakh man-days lost followed by Karnataka 3.78 lakh man-days lost in 17 strikes. Madhya Pradesh ( 3.11 lakh man-days lost in 16 strikes) and Maharashtra (3.09 lakh in 19 strikes) were also in the top-five list of states where the maximum number of man-days lost took place due to strikes. When it comes to the public sector, Karnataka had the highest number of man-days lost at 3.77 lakh in 16 strikes. The state had just one strike in the private sector in which 1,049 man-days were lost during the past three years. Karnataka was followed by Assam's public sector units saw nine strikes in which 2.94 lakh man-days were lost. Kerala's private sector saw the maximum number of man-days lost at 7.67 lakh in 17 strikes followed by Tamil Nadu (4.30 lakh in 49 strikes). Tamil Nadu had the highest number of strikes at 49 in the private sector. A year-wise analysis showed that 2019 witnessed the highest number of loss of man-days in both private -- 5.70 lakh man-days lost in 41 strikes -- and public sectors -- 9.46 lakh man-days lost in 41 strikes. The Covid-19 pandemic, subsequent lockdown and restrictions appeared to have an impact on strikes in 2020 as only 15 strikes were reported in the public sector in which 1.98 lakh man days were lost. In the private sector, the number was 85,478 man-days lost in 15 strikes. Among the states, Karnataka had the highest loss of man-days (94,017) in the public sector in 2020 followed by Rajasthan (67,800 in two strikes). In the private sector, Tamil Nadu lost 80,130 man-days in eight strikes while Karnataka lost 1,049 man-days. In 2018, the public sector lost 8.46 lakh man-days while the private sector lost 10.47 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-lost-3694-lakh-man-days-in-210-strikes-in-three-years-960960.html
12-03-2021||National||India's daily Covid-19 cases hit 2-month high of 23,285, festival leads to low vaccination||India's Covid-19 count shot up by 23,285 cases on Friday with eight states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, showing an upward trajectory in daily new cases. This single-day increase was the highest in 78 days, i.e. since December 24, when India had reported 24,712 cases. India's Covid-19 vaccination drive slowed down on Thursday owing to Mahashivratri celebrations across states with over 4.80 lakh doses administered in a day as against the 10 lakh+ doses that have been the norm for the past few days. India has recorded 1,13,08,846 Covid-19 cases as on Friday morning, of which 1,09,53,303 have recovered and 1,58,306 have died. The total number of active cases rose to 1,97,237, which now comprises 1.74 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has dropped to 96.86 per cent. On March 11, vaccinators administered 4,80,740 jabs to beneficiaries across the country, of which 2,46,158 were given to persons above 60 years. The Health Ministry said many had observed a fast on account of Mahashivratri, particularly women including ANMs, ASHA workers and women vaccinators, which led to the low coverage. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. Of the 117 new fatalities reported on Friday, 57 were from Maharashtra, 18 were from Punjab and 13 were from Kerala. Of the total deaths, 52,667 were from Maharashtra. The second highest death toll was reported from Tamil Nadu (12,535), followed by Karnataka (12,381), Delhi(10,934), West Bengal (10,286), Uttar Pradesh (8,741) and Andhra Pradesh (7,179). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-daily-covid-19-cases-hit-2-month-high-of-23285-festival-leads-to-low-vaccination-961050.html
12-03-2021||National||Here's how you can apply for an internship at Ministry of External Affairs||India's Ministry Of External Affairs has now opened up applications for the annual internship programme for scholars. This programme will enable interns to familiarise themselves with the process of foreign policy formulation and how it is implemented by the government. The registration for the programme commenced on March 10 and will end on March 30. Every year, the MEA offers internships in two terms of six months each. The first term begins in January and ends in June and the second term begins in July and ends in December. The ministry picks a maximum of thirty interns during each term. Each intern gets to engage for a maximum period of three months. The MEA in a statement said, "In line with the goal of taking the Ministry and foreign policy closer to the people from all parts of the country, all efforts will be made to ensure increased diversity amongst the group of interns in each term with respect to gender, underprivileged sections, geographical domicile and representation from both urban and rural areas. Youngsters from districts under the Transformation of Aspirational Districts Programme (TADP) shall be given priority in the selection process." Here are the details: Required educational qualification: Candidates must have completed an undergraduate degree from a recognised university. Age limit: Applications should not be older than 25 years of age on December 31, 2021. Application deadline: March 30 Shortlist of candidates: April 2 Date of interview: April 5-9 Final list of selected candidates: April 13 Commencement of internship: April 30||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-how-you-can-apply-for-an-internship-at-ministry-of-external-affairs-961074.html
12-03-2021||National||Explained | Who is responsible for the Chief Minister's security?||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that she was "attacked" by some strangers who pushed her and slammed the door of her car, causing injuries to her legs, hands and head. The alleged incident took place in Nandigram after she filed her nomination for the Nandigram Assembly seat. “Four to five people whom I don’t know suddenly pushed me and slammed my car door on my left foot. It hurt me in my head, foot and hand. It is really painful. Although I had planned to stay in Nandigram tonight (Wednesday), I have to return to Kolkata (for treatment),” said Mamata. In response, the Election Commission on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the Trinamool Congress on the Party's memorandum over injuries to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during the campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party". The poll panel has also asked the state administration to be more cautious while planning for security arrangements for high-profile VVIPs when they campaign, but who is really responsible for the safety of a chief minister? Security is provided to a wide range and a high number of people in India. The decision to provide security and the level of security provided is dependent on the threat perception of the person. The President, Prime Minister, Chief Ministers, Union Ministers, MPs and several others receive protection. The agencies providing security cover are Special Protection Group (SPG), National Security Guards (NSG), Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). These agencies fall under the Union Ministry of Home Affairs led by Home Minister Amit Shah. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is provided security by the SPG. Z+ is the highest category of security in India with a security cover of 55 personnel which includes 10+ NSG Commandos and police personnel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-who-is-responsible-for-the-chief-ministers-security-961079.html
12-03-2021||National||Mithali Raj becomes first Indian batswoman to score 10,000 international runs||Veteran batter Mithali Raj on Friday became the first Indian woman cricketer and second internationally to complete 10,000 runs across all formats, drawing praise from some iconic names of the game and the BCCI. The 38-year-old Mithali, who leads the Indian ODI team, joined England's Charlotte Edwards in the elite club. Mithali achieved the feat with a boundary off Anne Bosch in the 28th over of India's innings during the ongoing third ODI against South Africa here. What a champion cricketer! 👏👏 First Indian woman batter to score 10K international runs. 🔝 👍 Mithali has amassed 663 runs in 10 Test matches with a best score of 214, while she has 6974 and 2364 runs from 212 ODIs and 89 T20 Internationals respectively. The figures add up to 10001. "Heartiest congratulations Mithali on completing 10000 runs in International Cricket. Terrific achievement... Keep going strong!" men's batting great and former captain Sachin Tendulkar tweeted. After reaching the milestone of Friday, Mithali departed in the next ball, flicking a Bosch delivery straight to Mignon du Preez at midwicket. She made 36 runs off 50 balls and hit five boundaries in the process. BCCI secretary Jay Shah called the India captain an "absolute legend". "Take a bow, @M_Raj03! What an achievement to be the first Indian woman cricketer to surpass the international 10,000-run mark. Absolute legend," Shah wrote on his Twitter handle. Earlier, the Board too congratulated the veteran cricketer on reaching the milestone. "What a champion cricketer! First Indian woman batter to score 10K international runs. Take a bow, @M_Raj03," the BCCI tweeted. IPL franchises Chennai Super Kings and Mumbai Indians also congratulated the seasoned cricketer. Former India men's team batsman VVS Laxman said the seasoned player is an inspiration for budding players. "Congratulations @M_Raj03 on becoming the first Indian Woman Cricketer to score 10K runs! You are not only a great ambassador and a legend of the game but you have inspired a generation of cricketers to take up our sport. Proud of you," he tweeted. Mithali made her international debut against Ireland in an ODI back in June 1999 and has scored seven centuries and 54 half-centuries in the format. The Rajasthan player announced her retirement from the T20 format of the game in September 2019. She has 17 half-centuries in T20Is with a top score of 97 not out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mithali-raj-becomes-first-indian-batswoman-to-score-10000-international-runs-961081.html
12-03-2021||National||PM Modi visits Sabarmati Ashram, writes in visitors' book||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday visited the Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. He paid floral tribute to Mahatma Gandhi at Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. He also wrote in the visitors' diary at the Ashram, and garlanded a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at Hriday Kunj. He will flag off the Dandi March from the Ashram today, as part of the Amrit Mahotsav programme to mark the 75 years of India's independence. The event named "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" is part of a series of events being organised by the government to commemorate the 75th anniversary of independence. The Prime Minister during his 3-4 hour visit will be addressing a gathering near Abhay Ghat, the resting place of late Prime Minister Moraji Desai. The event is being attended by scores of government officers, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Governor Acharya Devvrat, other ministers, BJP leaders, faculties and students of Gandhi-founded Gujarat Vidyapith, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-visits-sabarmati-ashram-writes-in-visitors-book-961085.html
12-03-2021||National||Increasing tendency to politicise humanitarian situations is unfortunate: India at UN||The increasing tendency to politicise humanitarian situations is unfortunate, India has said at the UN, stressing that nations must resist linking developmental aid with progress in the political process as this will only enhance food insecurity in conflict situations. Speaking at the UNSC open debate on ‘Conflict and Food Security' on Thursday, India’s Permanent Representative to the United Nations Ambassador T S Tirumurti said that there was an urgent need for the donor community to scale up assistance to conflict-affected countries, and to ensure that humanitarian agencies receive the necessary funding to fully execute their plans without politicisation of basic needs of the people. "While all humanitarian action must be primarily guided by the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence, we are unfortunately witnessing an increasing tendency to politicise humanitarian situations,” he said. "Such a position by donors will only enhance food insecurity in conflict situations,” he added. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres, addressing the Council, said that conflict drives hunger and famine; which in turn drive conflict. "If you don’t feed people, you feed conflict,” the UN chief said. “When a country or region is gripped by conflict and hunger, they become mutually reinforcing. They cannot be resolved separately. Hunger and poverty combine with inequality, climate shocks, sectarian and ethnic tensions, and grievances over land and resources, to spark and drive conflict,” he said. Citing estimates from the World Food Programme (WFP), Tirumurti said the number of people suffering from food insecurity is projected to more than double by the end of 2020 to 270 million people, with the Covid-19 pandemic making it worse. The ‘Global Report on Food Crises 2020’ by WFP and 15 other humanitarian and development agencies notes that more than 77 million people are suffering from acute food insecurity in conflict-affected countries. He said the pandemic has only served to make food insecurity more complex by forcing countries to impose restrictions on the movement of people, thereby depriving farms of hands to reap the harvest, resulting in loss of farm-based employment, limiting access to food in the rural areas and eroding the ability of the State to cope with the socio-economic pressure of the pandemic. Tirumurti also pointed out that fragile States generally have weak capacities to design, implement and monitor policies and programmes related to food, thereby increasing their vulnerability while facing a conflict situation. “The solution for lack of food security in conflict-affected States is, therefore, elsewhere. As such conflict-induced food-security issues should be taken up by Council only in the context of specific countries where it may pose a threat to international peace and security,” he said. India is of the view that armed conflict and terrorism combined with extreme weather, crop pests, food price volatility, exclusion, and economic shocks can devastate any fragile state leading to food insecurity and increase the threat of famine, he said. "Armed groups have time and again resorted to scorched-earth tactics and deliberately targeted civilian infrastructures such as land, farm animals, and water wells which erode economic growth and development. Inability to fight locusts, for example, can affect an entire region and even further, and directly affect food security,” he said. Tirumurti stressed that inclusive food systems that empower marginalised people by giving them a voice in local food policies will usher in a food secured future. “This would enable young people and women to find remunerative jobs, small farm holders to have access to agricultural markets, and adoption of climate-smart policies that promote seed diversity, innovation, and the spirit of self-reliance,” he said. Tirumurti noted that civilians in conflict-affected areas need safe, unhindered, and rapid access to basic services and humanitarian workers need safe ways to ensure their teams and emergency supplies can reach communities in need. He cited the example of Northeast Nigeria, where thousands of people are trapped without life-saving humanitarian assistance and of Yemen, where restrictions on land, sea, and air trade routes have led to severe cuts of vital supplies of commodities such as food, fuel, and medicines. Emphasising that food security is the basic minimum required particularly as the world deals with the devastating Covid crisis, Tirumurti quoted Mahatma Gandhi who has said: "There are people in the world so hungry, that God cannot appear to them except in the form of bread”. In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, India has provided food aid in the form of thousands of metric tonnes (MT) of wheat, rice, pulses and lentils to several countries across the world, including Myanmar, The Maldives, Afghanistan, Djibouti, Eritrea, Lebanon, Malawi, Sierra Leone, Sudan, South Sudan, Zambia, Zimbabwe and others, to strengthen their food security during the challenging times, he said. Last month, India gifted 2000 MT of rice to strengthen food security in Syria and a ship is currently enroute from India to deliver 1000 MT of food aid each to Madagascar and Comoros. "We remain committed to providing assistance to all vulnerable countries to support them in their quest for food security,” Tirumurti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/increasing-tendency-to-politicise-humanitarian-situations-is-unfortunate-india-at-un-961086.html
12-03-2021||National||PM Modi launches 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' in Gujarat||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday launched 'Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav', the celebration of 75 years of independence, in Ahmedabad and flagged off a symbolic 'Dandi March'. The padyatra or foot march started from Sabarmati Ashram to commemorate the 91st anniversary of Gandhi's historic 'Salt Satyagrah'. These events are part of the Centre's initiative to commemorate the 75th anniversary of independence, which PM Modi announced, will go on till August 15, 2023. The Prime Minister, during his four-hours stay, visited Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram where he presided over the inaugural cultural function of "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" in a dome erected near Abhay Ghat, the resting place of late Prime Minister Moraji Desai. The event was attended by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Governor Acharya Devvrat, other ministers, BJP leaders, scores of government officials, faculties of Gandhi-founded Gujarat Vidyapith, among others. The PM also flagged off the symbolic 'Dandi March', marking the 91st anniversary of the historic march led by Mahatma Gandhi against the salt law under British Raj. In this foot-march, 81 people are participatiing from Sabarmati Ashram, walking from Ahmedabad to Dandi, a coastal village in Navsari district in south Gujarat, covering a total of 386 km in 25 days. In his speech, Modi said, "Azadi Ka Amrut Mohatsav is a tribute by all of us to our freedom fighters and freedom movement." Modi cited the contribution of "Kol, Khasi, Santhal, Naga, Bhil, Munda, Sanyasi, Ramoshi, Kittur, Travancore movement, Sambhalpur, Chuar, Bundel and Kuka uprisings" in the freedom struggle. "Many such struggles kept the flame of freedom burning in every period and region of the country, " he said. The Prime Minister also wrote in the visitors' book at the Ashram that "Mahotsav is a tribute to freedom fighters." Incubation centre at Sabarmati Ashram The Sabarmati Ashram Preservation and Memorial Trust, which manages the Ashram, gifted Modi a speech of Gandhi on October 2, 1919, wherein he mentioned how India should learn to become self-reliant. Modi announced in his speech that an incubation centre will be set up at the Ashram to help indigenous practices. It will be run with the help of the Ministry of Culture.  Congress leaders prevent from Dandi March The event was not without political drama as scores of Congress leaders were put under house arrest and were prevented from taking out a proposed parallel Dandi march on tractors in support of farmers protesting the farm laws. Gujarat Congress State President Amit Chavda tweeted that police locked the gates of several MLAs of his party in order to prevent them from taking out the rally. Later in the day, Chavda, leader of opposition Paresh Dhanani, Arjun Modhwadia, Siddharth Patel, among other leaders were detained by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-launches-azadi-ka-amrut-mahotsav-in-gujarat-961092.html
12-03-2021||National||Phone allegedly used for bomb scare at Ambanis' seized from Tihar jail||A mobile phone suspected to have been used for operating a Telegram channel to claim responsibility for a terror threat has been seized from Tihar Jail after the Delhi Police's Special Cell approached prison authorities in connection with the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare probe. On Thursday, a senior Mumbai police official said a Telegram channel through which an organisation named Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for placing an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month was "created in the Tihar" area of Delhi. The Delhi Police's Special Cell had approached the Tihar Jail administration on Thursday after the new angle emerged, according to official sources. "Tihar Jail authorities have seized a mobile phone which is suspected to have been used for operating Telegram channel used to claim responsibility for terror acts/ threats," the Delhi Police said on Friday. "Based on the information provided by the Special Cell, Tihar Jail authorities have seized a mobile phone from a jail where certain terror convicts are lodged. It is suspected that this phone has been used for operating Telegram channels used recently for claiming responsibility for terror acts/ threats," said Pramod Singh Kushwah, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell). The officer said further investigation and forensic analysis will be done after the mobile handset and details of the seizure are received from Tihar Jail authorities. Mumbai Police took the help of a private cyber agency to track the location of the phone on which the Telegram channel was created, the senior Mumbai Police official had said. During the investigation, the location of the phone was traced near Delhi's Tihar Jail, he added. A Mahindra Scorpio SUV with gelatin sticks was found parked near "Antilia", the multi-storey residence of Ambani, in south Mumbai on February 25. According to police sources, the Telegram channel was created on February 26 and the message claiming responsibility for placing the vehicle outside Ambani's residence was posted on the Telegram messaging app late in the night on February 27. The message had also demanded payment in cryptocurrency and mentioned a link to deposit the same. During the probe, the link was found as "not available", due to which the investigators suspected it to be mischievous, the official said. On February 28, another message from Jaish-ul-Hind surfaced on a social media platform, claiming that the organisation did not have any role in the incident. The investigation in the case was initially conducted by the Crime Branch of the Mumbai police. After the mysterious death of Thane-based auto parts dealer Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV that was later found parked outside Ambani's residence, the probe was transferred to the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). On Monday, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took over the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phone-allegedly-used-for-bomb-scare-at-ambanis-seized-from-tihar-jail-961109.html
12-03-2021||National||Toolkit case: Delhi court extends protection from arrest granted to another activist||A Delhi court on Friday extended by three days the interim protection from arrest granted to climate activist Shubham Kar Chaudhari, a co-accused along with Disha Ravi and others in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest.  Additional Session Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after police sought an adjournment in the proceedings related to an anticipatory bail moved by Chaudhari in the matter. He was recently granted transit bail by the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court. During the brief hearing on Friday, the police urged the court to adjourn the matter till March 15, when the anticipatory bail applications filed by co-accused Disha Ravi and Shantanu Mukul are scheduled for a hearing. “No coercive action be taken against the accused till next date of hearing,” the court directed after the accused informed the judge that the protection garnered by the high court was scheduled to end today. The counsel appearing for the accused told the court that his case was entirely different from the co-accused as he had no role in making the toolkit. The Goa bench of the Bombay High Court had granted him protection from arrest until March 12, so that he can approach a court in Delhi, where an FIR had been registered under IPC Sections 124A (sedition), 153A (promoting enmity) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). The court had earlier granted regular bail to climate activist Disha Ravi in the case. The 21-year-old activist was arrested from Bengaluru in connection with the formulation and dissemination of the toolkit document, in the ongoing farmers' protest.  She was one of the editors of the toolkit document.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-delhi-court-extends-protection-from-arrest-granted-to-another-activist-961111.html
12-03-2021||National||BJP appoints Madan Kaushik its Uttarakhand unit chief||The BJP on Friday appointed MLA Madan Kaushik as its Uttarakhand state president, replacing Banshidhar Bhagat who may be inducted as a minister in the government headed by Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat. Kaushik is a fourth-term MLA from the Haridwar constituency and is one of the senior-most legislators of the party in the hilly state. With the party sticking to its choice of a Rajput chief minister in the state, it has again gone for a Brahmin face to head the organisation there. Rajputs and Brahmins are the two most populous castes in Uttarakhand which will go for assembly polls early next year. Tirath Singh Rawat took oath as chief minister on Wednesday replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat who was removed by the BJP leadership due to growing discontent against his leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-appoints-madan-kaushik-its-uttarakhand-unit-chief-961113.html
12-03-2021||National||Independence of the election commission can’t be compromised in democracy: SC||In a major decision, the Supreme Court on Friday said the central and the state government should not appoint persons holding government office as Election Commissioners. It declared that only independent persons can be appointed as Election Commissioners. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said entrusting additional charge of State Election Commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution. Maintaining that a compromise on the independence of the Election Commission is not acceptable, the Court said that it was not correct that a government official, while still employed by the government, be given charge of the Election Commission in Goa. The top court's judgement came on an appeal by the Goa government against the Bombay High Court order, which cancelled elections to five municipalities in the state for not reserving the wards for women as per the law. The Goa government appointed its law secretary as the state election commissioner for conducting municipal council elections in the state. The top court decision is aimed at safeguarding independence of the Election Commission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/independence-of-the-election-commission-can-t-be-compromised-in-democracy-sc-961122.html
12-03-2021||National||Assembly Elections: How to file nomination papers||With the campaigning for Assembly elections to four states and one Union Territory gaining steam, the parties have been meticulously drawing up their list of candidates. While the big names have a task at hand to accommodate the turncoats as well as the party members, the smaller, independent candidates might need some hand-holding to manoeuvre the political maze. Here’s how to file your nomination papers if you’re a first-timer or are unsure about how to go about the process: Basic requirements The minimum age for contesting elections to the Vidhan Sabha or the Legislative Assembly is 25 years.  The candidate has to be a citizen of India and make an oath or affirmation before the person is authorised by the Election Commission as per the form set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule. The candidature would be disqualified if the person holds any office of profit under the Government of India or the Government of any state specified in the First Schedule, other than an office declared by the Legislature of the state by law to not disqualify its holder. Other things that could lead to disqualification are persons being of unsound mind as declared by a competent court or if the person is an undischarged insolvent. The EC has also listed a number of offences that could lead to disqualification if the person is convicted of those offences. One is Section 153A of the Indian Penal Code which deals with offence of promoting enmity between different groups on the ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc and doing acts prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony. Offences related to rape, dowry, narcotics, among other things, have been included in this list. Formalities For Assembly elections, the candidate has to fill out the nomination paper in Form 2B appended to Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 and submit it to the Returning Officer who scrutinises them. Along with the nomination paper (Form 2B), the candidate has to submit an affidavit (Form 26) which will have details regarding criminal antecedents, if any, (cases of convictions and all pending cases), details of PAN and status of filing of income tax return of self, spouse and dependents, details of the assets (movable and immovable etc.) and liabilities/dues of candidate, spouse and all dependents to government and public financial institutions, details of profession or occupation of candidate and spouse, and highest educational qualification of the candidate. All the details need to be furnished and if a candidate fails to fill the blanks even after reminder, the nomination paper will be liable to be rejected by the Returning Officer, who is the competent authority to scrutinise and decide the validity of the nomination, at the time of scrutiny. The affidavit should be sworn by the candidate before an Oath Commissioner or Magistrate of first-class or before a Notary Public. Candidates belonging to Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes have to submit documentary proof of being an SC/ST to the satisfaction of the Returning Officer. If a candidate is registered as an elector in the electoral roll of a constituency different from the constituency they're planning to stand as a candidate from, then a copy of the electoral roll of that constituency, or part thereof or certified copy of the relevant entries in the electoral roll where the name of the candidate is entered in the current electoral roll has to be attached with the nomination paper. In case a candidate claims to be sponsored by any political party (recognised or not), then the prescribed notice from the political party concerned about his sponsorship in Form A and Form B has to be submitted to the Returning Officer/Chief Electoral Officer. Security deposit and proposers The security deposit for Vidhan Sabha is Rs 10,000 for a general category candidate and Rs 5,000 for a Schedule Caste/Scheduled Tribe candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-how-to-file-nomination-papers-961132.html
12-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre against 1991 law on maintaining character of religious places||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL challenging the validity of a 1991 law which prohibits the filing of a lawsuit to reclaim a place of worship or seek a change in its character from what prevailed on August 15, 1947. The petition alleges that the 1991-law creates an "arbitrary and irrational retrospective cut-off date" of August 15, 1947 for maintaining the character of the places of worship or pilgrimage against encroachment done by "fundamentalist-barbaric invaders and law-breakers". A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government on the petition filed by BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. The move has assumed significance as there have been demands to resume litigation on Kashi-Mathura, related to temples of Lord Shiva and Lord Krishna respectively, in Uttar Pradesh. A suit in Mathura court has already been admitted for consideration. In the PIL, Upadhyay contended that the Centre has barred remedies against illegal encroachment on the places of worship and pilgrimages of Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs, who cannot file suit or approach a High Court. He was represented by senior advocates Vikas Singh and Gopal Sankaranarayanan. He sought a declaration from the court that the provisions of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991 was void and unconstitutional for being violative of fundamental rights to equality, practice one's religion and maintain religious places, among others, as the law validated ‘places of worship’, illegally made by barbaric invaders. "Hindus have been fighting for restoration of birthplace of Lord Krishna from hundreds of years but while enacting the Act, Centre has excluded birthplace of Lord Ram at Ayodhya but not the birthplace of Lord Krishna in Mathura though both are the incarnations of Lord Vishnu, the creator," he said. Maintaining that the restriction to move Court is against the principle of rule of law, and secularism, he claimed that if the Ayodhya case had not been decided by the Supreme Court's Constitution bench on November 9, 2019, Hindus would have been denied justice even after 500 years of demolition of the temple. Upadhyay contended that under the Hindu Law, the deity and its property are never lost and devotees have the right to sue a wrongdoer for the restoration of the deity and its property. So, illegal encroachment by other faith doesn’t yield any right and equity in favour of usurper. He claimed that the Centre has no power to close the doors of courts and bar judicial remedy against illegal encroachment on the places of worship and pilgrimage. In June, last Lucknow-based Vishwa Bhadra Pujari Purohit Mahasangh had already filed a plea in the top court, questioning the validity of the provisions of the 1991 Act. Muslim scholars organisation, Jamiat Ulama-I-Hind had subsequently approached the top court to oppose the plea, saying it "will create fear in the minds of the community with regard to their places of worship, especially in the aftermath of the Ayodhya dispute and will destroy the secular fabric of the nation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-against-1991-law-on-maintaining-character-of-religious-places-961134.html
12-03-2021||National||SOP on hybrid physical hearing from March 15 would go if SCBA not consulted, observes Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday sought from its registry minutes of any meeting held with the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) before releasing the Standard Operation Procedure (SoP) for proposed hybrid hearing from March 15.   A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta assured the lawyers’ body that nothing will be done without any discussion with the Bar, as senior advocate and SCBA president Vikas Singh claimed that no consultation was done with them before a decision was taken for hybrid-style hearings. "If the Bar has not been consulted than the SOP will go," the court said, as it put a writ petition by the SCBA for consideration on Tuesday. The court also sought to know from the registry details whether any medical advice was taken before arriving at the decision.  In its plea, the SCBA said a written suggestion given on March 2 for resumption of physical hearing has not been considered by the top court. The body maintained that if virtual hearing allowed to continue permanently, it would disturb the level-playing field. "Bar is an equal stakeholder in the dispensation of the justice delivery system and the suggestions given by it ought to have been taken into consideration. There is general feeling in the Bar that for the last few years Registry has been issuing Circulars without taking it into confidence even though such orders issued directly affect the lawyers practicing before this court," their plea said. In a circular issued on March 5, the Secretary General of the Supreme Court said that Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has issued directions on commencing of hybrid mode of hearing in the apex court from March 15. While proximity cards remained suspended, entry of lawyers would be allowed through special passes and wearing of mask, frequent use of hand sanitiser and maintaining physical distancing norms was made mandatory for all entrants into the Supreme Court premises, including into the courtrooms, during this period. The lawyers body was also aggrieved with absence of oral mentioning for urgent hearing and muting and unmuting of lawyers in virtual hearing, being conducted for last one year so, due to Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sop-on-hybrid-physical-hearing-from-march-15-would-go-if-scba-not-consulted-observes-supreme-court-961136.html
12-03-2021||National||Six states account for over 85% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 85.6 per cent of the new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 1,97,237  and now comprises 1.74 per cent of India's total infections. "Five states cumulatively account for 82.96 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Two states – Maharashtra and Kerala- account for 71.69 per cent of India's total active cases," the ministry said. A total of 23,285 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 14,317 (61.48 per cent of the daily new cases). It is followed by Kerala with 2,133 while Punjab reported 1,305 new cases, the ministry said. The Centre is actively engaging with all state and UT governments, especially those showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases, it said. The Union government is regularly reviewing the status of Covid-19 containment and public health measures with them.  Recently, the Centre rushed high-level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in Covid-19 control and containment measures in view of recent spike in cases in these states.  The Central government had earlier also deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. The reports of Central Teams are shared with states for further follow-up action. The follow-up and compliance on part of states is monitored by the Union Ministry of Health. More than 2.61 crore (2,61,64,920) vaccine doses have been administered through 4,87,919 sessions, as per the provisional report till Friday 7 am. These include 72,23,071 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been administered the 1st dose, 40,56,285 HCWs  who have been given the 2nd dose, 71,21,124 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the 1st dose and 6,72,794 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose). Besides, 10,30,612 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 60,61,034 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years also were administered the 1st dose. A total 4,80,740 vaccine doses were given on day-55 of the vaccination drive (March 11, 2021). A total of 4,02,138 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 9,751 sessions for 1st dose and 78,602 HCWs and FLWs received the 2nd dose of vaccine. "In most of the states, people celebrated Maha Shivratri yesterday. Other than being a gazetted holiday, many people also observed a fast, particularly women including ANMs, ASHA workers and women vaccinators. The Covid-19 vaccination coverage is hence reported to be on the lower side," the ministry said. The recoveries have surged to 1,09,53,303 with 15,157 patients  being discharged in a span of 24 hours. "The gap between recovered and active cases is constantly increasing and currently stands at 1,07,56,066," the ministry stated. It said 117 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 82.91 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (57). Punjab follows with 18 daily deaths and Kerala reported13 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Nineteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Odisha, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Mizoram, Ladakh (UT), Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Tripura, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-states-account-for-over-85-of-new-covid-19-cases-961138.html
12-03-2021||National||SC backs medical boards at district level for termination of pregnancy||The Supreme Court on Friday said there should be some mechanism to address the situation at the district level where a girl, who has been impregnated due to rape, can go for termination of foetus as her legal rights. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government within two weeks on a petition by a 14-year-old rape victim  Advocate V K Biju, appearing for the petitioner, contended he would not press for termination of pregnancy due to a report by the medical board. He said the other plea related to medical boards at the district level was for all the victims. It is an extremely serious situation as so many children were being affected. The matter needs to be dealt with sensitivity and care. On this, the bench said, "A girl who has been impregnated because of rape, she should know her legal rights and options. There should be some mechanism for it." Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati said a new law has been proposed on the subject. She agreed to file an affidavit within two weeks. According to the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971, a foetus of above 20 weeks cannot be terminated without a nod from the court. The girl, in the instant case, approached the court last month as her pregnancy was at 26-week-old.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-backs-medical-boards-at-district-level-for-termination-of-pregnancy-961143.html
12-03-2021||National||TMC delegation meets EC, demands high-level probe into 'attack' on Mamata Banerjee||A TMC delegation met the Election Commission (EC) on Friday and demanded a high-level probe into an alleged attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram while claiming that it was not an "unfortunate incident", but a conspiracy. The six-member delegation of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) met the full EC team, including Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Sunil Arora, for over an hour and submitted a memorandum to it, highlighting how BJP leaders in West Bengal had threatened the chief minister through tweets and other remarks. "Injuries to Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram were not a result of an unfortunate incident but that of a conspiracy. The events leading up to the attempt on her life leave no doubt that the attack was part of a deep-rooted conspiracy," TMC MP Saugata Roy told reporters after meeting the EC. In the memorandum, the TMC has made allegations against Suvendu Adhikari, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) candidate from Nandigram in the upcoming state Assembly polls. "When an attempt was made on the life of Ms Banerjee, in which she was grievously hurt, to cover up the attack, eye-witnesses were planted, illustratively, eye-witnesses Chittaranjan Das and Debabrata Das, who testified that Ms Banerjee's car was hit against an iron pillar, are associates of Suvendu Adhikari, BJP candidate from Nandigram," the memorandum says. The party said the BJP's state president Dilip Ghosh had uploaded a caricature depicting that she would be hit at Nandigram. Around the same time, numerous complaints were filed by the saffron party with the EC seeking immediate removal of the then police chief and IGP of West Bengal, it said. The TMC also gave similar instances of other leaders. "There is a clear nexus between the post by Dilip Ghosh on Facebook, multiple complaints seeking removal of DGP, the unilateral decision of the ECI to remove the erstwhile (police chief), the plan revealed by Saumitra Khan on Twitter, BJP's request to suspend/remove security personnel of Ms Banerjee, the resultant attempt on the life of Ms Banerjee and the cover-up of the same by Adhikari," the memorandum said. After a delegation of TMC leaders met EC officials in Bengal, the poll body on Thursday sent a strongly-worded letter to the party on its memorandum over injuries to Banerjee during the campaign, saying it looks "undignified to even respond" to allegations that the poll panel is doing things in the state at the behest of a "particular party".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-delegation-meets-ec-demands-high-level-probe-into-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-961156.html
12-03-2021||National||2 teachers work without valid qualification for 2 decades in govt aided school; being dismissed||Two school teachers here faced dismissal after officials found they had been working without valid qualification for the past over 20 years. Dhananjay Singh and Arun Kumar Pathak were working as teachers in P D Inter college Gayghat in Ballia on the basis of certificates of 'Shiksha Visharad' of Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, Allahabad, District Inspector of Schools (DIOS) Brijesh Mishra said on Friday. The government had derecognised the title in 2000. Payment of salaries to the two teachers has also been stopped, the DIOS said, adding they are being dismissed. Singh and Pathak had started serving in 1990 and 1991, respectively, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-teachers-work-without-valid-qualification-for-2-decades-in-govt-aided-school-being-dismissed-961170.html
12-03-2021||National||Not seen a finer judge than Justice Indu Malhotra, says CJI SA Bobde||"I have not seen a finer judge than Justice Indu Malhotra," Chief Justice S A Bobde said on Friday, the last working, for the first woman advocate, who was elevated to the Supreme Court. Justice Malhotra, who sat on the bench for the last time, was part of the Constitution bench on the validity of Section 377 (same-sex relationship) Section 497 (adultery) of the IPC. She had dissented with a majority judgement in the 2018 Sabarimala case, which allowed entry of women to Kerala's Sabarimala temple. Justice Malhotra, however, turned emotional. With almost tearful eyes, she thanked the bar members. “I retire with great satisfaction of having contributed to the system with utmost capacity.” Justice Malhotra is one of the two-woman judges in the Supreme Court. Previously a senior advocate, Justice Malhotra joined the bench on April 27, 2018. After Saturday, Justice Indira Banerjee will be the only woman judge in the top court.   Chief Justice Bobde said he has not seen a finer judge than her and he could understand her feeling, citing that she was emotional. Attorney-General K K Venugopal said it is sad that a Supreme Court judge has to retire at the age of 65 and cited her historic dissent in the Sabarimala temple case. The A-G added she did a good job reminding the judiciary about constitutional morality. Senior advocate and Supreme Court Bar Association president Vikas Singh said the retirement of judges in the top court should be increased from 65 to 70. The Chief Justice should take steps to fill the vacancy, created after the retirement of Justice Malhotra, with a female judge, he said. Chief Justice Bobde, for his part, said Justice Malhotra is a great role model for younger advocates and added that her judgements are filled with knowledge, sagacity and firmness. In her response, Justice Malhotra said that she was very blessed to serve on the bench of the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-seen-a-finer-judge-than-justice-indu-malhotra-says-cji-sa-bobde-961181.html
12-03-2021||National||NSIL to invest Rs 10,000 crore to own, operate satellites||Fresh from the launch of the Brazilian satellite Amazonia-1, NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), the commercial arm of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), is gearing up to invest Rs 10,000 crore over the next five years to own and operate satellites and launch vehicles. NSIL's first priority will be to complete four more dedicated launch service contracts over the next two years. “Two of these will be communication satellites with one dedicated for Direct To Home (DTH) applications. The second satellite will be for broadband services,” NSIL's Chairman and Managing Director G Narayanan told the media here on Friday. Three of these launches will take the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) route, while one will be through the Small Satellite Launch Vehicle (SSLV). “We expect to raise Rs 2,000 crore every year through a mix and equity over the next five years,” explained NSIL's Director, Technical & Strategy, D Radhakrishnan. Developed by ISRO, the SSLV is a three-stage all-solid vehicle capable of launching satellites of up to 500kg mass into low earth orbits. The first launch of this launch vehicle is expected sometime in April this year. “This will cater to a lot of small, nanosatellites in the 7-8kg category coming up for launch in the next 10 years.” Initially mandated to take over the production and operation of existing launch vehicles from ISRO, NSIL's role was expanded to own and operate capital-intensive space assets such as satellites and launch vehicles. In the two years since its launch, Narayanan informed, NSIL has executed launch services spread over four PSLV missions for 45 auxiliary customer satellites and the recent primary satellite for INPE-Brazil. NSIL' order book during the first year was over Rs 300 crore, which grew to Rs 400 crore in the second year. “We are still at a nascent stage and want to increase this to eventually record 7-8 launches every year. We have also proposed to take over the satellites already launched by Isro,” he said. To manufacture the entire PSLV through Indian industries, PSIL has already issued a Request For Proposal (RFP) to identify an industrial partner. Five companies are reported to have responded. “We are looking at both consortia and independent, individual companies.” Currently engaged for ISRO's Gaganyaan project, the Geosynchronous Satellite Launch Vehicle (GSLV) Mark-III will also eventually be part of the NSIL fleet. “In the next two to three years, the market will be there for all the four launch vehicles,” said Radhakrishnan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nsil-to-invest-rs-10000-crore-to-own-operate-satellites-961185.html
12-03-2021||National||Gehlot hopes PM Modi would take a decision on farm laws||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday hoped that Mahatma Gandhi's message would "shake the conscience" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he would take a decision over the three farm laws. Gehlot on Friday flagged off a march here on the 91st anniversary of Dandi March taken out by Gandhi. The prime minister flagged off a padyatra (foot march) from Sabarmati Ashram in Gujarat to re-enact Mahatma Gandhi's Dandi Yatra. "Narendra Modi is himself flagging off Dandi March from the Sabarmati Ashram to commemorate this day. I hope that Gandhiji's message would shake his conscience and he may take any decision (on farm laws) by this evening. I will be very happy and people of the country will be happy," Gehlot told reporters here. He said it is "unfortunate" that the central government is maintaining a "stubborn attitude" towards the farmers who played a role in freedom struggle. "I say again and again that governments should never be stubborn, governments should always bow down before the public, in front of the 'Janata Janardan', in front of the voters," Gehlot said. The chief minister asked what difference will it make if the Centre withdraws these laws. "The Centre can withdraw the laws and talk to farmers, state governments and other stakeholders and bring a new law after four-six months," he said. "Nothing has to be done, it is just a matter of making decisions, which Prime Minister Modi has to take, the government has to take," Gehlot said. He said it's been about four months that the farmers are agitating against the three laws. "It's height of insensitivity in the country. The entire country is watching. There is so much anger inside people that no one can imagine. They are not feeling it right now, but there is a lot of anger in the entire country, it is there among the farmers and it is also within the common people. The government cannot be so stubborn but people can be," the Congress leader said. Gehlot cautioned the government that due to the ongoing farmers' protest, "India is becoming infamous" in many parts of the world. "I hope that the Ministry of External Affairs and the foreign minister will give the prime minister the right advice, so that he is forced to rethink what action he really have to take for the benefit of farmers," he said. To a question, Gehlot said the march has been organised as "democracy is hard to find in the country and is under threat". All agencies are under the control of the government, he alleged. On the sidelines of the event, Gehlot said once again the number of COVID-19 cases has increased and urged the people to follow all protocols so that Rajasthan does not lose the battle against the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gehlot-hopes-pm-modi-would-take-a-decision-on-farm-laws-961189.html
12-03-2021||National||Clean environment basic right of citizens, plea of non-availability of funds cannot be excuse: NGT||A clean environment is a basic right of citizens and the plea of non-availability of funds cannot be an excuse for not ensuring it, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said while rapping the Uttarakhand government over waste disposal dump yards illegally set up on the bank of the Khoh river in Kotdwar. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said in view of the repeated failures of the state, a case is made out for taking coercive action against its senior officers, including the secretary, urban development, for violation of statutory rules, which is a punishable criminal offence, and also to require payment of compensation for the continuing damage to the environment, with a direction to recover from the erring officers. The tribunal said the progress is not adequate in terms of the timelines laid down under the Solid Waste Management Rules and the damage to the environment is continuing, which is a criminal offence. "Clean environment being basic right of citizens, a plea of non-availability of funds cannot be an excuse.... However, by way of the last opportunity, we direct the chief secretary, Uttarakhand to take remedial action and file his own affidavit within a month by e-mail," the bench said. The green panel said the damage to the environment and public health is being caused not only on the account of a delay in clearing the legacy waste, but also for not complying with other provisions of the rules, resulting in a huge gap in the generation and the processing of waste. The NGT was hearing a plea filed by Uttarakhand resident Arvind Baniyal against the waste disposal dump yards illegally set up on the bank of the Khoh river at Ratanpur, Kashirampur, Gadighat and near the sports stadium in Kotdwar, where garbage is being burnt, which is polluting the river water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clean-environment-basic-right-of-citizens-plea-of-non-availability-of-funds-cannot-be-excuse-ngt-961190.html
12-03-2021||National||Had to use Tiger Balm after reading it, says Supreme Court Justice MR Shah on complicated HC judgement||Supreme Court Justices DY Chandrachud and MR Shah on Friday reprimanded the way judgements are being written in the High Courts with Justice Shah stating that a judgement must be as simple as it can be so that everyone can understand and is not supposed to be a thesis. Justice Shah apparently had to use a balm to get over the complex reading. "I did not understand anything. There are long, long sentences. Then, there is an odd comma showing up anywhere After reading, I did not understand anything. I started doubting my own understanding!" the report quoted Justice Shah as saying. "I had to use Tiger balm," Justice Shah added. Justice Chandrachud, equally appalled, said, "I sat down to read it at 10:10 am. It was 10:55 by the time I completed! I was like, 'Can you imagine this?' Finally, I had to look for the award of the CGIT itself. Oh, my God! I am telling you, this is unbelievable!" "Reading the order of the division bench of November 27, 2020, we note that the reasons recorded by the High Court in the long judgement of 18 pages are not comprehensible. The kind of reasoning and language employed is inexplicable," the bench said. Calling it a disservice to the cause of ensuring accessible and understandable justice to all, Justice Chandrachud said, "Judgments must be understandable not only to the members of the bar who have appeared in the matter or to those for whom they hold value as a precedent but must also have meaning to the general litigants who have to approach the courts for the enforcement of their rights."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/had-to-use-tiger-balm-after-reading-it-says-supreme-court-justice-mr-shah-on-complicated-hc-judgement-961197.html
12-03-2021||National||Explained | Why this Quad summit is important||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to meet leaders of the four-nation strategic group Quadrilateral Security Dialogue also known as 'Quad', shortly.   Quad, which comprises the United States, Australia, Japan and India, is congregating at a historic moment as the state leaders are meeting for the first time amid global challenges emerging out of the Covid-19 pandemic and more importantly, China's bullish rise as a regional power.  For the United States under Joe Biden, Quad assumes greater significance as it looks to strengthen its commitment in Asia and counter China after the tumultuous Trump era. For  Japan, India and Australia, China has emerged as a security threat in several positions, making the Quad meeting a key opportunity to strengthen strategic ties.  The White House had said that the virtual meeting of the countries would show the importance Biden has placed on the Indo-Pacific region and focus on ways to fight the coronavirus, cooperate on economic growth and the climate crisis. India and Australia have emphasized the importance of regional security cooperation, which has been boosted by previous lower-level meetings of the four countries. Chinese attempts to make "unilateral" changes in the status quo on several borders have brought both the four countries on the same page against Xi Jinping.  "Will be joining President Biden and Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Suga from Japan in what will be the first-ever leaders meeting of what is known as the Quad,” Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison said. Cooperation among the Quad countries goes back to 2004 during the Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami. Later, Trump revived the group as a way of countering China.  For Friday's meeting, the United States is eyeing India's vaccine production capacity to fulfill requirements. India has, however, expressed reservations on the subject. Other issues on the agenda include fulfilling the targets of the Paris Climate Agreement.  Both India and China have subscribed to what is termed 'vaccine diplomacy' to maintain ties and increase cooperation with countries across the world. Quad is also using the need for vaccines in the world, especially the poorer countries, as a way to reach out to nations and strengthen relationships.    The Covid-19 pandemic also showed heavy reliance on China for supply chain infrastructure. Quad is betting on increased cooperation among the member countries and a peaceful Indo-Pacific region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-why-this-quad-summit-is-important-961214.html
12-03-2021||National||PMLA case: Videocon's Venugopal Dhoot appears before court, gets bail||Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot on Friday appeared before a court here in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case, and was granted bail. Dhoot appeared before the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), which had earlier issued summons to him. Special judge A A Nandgaonkar granted bail to him on a personal bond of Rs 5 lakh. The court directed him not to leave the country without its permission and also asked him to surrender his passport to the probe agency. It added thathe must appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) as and when required for probe in the case. The court had on January 30 summoned former ICICI CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar, her husband Deepak Kochhar and Dhoot after taking cognisance of the ED's charge sheet. While Deepak Kochhar is in judicial custody, Chanda Kochhar appeared before the court last month, and was subsequently granted bail. The ED had arrested Deepak Kochhar in September 2020 after it filed a criminal case for money laundering based on an FIR registered by the CBI against the Kochhars, Dhoot and others. The ED has alleged that Rs 64 crore, out of a loan amount of Rs 300 crore sanctioned by a committee of ICICI Bank headed by Chanda Kochhar to Videocon International Electronics Limited, was transferred to Nupower Renewables Pvt Ltd (NRPL) by Videocon Industries on September 8, 2009, a day after the disbursement of loan. NRPL was earlier known as Nupower Renewables Limited (NRL) and is owned by Deepak Kochhar, the ED said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pmla-case-videocons-venugopal-dhoot-appears-before-court-gets-bail-961222.html
12-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: TMC lists ‘events and actions’ leading to ‘attack’ on Mamata Banerjee||In your evening news brief, TMC lists ‘events and actions’ leading to ‘attack’ on Mamata; Mithali Raj becomes first Indian woman cricketer and second internationally to complete 10,000 runs across all formats and  Supreme Court says central and state governments should not appoint persons holding government office as Election Commissioners.  Here is the top news of March 12, 2021: The Supreme Court on Friday said the central and the state government should not appoint persons holding government office as Election Commissioners. It declared that only independent persons can be appointed as Election Commissioners. A bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said entrusting additional charge of State Election Commissioner to a government official is a mockery of the Constitution. The health condition of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is nursing injuries suffered during poll campaigning at Nandigram, is stable and her improvement is satisfactory, doctors said on Friday. The Trinamool Congress has cited social media posts by Bharatiya Janata Party’s leaders in West Bengal and some actions by the Election Commission and the local cops to drive home the point that the recent “attempt on the life” of its supremo Mamata was premeditated The party submitted yet another memorandum to the Election Commission on Friday, listing some “events and actions” leading up to the “attack” on Banerjee on Wednesday. It also included in the list an “unfortunate comment” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a rally in Kolkata on March 7 Mithali Raj on Friday became the first Indian woman cricketer and second internationally to complete 10,000 runs across all formats. The 38-year-old Mithali, who leads the Indian ODI team, joins England's Charlotte Edwards in the elite club. Mithali achieved the feat with a boundary off Anne Bosch in the 28th over of India's innings during the ongoing third ODI against South Africa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-tmc-lists-events-and-actions-leading-to-attack-on-mamata-banerjee-961227.html
12-03-2021||National||Giripremi team to climb Mount Annapurna-I in April 2021||India’s leading mountaineering club, Giripremi, which is on the quest to climb all the fourteen 8000er meters mountains in the world, launched its eighth 8000er meters mountain expedition. A team of four mountaineers led by Umesh Zirpe will climb Mt. Annapurna (8091 meters), the tenth highest mountain in the world in March- April 2021. The expedition was set in March- April 2020, however, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it had rescheduled this year. The climbing team of the expedition consists of Bhushan Harshe (Mt. Everest and Mt. Kangchenjunga Summitter), Dr. Sumeet Mandale (Mt. Cho Oyu and Mt. Kanchenjunga Summitter) and Jitendra Gaware (Mt. Kangchenjunga Summitter). Zirpe, the leader of Giripremi’s 8000er meters mountain expeditions, will lead Mt. Annapurna I Expedition 2021. It is his eighth consecutive expedition as a leader.  “After the enormous success of Mt. Everest in 2012, we had been constantly asked by people, what next? After Mt. Everest Expedition, Giripremi envisioned to climb all 14 8000er meters mountain in the world. We are already halfway there,” he said. Giripremi teams reached the summit of seven 8000er meters mountain in last seven years including Mt. Everest (the world’s highest mountain) in 2012, Mt. Lhotse (the world’s fourth-highest mountain) in 2013, Mt Makalu (the world’s fifth highest mountain) in 2014, Mt. Cho Oyu (the world’s sixth-highest mountain) and Mt. Dhaulagiri (the world’s seventh highest mountain) in 2016, Mt. Manaslu (the world’s eighth highest mountain) in 2017 and Mt. Kangchenjunga (the world’s third-highest mountain) in 2019. Now we have planned an expedition on Mt. Annapurna I (the world’s tenth highest mountain) located in Nepal. The mountain stands tall with a height of 8091 meters and is known as one of the toughest mountains to climb across the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/giripremi-team-to-climb-mount-annapurna-i-in-april-2021-961230.html
12-03-2021||National||Ladakh row: India, China should continue talks to reach mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement, says MEA||Hours before the Quad summit, India on Friday held yet another round of talks with China to work out a “mutually acceptable” way to complete the withdrawal of troops from the remaining face-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Senior diplomats of India and China held the 21st meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) virtually. The two nations agreed to continue talks to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest, said a press release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi. New Delhi’s latest engagement with Beijing to resolve the 11-month-long military stand-off along the LAC took place just before Prime Minister Narendra Modi joined Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and the United States President Joe Biden for the first virtual summit of the Quad – a coalition forged by the four nations to counter China in the Indo-Pacific region. Naveen Srivastava, Additional Secretary (East Asia) at the MEA, led the delegation from India. Hong Liang, the Director General of the Boundary and Oceanic Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, led the delegation of the Chinese government. The two sides agreed that the completion of the disengagement in the North and South Bank of Pangong Lake provided a good basis for them to work towards an early resolution of the remaining issues, according to the MEA statement. They also agreed that the consensus reached between the two Foreign Ministers, S Jaishankar and Wang Yi, during their meeting in Moscow in September 2020 and the phone-call between them last month should continue to guide the work of the two sides to resolve the stand-off. India and China reviewed the situation along the LAC in the western sector and had in-depth discussions on the remaining issues and agreed that the two sides should continue their dialogue to reach a mutually acceptable solution for complete disengagement from all friction points at the earliest. “This would enable two sides to look at broader de-escalation of troops in the area and work towards restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. They also agreed that in the interim two sides should continue to maintain stability at ground level and prevent any untoward incident,” the MEA stated in New Delhi.  The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last month withdrew frontline troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April in 2020 and took the bilateral relations to a new low over the past 11 months. The senior military commanders of the two sides had started a discussion for withdrawal of troops from other face-off points along the LAC like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, but have not yet been able to work out a mutually acceptable plan. Indian and Chinese diplomats on Friday also agreed that the senior commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA would soon meet again near the LAC to discuss the complete disengagement of frontline troops from the remaining face-off points along the de facto boundary between the two nations. The next meeting of the senior military commanders of the two sides will be the 11th one since the stand-off began.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ladakh-row-india-china-should-continue-talks-to-reach-mutually-acceptable-solution-for-complete-disengagement-says-mea-961246.html
12-03-2021||National||Veerappa Moily, Arundhati Subramaniam among recipients of Sahitya Akademi Award 2020||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily, Tamil writer Imaiyam, Konkani poet R S Bhaskar were among the 20 writers who were selected for the Sahitya Akademi Award for 2020. Moily was honoured for his epic poetry 'Sri Bahubali Ahimsadigvijayam', Imaiyam has been chosen for the award for his novel 'Sellatha Panam' and Bhaskar for his poem 'Yugaparivarthanacho Yatri'. 'Nanoo Ambedkar', a novel by HS Byakod and 'Dhoopada Makkalu' a collection of short stories by K S Mahadevaswamy have been selected for the 'Bal Sahitya Puraskar' and 'Yuva Puraskar' respectively. Poet Arundhathi Subramaniam was named for the Sahitya Akademi Award for her poetry collection 'When God is a Traveller' in English, The awards for Malayalam, Nepali, Odia and Rajasthani languages will be announced at a later date, the Akademi said in a statement. Apart from Subramaniam, the others who won the award in poetry include Harish Meenakshi (Gujarati), Anamika (Hindi), Irungbam Deven (Manipuri), Rupchand Hansda (Santali), and Nikhileswar (Telugu). Nanda Khare (Marathi), Maheshchandra Sharma Gautam (Sanskrit), and Sri Hussain-ul-Haque were named as winners for their novels. Apurba Kumar Saikia (Assamese), (late) Dharanidhar Owari (Bodo), (late) Hiday Koul Bharti (Kashmiri), Kamakant Jha (Maithili) and Gurdev Singh Rupana (Punjab) have received the award for short stories. The Akademi has named Gian Singh (Dogri) and Jetho Lalwani (Sindhi) the winners for their plays, while Shankar (Mani Shankar Mukhopadhyay) in (Bengali) received the award for memoir. The Award, which will include a casket containing an engraved copper plaque, a shawl and an amount of Rs 1,00,000, will be presented at the award presentation function, which will be held at a later date In the 'Yuva Puraskar' category, Yashica Dutt was awarded for her memoir 'Coming Out As Dalit' in English, while Ankit Narwal was selected for his Hindi volume of critical essays 'U R Ananthamurti Pratirodh Ka Vikalp'. The award for Sanskrit went to Rishiraj Pathak for his poetry 'Aadhyonmeshah', while the award for Tamil went to poet Shakti for the book 'Maara Naai'. Venita Coelho was selected for the Bal Sahitya Puraskar for her work of fiction 'Dead as a Dodo'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veerappa-moily-arundhati-subramaniam-among-recipients-of-sahitya-akademi-award-2020-961248.html
12-03-2021||National||Use traffic penalty money for road safety activities: Parliamentary Panel||Funds generated from the payment of penalties for traffic offences should be utilized for enhancing road safety across the country, a Parliamentary Committee has recommended. The Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, in its report tabled in Parliament, said that "The funds generated through the payment of penalties for traffic offences should be utilized for the purpose of enhancing Road Safety across the country." "The State/UT Governments may be encouraged to utilize the funds collected from the general public as a penalty for committing traffic offences towards a Road Safety Corpus to fund projects/activities that improve Road Safety in the respective State," the panel headed by Rajya Sabha member T G Venkatesh, said. Expressing concern that the largest number of deaths due to road accidents is on roads other than National Highways and State Highways, the Committee suggested that the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways should urge the state Governments to follow certain guidelines and rules in the construction of roads and in the maintenance of roads, to ensure the safety of road users, on roads other than National Highways and State Highways also. Pointing out that frequent road accidents occur in mountainous areas, the Committee recommended that crash barriers, made of steel or bricks, should be made mandatory on all Highways in hilly areas. The Ministry should ensure the installation of adequate signages and reflectors on roads in such areas, the Committee said. The Committee suggested the Ministry come up with solutions to minimise the large number of accidents that take place due to merging of traffic from service lanes to the highway. "Proper signage in three languages viz., English, Hindi and regional language, maybe ensured to alert the drivers at the points where the road traffic gets merged with highways. The Ministry may look into the best international practices in terms of ensuring safety with regard to merging of traffic on the highways and incorporate the same in its road projects at the design stage itself."  The Ministry should take up identification and rectification of black spots on a war footing, across the country, the panel said. The Committee also recommended that the  Ministry should conduct research and analyse why these black spots existed in the road projects in the first place and how they can be avoided from the DPR (Detailed Project Report)  preparation stage itself in the upcoming projects of the Ministry. .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/use-traffic-penalty-money-for-road-safety-activities-parliamentary-panel-961254.html
12-03-2021||National||Sexual harassment case: Why Special DGP not suspended, asks HC||The Madras High Court on Friday indicted the state government for not suspending a former Special DGP, accused of sexually harassing a subordinate woman IPS officer, saying it should have been the first thing to have been done. "Why has the special DGP not been suspended to date?. That is the first thing you should have done. You have suspended the SP who waylaid the victim, but not the Special DGP," Justice N Anand Venkatesh said. The judge posed the questions when the proceedings, initiated by him last week on his own, came for further hearing on Friday. Only then SP (Chengalpattu), who allegedly tried to stop the woman SP while she was proceeding to Chennai to lodge a sexual harassment complaint against the accused, had been suspended, on the directions of the Election Commission of India. "He was only an arrow. The bow is the Special DGP, who has not yet been suspended", the judge bemoaned and asked what was the impediment in taking the said action against the police officer, since put under 'compulsory wait.' The matter is at the stage of inquiry. Only after a detailed inquiry will the truth come out, the judge added. He also praised the media for strict adherence to his earlier restraint order, by not disclosing names of the victim, accused and the witnesses. The investigation in the case would be closely monitored by the court, he said. The counsel for the accused officer alleged that one of the members of the Internal Complaints Committee (ICC), constituted to probe the case, had commented in a WhatsApp group that he (accused) should be hanged without trial. Another officer in the committee also happens to be a witness in this case, he pointed out. "People have reposed confidence in the court and the state in this case. Therefore, it becomes our responsibility to ensure that a free and fair inquiry is conducted," the judge said. He directed State Public Prosecutor A Natarajan to file the status report by March 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sexual-harassment-case-why-special-dgp-not-suspended-asks-hc-961263.html
12-03-2021||National||Maharashtra sees over 15,000 cases, highest Covid-19 spike of 2021||Maharashtra recorded this year's highest one-day spike on the third day in a row on Friday with 15,817 new infections coming to light, a health official said. The caseload in the state rose to 22,82,191, while the death toll reached 52,723 with 56 new fatalities. The state had earlier reported more than 15,000 cases on October 2 last year, after which new cases had declined. But a fresh surge in cases began last month and the state recorded 13,659 and 14,317 cases on Wednesday and Thursday. As many as 11,344 patients were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total of recoveries to 21,17,744. There are 1,10,485 active cases. Pune city recorded the highest 1,845 new cases, followed by 1,729 in Nagpur and 1,647 in Mumbai. Pune division comprising civic bodies of Pune, Pimpri Chinchwad as well as districts of Pune, Solapur and Satara reported total of 3,580 cases, highest among the divisions. The number of cases in the Pune division so far stood at 5,53,064 and death toll at 11,832. Mumbai's Covid-19 tally increased to 3,40,290 and four deaths took the fatality count to 11,523. The wider Mumbai division reported 3,137 new cases and 11 deaths, taking the cumulative caseload to 7,52,986 and death toll to 19,932. Nashik division's case tally till now stood at 3,12,328 and the death toll at 5,357. Kolhapur division has reported 1,20,859 cases and 4,084 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 88,467 and death count at 2,085. Latur division has reported 90,774 cases until now and 2,557 fatalities. Akola division has reported 1,14,655 cases while 1,893 people have succumbed to the disease until now. Nagpur division has reported 2,48,912 infections and 4,893 fatalities so far. With 97,274 tests carried out on Thursday, the state has so far tested 1,73,10,586 samples for coronavirus. There are 5,42,693 people in home quarantine while 4,884 are in institutional quarantine. Out of 56 deaths reported on Friday, 32 occurred in the last 48 hours, eight in the last week and 16 deaths were from the period before the last week. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,82,191, new cases: 15,817, death toll: 52,723, discharged: 21,17,744, active cases: 1,10,485, people tested so far: 1,73,10,586.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-sees-over-15000-cases-highest-covid-19-spike-of-2021-961276.html
12-03-2021||National||India needs to get max advantage out of Quad: Congress||The Congress on Friday asserted that India needs to get maximum advantage of the Quad grouping and said the government should share with the country the benefits that will be accrued from it. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is set to address the first Quad summit on Friday, which will be attended virtually by US President Joe Biden, Australian Prime minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. According to sources, the most significant among the deliverables envisaged in the historic summit of leaders of the Quad countries is a coronavirus vaccine initiative that will allow new manufacturing capacity to be added in India for export to the Indo-Pacific region. Addressing a press conference, Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said the Quad grouping should not become an agenda of one particular country being pushed. He said as far as Quad is concerned, it is not known which of the four members will benefit the most. "The government should share with the country the benefits which India will accrue from Quad. It should not just become an agenda of one particular country being pushed. We need to get maximum advantage out of Quad," Khera told reporters. The Congress leader sought to know whether the benefits will be fair to each and every member of Quad. "We do not have an answer (for it) yet," he said. When India was facing tensions on the border with China, there was not much that India could achieve out of its diplomatic initiatives which could apply pressure on China, he noted. "Therefore, questions on Quad are not yet settled. We don't have answers yet from the government, we don't have convincing answers," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-needs-to-get-max-advantage-out-of-quad-congress-961282.html
12-03-2021||National||Attack on Mamata planned to prevent her campaigning: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday said that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was attacked to ''prevent her from campaigning'' in the assembly polls. ''Mamata Banerjee has suffered injuries in her legs.....the attack was planned to prevent her from campaigning,'' Akhilesh said while speaking at a public meeting at Rampur, about 325 kilometres from Lucknow. The SP leader said that one could not expect anything else from a party (BJP) whose leaders (read UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath) publicly said that ''patak ke mara jayega'' (we will thrash). He said that democratic institutions were under attack in the country in BJP's rule. ''Whosoever opposes this government is put behind the bars,'' he added. Akhilesh had already declared his party's support to the Trinamool Congress (TMC) in the West Bengal assembly polls and was also likely to campaign in Mamata Banerjee's favour in the state. BSP supremo Mayawati sharply condemned the attack on Mamata and demanded a thorough probe. ''It is an unfortunate incident....the Election Commission must probe the incident thoroughly and punish the guilty,'' the BSP leader said in a post on her Twitter handle. Mamata Banerjee has alleged that she was 'attacked' in Nandigram and was recently discharged from the hospital in Kolkata. The BJP, on the other hand, has termed the incient a 'drama' aimed at garnering the voters' sympathy in the poll-bound state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-mamata-planned-to-prevent-her-campaigning-akhilesh-yadav-961293.html
12-03-2021||National||Date for NEET exam announced: Check here||The National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test for admission to undergraduate medical and dental courses will be held on August 1 in pen and paper mode in 11 languages. The National Testing Agency, which conducts the NEET-UG, will soon update the information bulletin on syllabus, eligibility norms and dates for submission of application forms soon. The NTA also has shelved plans to conduct the Test this year online and opted for the traditional pen and paper mode. Earlier, the agency was planning to conduct NEET online as it conducts the JEE exams for admissions to engineering courses. The exam will also be held once a year, putting in cold storage plans to hold the exam twice every year. Last year, the NEET-UG had to be postponed twice before being held in September owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/date-for-neet-exam-announced-check-here-961298.html
12-03-2021||National||EC seeks more details from West Bengal chief secretary on Mamata incident||The West Bengal chief secretary on Friday submitted a report to the Election Commission on the injuries sustained by Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee but the poll panel has sought more details by Saturday evening, sources said. Banerjee fell down and sustained injuries on her left leg and waist after she was allegedly pushed by unidentified people while she was campaigning in Nandigram assembly segment on Wednesday evening after filing her nomination from the constituency. Following the incident, the EC had sought reports from Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay, special observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dube by Friday evening. The sources said the Commission has now sought more details from the West Bengal chief secretary as the report was not comprehensive enough. The chief secretary has been asked to submit fresh details by Saturday evening, they said. Since the two observers were travelling on Friday, they have sought time tlll Saturday evening to submit their report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-seeks-more-details-from-west-bengal-chief-secretary-on-mamata-incident-961301.html
12-03-2021||National||Tikait accuses Opposition of not supporting farmers enough, says its leaders fear govt probes||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Friday suggested that opposition leaders were not giving more support to the farmers’ protest as they feared being targeted by the Narendra Modi government. Addressing a farmers ‘mahapanchayat’ at Pipar in Rajasthan's Jodhpur, the Bharatiya Kisan Union leader called the BJP-led government at the Centre a ”two-person” regime that does not listen to anybody. He also sought more support from the youth and said the agitation against the three new farm laws would go on till November “for now”. Tikait claimed the opposition was in a poor state and not speaking on the farmers’ issue. “Their old deeds are coming in their way and they are scared, in case they get entangled in any issue or investigation,” he charged. Targetting the Centre, the farmer leader said,"If there were a government, dialogue would have been possible. But there is a two-person government in the country. He said this regime did not seek anyone's opinion. He charged that this was no government but a “company” that had to be "chased away". Tikait said the farmers’ agitation would be a long fight and the youth must be ready to take it to its culmination. He said the youth shout, “You keep fighting, we are with you”. “Ultimately, they will have to come forward and shoulder this movement. For this, barricades would have to be broken,” he said. He added that Rajasthan “does not know how to break barricades”. He termed the agitation a fight to save land. “We will lose our land in the next 20-30 years and this would happen with every farmer of the country. We can save our land only by fighting the government,” he claimed. He said a farmer loved his land more than his son. He asked the gathering to sacrifice all comforts and support the agitation. “Big companies are coming. They are known for hoarding and control markets. Businessmen will bargain over the hunger of the farmer,” Tikait charged. The new agri-marketing laws are meant to make it easier for farmers to sell their crops to private companies. But the unions say they will lead to the weakening of the minimum support price (MSP) system. Tikait claimed if there is no law on the MSP, crops will be sold at “half price” He said “for now” the agitation will continue till November. “Since we have reached this far, there is no question of taking steps back.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tikait-accuses-opposition-of-not-supporting-farmers-enough-says-its-leaders-fear-govt-probes-961306.html
12-03-2021||National||SC agrees to hear plea seeking reservation for transgender people||The Supreme Court Friday agreed to hear a plea seeking direction to treat transgender as "socially and educationally backward classes of citizens" and extend reservation in admission in educational institutions and public appointments. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justice A S Bopanna asked the petitioner to implead transgender associations in the matter within two weeks. The top court was hearing a plea filed by advocate Reepak Kansal and others seeking equal employment opportunity to transgenders and ensure non-discrimination. It has challenged a notification for filling up 2,000 vacancies on the post of Intelligence Bureau-Assistant Central Intelligence Officer (IB ACIO) Grade II/ Executive. The plea said the notification invites applications from Indian nationals male and female only, which, it said, is violative of fundamental rights as well as human rights of transgender. The plea said that the impugned notification is also in clear violation of Section 3 and Section 9 of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019 and the apex court judgment. The plea also sought direction to the government to give the transgender or third-gender an equal opportunity for participating in the examination. It also sought direction to treat transgender "as socially and educationally backward classes of citizens" and extend all kinds of reservations in cases of admission in educational institutions and for public appointments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-hear-plea-seeking-reservation-for-transgender-people-961322.html
12-03-2021||National||Nitin Gadkari asks domestic auto industry to adopt 'Make in India'||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Friday called for the domestic automobile industry to adopt Make in India, asserting that there should be no import of auto components, and all the components should be made in the country at a reasonable price. Speaking at an event, the minister for MSME and Road Transport and Highways said "by accepting new technologies, we are going to create new markets, more profits, turnover, and more employment potential in the country". He said the government was in the process of encouraging MSMEs, with good track record of the past five years in terms of bank turnover, GST, income tax and based on balance sheet, to raise capital from the capital market. Addressing an event through video conferencing, the minister said that "we are trying to make the ethanol-economy from present size of 20,000 crore rupees to Rs 2 lakh crore". Suggesting the automobile industry to adopt the Make in India programme and Made in India, the minister said there should be no import of auto components and 100 per cent components should be made in India at a reasonable price, an official statement said. He said the government is increasing the expenditure on infrastructure. "We are trying to convert transport on electricity like going for electric trucks, electric mass rapid transport, creating public transport on electricity," said the minister. Mentioning the rebound of the country's economy, the minister said that "for the last two months, the growth rate is going in a positive direction and within six months, it is going to be in a very good position". Gadkari said road transport has been given the highest priority and an amount of Rs 1,18,000 crore has been sanctioned for road and transport in the Budget. Hailing speed of road construction in India, Gadkari said that "presently, a record-breaking 34 km per day of road is being constructed, making India second-biggest road network in the world".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitin-gadkari-asks-domestic-auto-industry-to-adopt-make-in-india-961325.html
12-03-2021||National||Sahitya Akademi announces Bal Sahitya Puraskar, Yuva Puraskar 2020||Sahitya Akademi on Friday announced a list of 21 winners of the Bal Sahitya Puraskar and 18 recipients of the Yuva Puraskar for the year 2020. The names were announced on the opening day of Akademi's annual 'Festival of Letters' event here. While English author Yashica Dutt received the Yuva Puraskar for her memoir "Coming Out As Dalit", Ankit Narwal's criticism in Hindi "U R Ananthamurti Pratirodh ka Vikalp" got him named for the prestigious award. The Sahitya Akademi Yuva Puraskar 2020 will be given for 10 books of poetry, three of short stories, two of essays, one each of memoir, criticism and travelogue. Those who have won the Yuva Puraskar for their collection of poetry include Dwijen Das (Assamese), Newton K. Basumatary (Bodo), Ganga Sharma (Dogri), Muzaffar Ahmad Parray (Kashmiri), Rameshwar Sharongbam (Manipuri), Deepak Kumar Dhalewan (Punjabi) Anjali Kisku (Santal), Rishiraj Pathak (Sanskrit), Shakti (Tamil) and Saquib Faridi (Urdu). K S Mahadevaswamy (Kannada), Sonu Kumar Jha (Maithili) and Manasa Yendluri (Telugu) have received the Yuva Puraskar for their collection of short stories. For the collection of essays Chandrasekhar Hota (Odia) and Anjan Baskota (Nepali) have been selected, while Sampada Shenvi Kunkoliekar (Konkani) will receive the award for her travelogue. The Yuva Puraskar for Bengali, Gujarati, Malayalam, Marathi, Rajasthani and Sindhi languages will be declared at a later date. According to the procedure, the Yuva Puraskar relates to books published by an author of the age of 35 and below as on January 1 of the year of the award. While writer-director Venita Coelho has been named as the recipient for the Bal Sahitya Puraskar 2020 for her book "Dead as a Dodo" in English, veteran Hindi writer Balswaroop Rahi has won the award for his collection of poetry "Sampurna Bal Kavitayen". Apart from Rahi, the Bal Sahitya Puraskar will be given to Syed Akhtar Hussain Mansoor (Kashmiri), Siya Ram Jha 'Saras' (Maithili), Naorem Bidyasagar (Manipuri), and Mangat Badal (Rajasthani) for their poetries. The other recipients of the Bal Sahitya Puraskar 2020 are Madhurima Gharphalia (Assamese), Pracheta Gupta (Bengali), Ajit Boro (Bodo), Shiv Dev Sushil (Dogri), Natwar Patel (Gujarati), H S Byakod (Kannada), V Krishna Vadhyar (Konkani), Aba Mahajan (Marathi), Dhruba Chouhan (Nepali), Ramachandra Nayak (Odia), Karnail Singh Somal (Punjabi), Joyram Tudu (Santali), Sahib Bijani (Sindhi), Kanneganti Anasuya (Telugu), and Hafiz Karnataki (Urdu). The award in Malayalam, Sanskrit and Tamil will be declared on a later date. The recipients of both the awards will be given a casket containing an engraved copper plaque and a cheque of Rs. 50,000 at a special function to be held at a later date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sahitya-akademi-announces-bal-sahitya-puraskar-yuva-puraskar-2020-961327.html
12-03-2021||National||Corporates rush to vaccinate staff, dependents||Even as the government is struggling to expand its mass Covid-19 vaccination programme, several corporate houses are rushing to vaccinate their employees and dependents free of cost. This vaccination drive is in line with the ongoing government guidelines. Already, some of the major Indian companies like Reliance Industries, TVS Group, Accenture, Cognizant, Infosys, Chalet Hotels Ltd, Myntra & Flipkart, NxtGen Infinite Datacenter, a datacentre and cloud-based services provider, ICICI Bank and HDFC Bank have announced that they will bear the cost of vaccinating their employees aged 45 & above with co-morbidities and their immediate relatives. “With the Covid-19 vaccine finally here, we have decided to cover the vaccination cost of more than 600,000 people in India, including 200,000 full-time employees and their dependents in the country, as well as 50,000 contracts, support and security personnel with their family members,” Cognizant India Chairman and MD Rajesh Nambiar said. Chalet Hotels, which operates hotels in key metro cities in India announced that it would provide vaccine to all its employees across the country. TVS Group said it would extend free Covid-19 vaccination for about 35,000 employees eligible as per the government guidelines. The group companies such as TVS Motor Company, Sundaram Clayton Limited, TVS Credit Services Limited, Sundaram Auto Components Limited and Emerald Haven Realty Limited are covered under the vaccination drive. In the initial phase, the vaccine will be made available to all employees and their families above the age of 60 and 45 years or older suffering from certain medical conditions, R AnandaKrishnan, Executive Vice President - HR, TVS Motor Company said in a statement. India’s second-largest IT services company Infosys said it is looking at partnering with healthcare providers to vaccinate its employees and their immediate families as eligible under the guidelines given by the government of India and as per approved procedures. “Infosys will cover the vaccination cost for the employee and immediate family as part of our focus on health and wellness,” Pravin Rao, Chief Operating Officer, Infosys said. Homegrown e-commerce major Flipkart has decided to cover 100% of the vaccination cost for all Flipkart and Myntra employees and three dependents. “You can choose to be reimbursed for the costs of the vaccinations or get them free of charge at a partner hospital,” Flipkart said in a communication to its employees. The company is also enabling its employees to avail of a day’s leave to manage the vaccination process. HDFC Bank has announced that it will sponsor the inoculation of over 1 lakh employees of the Bank and their immediate family members against coronavirus. The bank will reimburse the vaccination cost for the two mandated doses. Collabera Technologies has initiated a Covid-19 vaccination drive for their employees. The firm said it will bear the cost of over 5,000 employees and their spouses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/corporates-rush-to-vaccinate-staff-dependents-961332.html
12-03-2021||National||Cheating, copyright breach case filed against actor Kangana Ranaut||A case of alleged cheating was filed against actor Kangana Ranaut by Mumbai police on Friday on a local court's orders after the author of 'Didda: The Warrior Queen of Kashmir' accused her of copyright violation. The First Information Report (FIR) was registered at Khar police station against Kangana, Kamalkumar Jain, Rangoli Chandel and Akshat Ranaut, an official said. Ashish Kaul, the author of the book which has been translated into Hindi as 'Kashmir Ki Yodhha Rani Didda', alleged in a complaint before a magistrate that he has exclusive copyrights to the life story of Didda, the Princess of Lohar (Poonch) and the Queen of Kashmir. As per the complaint, he had sent an email about the storyline of his book to Kangana, and she used some part of the story in a tweet while announcing her movie without Kaul's permission. "Is it believable by any stretch of imagination that a story and a book are being usurped by a renowned actor- turned-social activist?" he said. On the Bandra metropolitan magistrate's order, FIR was registered under IPC sections 405 (criminal breach of trust), 415 (cheating), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) and also under the Copyright Act, a police official said, adding that further probe is on. Ranaut is already facing police cases in Mumbai over her allegedly provocative tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cheating-copyright-breach-case-filed-against-actor-kangana-ranaut-961371.html
12-03-2021||National||SC verdict decriminalising consensual gay sex “most moving moment”: Justice Indu Malhotra||Justice Indu Malhotra, the first woman lawyer to be appointed directly as a judge of the Supreme Court, Friday said that verdict delivered by the apex court decriminalising consensual gay sex was the “most moving moment” as the emotions that swept the courtroom at that time was quite overwhelming. Justice Malhotra, who is set to retire from judgeship on Saturday, said representation of enough women on the bench will happen when more and more women actively practice and are elevated as judges on the basis of their competence and merit as she believes that there should not be merit less tokenism. “Society as a whole benefit immeasurably when gender diversity is found even on the bench,” the lady judge said. Justice Malhotra penned several important verdicts, including her dissenting judgment in the historic Sabarimala Temple case in which she had said a judicial review of religious practices should not be done as courts cannot impose their morality or rationality on the form of worship of a deity, Besides, she was also a part of the constitution bench which had unanimously held section 497 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), dealing with the offense of adultery, as unconstitutional and struck down the penal provision. However, in her farewell speech at a function organised by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) at the apex court lawns on her last working day, Justice Malhotra recalled the day on which the path-breaking judgment was delivered in the LGBT case. The judge, who was part of a five-judge constitution bench which had delivered the landmark judgement on September 6, 2019, and held that section 377 of the Indian Penal Code that criminalised consensual gay sex was "irrational, indefensible and manifestly arbitrary”, said the affected parties had broken down with joy and relief after the verdict was pronounced. In her separate concurring judgment decriminalising consensual gay sex, Justice Malhotra had said that history owes an apology to the members of the LGBT community and their families for the delay in providing redressal for "ignominy" and "ostracism" they have faced through the centuries. In the today's gathering, She said “Within three months of my elevation, I got the opportunity of being a member of the constitution bench and the most moving moment was on September 6, 2019 when the judgment was delivered by the constitution bench in the LGBT case.” “As the judgment was pronounced that consensual same sex relationships among adults was not a criminal offence, the emotion which swept through the courtroom was indeed quite overwhelming. We saw the affected parties breakdown with joy and relief since it gave legal legitimacy to their relationships and acceptability to their families many of whom were present in the court,” Justice Malhotra said. Besides Justice Malhotra, apex court judge Justice R F Nariman, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, SCBA President and senior advocate Vikas Singh and others also addressed the gathering during the physical farewell function, which was first since the Covid-19 pandemic. Justice Malhotra said, “On the issue of gender representation of women and affirmative action to ensure diversity on the bench, in my opinion there will be enough women on the bench when the distinction between a male judge and a female judge no longer happens.” “This will happen when more and more women actively practice and are elevated to the bench on the basis of their competence and merit. I do not believe in representation being merely symbolic on the basis of our gender. We do not want merit less tokenism, I believe in meaningful gender parity and not symbolic parity,” she said. Justice Malhotra referred to the women judges who have been elevated as apex court judges and said the number will grow as more and more women actively pursue her career at the bar. She termed as “quite overwhelming and daunting” the sheer volume of cases that a judge is required to deal with on a weekly basis. “Within the great increase in the number of filings I do felt that a disproportionate amount of time of a judge is consumed in reading 100s of SLPs (special leave petition) in a week and sometimes it becomes a struggle to find adequate time to work on one’s judgments,” she said. “I thing at some point of time the filings would require screening as a large number of matters are purely speculative in nature,” Justice Malhotra said. She said dispensing justice has certainly been a greatly fulfilling experience and a judge gets a great sense of satisfaction when a long-drawn litigation gets closed and relief is provided to the voiceless and underprivileged sections of the society. Justice Nariman said that direct appointees to the apex court have had a “very interesting career” and Justice Malhotra was one of them. Justice Nariman is also a direct appointee and he was appointed as a judge of the apex court in July 2014 when he was a senior advocate. Mehta said that Justice Malhotra has contributed a lot in the evolution of law and she has been a part of several path-breaking verdicts. Singh said it is painful to lose a “brilliant judge” like Justice Malhotra and it is high time that the retirement age of apex court judges should be increased from the present 65 years. Malhotra, who was designated as a senior advocate in 2007, became the first woman lawyer to directly enter the top judiciary as a judge on April 26, 2018. With her retirement, Justice Indira Banerjee remains the only woman judge in the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-verdict-decriminalising-consensual-gay-sex-most-moving-moment-justice-indu-malhotra-961372.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||Congress a divided house in poll-bound states||Fighting an existential battle in the five assembly elections, Congress appears to be a divided house with defections and differences becoming the norm in poll-bound states. Veteran leader and Rahul Gandhi's confidant P C Chacko's exit from the Congress in the midst of a high-pitched election campaign came as a shocker for the party which recently had to work overtime to win over former union minister K V Thomas, who too was unhappy with the party. While Congress President Sonia Gandhi's intervention saw 74-year-old Thomas being appointed as the Working President of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee, there were no such efforts to stop 74-year-old Chacko. Congress in Kerala is divided into two factions helmed by former chief minister Oommen Chandy and senior leader Ramesh Chennithala. Young leaders in the party were also demanding a respectable share in the election tickets but were apprehensive of being upstaged by the seniors. In Assam, former Lok Sabha member Sushmita Dev is miffed because of the party's decision to enter into a coalition with All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) led by Maulana Badruddin Ajmal.  Dev, president of the All India Mahila Congress, represented Silchar in the Lok Sabha, a constituency that has a sizeable population of Matua community comprising refugees from Bengal. The BJP has made inroads in Silchar, the key town of Barak Valley where AIUDF too wields considerable influences.  Dev had stormed out of a meeting last week for selection of candidates for the elections, triggering buzz about her imminent exit from the Congress. The state Congress had issued hurried clarifications about Dev still being with the party. The attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram also exposed the differences in the senior Congressleadership. While West Bengal Congress chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury slammed Banerjee for resorting to “political gimmick”, former union minister Manish Tewari expressed concern and wished her a speedy recovery. “This is political nicety. Pranab Mukherjee would have been proud of his illustrious son,” Tewari said referring to Abhijit Mukherjee wishing Banerjee a speedy recovery. Earlier, the differences within the Congress on joining hands with Indian Secular Front of Furfura Sharif cleric Abbasuddin Siddiqui had come to the fore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-a-divided-house-in-poll-bound-states-960946.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||India now an ‘electoral autocracy’: Sitaram Yechury||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said India is now an “electoral autocracy” in response to media reports on Swedish Institute's democracy report that downgraded India. “Modi-led government in India has used laws on sedition, defamation and counter terrorism to silence critics. India’s level of liberal democracy registered a steep decline since its high in 2013. What a shame," he said quoting from the report. This comes after another global report by a US government-funded NGO, Freedom House downgraded India's status from "free" to "partly free" and claimed that "political rights and civil liberties have eroded in India since Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014". The government has strongly rebutted the Freedom House report and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced", while asserting that the country has well established democratic practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-now-an-electoral-autocracy-sitaram-yechury-960977.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's Suvendu Adhikari to file nomination from Nandigram for West Bengal Assembly election||BJP's Suvendu Adhikari is set to file his nomination on Friday from Nandigram for the West Bengal Assembly election. He is also scheduled to hold a roadshow at Haldia later. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-suvendu-adhikari-to-file-nomination-from-nandigram-for-west-bengal-assembly-election-961060.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Following ideas inspired by Ram Rajya to serve Delhi, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said his government has been following 10 principles, inspired by the concept of "Ram Rajya", to serve the people in Delhi. Kejriwal also said once the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya is completed, his government will send the elderly there for 'darshan'. "I am a devotee of Lord Ram and Hanuman. We have been following 10 principles, inspired by the concept of 'Ram Rajya', to serve people in Delhi," the chief minister said while participating in a discussion on the Motion of Thanks to the LG's address during the Budget Session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-following-ideas-inspired-by-ram-rajya-to-serve-delhi-says-kejriwal-961063.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||UDF, All India Forward Bloc hit roadblock over fielding candidate against Pinarayi Vijayan||Congress-led United Democratic Front's (UDF) attempt to pit Forward Bloc National Secretary G Devarajan against Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has come to naught with the latter refusing to take the bait, saying such a move will send a "wrong signal" in the united fight against the BJP. Sources said the UDF leadership in Kerala felt that fielding Devarajan from Dharmadom in northern Kerala, the sitting seat of Vijayan, would send a strong message and it could leverage politically as Forward Bloc is a constituent of the Left Front at the national level. However, the Forward Bloc Central Committee decided against the proposal, saying fielding its National Secretary against the Left Chief Minister would be detrimental to the larger cause and could impact the polls in Bengal where it is in the Left Front. Other than Devarajan, Forward Bloc is open to field a candidate against Vijayan. In Bengal, the Left Front has entered into an electoral understanding with the Congress while both are fighting each other in Kerala. "There has been a proposal from the UDF that I should contest against the Chief Minister. I had told them that it was not possible at the beginning itself. However as the pressure mounted, the Central Committee conveyed that fielding me in Dharmadom was out of the question as it would send the wrong signal," Devarajan told DH. Deverajan, who hails from Kerala, was a prominent Left figure and was part of the Left leaders who negotiated with the UPA government on the Indo-US nuclear deal. Sources said Forward Bloc had sought one seat -- either Kollam or Chathannur -- in southern Kerala for Devarajan but the UDF leadership suggested that he contest from Dharmadom. It also felt that fielding its senior leader in a seat, whose results are a fait accompli, would be counter-productive. The only thing such a candidature would lead to is coverage in national media citing that there is no unity among the anti-BJP forces, sources said.  Forward Bloc, a constituent of Left Front at the national level, had joined the UDF in Kerala in 2016 during the Assembly polls after the CPI(M)-led LDF refused to accommodate it and give a seat to contest. Similar is the case with RSP, which is with Congress in Kerala and the Left Front in Bengal. "Both the CPI(M) and Forward Bloc are part of a movement that is fighting the BJP at the national level. So the party feels that fielding me against Vijayan would weaken the fight. Also, in other states, both the parties are fighting together in a coalition. So fielding a national office-bearer against Vijayan is not politically correct," Devarajan said. He said secular parties like Congress, CPI(M) and Forward Bloc should be united in the fight against the "communal" BJP, irrespective of their strength.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/udf-all-india-forward-bloc-hit-roadblock-over-fielding-candidate-against-pinarayi-vijayan-961072.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi is working while Didi is falsely claiming credit for central schemes: Smriti Irani||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Friday slammed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for being keener in clicking photographs by falsely claiming credit for the central schemes started by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and wondered whether the people of the state would vote for "such a daughter" who unleashes violence on mothers and masses. Taking a dig at the TMCs poll slogan 'Bangla Nijer Meyeke Chai' (Bengal wants its daughter), Irani wondered if the people would want the return of a regime that unleashes political violence on people of the state. "Will the people vote for such a daughter who unleashes violence on an 80-year-old mother? Will you vote for the daughter (whose party) hangs BJP activists? "The people of the state is awaiting 'Asol Poribortan' (real change)," she said. Irani along with her cabinet colleague Dharmendra Pradhan participated in a rally on way to filing for nomination by Suvendu Adhikari from the high-profile Nandigram assembly seat. Irani assailed the TMC government, saying the benefits of the central schemes, including PM-Kisan yojana, could not reach the poor in the state. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is working day and night for the welfare of the masses and Didi is busy clicking photographs by falsely claiming credit for several central schemes. "Didi is changing names of the central schemes and claiming them to be their programmes," she said launching a scathing attack at the TMC supremo who has already filed nomination from the Nandigram constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-is-working-while-didi-is-falsely-claiming-credit-for-central-schemes-smriti-irani-961129.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||India becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces: Rahul Gandhi||On the 91st anniversary of the historic 'Dandi March', Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday that India is becoming increasingly "chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS" and urged people to be guided by Mahatma Gandhi's example to continue with the march for freedom. On March 12, 1930, Mahatma Gandhi started his march from the Sabarmati Ashram to Dandi in Gujarat to break the salt-tax law imposed by the British. It was an act of civil disobedience to protest against British rule in India. "Gandhiji's Dandi March gave a bold message of freedom to the entire world," Rahul Gandhi said in a Facebook post. "Today, as India is becoming increasingly chained by authoritarian forces led by the RSS, we must renew our individual commitment to collective freedom. Let us be guided by Gandhiji's example and continue the march for freedom. Jai Hind!" the former Congress chief said. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said the farmers were carrying forward the tradition of Dandi march and the "anti-farmer Modi government, like the Britishers, wants to trample upon 'satyagraha'". "Satyagraha will win, not arrogance!" he added. In another tweet earlier, Rahul Gandhi also attacked the Centre over the issue of employment, saying students want jobs but the government is giving them "beating by police, spraying by water cannon, tag of 'anti-national' and unemployment"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-becoming-increasingly-chained-by-authoritarian-forces-rahul-gandhi-961158.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||Will tricolour be hosted in Pakistan if not India? Kejriwal hits out at opposition over unfurling flags in Delhi||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday hit out at opposition parties for opposing the Delhi government's decision to unfurl the tricolour across the city, asking "will it be hoisted in Pakistan if not in India". Addressing the Delhi Assembly, he said there should be no politics over patriotism and the country belongs to all.  "In the budget, we announced that we will unfurl the tricolour at 500 places across the city. Whenever we see the national flag, we are reminded of the soldier fighting at the borders. I fail to understand why the BJP and the Congress have been opposing the decision," Kejriwal asked.  "They should support and appreciate the decision. There should be no politics over patriotism. The country belongs to all... I want to ask the BJP will the tricolour be hoisted in Pakistan if not in India" he said.    Kejriwal said the opposition parties were mocking the Delhi government for its announcement to bid for 2048 Olympic Games and increasing the per capita income to Singapore's level by 2047.  "We will achieve it... We will approach the Centre and the India Olympic Association to bid for Olympics. We all will do it together," he said.   The chief minister also said almost all states and the Centre presented "deficit" budget in the last one-and-a-half months, but Delhi is the only "state" which has a "surplus" budget in these difficult times. Kejriwal also alleged that the Congress and the BJP are opposing his government's announcement to send elderly to Ayodhya when Ram temple is ready.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-tricolour-be-hosted-in-pakistan-if-not-india-kejriwal-hits-out-at-opposition-over-unfurling-flags-in-delhi-961236.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||Congress dumps dissenters from West Bengal star campaigner list||Dissenters within the Congress were missing from the list of star campaigners in the high-stakes election to the West Bengal Assembly with the Gandhi family, former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Sachin Pilot tasked with the job to take the party's message to the masses. A list of 30-star campaigners released by the Congress includes Navjyot Singh Sidhu, Abhijeet Mukherjee, Mohammad Azharuddin and Chief Ministers Amarinder Singh, Ashok Gehlot and Bhupesh Baghel. Those who have not made it to the list include Kapil Sibal, Ghulam Nabi Azad, Manish Tewari and Anand Sharma, who were among the 23 leaders who had raised a banner of revolt in the Congress virtually questioning the leadership of the party. Jitin Prasada, one of the signatories to the letter signed by the G-23 leaders, made peace with the organisation soon after the revolt in August last year. Prasada, a former Union minister, was appointed AICC in-charge of West Bengal and finds a place in the list of star campaigners. Another dissenter Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who also made peace with the leadership, also finds a mention. The other star campaigners include Mallikarjun Kharge, B K Hariprasad, Kamal Nath, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Salman Khurshid, RPN Singh, Randeep Singh Surjewala, Pawan Khera and Deepender Hooda. At least seven leaders of the G-23 had assembled in Jammu on February 27, expressing concern at a public rally over the weakening of the Congress party. The remarks by senior leader Sibal, Sharma among others had left the Congress fuming. The party reminded the leaders that elections had been declared for five states and it would have been better if they had campaigned for the party there, instead of nursing wounds in Jammu. Later, Azad had said that he along with other ‘dissenters’ would campaign for the party in the coming Assembly elections, as per the directions of the party or requests by individual candidates. Congress spokesman Pawan Khera said some more names would figure in the list of star campaigners in different phases of elections and also for other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-dumps-dissenters-from-west-bengal-star-campaigner-list-961296.html
12-03-2021||National Politics||Fine balance: Social coalition is BJP's Uttarakhand mantra||In a balancing act to retain its social coalition intact in the hill state, BJP on Friday appointed MLA Madan Kaushik as its Uttarakhand state President two days after it named Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat to replace Trivendra Singh Rawat as Chief Minister. While keeping a member from the Thakur community in the top seat, BJP chose to go back to its old formula of giving one of the two posts to a Brahmin by anointing Kaushik as state chief who replaced the incumbent Banshidhar Bhagat. Bhagat is likely to be inducted as a minister in the Tirath-led government. Kaushik, a four-term MLA, was a Cabinet minister in the earlier Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government. Generally both Congress and BJP has maintained this social coalition in power politics of Uttarakhand where Rajputs and Brahmins are the two most populous castes nearly 35 and 25 percent of total population respectively). BJP has to keep the social coalition all the more in mind this time as the state goes to polls next year. In the neighbouring UP which also goes to polls next year, Opposition parties are currently aggressively trying to woo back Brahmins by setting up the Brahmin Chetna Manch and promising a 108-foot idol of Parshuram. However, numerically, the Brahmins are more significant in Uttarakhand than UP. In the 2017 Assembly polls, Congress had hedged its bet on Thakur-Brahmin combo of Harish Rawat and Kishor Upadhyay. It did not work. However, in the 2002 Assembly polls, Congress had romped home with Narayan Dutt Tiwari as CM face and Rawat as state chief. In 2014, Congress Chief Minister Harish Rawat had announced a monthly pension for five lakh priests after which the BJP alleged that the decision was aimed at helping the Congress to secure its Brahmin vote bank. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP had, in sort of a social engineering move, fielded Tirath Singh Rawat from Brahmin-dominated Pauri Garhwal constituency and a Brahmin face Ajay Bhatt from Nainital, a Thakur seat. Both won their respective seats, a move that helped the BJP blunt the sharp edges of Brahmin Thakur rivalry in the state to some extent. Even this time when the party had to agree to replace Trivendra with Tirath on Wednesday as CM, owing to the banner of revolt raised by the group that resented his style of functioning, caste rivalry was not a factor. A day after taking oath as the new chief minister of Uttarakhand, Tirath Singh Rawat met his political mentor and state’s former CM, Gen (Retd) B C Khanduri and sought his blessings. Khandhuri, who belongs to the Brahmin community, was formery with the defence services before he dabbled into politics and had twice been Chief Minister of the state. Rawat said the " General sir" was like his father. Khanduri hailed him as a "worthy person" having become CM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/fine-balance-social-coalition-is-bjps-uttarakhand-mantra-961376.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM likely to expand cabinet on Friday, state BJP President says||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat is expected to expand his cabinet on March 12, state BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat said on Thursday. He, however, said there is no official word on this so far. The Uttarakhand cabinet can have 12 ministers but two berths have remained vacant since the BJP government came to power in 2017. Another fell vacant after the demise of Finance Minister Prakash Pant in June 2019. These berths have remained vacant despite repeated discussions and party MLAs have been upset about it. This was also one of the reasons for the ouster of former chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, according to party sources. Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Wednesday. Governor Baby Rani Maurya administered the oath of office to him alone at a simple function held at the Raj Bhawan here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-likely-to-expand-cabinet-on-friday-state-bjp-president-says-960968.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Three cops suspended day after gang rape survivor's father dies in 'accident' in UP's Kanpur||Two sub-inspectors and a constable were on Thursday placed under suspension for laxity in dealing with the gang rape case of a 13-year-old girl and the death of her father in a road accident. The action was taken against the three cops after they were found guilty in a preliminary inquiry by the Ghatampur circle officer, Deputy Inspector General (DIG) of Kanpur Preetinder Singh said. Sajeti police station beat in-charge Ram Shiromani and Constable Adesh Kumar were suspended for alleged negligence in the gang rape case, while Ghatampur police post in-charge Abdul Kalam faced the action for alleged negligence in the accident case in which the minor rape survivor's father was killed. The family members of the deceased have alleged that Devendra Yadav, the father of the prime accused in the gang-rape case, hatched a conspiracy to kill him and make it look like a road accident. A departmental inquiry has also been initiated, the DIG said, adding, "Superintendent of Police, Rural, Brajesh Srivastava has been asked to conduct the inquiry and submit the findings to me at the earliest." It has been decided that further action against the erring cops would be taken in accordance with the facts and findings of the departmental inquiry, Singh said. The DIG added that Deepu Yadav, the second accused in the gang rape case, has also been arrested. Efforts are on to nab prime accused Golu Yadav's brother, Saurabh Yadav, he said. Meanwhile, Devendra Yadav, a police sub-inspector, was also suspended on Thursday after he was found untraceable from Jalaun district, where he was sent on VIP duty during Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's visit, another senior official said. The father of the 13-year-old gang-rape survivor was killed on Wednesday in a road accident outside a health centre in Kanpur's Ghatampur area, where the girl was taken for a medical examination. While the medical examination of the girl was going on at the community health centre (CHC) in Ghatampur, her father had gone out for a cup of tea and was hit by a truck. He later succumbed to injuries at the Lala Lajpat Rai Hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-cops-suspended-day-after-gang-rape-survivors-father-dies-in-accident-in-ups-kanpur-960981.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi University teachers go on strike over non-payment of salaries||Thousands of Delhi University (DU) teachers went on a strike on Thursday to protest the non-payment of salaries for the past six months. The call for a university "shutdown" was given by the Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) on Tuesday as many employees of 12 DU colleges, that are fully funded by the Delhi government, alleged they had not received salaries and other dues for over six months. "We don't want our students to suffer, that is why we didn't take this drastic step for the longest time. But then we were not left with an option as many employees -- teaching and non-teaching -- have not been getting their salaries and pensions for the last six months now. "We just want the authority concerned to release our funds and pay our salaries. For other issues, we can always sit and talk," DUTA president Rajib Ray told PTI. In a statement issued late evening, the Delhi government said it has cleared the third instalment of dues to the colleges but the institutions have not paid salaries to the teachers and others for the last several months. It seems that the colleges are attempting to hide financial irregularities by not submitting utilisation certificates, the government alleged. "The Delhi government shall conduct an investigation into the same," the statement added. The strike by the DU teachers which began on Maha Shivratri -- a restricted holiday in the Delhi University -- would intensify in the coming days, with teachers taking to the streets on March 15, the DUTA said. The DUTA will also hold meetings with Delhi University and College Karamchari Union (DUCKU) and DU Students' Union (DUSU) by March 13, Ray said. "The DUTA will hold a 'Adhikar rally' from the VC office to the CM residence on March 15 and another march from the VC office to the LG's office on March 18," read a statement issued by DUTA. The other important issue, as per the DUTA statement, is the merging of the College of Art with the Ambedkar University, Delhi after it was de-affiliated from the DU. DUTA claimed the decision was taken "without consulting stakeholders and without due processes. It also asked other staff associations to hold meetings to "mobilize for the action programmes and send feedback" by March 19. The DUTA executive will decide the future course of action on March 20, it added. On its part, the Delhi government said that despite repeated reminders, 12 colleges have not submitted the utilisation certificates of the previous installments. "The non-submission of utilisation certificates of previous installments by the colleges has delayed the release of final installment by the Delhi government. The situation implies to the bad financial management of the college authorities," the government said in the statement. Later in the day, governing body members of the Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) college -- which is one of the fully-funded colleges by the Delhi government -- addressed a press conference alleging "financial mismanagement" of funds by the college administration. "The college (DDU) principal is claiming that money has not been given by the Delhi government for payment of salaries. However, when we, the members of the governing body, looked more deeply into the matter, it is very clear that the Delhi government has regularly been paying all its dues to the college. "So it seems there are some grave financial irregularities being done by the college that despite all the dues being paid by the Delhi government, the college is not paying salary to teachers and other staff," read the statement issued by the DDU's governing body, which also demanded immediate release of the salaries of the college's staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-university-teachers-go-on-strike-over-non-payment-of-salaries-960982.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Two dead, 27 injured as bus falls into gorge in Madhya Pradesh||Two women were killed and 27 other passengers injured, one of them seriously, when the bus in which they were travelling fell into a gorge in Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh, officials said on Friday. The incident occurred shortly after Thursday midnight near Manikhapa village, around 45 km from the district headquarters, they said. "The ill-fated bus was on its way to Chhindwara from Bhopal when it fell into the gorge on Chhindwara-Betul road," district collector Saurabh Kumar Suman said. Two women, identified as Nandani Fazal Khan (20) and Rupali Asrathe (36), died in the mishap, he said. The injured have been hospitalised, the collector said, adding that the grievously wounded person was admitted to a hospital in Nagpur for advanced medical care. Superintendent of Police Vivek Agrawal said a probe is on to know the exact reason behind the accident. Preliminary investigation suggests that the vehicle fell after the driver lost control over it, he added. Whether the bus had a permit on the route and a fitness certificate is being investigated, Agrawal said. The collector said the state government has announced a financial assistance of Rs 4 lakh each to the families of the two deceased women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-dead-27-injured-as-bus-falls-into-gorge-in-madhya-pradesh-961107.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 cases surge in Jammu and Kashmir again||In a major cause of concern, Jammu and Kashmir has witnessed 20 Covid-19 deaths and over 2,000 new cases of infection in the last month. From average daily new cases ranging around 50 in the first week of February, the first week of March has seen the average rising to 71 cases. The daily confirmed cases have even shot up to over 100, twice this month already. The spike in infections and deaths in J&K has been visible through the week pushing the experts to sound caution against lowering of the guard as the pandemic is far from over. They have expressed a number of possibilities behind the surge in cases including the lax attitude of people towards following Covid-19 protocols and the likeability of “mutations and new strains.” “The emergence of fresh threat in the form of new variants across countries was a clarion call that people needed to continue following protocols,” said Dr Naveed Nazir Shah, head department of Pulmonary Medicine at Government Medical College, Srinagar. He urged people to take the benefit of the vaccination drive and get the elderly and those with underlying diseases protected by the Covishield vaccine. The J&K government has said the phase-2 vaccination drive was under way and over 77,000 persons in the age group of 65 years and above and those aged 45 years and above with co-morbid conditions had been vaccinated. As of March 11, the total Covid-19 count in J&K has reached 1,27,363 and the death toll stood at 1,969 of which 1,240 fatalities were reported from Kashmir and 729 from Jammu. With 26,557 positive cases and 463 deaths, Srinagar district tops the list, while Jammu district with 24,828 cases and 377 deaths stands at the second position.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-surge-in-jammu-and-kashmir-again-961110.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Supreme Court notice to Centre on PIL for appointment of regular CBI director   ||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by an NGO for a direction to the Centre to immediately appoint a regular CBI director.   The petition, filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO 'Common Cause', contended that a proper appointment as per the statutory law is necessary for upholding the rule of law and for enforcement of the rights of the citizens under Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution.  A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat sought a response from the Union government while refusing to issue immediate order on the convening of the high-powered selection panel. Advocate Bhushan said the CBI suffered due to the non-appointment of a regular director. He said there was no provision for the appointment of acting director.  Pravin Sinha has been appointed as interim director following the retirement of R K Shukla. The counsel asked the court to issue direction for a meeting of selection panel for the purpose. The bench, however, said, "We would not pass order without hearing the Union government". The plea said the CBI director is the final authority in the organisation, that is why the court and Parliament have made determined efforts to enhance his functional autonomy and limit the extent of executive discretion in the matter of appointment. The CBI director is appointed by a committee of the Prime Minister, leader of the single largest party, and the CJI or his nominee. In its petition, the NGO said the government has failed to appoint a regular CBI director as per section 4A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, on the expiry of term of Rishi Kumar Shukla on February 2 and instead appointed Praveen Sinha as an interim director.  It said that the top court has time and again entrusted important cases of corruption and violation of human rights to the CBI for investigation. The CBI has, sometimes under the monitoring of the top court, investigated important cases involving powerful and influential individuals.  The plea urged the top court to issue a direction to the Centre to initiate and complete the process of selection of the CBI director well in advance, at least one to two months before the vacancy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-on-pil-for-appointment-of-regular-cbi-director-961117.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat to expand Cabinet today||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat will expand his cabinet on Friday evening, official sources said. The oath-taking ceremony will take place at 5 pm on Friday at the Raj Bhawan here, the sources said. It is still unclear as to how many new ministers will be inducted into the cabinet. The Uttarakhand cabinet can have 12 ministers but two berths have remained vacant since the BJP government came to power in 2017. Another fell vacant after the demise of Finance Minister Prakash Pant in June 2019. Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn-in as the Uttarakhand chief minister on Wednesday. Governor Baby Rani Maurya administered the oath of office to him alone at a simple function held at the Raj Bhawan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-to-expand-cabinet-today-961121.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Central Railway raises platform ticket cost in 2 more divisions||The Central Railway has increased the price of platform tickets at some key stations under its Nagpur and Bhusawal divisions in Maharashtra to avoid over- crowding during the upcoming summer season in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases, an official said on Friday. As per the decision taken on March 10, a platform ticket now costs Rs 50 at Nashik Road, Jalgaon, Bhusawal, Badnera, Madgaon, Shegaon, Akola, Amravati and Khandwa stations in Bhusawal divisions. It is priced at Rs 50 at Nagpur station and Rs 30 at Betul, Chandrapur, Balharshah and Wardha station in Nagpur division, the official said. The previous rate of a platform ticket at these stations was Rs 10. Shivaji Sutar, chief public relations officer of the Central Railway (CR) said the move (of raising the cost of platform tickets) has been in practice for the last many years and it is used occasionally as a short-term measure for crowd control. "This is often done during the festive season and melas (fairs), etc before it is gradually rolled back. This time it is being used to tackle the exigencies arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic. This decision has been taken in public interest," he said. The platform ticket price hike will be applicable till June 10 in Bhusawal division and till June 8 in Nagpur division. Earlier this month, the CR had increased the platform ticket cost to Rs 50 at key stations in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, including Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-central-railway-raises-platform-ticket-cost-in-2-more-divisions-961140.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Haryana govt presents Rs 1.55 lakh crore budget with focus on health, agriculture||The Haryana government on Friday presented a Rs 1.55 lakh crore budget for the 2021-22 fiscal, with health, agriculture and infrastructure identified as key priority areas. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who also holds the finance department portfolio, presented his second budget in the State Assembly here. Presenting the budget estimates, which have no fresh tax proposals, Khattar proposed a budget of Rs 1,55,645 crore for FY 2021-22, an increase of 13 per cent over FY 2020-21 of Rs 1,37,738 crore. The budget outlay comprises 25 per cent as capital expenditure of Rs 38,718 crore and 75 per cent as revenue expenditure of Rs 1,16,927 crore. Reading out the budget estimates in the House, Khattar said that the Covid-19 pandemic posed unprecedented challenges and "taught us several lessons”. "It is important for the budget to prioritise specific sectors that are key to leverage a rebound in the economy, particularly in times of crisis. We have identified health, agriculture and infrastructure as key priority areas that we need to focus recovery and resurgence," he said. "While focusing on health is of paramount importance in these times of unprecedented public health crisis, agriculture which forms the foundation of our economy and which is the sheet anchor of our self-reliance is critical," he said. Khattar said that his government needs to continue assistance to farmers for paving the way for Haryana's economic growth. An outlay of Rs 6,110 crore has been proposed for 2021-22, of which Rs 2,998 crore is earmarked for agriculture and farmers welfare, Rs 489 crore for horticulture, Rs 1,225 crore for animal husbandry & dairying, Rs 125 crore for fisheries and Rs 1,274 crore for cooperation. The outlay of Rs 6,110 crore for 2021-22 indicates an increase of 20.9 per cent against the 2020-21 fiscal's Rs 5,052 crore. He said the government is committed to doubling the farmer's income. "We are indebted to our farmers, whose toil and hard work has made Haryana the food bowl of the country. Agriculture is the mainstay of our economy. We are committed to doubling farmer's income and ensuring his/her wellbeing," he said. He said this budget endeavours to reinforce "our interventions and schemes for agriculture on increasing farmer's income, crop diversification and water conservation". It is also important to support and nurture these interventions by providing critical infrastructure – be it expanding the health network, increasing the outreach of vaccination, setting up testing labs and so on, farm gate processing infrastructure, irrigation specially micro-irrigation facilities to promote crop diversification among other key things, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-govt-presents-rs-155-lakh-crore-budget-with-focus-on-health-agriculture-961166.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||500 national flags, 2048 Olympics bid: Key takeaways from Kejriwal's Delhi Budget||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal presented the Budget for the national capital, with the central theme 'Deshbhakti' or patriotism. Not many new schemes were introduced in the budget which was largely focused on healthcare and education, but Kejriwal termed it as a surplus budget presented under difficult circumstances. Here are the key points from Aam Aadmi Party's budget: 1. Due to its aggressive focus on patriotism, AAP leader and Delhi Finance Minister Manish Sisodia announced that the government will place 500 national flags throughout the city, similar to the one seen in Connaught Place, setting aside Rs 45 crore for this. The government will also spend Rs 10 crore to organise programs about lives and times of leaders like Bhagat Singh and B R Ambedkar. 2.  The 'Deshbhakti' theme has seeped into other verticals of government, as AAP promised initiatives like a Delhi armed forces academy to prepare children for recruitment, giving Rs 1 crore to families of police and defence personnel who die in the line of duty. The government will also start free Yoga camps for the youth. There is also an initiative to start a youth mentorship programme for underprivileged students. For such schemes, a corpus of Rs 98 crore has been set aside. 3. Targetting women of the state, the government has proposed to start 100 Mahila Mohalla Clinics in Delhi, to specifically cater to women and provide gynecology-related tests free of cost. 4. Kejriwal government has also announced incubation centres for women in this year's budget. These centres will be opened in 500 Anganwadi hubs and will promote self-help groups. 5. With an eye on 2047, the government has pledged to increase Delhi's per capita income by 16 times to bring the national capital on par with Singapore boosting technology and infrastructure. 6. The AAP government also aims to up Delhi's sports infrastructure and has promised to launch a bid for the 2048 Olympic Games, which will also be the 100th year of India's independence. 7. Staying true to its track record, the government has made the highest allocation to education and health. For education, an allocation of Rs 69,000 crore (24 per cent) has been made, while 14 per cent has been given to health. 8. For the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination in India, the budget also mentions free vaccines for all Delhi residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/500-national-flags-2048-olympics-bid-key-takeaways-from-kejriwals-delhi-budget-961200.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Death of rape victim's father: Kanpur police look into suicide angle||The police on Friday ordered an inquiry into allegations that the father of a 13-year-old gang-rape victim committed suicide after he felt humiliated by the policemen probing the case. The man was on Wednesday knocked dead by a truck outside a health centre in Ghatampur area where his daughter was undergoing a medical examination. His family members have alleged that he was killed in a planned manner. While the police were probing these allegations, another relative claimed that the man committed suicide after being humiliated by policemen probing the rape case. Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Preetinder Singh said Superintendent of Police (rural) Brajesh Srivastava has been asked to conduct the inquiry and thoroughly probe charges of humiliation following reports that the manner in which policemen dealt with the case "perhaps" drove the rape survivor's father to take the extreme step. The SP has also been instructed to probe the allegations that the girl was repeatedly asked objectionable questions at the health centre where she was taken for medical examination and that questions were raised about her character, the officer said. The SP has been asked to probe all charges and submit the fact-finding report within the stipulated time, he added. Singh, however, defended his men and said women police personnel spoke to the girl. He said every victim has to be asked certain questions to know what exactly happened with them and ascertain charges against the accused. "No evidence has so far been found which indicates that the rape survivor's father was so frustrated with the police that he might have committed suicide," he said. He added that any police personnel found guilty of insensitivity or negligence during the probe would not be spared. According to the police, the 13-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and raped by two men, identified as Golu Yadav and Deepu Yadav, in Sajeti area here on Monday when she had gone out to collect fodder for cattle. Both the accused have been arrested. A third accused, Saurabh Yadav, who is the brother of main accused Golu, is at large, the police said. Five police teams have been formed to arrest Saurabh, who allegedly intimidated the girl's family, DIG Singh said. Four policemen have been suspended so far. While three were suspended for negligence in probing the gang-rape case and the death of the victim's father. The fourth, Sub-Inspector (SI) Devendra Yadav, who is Golu's father, was suspended after he was found absent from duty in Jalaun during Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's visit. Speaking to PTI on phone, DIG Singh confirmed the suspensions. Yadav has also been booked for the murder of the rape survivor's father after her family members lodged a complaint alleging that the SI hatched a conspiracy to kill him and make it look like a road accident. However, so far, no action has been initiated against Yadav in the case. The action against him would be decided only after the probe confirms his involvement in the alleged murder, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/death-of-rape-victims-father-kanpur-police-look-into-suicide-angle-961217.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Hizbul narco-terror case: NIA recovers Rs 91 lakh drug proceeds||The National Investigating Agency (NIA) has recovered Rs 91 lakh drug proceeds in a Hizbul Mujahideen narco-terror case. A spokesperson of the NIA said that the proceeds of narcotics to the tune of Rs 91 lakhs in cash in the Handwara narco-terror case (RC-03/2020/NIA/JMU) were recovered from Samba district of Jammu. He said that the case was initially registered as FIR No. 183.2020 dated 11.06.2020 at police station Handwara, wherein during checking of vehicles at Kairo Bridge, one accused  Abdul Momin Peer’s Hyundai Creta vehicle was intercepted by police and during the search, Rs 20 lakh along with two kgs Heroin was recovered.   The statement reads that the NIA had re-registered the case as RC-03/2020/NIA/JMU on 23.06.2020 and taken up the investigation. It further reads that recently, the NIA had arrested five accused persons from Srinagar and Jammu on March 3 and had taken them on remand for 15 days. “Based upon examination and disclosure of arrested accused persons, NIA conducted searches and recovered proceeds of narcotics smuggling to the tune of 91 lakhs. The amount was found concealed in a field in village Gurwal locality of Ramgarh in Samba district,” it adds. The statement reads that the investigation revealed that one of the accused, Romesh Kumar, had received the cash proceeds of drugs from narco-smugglers based in Kashmir Valley for self as well as for further channelisation to different entities. Further investigation in the case is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-narco-terror-case-nia-recovers-rs-91-lakh-drug-proceeds-961241.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Samajwadis change UP govt whenever they take cycle rides, says SP Chief Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav Friday claimed that every time his party workers and leaders hit roads on their bicycles, they change the government in Uttar Pradesh. Yadav made the claim a day before his party’s state unit president Naresh Uttam Patel is to flag off Saturday the party’s “cycle yatra” from Ambedkar Park in Rampur, culminating in Lucknow on March 21. “When we had undertaken cycle rides before the 2011 state assembly elections, the UP government has lost the polls,” said Yadav, addressing a rally in Rampur district. The rally was organised also to highlight the alleged persecution of SP veteran leader and Rampur MP Azam Khan by the BJP government. Referring to the cases lodged against Azam Khan, Yadav alleged that even as when they were planning to launch the cycle yatra, the district administration, under government pressure, was preparing to lodge criminal cases against party workers. With the sunny weather suddenly turning cloudy during his address to the rally, Yadav said, “Look what has happened even before we have hit the cycle paddles. When we will actually hit roads on cycles, not only the weather but the government too will get changed.” “Somehow, God’s blessings too are with socialites. We will not have to suffer the harsh sun while cycling,” he remarked. Speaking about the cases against Azam Khan and his family members, the SP president said not only Khan but all those associated with him have been framed in false cases. He said Azam Khan is the only leader against whom so many cases have been lodged in one go. Yadav also accused the Uttar Pradesh government of regularly gunning down criminals and suspects in fake police encounters. “Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath’s government with which we have to fight knows only one language -- thok do (shoot them),” he alleged. “What can be expected of those who know only the language of encounter?” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/samajwadis-change-up-govt-whenever-they-take-cycle-rides-says-sp-chief-akhilesh-yadav-961279.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Schools in Punjab closed, night curfew imposed in 8 districts amid surge in Covid-19 cases||The Punjab government imposed night curfew in four more districts on Friday and closed all schools amid a rise in coronavirus cases in the state, officials said. In total, the night curfew is imposed from 11 pm to 5 am in eight districts -- Ludhiana, Patiala, Mohali, Fatehgarh Sahib, Jalandhar, Nawanshahr, Kapurthala and Hoshiarpur. The Department of School Education has declared "preparatory leaves" for all classes in government and private schools, state Education Minister Vijay Inder Singla said. However, the teachers will continue to remain present in the schools. The students who want to take any guidance from their teachers regarding exam preparation can come to school, the minister said. He said the final examination in schools would be conducted offline while adhering to the Covid-19 guidelines strictly. The detailed directions for conducting examinations while ensuring compliance of Covid-19 guidelines would be issued soon, Singla said. The Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has already released the schedule of examinations. As per the dates announced by the PSEB, the examinations for class 5 would start from March 16, for class 8 and 12 from March 22 and matriculation exams will start from April 9. The examinations of classes 6, 7, 9 and 11 will start from March 15 and for classes 1 to 4, the examinations will start from March 17. Punjab reported 1,318 new cases on Friday, pushing the infection tally to 1,94,753, while the death toll rose to 6,030 with four more fatalities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/schools-in-punjab-closed-night-curfew-imposed-in-8-districts-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-961317.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi's positivity rate far lower than that of Maharashtra, Kerala; govt on full vigil: Jain on spike in Covid-19 cases||Amid a sudden spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the city, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Friday the positivity rate in Delhi is still less than one per cent, "much lower" compared to the figures in Maharashtra and Kerala, and asserted that the city government was on a "full vigil" to combat the pandemic. Delhi on Friday recorded 431 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in nearly two months, while the positivity rate increased to 0.60 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. The city recorded over 400 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday. The count on Thursday was 409. Interacting with reporters outside the House of the Delhi Assembly, Jain said the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were "not alarming". "The positivity rate in Delhi in November was about 15 per cent. It came down to less than five per cent first and then to less that one per cent, and for the last two months, it is still below 1 per cent, which is much lower than what is being recorded in cities in Maharashtra and Kerala," he said. He said there is a "stark difference" in the number of cases reported in Delhi and states like Maharashtra and Kerala, adding that the positivity rate recorded in Maharashtra is "about 10 per cent", while in the national capital it is hovering around 0.5 per cent. Maharashtra has been recording a substantial rise in coronavirus cases of late, with authorities attributing it to crowding witnessed during the gram panchayat elections held in mid-January this year and a widespread disregard for the norms by common people as well as politicians. The state on Thursday recorded 14,317 fresh Covid-19 cases, which is not only the highest so far in 2021, but also since October 7 last year. The overall case count till Thursday night was 22,66,374. Jain said, "We are fully prepared and on full vigil", adding that over 70,000-80,000 tests are being conducted a day. With 431 new coronavirus cases, the infection tally in Delhi has risen to 6,42,870, according to the latest health bulletin. The number of active cases of the disease in Delhi increased to 2,093 on Friday from 2,020 on Thursday, while the positivity rate rose to 0.60 from 0.59 per cent the previous day. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". The total number of tests conducted on Thursday stood at 72,031, including 46,135 RT-PCR tests and 25,896 rapid antigen tests, the bulletin said. "We are quite alert, tests are being being conducted on a large scale. We are well within the cut-off mark, and are on the safer side, concerning the positivity rate. Delhi alone is conducting Covid tests, five times that of what is being conducted in all of India," Jain was quoted as saying in a statement issued later by the Delhi government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-positivity-rate-far-lower-than-that-of-maharashtra-kerala-govt-on-full-vigil-jain-on-spike-in-covid-19-cases-961320.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||New Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat constitutes his Cabinet, 11 ministers sworn in||Uttarakhand’s new Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat Friday constituted his Cabinet inducting 11 ministers who were sworn in by the state governor. Barring newly appointed state BJP president Madan Kaushik, all other state ministers in former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s council have been made ministers in the new government. The ministers were administered the oath of office and secrecy by Governor Baby Rani Maurya in a simple function at the Raj Bhavan. The swearing-in ceremony, which was held by a delay of around 25 minutes, was attended by Chief Minister Rawat, former CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, Vijay Bahuguna along with several MLAs and other prominent people. Chief Minister Rawat had been sworn in all alone on March 10. Besides the old ministers in Trivendra Singh Rawat’s government, four new faces were inducted into the Tirath Rawat’s council of ministers. Out of 11 newly inducted ministers, eight have been made Cabinet ministers and three state ministers with independent charges. The new faces in the Tirath Rawat’s council of the ministers are MLAs Banshidhar Bhagat, Bishan Singh Chufal, Ganesh Joshi and Swami Yatiswaranand, respectively from Kaladhungi, Didihat, Mussoorie and Haridwar (Rural) assembly segments. Out of the four, Bhagat, Chufal and Joshi have been made Cabinet ministers while Yatiswaranand has been made a state minister Uttarakhand with a 70-member assembly can have a total of 12 ministers including the chief minister and with the induction of 11 ministers in the government on Friday, Tirath Rawat’s council of ministers has attained its full strength. Chaubattakhal MLA Satpal Maharaj who had won the seat in 2017 assembly polls has been given the second position in the council of ministers. Besides Maharaj, the other ministers of the Trivendra Singh Rawat government included in the Tirath Rawat’s council are Harak Singh Rawat, Yashpal Arya, Arvind Pandey, Subodh Uniyal, Dhansingh Rawat and Rekha Arya. Dhansingh Rawat and Rekha Arya have been made state ministers. Congratulating the new ministers after the swearing-in ceremony, Chief Minister Rawat said his government will advance the development work in the state with cooperation from all his ministers and others. All ministers, except Pandey, who took the oath in Sanskrit, did it in Hindi. Rekha Arya participated in the swearing-in ceremony in traditional attire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-constitutes-his-cabinet-11-ministers-sworn-in-961342.html
12-03-2021||North and Central||Harsh Vardhan inaugurates 'green crematoria' to mitigate air pollution||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan Friday inaugurated four pyres of the 'green crematoria' at the Nigam Bodh Ghat here to reduce high toxic emissions from there. The Ministry of Science & Technology said in a statement that the air pollution mitigation system has been developed by CSIR-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute(NEERI) to address the high localized toxic emissions from crematoria. "Exceedingly high concentration of air emissions with respect to particulate matter, and other harmful gases have been measured in regions around the crematoria," said Vardhan, who is also the Minister of Science and Technology. He also inaugurated three new pyres run by Indraprastha Gas Limited. Calling for a comprehensive plan for institutionalised 'Green Good Deed', the minister said that a lot can be achieved in improving the air pollution index with such green initiatives in the national capital. "Air Pollution has become a grave problem in India with more than 120+ cities falling under non-attainment category as per the National Green Tribunal. In the recently announced General Budget 2021, a lot of emphasis has been given to allocate resource to mitigate the growing ambient air pollution related problem in India," he said. The city has about 56 traditional cremation grounds where bodies are cremated by burning massive piles of firewood in the open, billowing out clouds of black smoke into the sky, the statement read. The technology installed at VIP Pyre 3,4,5,6 comprises fume collection and handling, processing/cleaning, utilities and waste handling systems. "Such technology helps to reposition our existing heritage by adopting clear methods for achieving our national and global commitments towards the environment. The present emission control system with slight design modifications can be extended to LPG/CNG and Diesel crematoria to future reduce the emission from these systems," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/harsh-vardhan-inaugurates-green-crematoria-to-mitigate-air-pollution-961373.html
12-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Sunny side up||Much water has flown down the Cauvery since we began feeling the initial impact of Covid-19 last year around this time. As talk of the deadly virus became shriller in the third month of 2020, I became apprehensive of the Ides of March, I didn’t dare to dismiss it as Caesar did. Caution became the watchword as I braced myself for whatever was looming. Before long, the lockdowns came into force and social distancing, hand sanitising and wearing of masks became the norm. I still remember vividly how everyone sighed about the coronavirus, the way it upended our lives and what a sudden seismic societal shift it was from our regular and predictable routines. It was amusing and annoying to hear all and sundry wax sentimental about the things they missed – working in offices, the daily commute despite the pollution and traffic jams, socialising with friends and colleagues, hugs, kisses and smiles unobstructed by masks; and indeed the toll the new online working from home was taking as they were robbed of the simple and profound pleasures they were used to. One year later, in retrospect, I for one think the lockdown, the isolation, the social distancing et al was a godsend. I am not asocial but to be candid this unexpected ‘house arrest’ was a blessing in disguise. It gave me the freedom to be myself, to bask in me-time, the solitude and do things I wouldn’t have otherwise done. I revelled in reading and writing without distraction. I enjoyed the magical sounds of music, even the sounds of silence and luxuriated in afternoon naps. The absence of our household help engendered physical activity as I swept, mopped, dusted and washed even as I, when demanded, lent a helping hand to my significant other in making wine, squashes, marmalades and jams. I avoided visiting the barber’s salon and assiduously learnt to trim my beard and hair; I saved money but notably, I am confident I can give my old barber a run for his money! Covid-19 also meant working online from home. For a self-confessed Luddite like yours truly, I was able to grasp the essence of online teaching and deliver effectively. So much so I’d plump for online work any day! Alas, while I rollick in this unforeseen yet unusual lifestyle and deeply regret the many deaths, I am acutely aware this too shall pass. But as long as it lasts, I will gratefully delight in all the good things unwittingly wrought upon us by this once-in-a-lifetime pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/sunny-side-up-961045.html
12-03-2021||South||Vizag Steel unions call for work stoppage on March 25 demanding repeal of privatisation move||Vizag Steel Plant worker unions have served a strike notice to the management on Thursday, calling for a work stoppage on or after March 25. The strike notice is in continuation of the protests led by the employees of the Navaratna PSU against the Centre's bid to privatize the 7.3 MTPA capacity plant in Visakhapatnam. Their protests have received widespread support from the public and political parties in Andhra Pradesh. On Wednesday, Telangana's IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao and Telugu megastar K Chiranjeevi extended their support to the protests to retain the unit within the public sector. In the notice, VSP unions organized under the banner 'Visakha Ukku Parirakshana Porata Committee' demanded that the approval accorded by the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs (CCEA) for 100 per cent disinvestment in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (VSP), should be repealed. VUPPC demanded the “scrapping of the inter-secretaries group constituted to study the strategic sale and also the MoU signed with POSCO in October 2019 for a JVC for construction of an integrated steel plant”. The unions also want “the suspension of recently concluded MoU with NBCC on redevelopment and monetization of the land parcels at Maddilapalem (in Vizag city).” A demand is made for permanent employment of the left out eligible persons. Protests in Visakhapatnam have intensified since Monday when Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman confirmed in the Lok Sabha that the Narendra Modi government would go ahead with VSP sale. The FM claimed that disinvestment will result in higher production, productivity and an expansion of direct and indirect employment opportunities. “While deciding the terms and conditions of the strategic sale, legitimate concerns of the existing employees and other stakeholders are suitably addressed through appropriate provisions made in the Share Purchase Agreement,” Sitharaman said. Following the statement, Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy has sought an appointment with the PM to explain the alternative options to revive the plant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vizag-steel-unions-call-for-work-stoppage-on-march-25-demanding-repeal-of-privatisation-move-960945.html
12-03-2021||South||App-based loan fraud: Hyderabad police arrest Bengaluru resident running 9 finance, tech companies||In continuation of their investigation in the instant loan apps harassment cases, the Hyderabad police have arrested one more accused - a resident of Mahadevapura in Bengaluru. The cyber crime police arrested Chinnabba Rajashekar, director of nine companies involved in loan apps Rajashekar, 27, is a native of Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh and is the director of Yunwei Technologies Private Limited, Satime Technologies, Reusing Technologies, Pregla Fintech, One Libra Financial Services, Naqiful Technologies, Aojing Technologies, Heiseqian Technologies and Feng Fintech Services.  All these private companies are connected to money lending apps namely Snapit, ok cash, Mybank, Cash bee, Rupee factory, bubble loan, go cash etc, Joint Commissioner of Hyderabad Police, Avinash Mohanty said. The Hyderabad cops have so far arrested 21 persons including a Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo. These arrests are apart from the several arrests made by the Cyberabad Police. Mohanty said that, so far, they have freezed about Rs 300 crore in the accounts associated with the fraudsters. “Efforts are on to arrest the absconding persons who played a key role in the fraud,” the officer stated on Thursday. The abusive treatment of the defaulters by telecaller agents of app-based loan companies has resulted in the death by suicide of at least three people in Telangana recently.  These companies lure customers into taking more loans at exorbitant charges and later humiliate them for non payments within the stipulated, short periods of time. Dozens of cases were registered, especially under the Hyderabad, Cyberabad, and Rachakonda commissionerates that cover the Telangana capital city expanse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/app-based-loan-fraud-hyderabad-police-arrest-bengaluru-resident-running-9-finance-tech-companies-960950.html
12-03-2021||South||DMK's Udhayanidhi to test electoral waters from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni, M K Stalin to seek re-election from Kolathur||DMK President M K Stalin will seek re-election from Kolathur, the constituency he represents since 2011, and his son Udhayanidhi will test the electoral waters from the party stronghold of Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni seat in this metropolis. Udhayanidhi's grandfather and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi represented Chepauk, it was renamed as Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni in 2011 after delimitation, thrice from 1996 to 2011 before he moved to Tiruvarur, his native constituency in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. Announcing the list of 173 candidates of the DMK, Stalin said they are not just “nominees, but victorious candidates” as the people of Tamil Nadu have “resolved” to overthrow the AIADMK government. “The alliance that we have formed was not stitched keeping in mind the elections, it is an alliance based on ideology,” Stalin said, declaring the candidates. While DMK will field candidates in 173 seats, the party's Rising Sun will contest in 187 constituencies as 13 nominees from alliance partners will use the election symbol. Udhayanidhi, secretary of the DMK youth wing, has chosen Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni not just because it is a DMK stronghold but also due to its sizeable Muslim population. The party gave seats to 12 women, nine doctors, 13 engineers and 31 lawyers. Six of the candidates have completed a doctorate. The list also had several surprises with Dr Ezhilan, who was Karunanidhi's physician and a vehement opponent of NEET, being fielded from Thousand Lights, which was represented by Stalin four times. Ezhilan's father, economist M Naganathan, is the brain behind DMK's colour television promise that sealed the election in the party's favour in 2006.  Vetriazhagan, grandson of late DMK General Secretary of K Anbazhagan, will enter the fray from Villivakkam, while over 70 sitting legislators have been given another chance.  The DMK fielded Thanga Tamilselvan, who was handpicked by the late J Jayalalithaa to represent Andipatti after she moved to Srirangam in 2011, to take on deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. The contest is expected to be very intense as both Panneerselvam and Tamilselvan have had a past history of carrying animosity against each other. T Sampath Kumar will take on Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in Edappadi, while environmental activist Karthikeya Sivasenapathy, who shot into the limelight during the 2017 Jallikattu protests, will contest against AIADMK strongman and Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani. The DMK, as expected, fielded its seniors – General Secretary Durai Murugan from Katpadi, principal secretary K N Nehru from Trichy (West), deputy general secretaries K Ponmudy and Subbulkashmi Jagadeesan from Tirukovilur and Modakurichi respectively. In Tiruvarur, which was represented by Karunanidhi twice, the DMK renominated sitting MLA 'Poondi' K Kalaivanan, while it retained many legislators. It also fielded V V Senthil Balaji, a former AIADMK leader, to take on his bete noire M R Vijayabhaskar in Karur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmks-udhayanidhi-to-test-electoral-waters-from-chepauk-tiruvallikeni-m-k-stalin-to-seek-re-election-from-kolathur-961098.html
12-03-2021||South||TN Assembly polls: Kamal Haasan to fight Cong, BJP candidates for Coimbatore (South)||The fight for the urban seat of Coimbatore (South) got interesting on Friday with Makkal Needhi Maiam President actor Kamal Haasan deciding to fight from the constituency in the industrial city. Kamal Haasan, who projects himself as an alternative to the Dravidian majors, will, however, face candidates from the Congress and the BJP, not the DMK and the AIADMK. Coimbatore (South) has been allotted to the Congress in the DMK alliance, and to the BJP in the AIADMK alliance. Both the parties are yet to announce their candidates. Kamal Haasan's decision to choose a seat in Coimbatore stems from the fact that his party nominee, R Mahendran, had polled over 1.4 lakh votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. In this Assembly constituency, Mahendran had secured over 16 per cent of the votes polled. “Coimbatore is very close to my heart. There is a proverb which says if Kongu (western Tamil Nadu) flourishes, the rest of the state would follow suit. Unfortunately, Kongu has become a corrupt capital now. I want to change that,” said Kamal Haasan, announcing his candidature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-assembly-polls-kamal-haasan-to-fight-cong-bjp-candidates-for-coimbatore-south-961116.html
12-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls: O Panneerselvam files nomination from Bodinayakanur||As many as 56 persons including Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam filed their papers on the opening day of nominations for the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. According to EC figures, one woman was among the 56 candidates who filed their nominations today. Panneerselvam, the AIADMK Coordinator filed his nomination from Bodinayakkanur, from where he is seeking a third term, after visiting a temple. State Ministers MC Sampath (Industries) and C Sreenivasan (Forest) filed their papers from Cuddalore and Dindigul, respectively. A couple of independent candidates, including Dr K Padamarajan who is known to file nominations during every polls, also submitted their required papers.  DMK President M K Stalin said he will file his papers on Monday. Meanwhile, Tamil Nadu BJP state vice president Nainar Nagendran created a flutter on Friday by filing his nomination from the Tirunelveli assembly constituency ahead of the official release of the candidates' list by the party. "I had filed the papers, as today is auspicious," Nagendran told reporters. "Perhaps he didn't want to miss the auspicious day on which AIADMK coordinator and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam too had filed from Bodinayakkanur," a senior BJP leader said. The candidate could furnish the Form B, authorising him to contest on party ticket, before the last date of withdrawal of nominations on March 19, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-o-panneerselvam-files-nomination-from-bodinayakanur-961126.html
12-03-2021||South||SC seeks response of TN police on DMK MP's plea seeking quashing of FIR against him||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the Tamil Nadu police on DMK MP R S Bharathi's plea challenging a Madras High Court order refusing to quash a criminal case against him for allegedly making disparaging remarks against the SC community. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat took note of the submissions of lawyer Amit Anand Tiwari, appearing for the Rajya Sabha MP, and issued notices to Assistant Commissioner of Police of Crime Branch and the complainant Kalyana Sundaram. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the bench sought the responses on the plea within two weeks. On February 22, the Madras High Court had dismissed the MP's plea to quash the case, observing that he prima facie “humiliated and insulted” people belonging to the Scheduled Caste community. The high court had also directed the trial court to complete the trial on a day-to-day basis expeditiously without any further delay. In his plea, filed through advocate Amit Anand Tiwari before the top court, Bharathi said the high court judgment erroneously notes that his statement is such that it will divide the people and create disharmony in society.  “It is submitted that ingredients of Section 3 (1) (u) of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 are not fulfilled. For an offence to be made out under Section 3 (1) (u) of the Act, the speaker is required to promote or attempt to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Castes or the Scheduled Tribes. “In the present case, the statements made by the Petitioner not at all promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes. In fact, the Petitioner merely stated the historical fact that the Dravidian Progressive Movement, with which the petitioner is involved since 1960s, improved and uplifted the lives of members of SC, ST and downtrodden communities in Tamil Nadu,” the plea said. It contended that there is nothing to show that the petitioner had an intention to promote feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will against members of the SC or ST communities. The FIR against Bharathi was registered under the IPC provisions as well as those of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, based on a complaint by Athi Tamilar Makkal Katchi leader Kalyana Sundaram for an alleged speech by the DMK leader at a party forum meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sc-seeks-response-of-tn-police-on-dmk-mps-plea-seeking-quashing-of-fir-against-him-961192.html
12-03-2021||South||A year on from its first case, Andhra Pradesh fourth on national Covid-19 chart with a tally of 8.91 lakh cases||A staggering 8,91,178 people were infected with the coronavirus disease in Andhra Pradesh in 365 days since the state recorded its first case an Italy returnee on this day last year. The state now stands fourth in the country Covid-19 chart behind Maharashtra, Kerala and Karnataka. It averaged 2,441.58 Covid-19 cases per day in the last year. It was on March 12, 2020, the state reported its first Covid-19 case when a man who returned to Nellore from Italy tested positive. The second case was recorded a week later. Through lockdown 1.0 (from March 24) to lockdown 4.0 (May 31), 3,668 coronavirus cases were registered in the state, at an average of 53.9 per day in 68 days. The government authorities had attributed the exponential surge in Covid-19 virulence in AP to outsiders (people coming from other states and countries) after Unlock 1.0 but the last such cases (10) were reported on July 17. In all 2,461 people from other states and 434 foreign returnees tested positive for coronavirus after the Unlock (from June 1). When it saw a peak in the months of August-September last year, Andhra Pradesh once ranked second in the country in total pandemic infections but the curve took a dip in subsequent months and seemed to have flattened, though there has been a little rise in cases once again in the last few days. Health Department officials, however, have not confirmed whether the state was heading for a so-called second wave now as the infection positivity rate was well below one per cent. The government has spent about Rs 1,100 crore on Covid-19 care, including infra creation. On August 1 last year, a record 12,750 Covid-19 patients had recovered in a day in the state. The highest toll in a day (97 each) was reported on August 14 and 22 while a record number of 10,830 fresh infections were reported on August 26, the peak. Government data revealed that between August 1 and 31, a total of 2,84,562 coronavirus cases were reported in the state, 2,53,912 patients had recovered and 2,562 died, which were by far the largest numbers in a month. The peak was so high in August last that the infection positivity rate shot up to 16.89 per cent. From zero during the initial days of the pandemic, a record number of 88,780 tests were conducted in a day on November 1 as the state government ramped up required infrastructure, creating 150 laboratories in quick time. More than 1.44 crore tests were conducted so far, that turned out an overall infection positivity rate of 6.19 per cent. With a recovery rate of 99.1 per cent (8,82,841) and case fatality ratio of 0.8 per cent (7,179), the active caseload percentage now was only 0.1 (1,158). So far, the state has vaccinated aroud nine lakh people, including frontline workers. Notable among those who succumbed to the deadly contagion in the state were Tirupati MP B Durga Prasad, MLC Challa Ramakrishna Reddy and former minister P Manikyala Rao. The Covid-19 spread in AP first began with the return of natives from countries like UK and the USA and then through the super spreaders in the form of Tablig-i-Jamaat attendees, which resulted in a spurt in cases initially in districts like Guntur, Kurnool, Kadapa and Anantapuramu. The Koyambedu super spreaders from Chennai's wholesale market came next, infecting hundreds of people in Chittoor and SPS Nellore, bordering Tamil Nadu, Prakasam and even the far- off Srikakulam district that remained immune for more than a month-and-a-half. Some truck drivers and workers from other states were identified as the source of widespread infection in Vijayawada city and parts of East Godavari. East Godavari, where the "carefree lifestyle" of the people also contributed to the virulent spread of the disease, topped the state chart with 1.24 lakh cases though it now has only 86 people under treatment. Some districts like Chittoor, Srikakulam and Guntur, where massive public events were organised by political leaders, also saw rampant spread of the pandemic. An 85-year-old woman in Hindupur of Anantapuramu district was the oldest survivor of Covid-19 in the state while the youngest to succumb to it was aged just three.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-year-on-from-its-first-case-andhra-pradesh-fourth-on-national-covid-19-chart-with-a-tally-of-891-lakh-cases-961215.html
12-03-2021||South||No point 'shedding tears' over Sabarimala issue, 'Metro Man' Sreedharan tells Kerala Min||'Metro Man' E Sreedharan on Friday questioned Kerala Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran virtually expressing regret over the entry of women in the traditionally barred age group into the Sabarimala shrine, saying there was no point in "shedding tears" after everything is over. Sreedharan, who recently entered politics and joined the BJP, told reporters the Left government in the state had hurt the sentiments of many people by their action. Surendran had on Thursday virtually expressed regret for the incidents that had rocked the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala in 2018 over the women entry issue and said it had "pained him" and "should never have happened". "What's the point of shedding tears after everything is over. We don't know whether it is genuine or not. They deliberately took two women to the shrine with police escort. And one woman was not even a Hindu. Now they say it was a mistake. They have hurt the sentiments of many people," Sreedharan said. The Supreme Court had on September 28, 2018, allowed women in the previously barred age group of 10-50 to enter the hilltop shrine and the Left government's decision to implement the verdict triggered protests by a large number of devotees, the BJP and right-wing outfits. Months after the apex court ruling, two women, in their 40s-- Bindu Ammini and Kanakadurga-, had entered the Ayyappa temple in January 2019 and offered prayers scripting history. Sreedharan said he expected the BJP to field him from Palakkad in the April 6 Assembly elections. The technocrat, credited with implementing large-scale infrastructure projects including the Metro Rail, vowed to make Palakkad the best city in the state within two years if he was chosen. "The official notification as the candidate for the Palakkad constituency is not out yet. I am yet to study the requirements of Palakkad but in general, within two years, the aim is to make Palakkad the best city in the state and within three to four years the best city in the country," Sreedharan, who visited the BJP office here said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-point-shedding-tears-over-sabarimala-issue-metro-man-sreedharan-tells-kerala-min-961220.html
12-03-2021||South||DMK names candidates for 173 seats; to fight rival AIADMK in over 100 seats in Tamil Nadu assembly election||DMK president M K Stalin will seek a third term from Kolathur constituency here while his son Udhayanidhi is set to make his electoral debut as the party released its list of 173 candidates on Friday for the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The DMK hopes to stage a comeback in the polls after a ten-year stint in opposition. Nearly half of the 173 nominees are sitting MLAs and the DMK would be locked in direct contest with arch-rival AIADMK in over 100 seats. Stalin released the candidates' list at a press conference at the DMK headquarters Anna Arivalayam here, on a day when the nomination process for the polls started. Udhayanidhi will fight from the Chepauk-Triplicane constituency, represented by his grandfather, the late M Karunanidhi for three straight terms since 1996 and then known as Chepauk. It was represented in the outgoing Assembly by the late J Anbazhagan of the DMK who succumbed to COVID-19 last year. Udhayanidhi, an actor-producer, is a third generation politician from the DMK's first family, following the footsteps of his grandfather, former DMK patriarch Karunanidhi, and father Stalin. Stalin retained 79 sitting MLAs including seniors Durai Murugan, K N Nehru, K Ponmudi, MRK Panneerselvam, P Geetha Jeevan and Poongothai Aladi Aruna-- all former ministers, besides legislators such as TRB Raja, Anitha Radhakrishnan, S R Raja, M Subramanian and R Sakkarapani. Stalin said he will file the nomination on March 15 and embark on the next leg of the campaign. Since many of the parties including the Vaiko-led MDMK will be contesting on DMK's Rising Sun symbol, the lead partner will be effectively in fray in 187 seats, he added. DMK has allotted 61 seats to allies, with the Congress taking the lion's share of 25. The DMK, out of power since 2011, is eyeing a comeback by dethroning the ruling AIADMK and has stitched up a rainbow coalition comprising the Congress, the Left, MDMK, VCK and other smaller outfits, apportioning them a total of 61 of the 234 seats at stake. The party will lock horns in what promises to be an intense political battle with the AIADMK in 122 seats, including that of Chief Minister K Palaniswami's Edapadi and his deputy O Panneerselvam's Bodinayakkanur constituencies. While a relatively lesser known T Sampathkumar will take on the chief minister on his home turf, popular local leader and former AIADMK MLA Thanga Tamilselvan will challenge Panneerselvam, who incidentally filed his nomination on Friday. Tamilselvan was one of the 18 AIADMK MLAs disqualified earlier for siding with AMMK leader TTV Dhinakaran before he joined the Stalin-led party. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Theni on AMMK ticket and lost to Panneerselvam's son OP Ravindranath. Exuding confidence of a successful poll show, Stalin said the list released by him today was not merely that of candidates but a "success list." "It should be presumed Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) is contesting," he said about the polls that would be the first full Assembly elections to be held in the absence of both Karunanidhi and his rival, the late CM J Jayalalithaa. Bypolls to 22 Assembly seats had been held in 2019 where the AIADMK won nine to retain power. DMK won the rest. Stalin said his party-led Secular Progressive Alliance was not a mere political one but was based on principles and said that the seats for all the constituents were decided on the base of "that friendship." "The DMK is facing the polls with great confidence as it wants to provide a new dawn to Tamil Nadu which is suffering badly in the last ten years (of AIADMK rule)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-names-candidates-for-173-seats-to-fight-rival-aiadmk-in-over-100-seats-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-election-961247.html
12-03-2021||South||Congress is BJP's fixed deposit, says Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan||The CPM in Kerala is citing a recent statement by state BJP President K Surendran to allege that many Congress MLAs will jump over to the BJP. Surendran had said that 35 MLAs are enough for the NDA to form the government in the 140-member Kerala Assembly. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is highlighting it in his campaign by alleging that Congress MLAs, as in many states, would become BJP leaders in due course. He alleged that Surendran's statement indicates the confidence the BJP has in the Congress and that the Congress has become a fixed deposit of the BJP. Vijayan also said that the Congress-led UDF was unleashing a campaign that if Congress gets defeated in the elections, the BJP will gain strength. It is a misleading campaign because as in many states BJP gained strength after the Congress won, he said. Throughout his campaign, Vijayan has been stressing that only CPM can protect secularism and has been accusing both the BJP and the Congress of being communal. Surendran's statement was widely flayed as an open challenge to democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-is-bjps-fixed-deposit-says-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-961285.html
12-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: IUML fields woman candidate after 25 years||After a gap of 25 years, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala is fielding a woman candidate in the Kerala Assembly election. Noorbeena Rasheed, a national committee member of the IUML, will contest the Kozhikode South seat. The party had last fielded a woman candidate in 1996 and had faced resentment for not doing so during the hiatus. Now, although, the party has decided to implement a three-term-only norm for its MLAs, it has exempted three senior leaders (P K Kunhalikutty, M K Muneer and K P A Majeed) from the rule. While Manjeshwar MLA M C Kamaruddin, who faced cases for cheating hundreds of investors of his jewellery business, was replaced with A K M Ashraf; another sitting MLA V K Ebrahim Kunju, who faced a corruption case pertaining to the poor constriction of a flyover in Kochi, was replaced with his son V E Gafoor. The IUML has also decided to field Abdussamad Samadani for the by-election to the Malappuram Lok Sabha seat, which has been vacant following Kunhalikutty's resignation. P V Abdul Wahab would contest for a Rajya Sabha seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-iuml-fields-woman-candidate-after-25-years-961287.html
12-03-2021||South||Party will decide: Annamalai on contesting Tamil Nadu polls||BJP Tamil Nadu vice-president and ex-IPS officer K Annamalai said Friday that the party's central leadership will take a call on whether or not he should be fielded in the upcoming assembly elections scheduled April 6. Speaking to reporters, Annamalai said that he was not certain about contesting the polls. "If the party selects me, I will contest. Or else, I will involve myself in other (organizational) activities for the party ahead of the upcoming elections," he said, adding that he had not asked for a ticket.  The BJP, he said, was different from Congress when it came to selecting canddiates for an election. "Ours is a party with a difference unlike other parties where (candidates) sit in Delhi with a suitcase and select where they want to contest. Such things won't work," he said, dubbing the Congress as a "suitcase" party. "Our Tamil Nadu co-incharge Sudhakar Reddy was with the Congress. Before that, he was in charge of Gujarat and an MLC from Andhra Pradesh. At the time of his resignation, he openly said Congress is a suitcase party."  Annamalai pointed out that the BJP was contesting 20 seats alongside its ally AIADMK and that he was confident that the saffron party would win two out of every three seat. "Our objective is to ensure that DMK does not come to power. We're serious about this, because the DMK itself has become anti-national, considering the issues they are raising and the nature of the party," he said. Annamalai, 36, joined the BJP in August last year. He was a Karnataka-cadre IPS officer who served in the state for nine years and came to be known as Karnataka's Singham. He resigned from the IPS in May 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/party-will-decide-annamalai-on-contesting-tamil-nadu-polls-961292.html
12-03-2021||South||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas joins BJP||Former Kerala Congress leader Vijayan Thomas, who was a general secretary in the party, joined the BJP here on Friday.  The BJP has been looking to make inroads among the Christian voters in the southern state. It may field Thomas, who hails from the minority community which has a sizeable presence there, in the assembly polls. Elections in the state are scheduled to be held on April 6. Thomas took a swipe at his former party, claiming that it does not have a regional-party presence in many parts of the country and that its leadership does not know what is happening. Echoing the views of P C Chacko, another Kerala Congress leader who quit the party recently, that the party is divided into two factions in the state, he said a lot of its senior leaders may leave soon.  Inducting him into the BJP, its general secretary Arun Singh said Thomas is influenced by the policy and programmes of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government.  Thomas had earlier quit the Congress apparently over denial of a party ticket to fight the assembly polls. He, however, rejected the view and said it had become very difficult for a "principled" person like him to continue in the party. There had been a buzz about Thomas joining the BJP before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as well.  Speaking at Thomas's joining ceremony, BJP spokesperson Tom Vadakkan took a dig at Congres leader Rahul Gandhi, saying he is "responsible" for opening the floodgates in the party for its leaders to leave.  In Kerala, where the fight is primarily being seen as between the ruling Left front (LDF) and the Congress-led UDF, the BJP has been working hard to emerge as a strong force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-kerala-congress-leader-vijayan-thomas-joins-bjp-961295.html
12-03-2021||South||Congress, BJP candidate selection in a deadlock in Kerala  ||Candidate finalisation in Congress and BJP for Kerala Assembly polls seems to be stuck over a few constituencies, especially Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, the lone sitting seat of BJP in Kerala. While there were speculations that former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy or some sitting MPs including Shashi Tharoor and K Muraleedharan would be fielded at Nemom, Congress's top leaders denied such reports. Both the BJP and Congress seems to be awaiting the decision of the opposite camps on the candidates so that they could finalise the candidate. CPM already field former MLA V Sivankutty and CPM former state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said on Friday that even if Amit Shah contest from Nemom, there was no hope for BJP at Nemo this time. Earlier during the day, Chandy denied reports that he was being considered for Nemom and said that he would prefer to contest from his home constituency Puthupally in Kottayam. Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran later clarified that no sitting MPs will contest in the Assembly polls. Sources said that many sitting MPs were desirous of contesting and if anyone is given an exemption, it would trigger resentment in the party and hence the leadership decided not to field any sitting MPs. Congress leaders said that the party would be contesting in 91 of the 140 seats in Kerala. Candidates for 81 seats were finalised and ten would be finalised after further talks. The candidates would be announced by Sunday. Even as the BJP was considering former state president of the party Kummanam Rajasekharan to Nemom, the party is also considering actor trurned Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-bjp-candidate-selection-in-a-deadlock-in-kerala-961297.html
12-03-2021||South||Andhra CM demands Bharat Ratna for Pingali Venkayya, designer of India's national flag||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting the Centre to confer Bharat Ratna on Late Pingali Venkayya, the designer of the Indian national flag. On Friday, flagging off the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' celebrations in the state, Reddy felicitated Ghantasala Sita Mahalakshmi, the aged daughter of Pingali, at her residence in Macharla of Guntur district. Reddy handed her the copy of a Government Order sanctioning financial assistance of Rs 75 lakh, which was later credited into her account, as per the officials. In his letter to the PM on Friday, Reddy mentioned that the key theme of the 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav', the programme to commemorate 75 years of independence, is Har Ghar Jhanda — “the call to be given to every citizen to hoist the national flag in their premises on August 15, 2021.” “In this context, I draw your kind attention to the immense contribution made towards designing of our national flag by late Pingali, who later came to be known as Jhanda Venkayya. The flag designed by him came to be synonymous with the spirit of free and independent India,” Reddy said. Echoing the impression in the Telugu states, the CM stated that Pingali's life and works remained largely unrecognized. The Bharat Ratna demand for Pingali is not new. The recommendation was made by the united Andhra Pradesh government in 2012, too. “It is in this light I request your kind self to confer Bharat Ratna (posthumously) upon Pingali that would not only bequeath peace on to his parted soul but also fulfil the aspirations of Andhra Pradesh people,” the CM wrote, adding that it would be a deserving acknowledgement of Pingalis's life and contributions. Stating that several eminent personalities like Aruna Asaf Ali and Jay Prakash Narayan were given the highest civilian award posthumously, Reddy highlighted that the Modi government, too, had conferred this honour on Late Bhupendra Hazarika and Nanaji Deshmukh in 2019. On Friday, Chief Minister Reddy interacted with Pingali family members and inquired about their wellbeing. Mahalakshmi presented the autobiography of Pingali Venkayya to the CM and shared her memories of freedom struggle. Reddy paid floral tributes to Mahatma Gandhi and Pingali Venkayya and visited the photo exhibition on glimpses of Pingali's journey. Who is Pingali Venkayya? Pingali Venkayya, the designer of the Indian national flag, was born on August 2, 1876, in Bhatlapenumarru village near Machilipatnam in Andhra Pradesh. In his youth, Pingali joined the British Indian Army and participated in the Second Boer War (1899-1902) in South Africa, where he reportedly first met Mahatma Gandhi. Proficient in geology and agriculture fields, Pingali had knew various languages and taught at the Andhra National College Machilipatnam. Deeply influenced by Gandhian thoughts and ideology, Pingali later became a fervent freedom fighter and dedicated his life to the nation's service. Sensing the importance of a national flag on the public psyche during the freedom struggle, Pingali undertook a scientific study of flags from across the world. In 1916, he published a book — A National Flag for India, presenting 30 different designs for the Indian national flag, with rationale explained for every model. In 1921, Pingali met Gandhi in Vijayawada and presented him the flag's fundamental design with red and green bands. The flag, after acquiring modifications like the white band and Ashoka chakra (replacing charkha) was adopted as the Indian national flag in July 1947 by the constituent assembly. Pingali died in poverty on July 4, 1963. A Rs 5 commemorative postal stamp was released in Pingali's honour in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-cm-demands-bharat-ratna-for-pingali-venkayya-designer-of-indias-national-flag-961326.html
12-03-2021||State||‘Knowledge Factory’ goes virtual; to be held on March 18, 19||The ‘Knowledge Factory-2021’- an annual festival of insights, ideas and trivia will be held virtual this time. The popular event, in its fifth edition, has broken new ground in building intelligent citizens for whom knowledge, entertainment and social awareness form a fancy cocktail in the eclectic pursuit of knowledge. The organisers have assured that the virtual event promises to be as much interesting if not more. The speakers in this year’s #KF2021 include Sowmya Swaminathan, Meena Ganesh, Ali Fazal, Ravi Venkatesan, Shubha Mudgal, Manu Pillai, T M Krishna among others. The online format, spread over two days on March 18 and 19 from 4 pm to 6:30 pm features three interesting conversations on each day, according to a press release. The Knowledge Factory was born out of an idea to produce intelligent, well-rounded citizens with a mission to make the widespread pursuit of knowledge fun without being frivolous. “We mix topics that reflect social themes, out-of-the-box perspectives and entertainment to make it all worthwhile for young professionals and older people alike with a quest and zest to expand their minds and become a better conversationalist,” the release said. Citizens can take a peek into the event at www.knowledgefactory.co.in The tickets for the online event can be bought at bit.ly/KF2021. The event is supported by Aditya Birla Group and Godrej Group along with St Aloysius College, Mangaluru as an academic partner and Deccan Herald as its media partner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/knowledge-factory-goes-virtual-to-be-held-on-march-18-19-960954.html
12-03-2021||State||Karnataka brings new technology to streamline power distribution||Karnataka is set to bring in state-of-the-art automatic generation control (AGC) regime at two hydroelectric generation plants at Sharavathi (1035 MW capacity) and Varahi (460 MW), which will go a long way in encouraging solar and wind energy generation. The technology will also improve the quality of the power supply while saving large amounts of water. The pilot project is an initiative by USAID which began working with Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) and Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited (KPCL) in March 2019 for bringing AGC system with automatic control of electricity generation based on the demand. Officials from KPTCL said the AGC also increase the reliability of the power supply. At present, though Karnataka has surplus power, a sudden shortage in supply will lead to a power cut in some areas. “The pilot at Sharavathi has been tested and is expected to go live within a month. The implementation at Varahi may take some time,” a senior official in KPTCL said. A superintending engineer in KPTCL explained, “For instance, a load of 10,000 MW is required in Karnataka at a given time. However, if one of the stations experiences a glitch and power production goes down by 50 or 100 MW, the shortage will have to be filled by generating additional power in another station. In the current manual system, an engineer at the load dispatch centre has to notice the shortage and call us on phone about the additional demand,” he said. “The AGC detects the shortage and sends out a command for an additional generation which is done automatically within microseconds. This helps in stable distribution of power and avoiding power cuts to residential or industrial areas,” he said. Several cusecs of water is saved when the AGC automatically reduces the generation due to the drop in demand or integrates renewable energy with the mainframe.  The generation of power at solar and wind energy units fluctuates due to the changes in weather condition. “The generation of solar energy, more reliable than wind, goes up suddenly at certain times but is not predictable. The AGC can detect such surges and lower the generation at hydro electric plants, thereby saving water,” another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-brings-new-technology-to-streamline-power-distribution-961002.html
12-03-2021||State||D K Shivakumar's business associate gets back cash seized by CBI||The High Court has ordered the release of Rs 47.98 lakh in cash to Wellworth Software Pvt Ltd and Rs 5.48 lakh cash to Sachin Narayan, a close associate of former minister D K Shivakumar. The cash was seized by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) during a search in the case of disproportionate assets against Shivakumar. The CBI had conducted searches on the premises belonging to the company and also at the house of Sachin Narayan in October 2020. Both had moved separate applications before the special court for MPs/MLAs claiming interim custody of the seized cash. The special court had rejected the applications. Both the petitioners contended that they have been into the business of multi-system operators and during the course of business, collected cash from various local cable operators. Before it could be deposited into the bank to be further remitted to the broadcasters, the cash was seized by the police. The Special Public Prosecutor for CBI argued that Sachin Narayan is a business partner of D K Shivakumar's wife and the investigation into the source of her funds is in progress. He also contended that the explanation offered by the petitioners cannot be believed since in all other cases the cash collected by the local cable operators were directly deposited into the bank account of the petitioners. Justice John Michael Cunha observed that there is no prima facie material to show that the cash seized is in any way related to the proceeds of the crime alleged against D K Shivakumar or his wife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/d-k-shivakumars-business-associate-gets-back-cash-seized-by-cbi-961009.html
12-03-2021||State||HAL, BEL pay over Rs 550 crore in dividends to Centre||Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) and Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) have paid over Rs 550 crore in dividends to the Central government, a release said.    On Wednesday, HAL said that it had paid its second interim of Rs 376.94 crore for the 2020-21 fiscal year to the Union government. On Monday, BEL paid Rs 174.43 crore payable on the shares held by the President of India to Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in New Delhi. BEL has declared 140% per cent as its interim dividend (Rs 1.40 per share) to its shareholders for the financial year 2020-21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hal-bel-pay-over-rs-550-crore-in-dividends-to-centre-961010.html
12-03-2021||State||Forest department to set up nodal unit to speed up project clearances: Minister Aravind Limbavali||In a bid to address delays in securing forest clearances for various projects of the government, a nodal unit will come up in the forest department to speed up the process. In the Legislative Assembly recently, legislators gave suggestions to depute one official in each department to follow up on works kept pending due to forest clearances. The proposal to establish a separate nodal unit for forest clearances was announced by Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali.  Earlier, Mahantesh Koujalagi (Congress) had pulled up the government for failing to complete the Chachadi lift irrigation project sanctioned in 2007. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, responding on behalf of CM B S Yediyurappa, said that a majority of the works was complete. The government has also offered 3.92 acres of land to compensate for the forest land lost for the irrigation project, he said. Koujalagi questioned why there was a delay of 16-17 years to grant forest clearances for developmental projects, during which Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri intervened with a suggestion. "One official should be deputed in each of the government departments to follow up on projects that are pending due to forest clearances," he said. Several other legislators echoed the same sentiment, adding that undue delay in forest clearances had brought several projects to a stand-still. Limbavali said the government is aware of such issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/forest-department-to-set-up-nodal-unit-to-speed-up-project-clearances-minister-aravind-limbavali-961011.html
12-03-2021||State||Panchamasali quota: Seers told to appear before BC panel||The Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes has asked Panchamasali seers Jayamrutyunjaya Swami and Vachanananda Swami to appear before the body. The Commission has issued a notice to the seer based on a petition filed by him seeking 2A reservation for the Panchamasali community. The seer has been told to appear before it on March 22 either in person or through an advocate and submit the necessary evidence and documents to validate the demand of the community. The seer, it can be recalled, had taken out a padayatra from Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district to Bengaluru, seeking reservation for the community. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had ordered a study into the socio-economic status of Panchamasalis in February this year and has directed the Commission to submit a report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panchamasali-quota-seers-told-to-appear-before-bc-panel-961333.html
12-03-2021||State||Karnataka introduces single-window system to lease mines||The Mining department has introduced a single-window system for disposal of applications seeking mining/quarry lease and crusher licence in a time-bound manner. "The quarry owners and mining companies have to seek permission from seven departments including the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board. They had petitioned that the procedure was time-consuming. Therefore, the department has introduced a single-window clearance for ease of doing business," Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said. He was speaking to reporters here on Friday. The minister said that the government was formulating a new mining policy for 2021-26 on the lines of the Centre's national mineral policy, to give a fillip to the industry. He said that 'Mining Adalats' would be conducted for addressing the grievances of the applicants.  Reply to a question, the minister said that iron ore mining will soon start on 547 hectares of land in Donimalai of Ballari district.,||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-introduces-single-window-system-to-lease-mines-961344.html
12-03-2021||State||Jarkiholi scandal: Special Investigation Team grills four mediapersons||Special Investigation Team (SIT) formed to probe the conspiracy behind the sex-scandal video allegedly showing former minister Ramesh Jarakiholi began questioning five persons, including four media persons working with regional news channels, on Friday. Among the five facing enquiry by the SIT was a woman who was let go after a brief questioning. However, the four media persons were still being questioned at the time of publication. A senior officer said they have not questioned activist Dinesh Kallahalli, who had filed the complaint against former minister with Cubbon Park police. Police picked up all four persons from different places including in Vijayanagar, Chamarajpet, Yeshwanthpur and neighbouring districts on Friday evening. Since most of the officers in SIT are part of the team handling Dinesh case from the beginning, it easy for them to make progress.  "Law will take its own course of action. Now the SIT has been formed, action will be taken based on the findings," Kamal Pant, Commissioner of Bengaluru Police told DH. All four suspects were at the interrogation cell in Madiwala. According to police, two more media persons are absconding and are suspected to have left the state. The police are yet to establish if the entire episode is a honey trap and whether the suspects were part of the episode or just part of leaking the edited video.    The SIT is still trying to trace and detain others who are part of leaking the video. The initial focus of the SIT on Friday seemed to be the leakage of the video. A senior officer told DH that as of now it looks like the main persons behind the whole episode used activist Dinesh to bring the incident to the limelight. "Once we get to the main suspects, the exact role of each person will be known," he said. Meanwhile, the officer said two of the four media persons may be in serious trouble. "We may even register the FIR and arrest them," he added. As of now, the SIT doesn't have any power to arrest anyone as no case was registered. But they will act according to the law based on their findings. Tracing the source Police suspect that a friend of the woman in the video had given the clip to media persons. The suspects edited the video and gave it to a journalist who is close to a politician. Later, the plan was hatched to leak the video. The journalist is said to be close to Dinesh. Hence the complaint was through him. The video was uploaded on social media using a Russian server. However, it was actually uploaded from Bengaluru soon after Dinesh went to the police commissioner office. The police verified the CDR of Dinesh and got clues on the people currently being questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-scandal-special-investigation-team-grills-four-mediapersons-961369.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government didn't close 76 personal deposit accounts: CAG||In a major lapse, the state government failed to close 76 personal deposit (PD) accounts with an unspent balance of Rs 4,421.56 crore at the end of the March 2020 fiscal in violation of its own financial code, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found. "Not transferring the unspent balance lying in PD accounts to the Consolidated Fund of the state before the closure of the financial year entails the risk of misuse of public funds, fraud and misappropriation," the CAG said in its report on finance accounts tabled in the ongoing Assembly session. Of the total amount, Rs 2,741.52 crore meant for various schemes was lying unspent for a period of more than three years. According to the Karnataka Financial Code, 1958, PD accounts are created in favour of drawing and disbursing officers to make payments for various works. Amounts are transferred to these accounts from the Consolidated Fund and are required to be closed at the end of the fiscal. However, CAG found many accounts violated the guidelines stipulated in the Code.  Out of the 76 PD accounts, 23 accounts were found to be inoperative and not closed as per regulations. Further, 53 PD accounts are operative — 32 were credit accounts, 11 debit accounts and 10 had nil balance, the report said.  While CAG has flagged the practice, warning that it would lead to misuse of funds and fraud, authorities said that the parking of funds in PD accounts was due to various factors. "One of the main reasons is the release of funds at the fag end of the fiscal year. If a few crores are released during February or March, authorities will not have sufficient time to float tenders and start work. As a result, they keep the money in the account," a source from the Finance Department said. Clear directions have been issued to not park any funds in PD accounts and all departments are forbidden from opening any accounts without prior approval. While some central schemes might require such accounts, release of funds for state government projects is streamlined using the new Khajane-2 (treasury) software, which makes such accounts redundant, sources added. Many of the accounts flagged by the CAG were likely opened a few years ago and could be associated with big-ticket projects of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-didnt-close-76-personal-deposit-accounts-cag-960956.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 4% of elderly population in Karnataka vaccinated so far||The Health department put out an estimated population aged above 60 years, as per 2011 census projection here on Thursday, which is 54,87,399. So far, only four per cent, which is 2,17,085 elderly, have been vaccinated since the vaccination drive for senior citizens began on March 1. Bengaluru Urban is home to the highest number of senior citizens in the state among all 30 districts with 9,11,336 senior citizens, out of which 91,312 senior citizens have been vaccinated. This amounts to 10 per cent vaccination coverage which is the highest in the state when compared to other districts. Belagavi has the second highest number of senior citizens with 4,47,953 and 6,876 out of them have been vaccinated, which is a mere 1.5% coverage. Other three districts with highest number of elderly are Mysuru (2,79,185; out of which 3.6% are vaccinated), Tumakuru (2,69,585; out of which 7.2% are vaccinated), and Dakshina Kannada (2,01,609; out of which 3.6% are vaccinated).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-4-of-elderly-population-in-karnataka-vaccinated-so-far-961022.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||India lost 36.94 lakh man-days in 210 strikes in 3 years||India lost 36.94 lakh man-days in 210 strikes and lockouts in public and private sectors in the past three years, with southern states Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka topping the list, according to data from the Ministry of Labour and Employment. Public sector witnessed 89 strikes and lost the highest number of man-days at 19.91 lakh between 2018 and 2020, though the number of strikes was less compared to the private sector, which was roiled by 121 of them leading to a loss of 17.03 lakh man-days. According to the data, Kerala lost the highest number of man-days at 8.80 lakh in 20 strikes during the past three years with the private sector accounting for 7.67 lakh man-days in 17 strikes. Tamil Nadu, which witnessed the highest number of strikes (51), came second with a loss of 4.39 lakh man-days during the period, followed by Karnataka with 3.78 lakh man-days in 17 strikes. Madhya Pradesh, which lost 3.11 lakh man-days in 16 strikes, and Maharashtra, which lost 3.09 lakh in 19 strikes, were also in the top-five list of states where the maximum number of man-days lost took place due to strikes. When it comes to the public sector, Karnataka had the highest number of man-days lost at 3.77 lakh in 16 strikes. The state had just one strike in the private sector in which 1,049 man-days were lost during the past three years. Karnataka was followed by Assam, where public sector units saw nine strikes in which 2.94 lakh man-days were lost. Kerala's private sector was hit by 17 strikes and it lost the maximum number of man-days at 7.67 lakh followed by Tamil Nadu (4.30 lakh in 49 strikes). Tamil Nadu topped in the number of strikes in the private sector as well, with the state witnessing 49 of them. A year-wise analysis showed that 2019 witnessed the highest loss of man-days in both private (5.70 lakh man-days lost in 41 strikes) and public sectors (9.46 lakh man-days lost in 41 strikes). The Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown appeared to have had an impact in 2020, as only 15 strikes were reported in the public sector in which 1.98 lakh man-days were lost. In the private sector, the number was 85,478 man-days lost in 15 strikes. Among the states, Karnataka had the highest loss of man-days (94,017) in the public sector in 2020 followed by Rajasthan (67,800 in two strikes). In the private sector, Tamil Nadu lost 80,130 man-days in eight strikes while Karnataka lost 1,049 man-days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/india-lost-3694-lakh-man-days-in-210-strikes-in-3-years-960955.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Chief Minister Yediyurappa gets first dose of Covaxin||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa got himself inoculated with the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Friday, and urged the people to join hands in making the country and the state coronavirus free. The 78-year-old leader was administered Bharat Biotech's Covaxin at the Bangalore Medical College & Research Institute Superspeciality Hospital here. Speaking to reporters after taking the vaccine, Yediyurappa requested people to come forward and take the vaccine. "I have taken Covaxin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his mother have also got vaccinated.There will be no side effect because of this.There is no other way to control COVID-19, everyone needs to get inoculated in two (doses)." "I have taken the vaccine and there are no side effects," he said. Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar also got himself vaccinated today. "By taking the vaccine, COVID can be controlled and it can be eliminated from the state." "There is no need for people to worry, I appeal to all those who are above 60-years of age and those with comorbidities to get registered and get vaccinated," he said. Sudhakar, who is also a doctor, took vaccination under the frontline worker category, his office said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-chief-minister-yediyurappa-gets-first-dose-of-covaxin-961237.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka tightens rules for weddings, public congregations||Amid the emergence of new Covid-19 clusters and fear of a second wave, Karnataka has capped the number of people who can congregate in public places and celebrations. A circular to this effect was issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Jawaid Akhtar on Friday. Previously, social and cultural events like marriages, birthday celebrations, death ceremonies/burials had a cap of 500 people. As many as 376 people were allowed for every 1,000 sq meter area with 3.25 sq meter per person. Previously, for a 500 sq m area, a maximum of 158 people were allowed. Now, with the same 3.25 sq meter per person area, 500 people are being allowed at marriages if it is an open space. However, only 200 are allowed if it is a hall or a closed space. For birthday celebrations, 100 are allowed in open spaces, and 50 in closed spaces. At funerals, 100 people are allowed if it is an open space, 50 if closed. At cremations and burials, however, only 50 are allowed. For all other congregations, only 100 are allowed if the hall can accommodate. For religious gatherings, 500 are allowed in open spaces, and in political gatherings 500 are allowed if the space is open. The State has also enhanced the testing targets of various districts sharing border with Maharashtra and Kerala. While Belagavi has a target of 4,000 tests/day, Bengaluru and BBMP together have 40,000 tests' target per day, Dakshina Kannada 3,000 tests/day, Mysuru 5,000 tests per day, Kodagu 1,000 tests/day, Udupi 2,000 tests/day, Tumakuru 3,500 tests/day, and Vijayapura 2,000 tests/day. Among these districts Dakshina Kannada has many international arrivals, and Tumakuru has many daily travellers who travel to Bengaluru.These targets are lesser than what the State Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee had recommended for the border districts. As opposed to the previous testing of at least 10 contacts for every positive case, 20 high risk contacts of every positive positive have to be tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-tightens-rules-for-weddings-public-congregations-961272.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two more South African strains of Covid-19 virus in Karnataka; 833 new cases||Two more cases with South African strain have been detected in Karnataka, as the state reported 833 new Covid-19 cases and five fatalities, taking the caseload to 9.58 lakh and the toll to 12,386, the Health Department said on Friday. The day also saw 545 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the list of positive cases, accounting for 526 infections. Cumulatively 9,58,417 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,386 deaths and 9,37,898 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 8,114 active cases, 7,989 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals, while 125 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban also accounted for two deaths, while the other three were from Bidar, Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Meanwhile, two cases with South African strain were detected in Ballari, taking the total number of such cases in the state to three. The two had come to Ballari from Dubai last week. They were subjected to tests after they developed symptoms and tested positive, official sources said, adding they were undergoing necessary treatment and due contact tracing processes have been followed. The first Covid-19 positive case with South Africa strain in the state was found in Shivamogga on March 10. Among fresh cases, Kalaburagi followed Bengaluru Urban with 38, Tumakuru 36, Dakshina Kannada 35 and Kolar 30, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district topped the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,10,181, followed by Mysuru 54,367 and Ballari 39,386. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban headed the list with 3,99,656, followed by Mysuru 53,144 and Ballari 38,686. A total of over 1,96,44,839 samples have been tested so far, out of which 73,632 were tested on Friday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-more-south-african-strains-of-covid-19-virus-in-karnataka-833-new-cases-961313.html
12-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||NEKRTC suspends bus services to Maharashtra amid Covid-19 spike||Following an upswing in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in Maharashtra, North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) has suspended bus services to the neighbouring state from Friday. About 15 days ago, the district administration had directed the officials to allow travellers from Maharashtra into the district only after they produced RT-PCR negative reports at the checkpoints set up in Hirolli and Khajuri of Aland taluk and Mashala and Baloorgi villages of Afzalpur taluk. NEKRTC chief traffic manager D Kotrappa said the NEKRTC will operate about 60 buses daily to Maharashtra and a total of 12 buses from the neighbouring state will arrive in various parts of the district. Following the spurt in Covid positive cases, the bus services to Maharashtra have been suspended until further orders, he stated. Meanwhile, the number of people, entering the district from Maharashtra, has increased after a one-week lockdown was imposed in the Nagpur district because of a spurt in Covid-19 positive cases.  A total of 44 students of the MIDC Hostel in Latur had undergone Covid-19 testing. Of them, the reports of 19 students confirmed positive for the virus. Due to this, panic has gripped border villages of the district. Kalaburagi/Bidar, dhns The bus operations between the two states have continued and plying of private vehicles too has seen an upsurge. The Latur officials said they will take a call on imposing the lockdown from next week if the number of positive cases does not come down.  There are six routes to enter Bidar district from Maharashtra. However, the district administration has set up check posts in three districts. As strict measures have been taken at the check posts, the travellers are taking other routes to enter the district. Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran said of 100 people who undergo the Covid-19 testing daily, two test positive. Bidar has been categorised as a red zone. The health department officials have been directed to increase Covid testing on the border areas, he told. The movements of Maharashtra buses to Vijapura and Goa is on and Covid negative report has been made mandatory. However, it is said that this rule is not being adhered to in total.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nekrtc-suspends-bus-services-to-maharashtra-amid-covid-19-spike-961340.html
12-03-2021||West||Woman arrested for killing husband who had five wives||A woman has been arrested here for allegedly killing her husband, a police official said on Thursday. Swati Laxman Malik (28), the accused, was the fifth wife of victim Laxman Ramlal Malik (65), a resident of Jaripatka, police said. According to police, Laxman had disowned his younger son from Swati as he suspected her fidelity. On Monday, Swati allegedly met Laxman at his friend's office where he was staying after leaving home. She tied her hands behind a chair and they had sex, after which she allegedly slit his throat with a knife. After learning from a cab driver that he had dropped Swati outside Laxman's place on Monday, police grilled her and she confessed to the crime, an official said. The two used to have disputes over money, he said. According to police, Laxman, who retired as a sanitation worker from a hospital, did not get along with any of his five wives or his children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-arrested-for-killing-husband-who-had-five-wives-960973.html
12-03-2021||West||MPSC examination date now revised to March 21||The preliminary examination of the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC), which was earlier scheduled for coming Sunday, will now be held on March 21, the commission announced on Friday. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar criticized the commission, saying it did not handle the issue properly. The MPSC had on Thursday once again postponed the exam, which is required for government jobs, citing the COVID-19 situation. It led to protests by students all over the state. "The exam will now be held on March 21 across the state at the same centres. The students who have received hall ticket to appear for the exam (on March 14) will be considered eligible for the March 21 exam," the commission said on Friday. It also announced that other two examinations scheduled for March 27 and April 21 will be held as per the schedule and there was no change in dates. The preliminary examination was to take place in April last year, but was repeatedly delayed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Talking to reporters in Pune, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the MPSC failed "to handle the situation in my opinion". But the issue was now over as the new exam date has been announced, the NCP leader added. On Thursday, angry students protested in Pune and many other parts of the state while leaders of the ruling coalition members Congress and NCP as well as opposition BJP blasted the postponement decision. Later in the evening, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray assured that the new date will be announced on Friday. Relief and Rehabilitation Minister and Congress leader Vijay Wadettiwar, whose department had issued the circular about the postponement, claimed that the decision was taken by officials by keeping him in the dark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mpsc-examination-date-now-revised-to-march-21-960974.html
12-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb case: Sachin Vaze denies using Hiren's car, investigators reveal||Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze has denied that he was using the Scorpio which was in possession of Mansukh Hiren, a senior Maharashtra Anti- Terrorism Squad (ATS) official said on Thursday. The ATS, which is probing Hiren's mysterious death, recorded Vaze's statement earlier this week, he said. Hiren's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Vaze in November, which the Mumbai crime branch officer returned in the first week of February. On February 25, the SUV was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai with explosives and a threat letter inside. Hiren had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when he was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Vaze, accused by Hiren's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the investigators have yet to trace the Innova car in which the man who parked the Scorpio near Ambani's house is seen leaving the spot in CCTV footage, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-case-sachin-vaze-denies-using-hirens-car-investigators-reveal-960983.html
12-03-2021||West||PM Modi in Ahmedabad to launch symbolic Dandi March on 91st anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed at Ahmedabad airport on Friday morning to launch the celebration of 75 years of independence by flagging off a symbolic "Dandi March" from Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. The event named "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" is part of a series of events being organised by the government to commemorate the 75th anniversary of independence. The Prime Minister during his 3-4 hour visit will be addressing a gathering near Abhay Ghat, the resting place of late Prime Minister Moraji Desai. The event is being attended by scores of government officers, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, Governor Acharya Devvrat, other ministers, BJP leaders, faculties and students of Gandhi-founded Gujarat Vidyapith, among others. The PM is also flagging off the symbolic "Dandi March", which is marking its 91st anniversary of the historic march led by Mahatma Gandhi against the salt law under the British Raj. The PM and the marchers are likely to visit Hriday Kunj, the erstwhile residence of Gandhi and his wife Kasturba, at the Sabarmati Ashram. Sources said that the PM may announce the redevelopment of Sabarmati Ashram in his speech. The redevelopment envisages bringing all the six trusts, started by Gandhi, together as part of the larger ashram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pm-modi-in-ahmedabad-to-launch-symbolic-dandi-march-on-91st-anniversary-961069.html
12-03-2021||West||Covid-19: 700 people attend wedding in Maharashtra, organisers booked||In spite of the coronavirus restrictions, around 700 people gathered to attend a marriage function at Kalyan in Maharashtra's Thane district, following which police have registered a case against its organisers, civic authorities said. The event was held on March 10, the Kalyan Dombivli Municipal Corporation (KDMC) said in a statement on Thursday. "Following a tip-off that several people are attending a marriage function at Kalyan (East), civic officials visited the spot and found 700 people there," it said. As per the state guidelines, only 50 persons are allowed to attend a wedding, an official said. The statement said that the civic authorities also found that the participants did not follow the Covid-19 safety protocols, like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. A complaint was lodged with the police, who registered an offence under IPC sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 and 270 (negligent and malignant act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) and under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. The case was registered against Rajesh Mhatre and Mahesh Raut, the organisers of the event, it said. The civic body also said in the statement that Rs 5,64,900 fine has been collected in the last 10 days from 1,131 people for violation of coronavirus norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-700-people-attend-wedding-in-maharashtra-organisers-booked-961099.html
12-03-2021||West||Hiren death case: Vaze transferred to Mumbai police's Citizen facilitation Centre||Mumbai crime branch's Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been facing heat in the death case of Mansukh Hiren, was transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) unit of the city police, a top official said on Friday. Vaze, accused by Hiren's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday. The CFC is the unit that handles police clearance for passports, various licences and other public related services, another official said. On February 25, a Scorpio was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai with explosives and a threat letter inside. Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV, had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when he was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Hiren's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Vaze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which is probing the case, has recorded Vaze's statement earlier this week, in which he has denied using the SUV that was in possession of Hiren. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had on Wednesday announced in the state Legislative Council the removal of Vaze from the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) till the inquiry into the mysterious death of Hiren, an automobile parts dealer, gets over. Vaze, who was involved in around 63 encounters, was suspended in 2004 for the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus. He was reinstated in the service in June 2020 and was heading the CIU of Mumbai crime branch, officials said. He was handling several high-profile cases, including the TRP rigging scam, fake social media followers case and a car scam involving Dilip Chhabria, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hiren-death-case-vaze-transferred-to-mumbai-polices-citizen-facilitation-centre-961105.html
12-03-2021||West||Maharashtra's Covid-19 surge due to gram panchayat polls, disregard for rules: Experts||Maharashtra has been recording a substantial rise in coronavirus cases of late, with the authorities attributing it to crowding witnessed during the gram panchayat elections held mid-January this year and a widespread disregard for the norms by common people as well as politicians. The state on Thursday recorded 14,317 fresh infection cases, which is not only the highest so far in 2021, but also since October 7 last year. The overall case count till Thursday night was 22,66,374. Not only Mumbai, Pune and Thane but several cities and towns in Maharashtra, including Vidarbha and Marathwada regions, have been witnessing a spike in cases. Lockdown or restrictions have been imposed in several cities or districts in the state in a bid to prevent the spread of the virus. On February 21, Maharashtra had crossed the 21 lakh- the mark of Covid-19 cases. Exactly a month before that (on January 21), there were 20,00,878 cases in the state and it took only a month to add another one lakh cases after that. However, another one lakh case was added in merely 13 days (after February 21), which shows the increased speed of the infection spread. On March 6, the state's caseload reached 22,08,586 and in the last six days (till Thursday evening), the state added 57,788 cases to the tally. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the Maharashtra government on Covid-19 management, said, "There should have been rigorous testing of people and contact tracing. These are the two basic but the most important tools of curbing the coronavirus spread." The earlier you trace and isolate an infected person, the sooner you can bring the situation under control, he said. The most prominent reason behind the surge in Covid-19 cases in February was crowding witnessed during when gram panchayat elections held mid-January, he said. "Results of the gram panchayat elections in almost 12,000 villages were out in the third week of January. After that, the winning panels and their supporters gathered in their respective villages without wearing masks and ignoring physical distancing," Salunke said. As the incubation period of coronavirus is 14 days, Maharashtra started detecting more number of cases from mid- February, he added. A Mumbai-based political observer said, "Look at the political rallies and gatherings that have taken place in January and February by ruling parties in the state, including after Nana Patole's appointment as Congress's Maharashtra unit chief." Patole not only organised a huge rally in Mumbai but also visited several places including Nagpur later where his party workers and supporters ignored norms of wearing masks, physical distancing and others, he said. The show of strength by the then state forest minister Sanjay Rathod in Washim and Yavatmal districts late last month was similar. Patole and Rathod could have avoided such large- scale crowding, but they did not bother at all, he said. State BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhya said, "As these events were public and widely televised, it gave a wrong message to the society and many private groups also flouted Covid-19 norms." "On the first day of the budget session, a video grab of a late-night party at a pub in Mumbai went viral showing people without masks. It also shows how poorly health officials and the BMC is managing the situation," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-covid-19-surge-due-to-gram-panchayat-polls-disregard-for-rules-experts-961106.html
12-03-2021||West||Goa Speaker summons state Congress chief over disqualification plea||Goa Speaker Rajesh Patnekar on Friday summoned state Congress chief Girish Chodankar and dismissed an application seeking to produce an additional document in connection with the disqualification petition filed against 10 MLAs. The Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president has filed a disqualification petition against 10 MLAs who had left the party to join the BJP in 2019. The Speaker had heard the arguments in the matter on February 26, and the reserve on it is pending. The Speaker summoned Chodankar and informed him that one of his applications seeking to produce an additional document has been dismissed. Speaking to reporters, Chodankar's lawyer Abhijit Gosawi said they had sought to produce an additional document in the matter. The Speaker was requested to give his verdict in the matter as soon as possible, as the final arguments in it were already heard on February 26. Ten MLAs, led by former Leader of Opposition Chandrakant Kavlekar, had split from the Congress in July 2019 and joined the BJP. Kavlekar is currently the deputy chief minister in the Pramod Sawant-led cabinet. The disqualification petition argues that the split by the MLAs was not valid and it attracts the anti-defection law, Gosawi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-speaker-summons-state-congress-chief-over-disqualification-plea-961131.html
12-03-2021||West||Pune sees fresh curbs in light of rise in Covid-19 cases; schools to be shut till March 31||More cities continue to come under restrictions in Maharashtra as the February-March surge in Covid-19 cases threatens to disrupt the normalcy like the previous year.  In India’s worst-affected district of Pune, the government decided to shut schools till March 31 and shut hotels, restaurants, and bars after 10 pm even as the night-restrictions will continue. However, there are no immediate plans for a lockdown in Mumbai, the financial capital of India. Over the weekend, the Maharashtra government would undertake a review and come up with further restrictions in the state. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had indicated that there could be lockdown measures in some places across the state. He has also asked the District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners, Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to take calls depending on the situation. On Friday, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar reviewed the situation of the twin cities of Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad and the larger Pune metropolitan region (PMR), which accounts for the maximum active cases in the country. While Pune already has night-restrictions, Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said schools and colleges will remain closed till 31 March, hotels and restaurants will be allowed to function till 10 pm, and food deliveries will be permitted till 11 pm. Apart from this, only 50 persons will be permitted to gather at weddings, funerals and political and other social events while public gardens and parks would be closed. The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education is in Pune and the government will ensure that the preparations for the 10th and 12th board examinations are not affected. Meanwhile, the government also announced a weekend lockdown in Parbhani. “We have decided that a lockdown will be imposed Friday night from 12 am up to Monday morning 6 am,” state Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said. Meanwhile, in Nagpur, where Guardian Minister Dr Nitin Raut announced a 15-21 March lockdown, people are unhappy. “The government has not consulted us before announcing the decision,” said Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari. In Mumbai, Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani said that in Mumbai cases are rising but the situation under control. “Nearly 90 per cent of the cases are reported from buildings and highrises...we are taking measures accordingly. Lockdown is not on agenda, we have to follow the three-pronged strategy of wearing masks, wash and sanitize hands and maintain social distancing,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr. Ishwar Gilada, Secretary-General, Organised Medicine Academic Guild, said that vaccination needs to be ramped up and cover people with co-morbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-sees-fresh-curbs-in-light-of-rise-in-covid-19-cases-schools-to-be-shut-till-march-31-961165.html
12-03-2021||West||Western Railways resumes train services affected by farmer protest in Punjab||In a relief to passengers, the Western Railway on Friday resumed scheduled services of special trains, which were affected due to the farmers' agitation in Punjab, an official said. The Western Railway, in a release, notified that all trains will now run on their proper scheduled routes and timings, as the affected railway tracks at Jandiala in Punjab have been declared fit for train movement on Thursday. Due to the farmer's agitation in Punjab, the movement of trains was affected at Jandiala station since several days and a few special trains of the Western Railway were either cancelled, diverted, short terminated or short originated, the release said. The zonal railway also appealed to passengers to take note of this restoration of trains and plan their journey accordingly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/western-railways-resumes-train-services-affected-by-farmer-protest-in-punjab-961240.html
12-03-2021||West||Pune's sharp surge continues, district sees 3,184 cases||The Covid-19 surge in Pune continued in the last 24 hours with the district reporting 3,184 cases, and the city accounting for 1,805 of them, an official said on Friday. The district now has a caseload of 4,31,528, including 9,372 deaths, 16 of which were recorded in the last 24 hours, he said. Pune city, whose surge is the sharpest in the state, now has 2,14,830 cases, while the caseload for Pimpri Chinchwad is 1,12,370, after 855 cases were added during the day, the official said. Other areas, including the cantonment, account for 1,04,328 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/punes-sharp-surge-continues-district-sees-3184-cases-961360.html
12-03-2021||West||Ninety-one years later, 'Dandi March' is being recreated||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday flagged off a foot-march from Sabarmati Ashram here to Dandi village in Navsari district of Gujarat, a re- enactment of the Dandi March or Salt March led by Mahatma Gandhi in 1930. A group of 81 participants set out on the 386-km long journey by the same route. The march is part of "Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav", launched by Modi at Sabarmati Ashram to mark 75 years of India's independence. Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said the march will reach Dandi on April 5. After walking all day, the participants halted at Aslali village on the outskirts of Ahmedabad on Friday night. One of them is Dr Anant Dubey, a Madhya Pradesh resident whose grandfather had walked to Dandi with Gandhi in 1930. "I am fortunate to walk on the same path today. Prime Minister Modi gave slogans of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Vocal for Local. Gandhi believed in the same principles," said Dubey. The Salt Satyagrah of 1930 led to the entire nation rallying behind Mahatma Gandhi and lakhs of people joined his civil disobedience movement against the British empire. The marchers will halt at 21 places on the way and attend a variety of events at each place highlighting the socio-economic changes taking place in the areas of cleanliness, environment, security and water conservation. The journey will culminate in a big event at Dandi on April 5. During the function here, Modi also launched 'Atmanirbhar Incubator' to help promote indigenous cotton and its products, and the official website `india75.nic.in' about the 75th anniversary of India's independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ninety-one-years-later-dandi-march-is-being-recreated-961367.html
