13-03-2021||First Edit||Don’t go OTT with censorship||The government’s new rules for digital media and intermediaries, which were recently notified, seem to be unfinished work if its response to the Supreme Court's comments in a recent case is any indication. The streaming industry is nervous and is not happy with the likely negative impact of the new rules, but now there is the prospect of their becoming tighter and acquiring teeth. This is because the court remarked that the new rules “lacked teeth’’ and Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta told the court that the government could come up with another draft incorporating the court’s suggestions. This assumes significance especially in view of the court’s comment that there is much obscenity and uncensored content on the streaming services. The regulatory framework which is prescribed now is considered to have a restrictive effect on individual freedom, freedom of expression, privacy and creativity. It will hurt more if the government thinks of imposing some form of censorship, taking a cue from the court’s remark. Streaming platforms have emerged as a major entertainment industry in India. To constrain it with censorship, which may be the natural response of the government, and to prescribe penalties for violations would be an unhealthy and unwise move. OTT content is not like cinema, which is for public viewing. It is viewed at home as private entertainment and so all the norms for public viewing do not apply to it. In any case, there is no accepted standard of obscenity, and the same content may appeal in different ways to different people. It will be wrong if a government body sits in judgement over it and decides what is good for viewing and what is not. OTT platforms can exercise self-regulation and classify content as appropriate for different kinds of viewership and age groups, as is done in other countries. Wielding of the censoring scissors should be avoided.  The Supreme Court raised the issue of obscenity while hearing a petition for anticipatory bail from an executive of Amazon Prime Video, Aparna Purohit, who has been accused of hurting religious sentiments by streaming the web series Tandav. Her petition for pre-arrest bail had been rejected by the Allahabad High Court, which said that some scenes, which have since been deleted, and the very word Tandav could hurt Hindu sentiments. The Supreme Court, on appeal, gave her protection from arrest for four weeks but made the observation on obscene content on some OTT platforms. Digital media already have much to worry about the restrictions being imposed by the government’s new rules. The court’s comments may encourage the government to make it even more difficult for them by tightening the rules further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/don-t-go-ott-with-censorship-961406.html
13-03-2021||In Perspective||A feisty ‘Begum’ of Indian politics||In the immediate aftermath of Partition, when the atmosphere in the whole country was overladen with violence and communalism, a Muslim woman from a conservative background stood up against the orthodox and communal elements of society and spoke heroically in the Constituent Assembly of India. “Those Muslims who wanted to go to Pakistan have done so. Those who decided to stay here wish to be on friendly and amicable terms with the majority community and realise that they must develop their lives according to the environments and circumstances existing here. As nationals of this great country, we share the aspirations and the hopes of the people living here, hoping at the same time that we will be treated in a manner consistent with honour and justice.” That dauntless woman was Begum Qudsia Aizaz Rasul, who was elected to the Constituent Assembly from the United Provinces (now Uttar Pradesh) as a Muslim League member in July 1946. Born in a ruling family of Maler Kotla, a Muslim princely state in Punjab, Qudsia was married at a young age to Nawab Aizaz Rasul, a Taluqdar from Sandila (UP). Muslim families in UP observed strict purdah in those times, but Qudsia came out of it to get elected to the UP Legislative Council, leading to her being called “the two-faced Begum” -- she walked openly in Lucknow, but was hidden to public view on her arrival at Sandila. She defied a fatwa issued against her for being a non-purdah Muslim woman and standing for elections. Against all odds, she not only won with a good margin but also remained in the Council from 1937 to 1952, even becoming Leader of the Opposition. In the UP Legislative Council, despite belonging to the Taluqdar family herself, Qudsia was instrumental in the passage of the Zamindari Abolition Bill. She believed that “Zamindars should see the writing on the wall and graciously give rights to the farmers who toil and sweat.” During Partition, Qudsia chose to stay back in India despite much persuasion and pressure from the leaders of Pakistan as well as some of her family members. Qudsia came into limelight due to her presence in the Constituent Assembly, where she not only spoke about secularism but was also instrumental in creating a consensus among Muslims to voluntarily give up separate electorates and reservation in legislatures for the sake of the merging new India. When Sardar Patel moved the provision to remove separate electorates and reservations for the minorities to make joint electorates the basis of their representation, Qudsia supported the motion, against the wish of many of fellow Muslim members. She said that Muslims should fall in line with the main current of political thought, as in a secular state separate electorates or religion-based reservations had no place. She said, “To my mind, reservation is a self-destructive weapon, it keeps up the spirit of separatism and communalism alive, which should be done away once and for all.” Qudsia recollected in the Assembly that Muslims living in the country had been the worst sufferers as a result of the events that took place during Partition. She felt it would be better to break with the past completely and do away with all the fears and turn over a new page for a country in which all communities would feel secure. However, in the same breath, she also said that it was for the majority to realise its duty not to discriminate against any minority and to deal fairly with them. It was due to Qudsia’s persistence that all Muslim members eventually agreed to do away with the demand for reservation. As a member of the Fundamental and Minority Rights Committee of the Constituent Assembly, the welfare and protection of minorities was always on her mind. She was convinced that the fundamental rights guaranteed in the Constitution made no distinction between different religions and looked forward to the day when individuals would cease to regard themselves as members of majority and minority communities. Qudsia’s feats continued as she was elected to the first Rajya Sabha in 1952. Later, she headed the All-India Women’s Hockey Association, which made great strides under her and became the first all-India women’s sport recognised by the Ministry of Education. To honour her contribution, the Begum Rasul Trophy (Women’s hockey) was named after her. She also contributed greatly towards the upliftment of women and the education of Muslim girls. Begum Qudsia Aizaz Rasul played her valorous role in nation-building. After leading a life that constantly kept her on her toes, she received the Padma Bhushan in 2000, seated on a wheelchair at the age of 91, as a fitting acknowledgement of her enormous contributions in various fields. When we celebrate International Women’s Day, we can do so truly and proudly by remembering women like Qudsia and her remarkable endeavours toward the evolution of a progressive Indian society. (The writer is a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow, UGC, New Delhi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-feisty-begum-of-indian-politics-961408.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bus services to Maharashtra stopped in Belagavi over language row||Buses plying between Karnataka and Maharashtra were stopped on Saturday due to linguistic tension in Kolhapur and Belagavi. Shiv Sena activists allegedly sprayed black paint on North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) buses in Kolhapur and as a precautionary measure, buses did not cross the state border. Over the past few days, Sena activists in Kolhapur have been allegedly targetting boards in the Kannada language, and have allegedly removed them to support activities of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti here. In retaliation, Kannada activists had also allegedly targetted boards in the Marathi language. NWKRTC officials said that around 400 state buses ply between Karnataka and Maharashtra and the services have been stopped. Buses stranded in Maharashtra were halted in depots, while Maharashtra buses were parked in depots here as a precautionary measure. Karnataka Boundary Areas Development Authority Chairman Dr C Somshekhar condemned acts of Sena leaders, saying damage to public properties was not acceptable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bus-services-to-maharashtra-stopped-in-belagavi-over-language-row-961577.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Clean lakes connecting Lingambudi lake: Minister||Tourism Minister C P Yogeshwar directed officials to take measures to clean rainwater drains connected to Lingambudi lake. Yogeshwar inspected the lake with environment engineers of Mysuru City Corporation. The rainwater drains are filled with leaves and other materials, which obstruct water flow, they observed. The minister also visited Varuna lake and took out a boat ride.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/clean-lakes-connecting-lingambudi-lake-minister-961606.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt to develop agri-tourism projects in Mandya: C P Yogeeshwara||Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwara on Saturday said that the government is planning to develop ‘Agri Tourism’ in the district. The minister was speaking to reporters after a meeting with the officials, at Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) in Srirangapatna taluk. The Agri Tourism project is aimed at educating the tourists about the crop variety, cultivation and irrigation system. This will bring revenue to the department, he said. The minister said, “As many as 71 projects related to tourism taken up at the cost of Rs 100 crore, is under progress.”  He assured of sanctioning more projects if the ongoing projects completed soon. Tourism Department Joint Director Motilal, Assistant Commissioner B C Shivanandamurthy, Thasildar M V Roopa and others were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-to-develop-agri-tourism-projects-in-mandya-c-p-yogeeshwara-961673.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysore Palace's sound & light show to resume from Sunday||The ‘Sound and Light’ programme of the Mysuru Palace Board, which illustrates the history of Mysuru — the life and times of Yaduraya, his successors, and the reign of Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, the last maharaja of the Wadiyar dynasty, will be re-launched on March 15, from 7 pm to 8 pm. The event was stopped, following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020. Now, the Mysuru Palace Board has decided to restart the event. The programme will be in both Kannada and English languages. While the Kannada version will be on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays, the English version will be on Thursdays and Fridays. On Saturdays, both Kannada and English version will be played. English version will be between 7 pm and 8 pm and the entry fee for adults is Rs 90 and Rs 40 for children. Kannada version will be from 8.15 pm to 9.15 pm and the fee is Rs 70 for adults and Rs 30 for children. The Palace will be illuminated for 15 minutes from 9 pm. There will be no Sound and Light programme on Sundays and on government holidays. The Palace will be illuminated during the last 15 minutes. All precautionary measures will be taken to ensure safety of the visitors, in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysore-palaces-sound-light-show-to-resume-from-sunday-961674.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government committed to conserving water bodies: C P Yogeeshwara||Minister for Tourism, Ecology and Environment C P Yogeeshwara on Saturday said that the state government is committed for the protection and development of water bodies and directed the officials concerned to maintain lakes and tanks in good shape. The minister, who visited Lingambudhi Lake along with the officials of Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and Environment department, directed the officials to take measures to clean rainwater drains connected to the lake. The drains are not in good condition as they are filled with waste materials and plastic, said the minister.  The minister interacted with morning strollers and assured of taking measures to maintain cleanliness on the lake premises. The lake, spread over 220 acres, stores water on about 160 acres. The Forest department, which maintains the Lingambudhi Lake, had developed it a few years back. The lake is a hotspot for both migratory and local birds. Nearly, 200 species were documented on the lake premises. Later, the minister visited Varuna Lake on T Narsipur Road and took out a boat ride. Yogeeshwara appreciated Infosys Foundation for rejuvenating Hebbal Lake under corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds. He took stock of the lake on Friday. He said that the conservation of the lake benefits several species of birds and has also improved groundwater. The lake, which is developed by Infosys, will be jointly maintained by Tourism department, MCC, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and Environment department. “Hebbal Lake is a model. The authorities of MCC should take measures to develop other lakes and water bodies on the lines of Hebbal Lake. The officials should explore the possibilities of introducing programmes that would attract tourists to the lake premises,” he said. The minister also visited Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district, where a Disneyland-like project is planned. He interacted with the officials concerned on the development of KRS. The project is an extension of the Brindavan Garden and it will be taken up without harming the KRS dam, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-committed-to-conserving-water-bodies-c-p-yogeeshwara-961676.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||This artist creates wonders on pencil lead||S Nanjundaswamy was 18 years old when a pencil lead with a face-like image left a profound imprint on him. Today, the 39-year-old has transformed thousands of graphite pieces (pencil leads) into beautiful miniatures through his ‘Krishna Kale’ -- micro artwork on pencil lead. Nanjundaswamy, also a painter, noticed a face-like image, when he was sharpening a pencil lead using a blade in 1999. Thus, he started to work on lead, to create sculptures. Using simple tools like a surgical knife and a needle, over the last 21 years, Nanjundaswamy, a native of Mandya district, has carved over 1,700 miniature sculptures on pencil lead. Faces of former president of India A P J Abdul Kalam, Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, Jayachamaraja Wadiyar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former prime ministers H D Deve Gowda and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, actors Dr Rajkumar, Vishnuvardhan, Darshan among others have been carved. Nanjundaswamy has also created a model of Veerappan, the infamous bandit who was active for 36 years in the forests of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. He had kidnapped Dr Rajkumar for ransom. Nanjundaswamy takes hardly two hours to create a face on pencil lead now. “Initially, I used to take weeks together to come out with a work,” he said. Nanjundaswamy uses a magnifying glass to carve images on 0.5 mm pencils and no eye tool is used for working on 10B and 12B pencils. To spread the message of ‘unity in diversity’ Nanjundaswamy has carved the religious symbols of star, moon, Jesus and an idol of Ganesha on a single lead. He has carved models on the Indian Independence movement, including those of Mahatma Gandhi, Bhagat Singh, Indian National Flag, and Amar Jawan Jyoti. The face of former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Gandhian Anna Hazare, on opposite sides of a single pencil lead, and faces of all eight Jnanpith awardees from Karnataka are other attractions. The faces of all eight Jnanpith awardees from Karnataka — Kuvempu, Da Ra Bendre, Shivarama Karanth, Masti Venkatesh Iyengar, V K Gokak, Girish Karnad, U R Ananthamurthy and Chandrashekar Kambar — on a single pencil lead, was a challenge for Nanjundaswamy. “It took lot of efforts to create the miniature of the awardees. I would rework on the whole project, if there was a minor mistake at any point of time,” he said. Nanjundaswamy, a businessman, with a home appliances centre, has never used his Krishna-Kale for commercial purpose. Although his works are unique and are in great demand, he never sold them. But, he has gifted some valuable works. “For me, my works are priceless. I do not want to sell my talent. I practice it as a hobby. I have gifted hundreds of my works to well-wishers and friends on special occasions,” he said. Nanjundaswamy’s had created a model of Chamarajendra Wadiyar Circle, using 7,300 pencil leads, which is recognised by the India Book of Records. “It is one of my biggest works. But, it is made of 7,300 leads and not carved on a single piece. It took almost 28 days to develop it,” he said. Even though Nanjundaswamy has created thousands of art works, he has never wasted a single piece of pencil lead. “There were mistakes on artworks. But, I never wasted or threw a single piece of work. I used to convert them into other works. As pencil leads are very delicate, it takes a lot of efforts to handle them,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-artist-creates-wonders-on-pencil-lead-961677.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shiv Sena targets vehicles with Kannada boards||Shiv Sena activists continued to target Kannada boards and pasted Jai Maharashtra posters on private vehicles coming from Kagal in Kolhapur towards Nippani in the Belagavi district on Saturday. Some shops at Kagal had bilingual boards and Kannada part of those boards was painted with black paint. They later targeted private vehicles, like trucks, coming towards Nippani and pasted Jai Maharashtra posters on their windscreen. The Sena activists also raised slogans against the state and demanded that boundary areas be merged with Maharashtra. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene in the Karnataka-Maharashtra boundary dispute. He told reporters at Athani that the Maharashtra government, led by Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, has failed on all fronts and is diverting the attention of the people from burning issues. The party’s workers were creating problems and attacking Karnataka buses, he charged. Savadi said that Shiv Sena has been repeatedly raking up the boundary issue and targeting Karnataka buses by blackening and painting Jai Maharashtra slogans on them. Hence, the prime minister should intervene and resolve the issue, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shiv-sena-targets-vehicles-with-kannada-boards-961684.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Don’t include more castes under Category 2A: Forum||Most Backward Classes Vigilant Forum, a body of representatives from 102 most backward communities who come under Category 2A, have opposed any move to include new castes and communities under the category, including Panchamasali Lingayats. The forum has threatened to unite all 102 communities and stage protest if more castes and communities were included under 2A category, Forum chairman Mukhyamantri Chandru warned on Saturday. He said that the non-political forum to protect interests of these communities was launched recently, following demands to include communities under Category 2A. He told media persons at the Patrika Bhavan that the government should protect interest of all those in 2A Category. He said members of all 102 communities in Category 2A were landless and artisan communities, who had already lost their traditional occupations, Mukhyamantri Chandru said Panchamasali Lingayats are landowners. It is unfair to include them under 2A Category. In case if there are economically poor families in Panchamasali Lingayats, then the government should earmark special allocations to improve their conditions, rather than include them under 2A Category. The government should scrap the decision to form three-member committee chaired by a retired judge to look into the demands for reservation that had cropped up in the state. “Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, which is a constitutional body and looks into the social justice and reservation issues. When there is a Commission, what sanctity will three-member committee will have,” he sought to know. To resolve the reservation issues, the government should accept the Socio-Economic Survey conducted in the state and make public census findings in public domain. Based on the report, the reservation matrix can be redrawn, he said. He alleged that there is imbalance in the allocation of funds to the backward communities in the budget. For 16 corporations working for the welfare of the communities, the budget allocated only Rs 500 crore. However, it has earmarked Rs 500 crore each for Veerashaiva-Lingayats and Vokkaligas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/don-t-include-more-castes-under-category-2a-forum-961718.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||SIT given full freedom to probe Jarkiholi sex CD case, says Basavaraj Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday declined to comment on the ongoing investigation into the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.  The Special Investigation Team (SIT) looking into the case has got cracking and is rounding up persons linked to the scandal.  “The SIT has been formed and I have nothing further to say. The SIT has been given full freedom. I will not make statements daily on (the investigation),” Bommai said.  Earlier in the day, Bommai met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and is said to have given him a briefing on the SIT’s progress.  On Friday, the SIT headed by IPS officer Soumendu Mukherjee began questioning five persons, including four media persons working with regional news channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sit-given-full-freedom-to-probe-jarkiholi-sex-cd-case-says-basavaraj-bommai-961570.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Should have made G T Devegowda as CM: H D Kumaraswamy||JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy on Saturday criticised JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda, who has maintained distance from the party activities said that he made a mistake by not making Devegowda as chief minister. Speaking to reporters here, Kumaraswamy said, “Devegowda should have been made as chief minister for defeating then CM (Siddaramaiah) from Chamundeshwari Assembly segment in 2018.” Kumaraswamy said, “The party leaders are watching his activities and I have maintained distance from him for more than a year now. We are not identifying him as JD(S) man in the Assembly session. He will be expelled from the party at the right time.” For a query about Periyapatna MLA Mahadevu’s son contesting against JD(S) faction in Mysuru Milk Union (MyMUL) election, Kumaraswamy said, “We have warned him and the leaders will never forgive the MLAs going against the party.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/should-have-made-g-t-devegowda-as-cm-h-d-kumaraswamy-961678.html
13-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi sex scandal: Bommai directs SIT to provide security to woman in video||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai late on Saturday night directed the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to provide security to the woman allegedly involved in a sex scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.  His statement came after the woman released a video statement seeking protection.   “It has been reported that she has addressed a video to me. I’ve asked the SIT to provide the woman with the required security,” Bommai said. “I’ve also directed the SIT to continue the investigation factoring in this video,” he added.  On his part, Ramesh said that the woman’s video seeking protection was part of the ‘conspiracy against him. “The (woman’s) video came out after I filed a complaint. That’s how coordinate this conspiracy is,” Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-sex-scandal-bommai-directs-sit-to-provide-security-to-woman-in-video-961719.html
13-03-2021||Main Article||Diet, health and climate change||To most people, climate change generally means greenhouse gases (carbon dioxide and methane) emitted from burning of fossil fuels (for power generation, transport and industry) leading to increased concentration of greenhouse gases, which contributes to global warming and climate change. So, one may ask, how our diet, health and climate change are related to one another. A special report of the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate change) highlighted the contribution of diet to health and climate change. Improved diet can contribute to improved health and address climate change. According to the IPCC, land use sectors (agriculture and forests) contributed to 23% of global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, more than the transport or industry sectors. Food loss and waste alone contributed to around 10% of GHG emissions. Diets dominated by animal fats and processed foods contribute to GHG emissions. It is well known that commercial or industrial scale meat production, storage and transportation consumes very high quantities of energy, water and chemicals. Thus, meat consumption in richer countries and in the urban areas of India is one of the main concerns. Further, wastage of food, estimated to be 25-40%, also indirectly leads to GHG emissions, since that much of food production and processing could have been avoided in the first place. Thus, the obvious measures to address climate change include shifting to plant-based diets (preferably with minimal or no processing), sourced locally as much as possible, and minimising food waste. Diets dominated by meat and processed foods, the mainstay of the rich countries, is leading to obesity and heart diseases. This trend is also observed in the urban areas of developing countries such as India, where obesity, heart diseases, etc., are common. Meat and processed food consumption are associated with high consumption of energy and GHG emissions in the production and processing of food. Thus, reducing meat and processed food  consumption is associated with reducing obesity, improved heart health and reduced GHG emissions -- truly a win-win. The implications of climate change on health, though not generally acknowledged by citizens and even mass media, are already significant. According to all the scientific evidence available, climate change impacts on health will be more severe in the coming decades. There are innumerable ways in which climate change directly or indirectly contributes to adverse health implications. Firstly, heat strokes, already a major killer in India during the summer months, could increase, since all climate change models project a warming of 2 to 4 0C in the coming decades. According to a study published in the Journal of Thermal Biology, in India, 3,014 men died from heat-related causes in 2001-05, which increased to 5,157 in the period 2011-15. Deaths due to heat stroke are under-reported, especially in rural areas. In the coming decades, heat stroke events are projected to increase in frequency and intensity. This is especially true for a large majority of the poor who have to work in fields and under the skies in the mining, construction, roadworks and transportation industries. Secondly, warming and increased humidity due to climate change will lead to an increased occurrence of vector-borne diseases such as malaria, chikungunya, and dengue. Thirdly, climate change is projected to increase high intensity rainfall and flooding events. Floods are associated with poor quality drinking water availability and sanitation, leading to cholera, diarrhoea, etc. Further, increased frequency and intensity of extreme events such as hurricanes and cyclones are associated with water-borne diseases. Fourthly, forest fires are becoming more frequent and more severe in most parts of the world. Forest fires lead to destruction of settlements, loss of crops and even death. Finally, new evidence published in the Journal of Plant Science, suggests that elevated CO2 concentrations and climate change could impact the nutritional quality of crops such as wheat, peas, rice, maize and sorghum by decreasing protein, zinc and iron value of grains. There is emerging evidence that excessive winter frost in some regions and absence of winter chill in some other regions could impact the suitability of many vegetables and perennial fruit crops. For example, in many parts of Himachal Pradesh, apple cultivation is already not feasible due to climate change. In addition to these concerns is the overall impact of climate change on food production -- a decline is projected in yields for most crops in countries such as India. Declining food production will affect food security, with reduced access to food leading to hunger and malnutrition. There is need for a deeper understanding of the relationships between climate change, diet and health. In India, there is limited research on these aspects. There are calls for setting up a Climate Change and Health Research Institute in the US. Given the size of the population and potential large-scale impacts of climate change and large vulnerable populations, India should consider setting up a dedicated research institute, or at least a dedicated programme to start with, to address all aspects of climate change and health. The experience of lack of preparation for pandemics such as Covid-19, leading to the death of millions, should be learned from. As they say, there is no vaccine for climate change; local, national and global scale efforts are needed to address it. We need a transformational change in the way energy is produced and used, food is produced, processed and consumed, houses are built and serviced, and so on. According to all assessments, the voluntary commitments made by the countries to the United Nations under the Nationally Determined Contributions to reduce GHG emissions in the Paris Agreement are not enough to keep the rise in global mean temperatures to 1.5-2 0C. So, to sustain food production and security, to ensure healthy diets and health for all, adaptation measures have to be designed and implemented on a massive scale across India in all areas such as food production, water management and health. (The writer was formerly a professor at Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/diet-health-and-climate-change-961407.html
13-03-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru Palace light and sound show to be restarted on March 15||The sound and light show at the Mysuru Palace, an attraction that was stopped following the outbreak of Covid-19 in March 2020, will be restarted on March 15. Now, the Mysuru Palace Board has decided to restart the event which is conducted in both Kannada and English.  While the Kannada version will be played every Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, the English version will be played on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.  The palace will be illuminated in the last 15 minutes and All the precautionary measures will be taken to ensure the safety of the visitors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-palace-light-and-sound-show-to-be-restarted-on-march-15-961605.html
13-03-2021||National||FCI to test age of rice before procurement||In a bid to check the re-cycling of rice by millers, the Centre plans to test the age of rice before procurement by the Food Corporation of India and other agencies. The age testing of rice was already being carried out in Andhra Pradesh where procurement agencies were following the process to ensure that the crop they were purchasing was from the current crop year. According to Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey, some states were procuring more rice than that was harvested by farmers in the state raising doubts about the re-circulation of the paddy by rice mills. Pandey said the rice production in Punjab was pegged at 181 lakh metric tonnes, but the state ended up procuring 203 lakh metric tonnes of rice this Kharif marketing season. “Either the excess rice came from neighbouring states or it could be an issue of aggregation,” he said adding that rice millers tend to sell excess rice to procurement agencies the following year. Pandey also launched a mobile app 'Mera Ration' for ration cardholders, particularly migrant beneficiaries, that can be used for identifying the nearest fair price shop, check details of entitlement and recent transactions. The android-based mobile application, developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), is currently in Hindi and English and would soon be made available in 14 languages. Among key features, the 'Mera Ration' app also allowed migrant beneficiaries to register their migration details before starting their journey and the system will automatically allocate the entitled foodgrains at their specified destination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fci-to-test-age-of-rice-before-procurement-961412.html
13-03-2021||National||Farmers’ issue ‘absolutely, totally’ a matter of India: UK Minister Lord Tariq Ahmad||India as a democracy has guaranteed the right to protest throughout and the farmers’ protests over agricultural reforms is an issue that is “absolutely and totally” a matter for the government of India, UK minister Lord Tariq Ahmad said on Friday ahead of his visit to New Delhi. A debate in a UK parliamentary committee room earlier this week over the issue was condemned by India as “gross interference in the politics of another democratic country” and even led to Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla calling in British High Commissioner Alex Ellis for a meeting. Lord Ahmad, the minister of state responsible for Indian affairs in the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), will begin his five-day visit to India on Monday. “It was a very cordial meeting. It was the first time they were formally meeting and whilst the issue of the protests was discussed and India made clear their position, we have also reiterated the point that the parliamentary scheduling of debates and the nature of our parliamentary democracy is such (but) the government's position can be made very clear too,” he said during a virtual pre-visit interaction with reporters here. “The protests have been taking place for several months now and India as a democracy has totally guaranteed and secured the right to protest, which we fully acknowledge. I equally fully want to endorse, and regularly articulate, that the principle of the farmers' protest in terms of the actual nature of it is absolutely and totally a matter for the government of India. That position has been longstanding and has not changed,” he said. The minister categorically ruled out any scope of the matter overshadowing his extensive schedule in India, which covers ministerial meetings in New Delhi, followed by interactions with regional and community leaders in Chandigarh, Chennai and Hyderabad before concluding with trade talks in Mumbai. The visit is seen as further finalising the groundwork for the forthcoming tour of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who is scheduled to visit India in the coming weeks ahead of the G7 summit in Cornwall in June. “The intense programme underlines the importance of our strong relationship with India. It follows on from our ongoing senior-level engagement at ministerial level. We look forward to the Prime Minister's (Johnson) visit in advance of Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi visiting as part of the G7,” the minister said. “Our relationship with India is not just one of bilateral importance, it's also about how these two countries are working together and there's no better illustration than the current Covid-19 pandemic which grips us… The role that India has played as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal. “We've been extremely collaborative in our approach to this and publicly acknowledged the role India played in unlocking certain other pharmaceuticals, including the delivery of paracetamol,” Ahmad said. With reference to planned supplies of a batch of Covishield vaccines from the Serum Institute of India to the UK, the minister reiterated that it symbolised the wide range of bilateral ties and would not impact both countries’ commitment to ensuring supplies to more vulnerable regions through the UN-led COVAX facility. “We work together with India on securing domestic supplies but that hasn't taken away from our commitment through Gavi (the Vaccine Alliance) to the COVAX facility. India, through the likes of the Serum Institute of India, are absolutely integrated to ensure the supply of that,” he said. Ahmad’s visit to India will coincide with the UK’s release of the government’s Integrated Review into its post-Brexit foreign policy priorities next week, which is widely expected to confirm a so-called Indo-Pacific tilt in favour of countries like India. While not wanting to be drawn into the specifics of the review, the minister said: “It can be taken as read in as much as government policy is concerned, there is a very strong belief and focus on the Indo-Pacific tilt and it’s right we do so. When you look at the countries within that part of the region, India is foremost in our minds.” This will be the latest in a series of high-profile UK visits to India in preparation for Prime Ministers Johnson and Modi signing off on a highly-anticipated UK-India Enhanced Trade Partnership, which is seen a precursor to a wider free trade agreement (FTA) in the future. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops. The Indian government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the mandi system. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have not been able to resolve the deadlock. India has emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity and the Ministry of External Affairs said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. "Before rushing to comment on such matters, we would urge that the facts be ascertained, and a proper understanding of the issues at hand be undertaken," it said last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-issue-absolutely-totally-a-matter-of-india-uk-minister-lord-tariq-ahmad-961418.html
13-03-2021||National||These subjects will remain important in engineering courses||Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics will continue to be important subjects in engineering courses and it is not mandatory for state government or institutions to offer these courses to students who have not studied them in class 12, the AICTE said on Friday. Addressing a press conference, AICTE chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe also said students opting for streams like Biotechnology, Textile or Agriculture Engineering will have an option to not study these subjects in class 12. The clarification by Sahasrabudhe came following news reports about Physics and Mathematics no longer being compulsory for studying engineering as per the approval handbook for 2021-22 issued by the AICTE. "Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics will continue to be important subjects for certain streams of engineering like mechanical engineering, it's not that these subjects will lose their relevance. However, for streams like Textile Engineering, Agriculture or may be Biotechnology, students will have an option of not studying the three subjects compulsorily in class 12 and make up for them through bridge courses later," Sahasrabudhe said. In its revised rules aligned as per reforms proposed in the new National Education Policy (NEP), the technical regulator has given a list of 14 subjects - Physics, Mathematics, Chemistry, Computer Science, Electronics, Information Technology, Biology, Informatics Practices, Biotechnology, Technical Vocational subject, Engineering Graphics, Business Studies, Entrepreneurship. Students need to pass in any three subjects (from the list) with a minimum of 45 per cent marks in class 12 board examination to be able to apply for admission in undergraduate courses in engineering, according to the revised rules of the All India Council for Technical Education. "Universities will offer suitable bridge courses such as Mathematics, Physics, Engineering, Drawing, for students coming from diverse backgrounds to achieve desired learning outcome of the programme," the AICTE provides in the Approval Process Handbook 2021-22. According to Sahasrabudhe, the new Approval Process Handbook 2021-22 has been changed to remove the restrictions of the previous rules incase there are states or universities that want to open up "on the lines of the NEP". "There was a very classic case which came up this year during admission into an Agricultural Engineering or Agricultural Technology course where Physics, Chemistry and Maths (PCM) are mandatory. Now, in open schooling and the CBSE there are subjects like Agricultural Chemistry. However, these institutes are only accepting pure chemistry," said Sahasrabudhe, while highlighting the importance of a multidisciplinary approach. However, the chairperson reiterated that it is not mandatory for states or institutions to change their current mandatory preference of PCM for admission to engineering courses. "While opening up the window, it is not mandatory to any of the states or universities that they must admit students from any of the three courses or 10 or 12 have listed there. "Universities and the state governments may continue to have the same three subjects of Maths, Physics and Chemistry, as mandatory. This is purely a window of opportunity which is open, but not restricting, or forcing or making it mandatory that any three subjects can and should be allowed," said Sahasrabudhe. On offering engineering courses in mother tongue, the AICTE cited its survey recently where 42 per cent of the current second, third and fourth year engineering students said that they would prefer to pursue their course in mother tongue had there been an opportunity. "No one is being forced. This is an opportunity created and not being imposed. We have this misgiving that we all have to do our engineering in our mother tongue. But also think of those who wanted to pursue in their mother tongue have deprived them of this opportunity till now? We conducted a survey on students who are already in second, third and fourth year. They have already learnt their science subjects in English. "And, it is not the Hindi speaking students, but majority students from Tamil Nadu said had they got an opportunity they would have studied in Tamil. Second was in Hindi, third was Telugu, fourth was Marathi and fifth was Kannada," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/these-subjects-will-remain-important-in-engineering-courses-961431.html
13-03-2021||National||Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote gets bail in promoting enmity case||A local court granted ad-interim anticipatory bail to Hindutva leader Milind Ekbote after he was booked in a case for allegedly promoting enmity between groups through his remarks. A case was registered against Ekbote, a prime accused in the Koregaon Bhima caste violence case, for making objectionable remarks about the construction of a religious centre of another community in Kondhwa. Additional Sessions Judge G P Agarwal granted bail to Ekbote on Friday observing there was a delay in registering an FIR and that "the applicant (Ekbote) has only brought to the notice of the fact about the construction of Haj House under the name of a civil and cultural centre on the land which is in the possession of Pune Municipal Corporation". The order said custodial interrogation was not necessary as the applicant was ready to cooperate with the investigative machinery in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hindutva-leader-milind-ekbote-gets-bail-in-promoting-enmity-case-961447.html
13-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha nod to Finance Bill likely on Wednesday||Amid demands for curtailment of the Budget Session, the Lok Sabha is scheduled to pass the Finance Bill on Wednesday after a discussion on five ministries including Railways, Education and Health. Speaker Om Birla’s intervention on Wednesday ensured that the Lok Sabha will start functioning smoothly after three days of disruptions by Congress-led Opposition over rising fuel prices. On Wednesday, the Congress also refused to roll back their protests in the House to allow Prime Minister Narendra Modi to make a statement on the 75th anniversary celebrations of Independence that began with events organised across the country. The Business Advisory Committee of the Lok Sabha has decided to discuss the demands for grants of the ministries of Railways, Education, Health & Family Welfare, Road Transport & Highways and Housing & Urban Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-nod-to-finance-bill-likely-on-wednesday-961460.html
13-03-2021||National||Kiren Rijiju to launch 100-day countdown to 7th International Day of Yoga on March 13||Union Minister Kiren Rijiju will launch the 100-day countdown to the seventh International Day of Yoga on Saturday morning, according to an official statement on Friday. Rijiju, the minister of state for youth affairs and sports, has been temporarily assigned the charge of the Ministry of AYUSH since Shripad Yesso Naik has been undergoing treatment following an accident. A common yoga protocol-based activity will be inaugurated and live-streamed at various social media platforms of the ministry and sister its organisations. "The ministry hopes to kindle a mass movement for health and wellbeing through yoga in the 100-day run-up to the International Day of Yoga-2021. "At a time when the country and the world are focused on recovery from the pandemic, such a movement would be highly relevant and contribute significantly to the recovery from Covid-19, lending greater focus to public health, preventive medicine and personal care on both physical and mental fronts," a statement said. International Day of Yoga is held on June 21. It has been recognised by the United Nations General Assembly in 2014 by a unanimous vote. Every year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself leads the nation in observation of Yoga Day, the AYUSH Ministry statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kiren-rijiju-to-launch-100-day-countdown-to-7th-international-day-of-yoga-on-march-13-961473.html
13-03-2021||National||Election FAQs: What is Form 6?||Four poll-bound states and one Union Territory – Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry – are gearing up for the biggest festival of democracy. While for some it isn’t a new experience, for many first-time voters, it would be the first opportunity to exercise their franchise and make their voices heard. That is when Form 6 becomes important as it ensures that their name shows up on the final electoral list and they can vote without any hassle. What is Form 6? Form 6 is an application for inclusion of name in the electoral list and an Indian citizen who has attained the age of 18 years or more is eligible to go through the process. Other than that, a person shifting outside the constituency in which he/she is already registered also has to fill the form. The applicant has to furnish details like their name, age, sex, place of birth, place of ordinary residence, details of family members already in the electoral roll, among other things. Birth certificate, Class 10 mark sheet, PAN card, passport, driving license, Aadhaar letter given by the UIDAI – any one of these documents has to be attached as proof of date of birth.  In case of no age proof, the parents of the first-time applicant have to fill the form of oath or affirmation. As proof of ordinary residence, any one of the following documents can be used – bank passbook, ration card, passport, driving license, latest rent agreement, Income Tax assessment order, latest water/electricity/telephone/gas bill either in the name of the applicant or that of their closest relation like parents or any post delivered through the Indian Postal Department in the applicant’s name at the said address. When does it have to be filed? While it can be filled all year round, the application can also be processed during the revision of the electoral roll after the draft publication of the constituency’s electoral roll is out. Where to file it? The application can be filed offline at the designated locations where the draft electoral roll is displayed (mostly polling station locations) as well as the offices of the Electoral Registration Officer and Assistant Electoral Registration Officer of the constituency. The application can also be filed online on the website of the Chief Electoral Officer of the state concerned. When the revision programme is not going on, it can be filed only with the Electoral Registration Officer or online. Incomplete application forms are liable to be rejected, hence, all the required details have to be duly filled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-what-is-form-6-961496.html
13-03-2021||National||India records 24,882 new Covid-19 cases, highest in nearly 3 months; 140 deaths take toll to 1.58 lakh||After more than 80 days, India’s fresh Covid-19 numbers ballooned to nearly 25,000 on Saturday, with Maharashtra accounting for more than 63% of cases and Punjab continuing to remain a major source of worry. As many as 24,882 fresh Covid-19 cases and 140 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total number of active cases stands at 2.02 lakh, of which Maharashtra alone accounts for 63.57%. The western state, which is witnessing the most prominent second wave of the epidemic in India, reported nearly 16,000 cases in the last 24 hours. Punjab reported more than 1,000 fresh infections in eight out of the last nine days. Out of the 140 deaths, Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (56) followed by Punjab (34). “Maharashtra and Punjab are ahead of other states, and no state is immune. It is only a matter of time. However, the surge is not significant to result in a second wave at the national level. These are only local as of now,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India, told DH. In addition, Haryana, Gujarat and the Union Territory of Chandigarh witness a clear surge in new cases whereas Madhya Pradesh, Delhi and Karnataka are showing early signs of a new spike. “Cases are surging due to the accumulation of susceptible people. This is triggered by higher population movement in areas which hitherto did not have higher burden and congregations such as marriages and crowds and clusters in closed spaces,” Babu said. “Better containment efforts with enhanced testing and syndromic approaches should guide the response in all states. Also, we need to increase vaccine coverage to all vulnerable people as fast as possible,” he said. Till 7 pm on Saturday, more than 29 million Indians have received at least one dose of the vaccine, but the daily count of vaccination remained 9.74 lakh or just under a million. The government’s target is to vaccinate 300 million Indians by August to break the virus’ chain of transmissions. More than 42 lakh healthcare workers and over 10 lakh frontline staff received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Nearly 79 lakh individuals of 60-plus age have been inoculated with a single dose of the vaccine so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-24882-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-nearly-3-months-140-deaths-take-toll-to-158-lakh-961500.html
13-03-2021||National||US Def Sec Austin, Rajnath Singh to discuss ways to operationalise major defence partnership: Pentagon||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin will meet his Indian counterpart Rajnath Singh next week in India and discuss ways to operationalise the major defence partnership that the two countries have, according to a top Pentagon official. The Indo-US defence ties have been on an upswing in the last few years and in June 2016, the US had designated India a “Major Defence Partner”. The two countries have also inked key defence and security pacts over the past few years, including the Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) in 2016 that allows their militaries use each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies as well as provides for deeper cooperation. Austin will be in India next week, after his stops in Japan and South Korea. This is for the first time that a US defence secretary is travelling to India on his maiden overseas trip. It will also be the first in-person visit by a top official of the Biden administration to India. “In India, he’ll meet with Minister Rajnath Singh and others to discuss operationalising the major defence partnership that we have with India, including through enhanced information sharing, regional security cooperation, defence trade, and cooperation in new domains,” Acting Assistant Secretary of Defence for Indo-Pacific Security Affairs David F Helvey told reporters during a conference call. In New Delhi, the Ministry of Defence said US Secretary of Defence Austin will visit India from March 19 to 21. India, he said, is an important strategic partnership that involves cooperation with like minded nations committed to protecting the rules-based international order. Helvey said that the travel to India, will provide an opportunity for exchange of views early on with key allies and partners about how they can work together and expand cooperation to support a rules-based international order, and continue developments of these critical relationships which enable them to do that. Austin's visit to India will take place a week after the maiden virtual Quad summit between US President Joe Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga. The four leaders in a joint statement on Friday said that they brought diverse perspectives and were united in a shared vision for the free and open Indo-Pacific. "We strive for a region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion," the statement said. The Biden administration has made clear the criticality that attaches to promoting peace, security, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond through engaging with and investing in alliances and partnerships; and strengthening our foundation at home to maintain our innovation edge and to rebuild the industrial base, Helvey said. India, the US and several other world powers have been talking about the need to ensure a free, open and thriving Indo-Pacific in the backdrop of China's rising military manoeuvring in the region. The Chinese military is also actively eying the strategic Indian Ocean region to step up Beijing influence. China claims nearly all of the disputed South China Sea, though Taiwan, the Philippines, Brunei, Malaysia and Vietnam all claim parts of it. Beijing has built artificial islands and military installations in the South China Sea. In 2017, India, Australia, Japan and the US gave shape to the long-pending proposal of setting up the 'Quad' or the Quadrilateral coalition to counter China's aggressive behaviour in the Indo-Pacific region. “The upcoming trips by the Secretaries of State and Defence signal the importance of our alliance and partner relationships, which are a real force multiplier in advancing our shared interests in the United States commitment to a rules-based international order, an order that places all nations on a level playing field and holds them responsible for preserving the principles that underpin it,” he said. The Department of Defence, he said, is committed to upholding a free and open Indo-Pacific region where all nations, large and small, are secure in their sovereignty and pursue economic opportunity, resolve disputes without coercion, and have the freedom to navigate and fly consistent with international rules and norms. “At a time when the region is facing mounting pressure from People’s Republic of China and the continued threat from North Korean nuclear weapons and ballistic missile programmes, this trip sends an important signal of resolve to work with allies, partners, and like-mindeds to promote a peaceful, stable, and resilient order that benefits us all,” he said. Austin will be joining Secretary Tony Blinken for the Security Consultative Committee meeting, or 2+2, in Japan, the highest platform for alliance management that we have with Japan. “Our alliance is the cornerstone for peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. In addition to the 2+2, Secretary Austin will meet with Minister Kishi and other officials to discuss the continued transformation of this critical alliance and deepen our interoperability,” he said. “Austin, likewise, will join Secretary Blinken for a 2+2 meeting in the Republic of Korea. Our alliance with South Korea is the linchpin of peace and stability not only on the Korean Peninsula but across the region,” Helvey told reporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-def-sec-austin-rajnath-singh-to-discuss-ways-to-operationalise-major-defence-partnership-pentagon-961502.html
13-03-2021||National||Elections FAQs: What's the difference between national and state party?||The election battle is heating up in the four states and one union territory, which are scheduled to go to polls in less than a month’s time. Alliances are being forged between national and regional parties and seat-sharing formulae are being worked upon with the end goal of maximising the victory chances. During the Assembly elections, regional parties get to take the centre stage, giving them considerable clout. But how are national and regional or state parties fundamentally different? Registered political parties get recognition as state or national parties after they’ve fulfilled the conditions set by the Election Commission in the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968. As on 2019, India had seven national parties (All India Trinamool Congress, Bahujan Samaj Party, Bharatiya Janata Party, Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Indian National Congress and Nationalist Congress Party) and over 60 regional parties. In addition to that, there are over 2,000 registered but unrecognised parties in the country. A party would be recognised as a state party only if: A party would be recognised as a national party only if: The parties have to fulfill these conditions before every Lok Sabha and Assembly elections to make sure they don’t lose their status. With recognition, come perks The Representation of the People Act allows political parties to accept contributions voluntarily offered to it by any person or company other than a government company. Apart from this, candidates of registered parties get preference in allotment of election symbols. Other candidates are identified as independents and do not get preference in symbol allocation. State parties in the poll-bound states: West Bengal: All India Forward Bloc, Revolutionary Socialist Party Tamil Nadu: All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam Kerala: Janata Dal (Secular), Kerala Congress (M), Indian Union Muslim League, Revolutionary Socialist Party Assam: All India United Democratic Front, Asom Gana Parishad, Bodoland Peoples Front Puducherry: All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, All India N.R. Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Pattali Makkal Katchi||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elections-faqs-whats-the-difference-between-national-and-state-party-961510.html
13-03-2021||National||Attack on Mamata was tipping point, says BJP veteran Yashwant Sinha after joining TMC||BJP veteran  and former union minister Yashwant Sinha after joining the Trinamool Congress ahead of West Bengal Assembly elections, has alleged that the BJP during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's time believed in consensus but "today's government believes in crushing and conquering".  "Akalis, BJD have left the BJP. Today, who is standing with BJP?" Sinha asked in Kolkata during a media briefing. He said that the tipping point was the attack on Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. "It was the moment when I decided to join TMC and support Mamata Ji," he said. He warned that India is facing an unprecedented situation under the Narendra Modi-led BJP government.  "The strength of democracy lies in the strength of the institutions of democracy. All these institutions including the judiciary have become weak now," Sinha added. Two days ago, Sinha had slammed the BJP for not sympathising with Mamata who was injured in an alleged attack in Nandigram. "Shame on BJP. Instead of sympathising with Mamata injured in an attack they are making fun of it," he tweeted.    Shame on BJP. Instead of sympathising with Mamata injured in an attack they are making fun of it. On March 8, he had also said, "The Borrowed Janata Party deserves our congratulations for living off the rejects of other parties." The Borrowed Janata Party deserves our congratulations for living off the rejects of other parties. Earlier, he had hit out at the party for terming Mamata as an 'outsider' in Nandigarm. "Mamata is an outsider in Nandi gram and Modi/Shah are insiders in Bengal. What irony?" he had tweeted.  BJP leader and her former TMC protege Suvendu Adhikari during his roadshows had branded West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as an outsider in Nandigram. Accusing Banerjee of trying to divide communities on religious lines ahead of the assembly elections, Adhikari said the TMC supremo had "incorrectly" recited the 'Chandipath' (holy text) here on Tuesday. The state goes to polls on March 27. The elections, which will witness a battle between the BJP and the TMC, will see voting held in eight phases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attack-on-mamata-was-tipping-point-says-bjp-veteran-yashwant-sinha-after-joining-tmc-961532.html
13-03-2021||National||Ratan Tata takes first shot of Covid-19 vaccine||Veteran industrialist Ratan Tata on Saturday hoped everyone can be immunised and protected soon from the coronavirus pandemic, having got himself vaccinated.  Tata in a social media post praised the process of vaccination, describing it as "effortless and painless". "Very thankful to have gotten my first vaccination shot today. It was effortless and painless," he said. Very thankful to have gotten my first vaccination shot today. It was effortless and painless. I truly hope everyone can be immunised and protected soon. Having got vaccinated at a time when the number of Covid-19 cases are rising in India, Tata said, "I truly hope everyone can be immunised and protected soon." India had recorded 23,285 cases of coronavirus infection in a day, the highest in around 78 days, taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,13,08,846, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 2.80 crore with 18.40 lakh jabs given on Friday till the evening, the ministry had said. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated, and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2, 2021. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1, for those who are above 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ratan-tata-takes-first-shot-of-covid-19-vaccine-961537.html
13-03-2021||National||DMK bets on petrol, diesel price cuts, 75% job quota for locals to win votes in Tamil Nadu||Releasing the party's manifesto for the April 6 Assembly election, Tamil Nadu's principal Opposition party, DMK, on Saturday promised legislation to reserve 75 per cent of jobs for locals, reduce the prices of petrol and diesel in the state, and providing a Rs 100 subsidy to LPG cylinders availed by families.  Party President M K Stalin said the manifesto has over 500 promises. He announced that a dedicated ministry will be formed to oversee their implementation if DMK was to be voted to power. “DMK manifesto is always considered as the hero of the elections. This time, many said the candidate list is the hero. I am releasing the second hero of this elections which is the manifesto,” Stalin said, releasing the document at party headquarters, Anna Arivalayam.  He said special courts will be set up to try cases of corruption against ministers of the current AIADMK government. The manifesto also promised to waive off education loans availed by students who are within 30 years of age. The manifesto promises to reduce the price of petrol and diesel by Rs 5 and Rs 4, respectively, by the way of cutting down the state taxes on petroleum products and providing of Rs 100 subsidy to LPG cylinders availed by families. Besides, Stalin said the price of Aavin packaged milk will be reduced by Rs 3 per litre, and government school students will be provided free tablet computers with internet connections.   The ruling AIADMK had announced six free LPG cylinders a year for every household.  The manifesto also covered core campaign issues of the DMK like NEET. Stalin promised to abolish the entrance test in Tamil Nadu and gave an assurance that it will be the first legislation to be passed by the new Assembly. He said the new DMK government will bring legislation to reserve 75 per cent of jobs in industries to locals, while promising to accord priority to first-generation graduates in government jobs.  Playing the secular card, the manifesto promises Rs 1,000 crore and Rs 200 crore for renovation and consecration of temples, and churches and mosques, respectively. The DMK also announced providing Rs 25,000 each for 1 lakh Hindus to undertake spiritual tours.  The manifesto also has several promises for women – enhancing the maternity assistance to Rs 24,000, free travel for women in town buses, and free sanitary pads to school and college students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dmk-bets-on-petrol-diesel-price-cuts-75-job-quota-for-locals-to-win-votes-in-tamil-nadu-961541.html
13-03-2021||National||Flyers alert! You'll be de-boarded if you don't wear mask||Air travelers refusing to wear masks and follow Covid-19 protocol during a flight could find themselves on 'no-fly list', according to the directives issued by the civil aviation regulator on Saturday. The stringent order by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) came in the wake of observations by the Delhi High Court to the effect after a judge found rampant violations of Covid-19 protocol on a Kolkata-Delhi flight earlier this month. “In case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be deboarded, if need be, before departure,” the DGCA order said. It also asked airport directors and terminal managers to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol at airports and hand over violators, after proper warnings, to security agencies. “In case, any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear a mask or violates 'Covid-19 Protocol for Passengers' even after repeated warnings, during the course of the flight, such passenger may be treated as 'unruly passenger' and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in the civil aviation requirements (CAR), shall be followed by the concerned airline,” it said. The CAR section 3 series M (vi) provides for putting unruly passengers on a no-fly list for varying periods ranging from three months to two years. The directive also instructed CISF or police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport to make sure no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask. “The mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances,” the DGCA circular read.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flyers-alert-youll-be-de-boarded-if-you-dont-wear-mask-961544.html
13-03-2021||National||Stepping up vaccination drive can quell new Covid-19 wave in India: Scientists||With India recording the highest number of daily novel coronavirus cases in 83 days on Saturday, the country could be heading towards a new wave that scientists say can be quelled by vaccinating the maximum number of people and following Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Union Health Ministry reported 24,882 fresh Covid-19 infections, up from 23,285 the day earlier and in keeping with a graph steadily inching upwards. This is the highest daily rise since December 20 when 26,624 new infections were recorded. As red flags went up, the jury was out on whether it constituted a new wave of the pandemic. Scientists grappled with the why and how of the surge in cases but were agreed that adherence to Covid-19 protocols and escalating the vaccination drive to cover more people were necessary to control the rising trajectory of the disease. Anurag Agarwal, director of the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, said scientists at his institute are trying to understand if the rise in cases is due to more-transmissible variants of the virus or due to a lapse in precautionary measures followed by people. Though there is no clarity if a new wave of the pandemic is currently underway, some things are certain. "Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination remain our best ways to stop the pandemic," Agarwal told PTI. There could possibly be a silver line somewhere. According to Monica Gulati, senior dean and head of faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, Lovely Professional University, India’s rising curve is not very high unlike other countries where new strains have been found, indicating that the prevalent strain is not very infectious. She also said the current rise in reported coronavirus infections could be due to the spread of new variants as well as the casual attitude of the general public.    Gulati explained that the current surge in cases "is very well separated and shows a less steep rise from the previous ones indicating a change in the causative factor". "While in countries where the new strains are found to be more lethal than the original strains, the new wave is much steeper and higher as compared to the previous one. In India, the slope of the rising curve is not very high as yet which may be attributed to a number of factors, including a break in the propagation chain due to high rate of vaccination and low infectivity of the prevalent strain," Gulati told PTI.     Other scientists took a grimmer view of the situation. The seven-day average of new cases of infection has risen by 67 per cent in India -- from 10,988 cases a day for the week leading to February 11, to 18,371 average daily cases for the week ending on Wednesday,   The positivity rate, which is the fraction of coronavirus tests conducted across the country that are positive for infection, has also been steadily increasing over the last month.    While it was only 1.6 per cent for the week leading to February 14, currently 2.6 per cent of all tested samples are positive for the coronavirus infection -- a rise by one whole percentage point within a month. Rakesh Mishra, director of the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB), warned that there could be a new wave if the current trends continue and new homegrown variants of the virus may emerge. "There is a possibility of another wave. Right now this is happening already in a couple of states, including Maharashtra, in a major way. But this is avoidable with exceptional advisory and continuation of Covid appropriate behaviour," Mishra told PTI. "Currently the rise in cases is happening in multiple cities, across states, and it doesn't look like a new variant is responsible for all these surges but one common feature in all these places is lack of Covid appropriate behaviour. And if this continues, it may even lead to new variants emerging in India," he added.   Virologist Upasana Ray concurred that it may be too early to say if a second wave is currently underway but said the trends definitely point to a localised surge.  "Although it may or may not turn out to be a second wave, we should consider it a potential concern and be prepared for the worst," Ray, a senior scientist with CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, told PTI.  "We hear about new variants. Whether or not any of them is responsible, that part is not established yet. However, keeping an eye on home grown mutants would be important," she added. Ray said there is widespread pandemic fatigue, due to which people are no longer following Covid-19 appropriate behavior like masking up, social distancing, and maintaining hygiene as they did earlier. The need of the hour is to revisit compliance with safety measures at all public places, she said.  "Then comes expediting vaccinations so that the immunity is achieved faster in the population and localised surges could die off due to decreased transmission rate. Also, rigorous screening and isolation are still important for keeping a check," the virologist added.  Till 7 pm Thursday, over 2.6 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses were administered across the country. These included 72,16,759 (72.16 lakh) healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 40,48,754 (40.48 lakh) HCWs who have taken the second dose, according to the Union Health Ministry. Given the current rate of vaccination, Agarwal said, it would take a while for the country to build herd immunity, which is when a significant portion of the population builds immunity against the coronavirus and stops its chain of transmission.   The need of the hour, Gulati said, is to dispel fear and scepticism among the general population with regard to vaccination.    "As the vaccines being administered in India have been found to be both safe and effective, people must demonstrate their willingness to get vaccinated, especially the vulnerable groups," she added. "Since vaccination is voluntary and available at the rate of Rs 250 per jab, the onus is now on people to voluntarily get vaccinated to break the vicious cycle of infection." In her view, the current focus should be on ensuring that the maximum number of eligible people are vaccinated and to continue to observe all the precautionary measures till herd immunity is established.    The Health Ministry's data notes that six states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu -- continue to report a high number of fresh Covid-19 cases and together account for 85.91 per cent of daily new cases in the country. Expressing concern over the rise in active Covid-19 cases in these states, the Centre has advised people to be "careful and watchful" and not to lower their guard. NITI Aayog member V K Paul earlier this week described the coronavirus situation, especially in Maharashtra, as "worrisome". Paul advised that in districts where Covid-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stepping-up-vaccination-drive-can-quell-new-covid-19-wave-in-india-scientists-961546.html
13-03-2021||National||India reviews AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine side effects after concerns in Europe||India will carry out a deeper review of post-vaccination side effects from the AstraZeneca shot next week although no cases of blood clots have been reported so far, an official told AFP Saturday. New Delhi decided to conduct the review after several countries suspended rollout over blood clot fears even as the World Health Organization said there was no reason to stop using AstraZeneca's Covid-19 jab. Denmark, Norway and Iceland paused use of the drugmaker's shot as a precaution after isolated reports of recipients developing blood clots. "We are looking at all the adverse events, particularly serious adverse events like deaths and hospitalisation. We will come back if we find anything of concern," N.K. Arora, a member of India's national task force on Covid-19, told AFP. India has given at least 28 million shots in its vast vaccination programme, most of them AstraZeneca's which are produced at the Serum Institute of India. New Delhi has also gifted and allowed exports of millions of these jabs to around 70 countries over the last few weeks as a part of its vaccine diplomacy. Arora said there was "no immediate issue of concern as number of adverse events (in India) is very, very low. We are relooking at (adverse events that were reported) to see if there was any issue of blood clotting." "As of yesterday there were 59 or 60 deaths, and they were all coincidental," the doctor said, adding hospitalisation cases were being re-examined. "In fact there is a real effort from our side that once complete investigation is done, to put its results in public domain, on the ministry of health website," Arora added. India has been using AstraZeneca and indigenous vaccine giant Bharat Biotech's Covaxin in its rapidly expanding vaccination drive at home. At least two million people were vaccinated on Friday alone, and this ramp up comes at a time when Covid-19 cases are rising across different Indian states after weeks of decline. The western state of Maharashtra has announced fresh restrictions and a week-long lockdown in one of its big cities, Nagpur, after the recent spike across the region. Fresh restrictions including curbs on movement and public gatherings were also reintroduced in some pockets of the state, which is also expected to impact the economic recovery in its industrial belt. "Some states in the country have been reporting very high number of daily new Covid cases. Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in Covid daily cases," the health ministry said in a statement on Friday. India had registered 23,285 new cases in the last 24 hours, with the six states accounting for 85.6 per cent of the new infections, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reviews-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-side-effects-after-concerns-in-europe-961548.html
13-03-2021||National||EC finds West Bengal govt report on Mamata 'attack' sketchy||The Election Commission (EC) has found the report submitted by the West Bengal government regarding the alleged attack on Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram to be 'sketchy'. EC sources said that the poll panel has asked Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay to make the report more elaborate. “The report submitted by the West Bengal Government is lacking in details such as how the incident took place and who was behind it. We have asked the chief secretary to add further details to it,” a senior EC official said. He also said that the report filed by the state government mentions a huge crowd at the spot where the incident occurred but does not mention the “four to five people”, who the chief minister alleged attacked her. No clear footage “The report mentions that there was no clear video footage of the incident which took place in the Birulia Bazar area of Nandigram on March 10,” the EC official said. Meanwhile, the poll body will take a call on Sunday on the reports submitted by the chief secretary and two special poll observers on the injuries sustained by Mamata, sources said. The chief minister sustained injuries after she was allegedly attacked by unidentified people while campaigning in Nandigram after filing her nomination from the Assembly constituency on March 10. She was rushed to the government-run SSKM Hospital on the same night. The TMC supremo was rushed to the government-run SSKM Hospital on the same night. Mamata was discharged on Friday. The doctors attending to her said that she was released due to her repeated requests and that she should abide by certain restrictions in movement.  Mamata had said that she will “campaign on a wheelchair if needed.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-finds-west-bengal-govt-report-on-mamata-attack-sketchy-961550.html
13-03-2021||National||What happens if two candidates score same marks in NEET?||The National Entrance-cum-Eligibility Test (NEET) is among the most competitive exams in India, being the only admission path for undergraduate medicine course for several lakhs of students. So it's not a surprise that like many exams, there may be a time when two candidates score the same marks in the exam. For such situations, the National Testing Agency has a tie-breaking policy in store. What is the tie-breaking formula? In the event two candidates receive the same NTA score, the NEET tie-breaker policy considers factors like subject-wise marks in biology and chemistry, in descending order of importance. The factors applied to break the tie are as follows: If the same marks have been scored by two or more candidates, the one who scores higher marks in biology (botany and zoology) will get preference in ranking. However, if the tie exists after comparing biology scores, candidates who score higher marks in chemistry will get preference. If the tie somehow persists even after comparing the marks, candidates with fewer wrong answers in all subjects will be given preference. But if for some reason the tie persists, the older candidate in the exam will be given preference over the younger candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/what-happens-if-two-candidates-score-same-marks-in-neet-961551.html
13-03-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind to visit Odisha next week, attend convocation at NIT Rourkela||President Ram Nath Kovind is scheduled to undertake a two-day visit to Odisha next week during which he will attend the convocation ceremony at NIT Rourkela as the chief guest, official sources said. Kovind will visit the premier institute on March 21, and visit Konark temple the next day, the sources said. The programme at NIT Rourkela is set to begin at 10 am, and the president would be delivering the convocation address on the occasion. Among others, Odisha Governor Ganeshi Lal, Union Minister for Petroleum, Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan and state Health and Family Welfare Minister N K Das are also expected to attend the ceremony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-to-visit-odisha-next-week-attend-convocation-at-nit-rourkela-961552.html
13-03-2021||National||24 factories shut down in last 3 years; 5012 workers lost job||As many as 24 factories have been permanently closed in the last three years in which over 5,000 workers lost their job, according to the Ministry of Labour and Employment. A total of 5,012 workers lost their jobs between 2018 and 2020 due to the closure of the factories in nine states. The data placed in Lok Sabha showed that the highest number of closures and affected workers were in Madhya Pradesh -- 3,738 lost jobs in seven units. Madhya Pradesh accounted for around 75 per cent of the affected workers. Telangana came a distant second with 754 workers losing their jobs due to closure of factories. In Himachal Pradesh, 233 workers lost their jobs due to closure of five factories, while in Rajasthan, 118 workers lost jobs due to shutting down of one factory. Uttar Pradesh had 107 such workers when one unit downed the shutters. 21 workers in Maharashtra were left jobless besides 18 in Odisha, 15 in Kerala and eight in Uttarakhand when one factory each in these states were closed. The highest number of closures across the country was in 2018 when 11 factories were shut down affecting 2,105 workers. 2019 witnessed six factories closing down and 1,631 workers sacked, while 2020 saw 1,276 workers losing jobs when seven factories were closed down. An official said the statistics were based on the information received by the Labour Bureau from Labour Departments of states and union territories. As part of reviving closed factories, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said in a written reply in Lok Sabha that the RBI and the Centre have taken measures to infuse liquidity in the economy to sustain the market economy and raise the level of employment. He also said the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojna (ABRY) incentivised creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the Covid-19 pandemic. The scheme reduces the financial burden of the employers of various sectors, including MSME and encourages them to hire more workers. Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), Gangwar added, the Centre has contributed both 12 per cent employer's share and 12 per cent employee's share under Employees Provident Fund (EPF), totaling 24 per cent of the wage for the wage month from March to August 2020 for the establishment having upto 100 employees with 90 per cent of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/24-factories-shut-down-in-last-3-years-5012-workers-lost-job-961554.html
13-03-2021||National||Indian economy looking at 'V-shaped' recovery: Anurag Thakur||There are green shoots visible in various sectors of the economy and the country is already looking at a 'V-shaped' recovery, Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Thakur said on Saturday. "India is already looking at 'V-shaped' recovery. Along with the green shoots in various sectors, in the month of February, FPI inflows were Rs 25,787 crore," Thakur said at a virtual conclave organised by the Institute of Actuaries of India. After two consecutive quarters of contraction, the country's gross domestic product (GDP) entered into a positive territory with a growth of 0.4 per cent in the October-December quarter of the current fiscal, according to the data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) in February. Thakur said the country's foreign exchange reserves, which have been steadily increasing over the last few months, had touched all time high at $590 billion in January 2021. He said the accretion to the forex reserves in the last eight month was $100 billion. "These are signs of confidence that the global funds and investors look at India as a destination to invest and they are bullish about India's growth story," Thakur added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-economy-looking-at-v-shaped-recovery-anurag-thakur-961556.html
13-03-2021||National||Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express catches fire, none hurt||A fire broke out in the C4 compartment of the Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express on Saturday due to a short circuit. The incident happened near Kansro. Uttarakhand DGP Ashok Kumar said that all passengers were safely evacuated and no injuries were reported.  "The affected coach has been detached... Guard has informed that all passengers are safe and the fire brigade has been informed. A total of 35 passengers in the coach were shifted and adjusted in other coaches. The train has departed for the destination," the Railways said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-dehradun-shatabdi-express-catches-fire-none-hurt-961557.html
13-03-2021||National||Renewal of registration for 15-year-old govt vehicles to stop from April 1, 2022||The government departments will not be able to renew registration of their vehicles older than 15 years from April 1, 2022, if a proposal in this regard issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways is finalised. It has sought stakeholders comments to amend related rules in this regard issuing a notification. Once approved, this will be applicable to all government vehicles -- central or state governments, union territories, PSUs, municipal and autonomous bodies, as per the notification. "From April 1, 2022, government departments will not be able to renew the certificate of registration of their vehicles, after 15 years. This will apply to all government - central, state, UT, PSUs, municipal bodies & autonomous bodies," the Ministry of Road, Transport and Highways said in a tweet. The development comes close on heels of the voluntary vehicle scrapping policy announced in the Union Budget on February 1 for 2021-22 which provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. Notification of the draft rules has been issued to this effect on March 12 by the ministry seeking comments, objections and suggestions from the stakeholders within thirty days. The certificate of registration shall not be renewed after the laps of 15 years for government vehicles, it said. Presenting the Budget for 2021-22 in Parliament, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1 had announced vehicle scrapping policy. Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari had said that initially one crore vehicles will go for scrapping and the policy will lead to new investments of around Rs 10,000 crore and create as many as 50,000 jobs. These old vehicles are estimated to cause 10-12 times more pollution than the latest vehicles. The government had earlier said it plans to impose green tax on old polluting vehicles soon in a bid to protect the environment and curb pollution while vehicles like strong hybrids, electric vehicles and those running on alternate fuels like CNG, ethanol and LPG will be exempted. The revenue collected through the green tax will be utilised for tackling pollution. Under the scheme, transport vehicles older than eight years could be charged green tax at the time of renewal of fitness certificate at the rate of 10-25 per cent of road tax, as per green tax proposal sent to states for consultations after cleared by the ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renewal-of-registration-for-15-year-old-govt-vehicles-to-stop-from-april-1-2022-961558.html
13-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccine drive: 20 lakh jabs administered on Friday, highest so far, says Centre||The Health Ministry said on Saturday that more than 20 lakh vaccine doses against the coronavirus were administered across the country the previous day, the highest single-day count so far As many as 16,39,663 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose -- healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) -- and 4,13,874 such people received the second shot. "India recorded a significant milestone in its countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive which started on January 16. More than 20 lakh (20,53,537) vaccine doses were given on Day 56 of the vaccination drive (March 12) through 30,561 sessions," the ministry said in a statement. This is the highest single-day vaccine administration so far, it said.     A total of more than 2.82 crore (2,82,18,457) vaccine doses have been administered through 4,86,314 sessions, as per the provisional report. "These include 72,93,575 HCWs (1st dose), 41,94,030 HCWs (2nd dose), 72,35,745 FLWs (1st dose) and 9,48,923 FLWs (2nd dose), 12,54,468 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st dose) and 72,91,716 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," it said. Eight states constituted 74 per cent of the 20.54 lakh doses administered in the past 24 hours, with Uttar Pradesh topping the list with more than 3.3 lakh vaccine doses. Ten states account for 69 per cent of the second dose vaccinations in India and Uttar Pradesh alone accounts for 9.71 per cent -- 4,99,242 -- of the total second dose vaccinations in the country, the ministry said. It added that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh reported 87.72 per cent of the new cases in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra accounting for 63.57 per cent of India's total active cases. Twenty states and Union territories have less than 1,000 active cases, the ministry said and 18 of states/Union territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccine-drive-20-lakh-jabs-administered-on-friday-highest-so-far-says-centre-961560.html
13-03-2021||National||Ambani bomb scare: Cops reach Tihar Jail to question terror convict on mobile phone recovery||A team of the Delhi Police's Special Cell on Saturday reached Tihar Jail to question Tehseen Akhtar, who was arrested in 2014 when he was heading proscribed terror group Indian Mujahideen, in connection with the recovery of a mobile phone from his barrack, officials said. The mobile phone, according to police, is suspected to have been used for creating a Telegram channel that was used by a group named Jaish-ul-Hind for claiming responsibility for parking an SUV with gelatin sticks outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's south Mumbai home, 'Antilia', on February 25. A Special Cell team is currently in Tihar Jail to question Akhtar in connection with the recovery of the phone from his barrack in Central Jail No. 8, a senior police officer said. "We have taken permission from the court to question him and based on that, we may question other inmates if needed," he said. The Special Cell had approached the Tihar Jail administration on Thursday in connection with the Ambani bomb scare case after the new angle emerged. On Thursday, a senior Mumbai Police officer had said the Telegram channel through which Jaish-ul-Hind had claimed responsibility for parking the explosives-laden SUV outside Ambani's residence was "created in the Tihar" area of Delhi. The Mumbai Police took the help of a private cyber agency to track the location of the phone on which the Telegram channel was created. During the investigation, the location of the phone was traced near Delhi's Tihar Jail, the officer had said. The Delhi government has sought a report from the director general of prisons regarding the recovery of the mobile phone from Tihar Jail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambani-bomb-scare-cops-reach-tihar-jail-to-question-terror-convict-on-mobile-phone-recovery-961561.html
13-03-2021||National||Inside police's lost-and-found booth at the Kumbh Mela||In the age of mobile phones and Google Maps, the idea of getting lost in a crowd doesn't bother people. However, at the Kumbh Mela, where hundreds of thousands of people from different walks of life congregate, getting lost is a real threat.  The large crowds at the massive religious event, already troublesome amid a pandemic, can incite anxiety especially in the police forces responsible to maintain safety.  Even as Covid-19 cases in India are on the uptick, lakhs of people from across the country thronged to Haridwar at the Kumbh Mela on the occasion of Mahashivaratri earlier this week.  The authorities told the publication that over 200 cases of missing persons were reported in the last 10 days.  Sharma said since the elderly and children don't carry mobile phones, it is possible to drift away in the sea of people.  Sharma's booth is one of the many initiatives taken at the Kumbh Mela to ensure safety. The police has also adopted new-age technologies to tackle the ever-increasing crowd. An AI-based surveillance system is in place which helps authorities track faces, assess crowd density, and monitor headcount. It also helps check social distancing norms and find violators of the mask rule. "There are cases when youngsters take turns in making false announcements to get their voices recorded and circulate it among friends for fun. There are times it is obvious but we cannot afford to turn anyone away,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inside-polices-lost-and-found-booth-at-the-kumbh-mela-961567.html
13-03-2021||National||Govt to place safeguards to prevent data misuse by unauthorised persons: Draft ecommerce policy||The government would lay down principles for the usage of data for the development of any industry, where such norms do not already exist, and put in place adequate safeguards to prevent misuse and access of data by unauthorised persons, according to a draft national ecommerce policy. The government is in the process of developing regulations for personal and non-personal data, the policy, which is under discussion, said. The draft has stated that sharing of data for industrial development would be encouraged and regulations for data will be provided for the sharing mechanism. "The government shall lay down principles for usage of data for the purpose of development of any industry, ecommerce, consumer protection, national security, economic security and law enforcement including taxation where such principles do not already exist and put in place adequate safeguards to prevent misuse and access of data by unauthorized persons," it said. According to the draft, the government acknowledges the importance of data as an asset and needs to use data emanating from India for "Indian entities first". An inter-ministerial meeting, under the chairmanship of a top official of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade (DPIIT), was held on Saturday to deliberate upon this draft. For free and informed choice, it said that ecommerce operators would have to ensure that algorithms used by them, are not biased and that no discrimination due to digitally induced biases is prevalent. "Consumers have a right to be made aware of all relevant details about the goods and services offered for sale including country of origin, value addition in India, and any other such information which may be necessary for making an informed decision at the pre-purchase stage," it said. To promote fair competition, the draft said that ecommerce operators must ensure equal treatment of all sellers/vendors registered on their platforms and not adopt algorithms which result in prioritizing select vendors/sellers. It said the operators have to bring out clear and transparent policies on discounts, including the basis of discount rates funded by platforms for different products/suppliers and implications of participation/ non-participation in discount schemes, so as to ensure fair and equal treatment. "In the interest of the Indian consumer, and the local startup ecosystem, the government will aim to ensure that there are more service providers available, and that network effects do not lead to creation of digital monopolies misusing their dominant market position," it added. Further, to eliminate counterfeit products from online platforms, it said the companies would create adequate safeguards to ensure that products offered are genuine and the liability for counterfeit products would be "jointly and severally" of the online firm and the seller. In order to ensure that ecommerce is not used to defraud customers, registration with an authority identified by the government would be made mandatory, it added. "In order to keep up with the technological and economic transformations in the ecommerce sector, measurement of ecommerce activities, including but not limited to details of sale, import and customs duties, grievance redressal, compliance to existing or new regulations/rules, rogue sellers, counterfeit items etc. will be undertaken by concerned agencies in a periodic manner," it added. It also said that given the interdisciplinary nature of ecommerce, a Standing Group of Secretaries on ecommerce would give recommendations to address policy challenges. Regarding anti-piracy measures, the draft said that a body of industry stakeholders and identified trusted parties will be created that would identify "rogue ecommerce entities", meaning those firms that host predominantly pirated content. "After verification, these rogue ecommerce entities shall be included in the 'Infringing ecommerce Entities' (IEE). Internet service providers shall remove or disable access to the websites identified in the IEE within the set time-lines," it said. Further, it said the policy would be a kind of a consolidated document for providing a level-playing field to all stakeholders, including individual consumers, MSMEs, traders, artisans, start-ups, while pursuing a development agenda which addresses growth and reduces prevalent market distortions. The policy would cover all modes of ecommerce -- inventory, marketplace and hybrid model and it would be equally applicable to entities, natural and /or legal with foreign and domestic investments, the 9-page draft of the DPIIT said. Depending on parameters such as turnover, market size, active users, registered sellers, sale of merchandise value of an ecommerce operator, distinction would be made separately for ecommerce operators of significance who may be required to have additional compliance requirements. To promote exports through ecommerce, it said India Post will develop a specialized, low cost, and trackable solution targeted at ecommerce exporters for small products, with committed timelines for express delivery. Besides Foreign Post Offices will be strengthened and their numbers will be increased, so that they may act as delivery hubs, across regions. The draft also said that the policy would bring ecommerce exports on par with non-ecommerce exports by enabling online grant of drawbacks, advance authorization, EPCG (export promotion capital goods) and GST (Goods and Services Tax) refund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-place-safeguards-to-prevent-data-misuse-by-unauthorised-persons-draft-ecommerce-policy-961569.html
13-03-2021||National||India helped over 150 countries during Covid-19: Piyush Goyal||India has done its best to help the world during the Covid-19 crisis under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Saturday. After offering prayers at the famous hill shrine of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala here, Piyush Goyal told reporters that during the pandemic period, the country with its over 130 crore population has shown the world its resilient strength by quickly recovering after a fight with the dreaded virus. India was not dependent on anybody during the pandemic period, rather it extended support to the world in the battle against the virus, Goyal claimed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the true spirit of 'Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam' (regarding the world as one family) has initially supported with supply of medicines to over 150 countries besides Covid-19 vaccine supply to over 75 nations from India, Goyal noted. "This is the true spirit and strength of the people of India that we ever care for the world while protecting our self," Goyal said adding that the presiding deity of Tirupati Lord Balaji blessed and encouraged us to serve the world during the Covid-19 period. Noting that Covid-19 pandemic has not yet ended, he urged people to be careful and protect themselves by strictly observing the protocols including maintaining social distance and wearing masks at all times. We have to wait till everybody is vaccinated and till a cure is found, he said. After the Covid-19-induced lockdown was eased, India's economy is back on its feet and the Indian railway has done more freight loadings this year compared to last, besides reinstalling and restarting almost 80 percent of trains including mails and expresses in the country, he said. In Tirupati, expansion work at the railway station was nearing completion and that would help it receive more trains from different parts of the country, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-helped-over-150-countries-during-covid-19-piyush-goyal-961571.html
13-03-2021||National||Dalit woman beaten to death for protesting against daughter's molestation||Mother of a dalit teen was allegedly beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj district, about 200 kilometres from Lucknow, after she protested against alleged molestation of her daughter. According to the police sources, mother of the teen, a resident of Buapur village in the district, complained about the incident to the families of three youths, who had allegedly molested her daughter when the latter was working in the fields on Wednesday. The three youths, also residents of the same village, had allegedly torn clothes of the teen and tried to rape her but she managed to free herself and ran to safety. She later told her mother about the incident, after which the latter went to the families of the youths to complain, sources said.  Infuriated over the complaint, the youths allegedly barged into the house of the girl and thrashed her mother late on Wednesday night. She suffered serious injuries and was rushed to the hospital. She succumbed to her injuries on Thursday night, police said. The three youths, identified as Aman, Talib and Kaushal, were arrested, police said. Four cops, including three sub-inspectors deployed at Mauaima police station, were suspended on charges of laxity, sources said adding that a case has been lodged in this connection and the investigation is on. Tension prevailed in the village after the incident and security personnel in strength have been deployed there as a precautionary measure, police officials said in Prayagraj. The state has witnessed a sudden spurt in the incidents of crimes against women in the past few months. The state government has come under attack from the Opposition parties over its alleged failure to ensure safety of the women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dalit-woman-beaten-to-death-for-protesting-against-daughters-molestation-961579.html
13-03-2021||National||ISRO launches sounding rocket to study attitudinal variations in neutral winds, plasma dynamics||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) has launched a sounding rocket to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics from Sriharikota spaceport. ISRO has developed a series of sounding rockets called Rohini series, important among them being RH-200, RH-300 and RH-560, number in the name indicating the diameter of the rocket in mm, according to the Bengaluru-headquartered space agency. "Launch of sounding rocket (RH-560) to study attitudinal variations in the neutral winds and plasma dynamics carried out today (Friday) at SDSC SHAR, Sriharikota," ISRO tweeted. Sounding rockets are one or two stage solid propellant rockets used for probing the upper atmospheric regions and for space research. They also serve as easily affordable platforms to test or prove prototypes of new components or subsystems intended for use in launch vehicles and satellites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-launches-sounding-rocket-to-study-attitudinal-variations-in-neutral-winds-plasma-dynamics-961580.html
13-03-2021||National||Opposition shouldn't oppose for the sake of record as it will dent its credibility, says Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu||Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday said that the Opposition has every right to criticise the government but warned the new MPs that opposing for the sake of record will dent its credibility. Inaugurating the orientation programme for the newly elected Rajya Sabha MPs, he also said a thorough understanding of the state of the nation is an essential prerequisite to making an effective contribution as a lawmaker. "The Opposition has the right to criticize the government of the day. In fact, it is their duty. But the criticism should be informed so that it looks credible. Opposing every move of the government for the sake of record dents its credibility. The quality of criticism should really sting the government of the day and catch the eye of the media and the people," he said. Naidu said all MPs should ensure and further strengthen the unity and inclusivity of the multicultural society by checkmating the attempts to create divisions based on caste, colour, region and religion. "Each one of you must emerge as the spokesperson of the aspiring, emergent, capable, resilient and united India," he said. Without referring to recent incidents, Naidu, however, cautioned the MPs about the "attempts to block the progress of the country whose voice is finding an echo in the global order in the form of disturbances along the boundary, misplaced criticism of the country based on some sporadic incidents, discrediting our democracy, economic restrictions, cross-border terror, etc". He also told the MPs that it is the content and perspective that matters while intervening in debates and not the length of the speech. Naidu advised them to avoid repetitions "which even kills the media interest". Naidu also wanted the MPs to be more tech-savvy as Information and Communication Technology (ICT) was bringing the world into one's palm. "Vast reservoirs of information and knowledge can be accessed with the click of a button on the keyboard of a laptop or a smartphone. This helps in your preparation for participation in the proceedings of the House. If you are tech shy, better overcome it and become tech-savvy," he said. The MPs should develop in-depth knowledge of issues being taken up in the House so as not to be general and vague in their interventions when complex issues with wider implications are discussed, he said. Concerned over the rising "negative perception" among the public about the functioning of legislatures in the country, he asked the MPs to abide by the elaborate Rules of Procedure and Conventions of the House evolved over the years to enable smooth functioning of the House. He "These rules provide for every contingency. During my 20 years in the Rajya Sabha and three and half years as its Chairman, I have never witnessed a situation when the inadequacy of Rules was felt in addressing procedural matters in the House," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-shouldnt-oppose-for-the-sake-of-record-as-it-will-dent-its-credibility-says-rajya-sabha-chairperson-m-venkaiah-naidu-961581.html
13-03-2021||National||Govt committed to promote renewable energy, especially in MSME sector: Nitin Gadkari||The government is committed to promote renewable energy resources in the country, especially in the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) sector, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has said. He also exuded confidence that within five years, India will be a top manufacturing hub for automobiles in the world. Gadkari, who holds MSME portfolio along with road transport, said by making solar energy available, "we will create big market for electric vehicles". He invited investors abroad to invest in Indian MSMEs and expressed hope that this will provide a number of opportunities to the MSME sector to become the world's largest manufacturing hub.  The minister was addressing a webinar on 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat – Opportunities in Solar & MSME' on Friday evening. In his address, Gadkari said that the MSMEs with good track record are now being encouraged for capital market. He said there exists a huge opportunity for investment in scrapping policy. The minister highlighted that India has tremendous potential and capacity for electricity generation. He said that the solar power rate in India is Rs 2.40 per unit and commercial rate of power is Rs 11 per unit and the cheap power generated through solar energy can be used for automobiles and other developmental works. The government has set an ambitious target for renewable energy and in particular, solar power generation, for this decade. The target for renewable energy installation is 450 GW by year 2030.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-committed-to-promote-renewable-energy-especially-in-msme-sector-nitin-gadkari-961586.html
13-03-2021||National||Nation's first AC railway terminal to function soon: Piyush Goyal||The country's first centralised air-conditioned railway terminal in Bengaluru would be operational soon, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. "Named after one of the foremost civil engineers, Bharat Ratna Sir M Visvesvaraya, the nation's first centralised AC railway terminal in Bengaluru is set to become operational soon," Goyal tweeted. According to railway officials, the new coach terminal was planned at Baiyappanahalli in the city to meet the demand to introduce more express trains connecting Bengaluru. "Byappanahalli is the third coach terminal sanctioned in 2015-16, which has been named after Bharat Ratna Sir M Visvesvaraya who was an engineer par excellence and contributed tremendously to nation-building," the Chief Public Relation Officer of South Western Railway said. Built at an estimated cost of Rs 314 crore, it was supposed to be opened by February-end but due to certain reasons, it was put on hold. Once this terminal is operational, more long distance trains from Bengaluru to other metros like Mumbai and Chennai and also trains connecting Bengaluru to all districts within Karnataka can be run, the officer said, adding the terminal would help decongest KSR Bengaluru and Yesvantpur stations in the city. According to her, a modern station building with centralised air-conditioning and airport like faade has been constructed. State-of-the-art passenger amenities are being provided to make journey a pleasant experience. The station building is of 4,200 square metre covered area to cater to daily footfalls of 50,000. The terminal has seven platforms apart from eight stabling lines and three pit lines enabling the terminal to operate 50 trains daily. Vijaya said the terminal has a grand canopy over the station building concourse on the lines of Bengaluru International Airport. It has a fully air-conditioned entrance lobby and a well- marked parking space for four-wheelers and two-wheelers with a capacity of 250 and 900 respectively. The officer said it has an upper-class waiting hall and reserved (VIP) lounge, food court, escalators, lifts connecting all platforms to facilitate passenger movement to all seven platforms, foot-over-bridge connecting all platforms, along with two subways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nations-first-ac-railway-terminal-to-function-soon-piyush-goyal-961587.html
13-03-2021||National||Ambani bomb scare probe: Sachin Vaze appears before NIA in Mumbai||Police officer Sachin Vaze on Saturday reached the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) office in south Mumbai to give statement in connection with the explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month, an official said. The assistant police inspector reached the agency's office at Cumballa Hill around 11.30 am, police said. The NIA is investigating the case of explosives recovery from the SUV parked near Ambani's residence on Carmichael Road on February 25. The probe agency wants information from Vaze in connection with the case, which is why he is at the NIA office, the police official said. The Scorpio found parked near Ambani's house contained explosives and a threat letter. Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when he was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Vaze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch earlier this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ambani-bomb-scare-probe-sachin-vaze-appears-before-nia-in-mumbai-961588.html
13-03-2021||National||V S Gaitonde's painting sells for Rs 39.98 crore, sets new record for Indian art||The artist broke his own record set by a 1974 untitled oil-on-canvas that was sold for Rs 36.8 crores.  The recent sale of Gaitonde's art is said to have brought cheer to the art industry battered by the Covid-19 pandemic.  Dinesh Vazirani, CEO and Co-Founder of Saffronart, told the publication that the sale had set a strong and optimistic precedent for the coming year.  The artwork was initially part of a collection belonging to Aditi Mangaldas and Aditya Mangaldas, the children of industrialist Harshavadan Mangaldas. Mangaldas and his wife Devyani had acquired it decades ago on a visit to Gaitonde's studio.  "The painting was a silent but extremely beautiful and powerful spectator of all these happenings in our family, the ups and downs in our lives.," said Aditi, a Kathak dancer, and choreographer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/v-s-gaitondes-painting-sells-for-rs-3998-crore-sets-new-record-for-indian-art-961595.html
13-03-2021||National||Amarnath yatra to begin from June 28||The 56-day long annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine of Amarnathji in south Kashmir Himalayas will begin on June 28 this year and conclude on August 22. Last year the annual yatra to the 3,880-metre high holy cave shrine was cancelled due to rise in Covid-19 cases all over the country, including Jammu and Kashmir. In 2019 the yatra was cancelled mid-way in wake of the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir on August 5 that year. Officials said the decision over the commencement of Amarnath pilgrimage from June 28 this year was taken in a meeting by Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB), which manages the affairs of the pilgrimage. Pertinently, Covid-19 positive cases have again started to surge in several parts of the country, but SASB as of now has decided to hold the yatra keeping with the Covid-19 guidelines. The Board has said that to keep religious sentiments alive, it will continue the live telecast/ virtual darshan of the morning and evening Aarti besides that the traditional rituals will be carried as per past practice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amarnath-yatra-to-begin-from-june-28-961596.html
13-03-2021||National||Jal Shakti Ministry launches framework for water quality testing, monitoring||The Ministry of Jal Shakti on Saturday launched a framework and guidelines for testing, monitoring and surveillance of drinking water quality as well as a Water Quality Information Management System (WQMIS), an online portal that provides detailed information on laboratories for this purpose. The guidelines specify work to be done in terms of surveillance and monitoring at the state, district, block/tehsil and village levels. The basic water quality parameters prescribed under the guidelines are pH value, total dissolved solids, turbidity, chloride, total alkalinity, total hardness, sulphate, iron, total arsenic, fluoride, nitrate, total coliform bacteria, e.coil or thermo-tolerant coliform bacteria. The guidelines have been prepared in consultation with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat told reporters that the aim of the Jal Jeevan Mission is to provide functional tap water connections by 2024 to all rural households and water quality is an important aspect of it. He said the total cost of the Jal Jeevan Mission is Rs 3,60,000 crore and 2 per cent of it has been dedicated to the quality of water. According to a 2018 assessment by the Central Ground Water Board, 52 per cent of all the blocks in the country have inter alia any one of the geogenic contaminants like arsenic, chloride, fluoride, iron, nitrate and salinity. Nearly 20 states in India have drinking water source contaminated with arsenic, fluoride, nitrate, iron, salinity or heavy metals. Apart from these, there are 61 priority districts across five states identified by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which are affected by Japanese Encephalitis - Acute Encephalitis Syndrome (JE-AES). Bharat Lal, Additional Secretary and Mission Director of National Jeevan Mission, said the purpose of the exercise is to instil a sense of confidence about water quality and people can also test water quality. He added that a database of 2,200 laboratories across the country has been prepared so that water quality can be tested. All the laboratories have been accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministry-launches-framework-for-water-quality-testing-monitoring-961601.html
13-03-2021||National||4 held for possessing 2.5 kg of unprocessed uranium in Nepal, probably smuggled from India years ago||Four Nepalese nationals were arrested on Saturday for possessing 2.5 kilogrammes of unprocessed uranium, with one of them claiming that her father-in-law "brought" it from India where he worked in a uranium mine some 20 years ago, police said. According to Senior Superintendent Sushil Singh Rathour, spokesperson for the Metropolitan Police Office, Ranipokhari, the arrest was made on a tip-off. A house in the Boudha area was raided, based on a tip-off, and four persons were found hiding 2.5 kg of Uranium 238, officials said at a press briefing. One of the arrested persons has claimed that her father-in-law had "brought the material from India some 20 years ago", where he worked in a uranium mine, police said. The police are looking into the claim. “We were informed that some people were trying to sell uranium after which our team raided the house of one of the arrestees at Boudha and arrested her and three others,” said Rathour. According to preliminary investigation, one of the arrestees had the material at her home in Boudha “for a very long time”. “Her father-in-law used to work in uranium mines in India some two decades ago. The man brought home some uranium with him and had kept it at his home,” said Senior Superintendent Ashok Singh, chief of Kathmandu Metropolitan Police Range. Her father-in-law is now 86 years old and currently lives in the United States, Singh was quoted as saying by the Kathmandu Post. “After learning that it was a high-value material, she tried to sell it with the help of three other people,” said Singh. “We confirmed from the Nepal Academy of Science and Technology that the confiscated item was raw uranium-238.” Police said they were yet to ascertain the worth of the confiscated material. Dr Suresh Kumar Dhungel, spokesperson for the Nepal Academy of Science and Technology, however, said they were yet to verify if the confiscated material is uranium-238. “From the sample, we found out that the substance contains highly radioactive material, but we are yet to ascertain what exactly it is,” Dhungel told the Kathmandu Post. Nepal has no technology centre or agency where this metal can be used, experts said. This is perhaps the first time that arrests have been made in connection to uranium smuggling, police said. The arrested -- two aged 20 years and two aged 40 years -- will be charged under the Explosives Act. Uranium 238 is a natural occurring metal. Its enriched form can be used to generate electricity and in nuclear weapons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-held-for-possessing-25-kg-of-unprocessed-uranium-in-nepal-probably-smuggled-from-india-years-ago-961610.html
13-03-2021||National||With all struggling, how did Adani's wealth rise by 50%, asks Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday asked how did businessman Gautam Adani manage to increase his wealth by 50 per cent while everyone else was struggling because of the Covid-19 pandemic. His remarks come after a new report said that Adani added $16.2 billion to his wealth taking his net worth to USD 50 billion in 2021, more than anyone else in the world. Tagging the news report in a tweet, Gandhi asked, "How much did your wealth increase in 2020? Zero. You struggle to survive while he makes Rs 12 lakh crore and increases his wealth by 50 per cent. Can you tell me why?" With the biggest wealth surge, Adani has beaten Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos and Tesla CEO Elon Musk, according to the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-all-struggling-how-did-adanis-wealth-rise-by-50-asks-rahul-gandhi-961619.html
13-03-2021||National||Sustained economic growth key to India's future, critical for security reasons: NITI Aayog CEO||NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant on Saturday said India's power is truly represented by its sustained economic growth, which is a key to its future and critical for security reasons. Delivering the keynote address at the inauguration of 'Militaria@Jaipur-2021', he said as a fallout of the Covid-19 pandemic radical reforms were ushered in across a range of sectors and asserted that India has had the sharpest recovery among the major economies. Economic Growth is expected to rebound about 5.5 per cent after (-)3.5 per cent in 2020 which has been the worst since post-World War, Kant said, adding that pushing India towards a high growth trajectory was a key challenge. The private sector needs to be brought in at the heart of India's economic growth, he said. "The economies of east and southeast Asia have transformed themselves within a generation. India's economy has witnessed a substantial transformation over 30 years since 1991 with an average annual growth of 6.5 per cent," the NITI Aayog CEO said. "Sustained economic growth is key to India's future. Investment and sustained economic growth are critical for security reasons." Kant further said Covid-19 will likely reverse the trend of poverty alleviation. "Global debt is at unprecedented levels. What was at about 300 per cent is now at around 370 per cent. Global trade decline is estimated at seven per cent in 2020. China is the only major economy in the world to see positive GDP growth in 2020. Its share in global GDP will rise even further," he said.  In the last two decades, China has gained tremendous market power in many key sectors like steel, aluminium and pharmaceuticals, Kant said.  "Size and scale need to be brought to the manufacturing sector for India to penetrate global markets. Self-reliant India is not about protectionism. It is about penetrating global markets. There is a need to understand that sunrise sectors will lead India's growth in the coming decades and it is important to start now, he said.  Earlier, former home secretary R Mehrishi said in the face of the recent China confrontation, "we used three elements -- armed forces, trade measures and diplomacy -- to face the challenge posed to us. All these elements require the backing of a strong economy." In the era of technology, one has to be better and smartly equipped. Technological competency will depend on the budget. India spends a little over 2 per cent on its defence that translates into Rs 5 lakh crore. Whereas, China spends 1.3 per cent of its GDP which translates into Rs. 15 lakh crore, he said.  "At a time when the enemy is often not seen, the only way to really compete with a country like China would be to have as much or more equipment," Mehrishi added.  Throughout the day numerous sessions with eminent speakers were held. The closing address was delivered by former Chief of Naval Staff, Admiral Madhvendra Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sustained-economic-growth-key-to-indias-future-critical-for-security-reasons-niti-aayog-ceo-961620.html
13-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: India to review post-vaccination side effects from AstraZeneca shot||In your evening news brief, ‘India will carry out a deeper review of post-vaccination side effects from the AstraZeneca shot next week’; BJP veteran Yashwant Sinha joins TMC and Quad leaders to discuss the China “challenge”.  Here is the top news of March 13, 2021: India will carry out a deeper review of post-vaccination side effects from the AstraZeneca shot next week although no cases of blood clots have been reported so far, an official told AFP Saturday. New Delhi decided to conduct the review after several countries suspended rollout over blood clot fears even as the World Health Organization said there was no reason to stop using AstraZeneca's Covid-19 jab. Denmark, Norway and Iceland paused use of the drugmaker's shot as a precaution after isolated reports of recipients developing blood clots. BJP veteran and former union minister Yashwant Sinha after joining the Trinamool Congress ahead of West Bengal Assembly elections, has alleged that the BJP during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's time believed in consensus but "today's government believes in crushing and conquering". He said that the tipping point was the attack on Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram. "It was the moment when I decided to join TMC and support Mamata Ji," he said. Leaders of the US, India, Australia and Japan did discuss the "challenge" posed by China during the first meeting of the Quad, and they made clear that none of them have any "illusions" about Beijing, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has said. Addressing a White House briefing on Friday soon after the historic virtual Quad summit between US President Joe Biden, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, the top American official said the four leaders have agreed to hold an in-person summit later this year. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-to-review-post-vaccination-side-effects-from-astrazeneca-shot-961622.html
13-03-2021||National||Jammu-Srinagar National Highway cleared of landslide debris||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was on Saturday afternoon cleared of the debris brought in by a massive mudslide in Ramban district, paving the way for resumption of one-way traffic after two days, officials said. The traffic on the highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country, would be allowed from Jammu to Srinagar on Sunday subject to fair weather and better road condition, officials of the traffic department said. The road was closed for routine weekly maintenance on Friday but was blocked at Shabanbass near Banihal following a massive mudslide triggered by heavy rains besides shooting of stones from the hillocks overlooking the highway at multiple places between Banihal and Ramban. Officials said the road clearance work was completed around 3 pm on Saturday but only the local stranded traffic was allowed to ply towards their destinations. "In view of the inclement weather prediction issued by the meteorological department for the next few days, people are advised to undertake journeys on the highway after confirming the status of the road," an advisory issued by the traffic department said. However, it said light motor vehicles would be allowed from Jammu towards Srinagar, setting a cut-off timing for such vehicles to cross Nagrota (Jammu) between 5 am to 12 pm and Jakheni (Udhampur) between 6 am to 1 pm. "No vehicle shall be allowed before and after the cut-off timing," the advisory said, adding that only stranded heavy motor vehicles would be allowed between Nashree and Ramban.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-srinagar-national-highway-cleared-of-landslide-debris-961624.html
13-03-2021||National||Woman moves Delhi HC seeking mortal remains of Hindu husband mistakenly buried in Saudi Arabia||A harried woman has approached the Delhi High Court seeking to get back the mortal remains of her husband whose body was buried in Saudi Arabia after an official translator at the Indian Consulate wrongly declared that the deceased was Muslim. Anju Sharma contended neither she nor any of her family members had given consent for the burial of her husband Sanjeev Kumar.  In a writ petition filed through advocate Subhash Chandran K R,  Sharma, a resident of Una district in Himachal Pradesh, said that her husband, an Indian migrant who had worked in Saudi Arabia for 23 years died on January 24, due to diabetes, hypertension and cardiac arrest. His mortal remains were kept at the Baesh General Hospital in Jizan, Saudi Arabia.  "Shockingly, on February 18, 2021, the petitioner was informed that the dead body of her husband has been buried. The officials in the Indian Consulate explained that it was due to a mistake committed by the official translator of the Indian Consulate, Jeddah who wrongly mentioned his religion as ‘Muslim’ in the death certificate," her plea stated.  They also shared a letter of apology tendered by the official translating agency of the Indian Consulate in Jeddah, it pointed out.  Her subsequent request to bring back mortal remains has been pending for seven weeks as the authorities failed to complete the necessary formalities in violation of her fundamental rights to repatriate the mortal remains of Sanjeev Kumar to India to perform the last rites. The petitioner and family members had completed all formalities by January 28 for repatriation of the mortal remains.  In her plea, the woman sought a direction to the Indian Consulate, through the Union government, to do necessary formalities for exhuming the mortal remains of the husband and repatriate it to India on an urgent and time-bound basis to perform the last rites as per their custom and belief. She also sought appropriate departmental actions against concerned Indian officials for their willful negligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/woman-moves-delhi-hc-seeking-mortal-remains-of-hindu-husband-mistakenly-buried-in-saudi-arabia-961625.html
13-03-2021||National||'Helmet not enough': Uttarakhand police troll Virat Kohli, delete tweet after backlash||Official police handles on Twitter like to have fun sometimes, often sandwiching a social message in between a joke or a meme. On Friday, however, it backfired.  Following India's defeat against England in the T20 series opener, in which skipper Virat Kohli got out for a zero, Uttarakhand Police thought they could ride on the captain's duck to send out a message.   In a now-deleted tweet, the state's police tried to convey some awareness on riding safely. "A helmet is not enough! It is necessary to drive in full consciousness. Otherwise, like Kohli, you too can be out on zero,” the tweet said in Hindi.  The tweet then went viral and garnered as many as 24,000 comments, most of them criticising the Twitter handle for trolling the skipper. Indian fans, already upset with the team's performance, backed Kohli and slammed the Uttarakhand police saying it was a "disgrace" for official handles to troll the "nation's pride"   Immaturity on behalf of the Uttarakhand police.... They should have tried out some better examples India thumped England in the four-match Test series with a 3-1 victory but failed to keep up with the visitors in the first T20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/helmet-not-enough-uttarakhand-police-troll-virat-kohli-delete-tweet-after-backlash-961631.html
13-03-2021||National||'Pronounced guilty not by law but by seekers of TRPs': Disha Ravi puts out her side of the story||Climate activist Disha Ravi on Saturday slammed the media houses for violating her rights and holding a media trial where she was pronounced guilty to secure high TRPs (Television Rating Points). The young activist, charged with sedition by the Union government, said that she was releasing the statement because she wanted to tell her side of the story. "I'm letting this out into the internet void in order to present a narrative that is my own," she said, adding that the statement was based on her personal experience and does not represent the opinion of any climate movement or organisation. I'm letting this out into the internet void in order to present a narrative that is my own. Describing the difficulty of coming to terms with the shock of the incidents, Disha said she tried to "tricking myself into thinking that this wasn't happening to me". The police and judicial custody, however, have strengthened her resolve. She spoke of climate activism and its need to provide a voice to those on the margins. "Locked in my cell (in Tihar Jail), I wondered when it became a crime to think the most basic elements of sustenance on this planet were as much mine as theirs. Why were millions paying the ultimate price for the greed of a few hundred? Their interest in the lives of those millions is dependent on whether or not they profit and even that interest has a short shelf-life," she wrote. Still, the young activist recognised that she was one of the privileged who got legal support and love from people. "What of all those still in jail whose stories are not marketable," she asks, asserting that truth will prevail. Disha ended her statement with a quote from tribal activist Soni Sori, "We are threatened every day, our voices crushed; but we will continue to fight."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pronounced-guilty-not-by-law-but-by-seekers-of-trps-disha-ravi-puts-out-her-side-of-the-story-961633.html
13-03-2021||National||State election commissioners have to be independent persons: SC||State election commissioners have to be "independent persons" not occupying a post under the Centre or state governments, the Supreme Court has ruled, terming the Goa government's move to give its law secretary the additional charge of the SEC a "mockery" of constitutional mandate. In a significant verdict, the top court also directed if there were any such persons holding the post of SEC in any other state, "such persons must be asked forthwith to step down from such office and the State Government concerned be bound to fulfil the constitutional mandate of Article 243K by appointing only independent persons to this high constitutional office". A three-judge bench, headed by Justice R F Nariman, issued the direction to all states and Union territories while taking recourse of its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution that empowers it to pass any order in the interest of justice. The directions were issued to ensure that the constitutional mandate of an independent State Election Commission to conduct elections is "strictly followed in the future", said the bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy. The observations and directions were given in the 96-page judgment, penned by Justice Nariman, on a batch of pleas relating to the urban local body polls in Goa. The judgment, uploaded on the apex court's website on Saturday, has upheld the Bombay High Court's verdict of setting aside an order of the municipal administrator on February 4 on granting quota to women and OBC candidates in local urban body polls in five municipal councils in the state. The bench directed the Goa SEC to issue the notification for the urban body polls within 10 days from Friday and complete the poll process by April 30. Justice Nariman extensively dealt with the constitutional scheme pertaining to elections and the SECs. "It is also made clear that henceforth, all State Election Commissioners appointed under Article 243K in the length and breadth of India have to be independent persons who cannot be persons who are occupying a post or office under the Central or any State Government," it held. "The most disturbing feature of these cases is the subversion of the constitutional mandate contained in Article 243K of the Constitution of India. "The State Election Commissioner has to be a person who is independent of the State Government as he is an important constitutional functionary who is to oversee the entire election process in the state qua panchayats and municipalities," Justice Nariman, who wrote the judgement for the bench, said. The importance given to the independence of a SEC is explicit from the provision for his removal from his office which equal to a judge of the high court. "Giving an additional charge of such an important and independent constitutional office to an officer who is directly under the control of the State Government is, in our view, a mockery of the constitutional mandate," the verdict said. It declared that the additional charge given to a law secretary flouted the constitutional mandate and asked the Goa government to "remedy this position by appointing an independent person to be the State Election Commissioner at the earliest". Petitions were filed in the Bombay High Court relating to the elections to 11 municipal councils where terms had expired on November 4 last year and the SEC had fixed polls in April, 2021. The law secretary, who was given additional charge of the SEC on November 3, had postponed the polls due to the pandemic. Pleas were filed in the high court against a change in the Goa Municipalities Act, by which the time frame for issuance of a notification for reservation of wards was stated as being "at least seven days" before the notification for schedule of dates and events of the elections. The high court set aside the "impugned order issued by the Director and ex-officio Additional Secretary, Municipal Administrator/ Urban Development, Goa". The court had also directed the Goa municipal administrator to issue fresh notification for polls after ensuring "reservation for women of not less than one-third of the total number of seats reserved for direct elections to the Municipal Councils". The top court upheld the high court's judgement and said under the Constitution, "no election to any municipality can be called in question except by an election petition presented to a Tribunal as is provided by or under any law made by the Legislature of a State". This would mean that from the date of notification of the election till the date of the declaration of result, a judicial hands-off is mandated by the non-obstante clause "debarring the writ court under Articles 226 and 227 from interfering once the election process has begun until it is over". The constitutional bar operates only during this period. It is therefore a matter of discretion exercisable by a writ court as to whether an interference is called for when the notification for elections is yet to be announced, the court added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-election-commissioners-have-to-be-independent-persons-sc-961634.html
13-03-2021||National||India’s role as world's pharmacy phenomenal, says UK Foreign Office minister||The role that India has played during the course of the coronavirus pandemic as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal, UK minister Lord Tariq Ahmad said as he prepared for a five-day, five-city tour of India starting on Monday. Lord Ahmad, the minister for South Asia in the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO), highlighted the close collaboration between the two countries on ensuring supplies of Covid-19 vaccines, which benefits countries across the globe through the United Nations-led COVAX facility. “The role that India has played as the pharmacy of the world has been phenomenal,” said Lord Ahmad, during a pre-visit virtual interview on Friday. “Our relationship with India is not just one of bilateral importance, it's also about how these two countries are working together and there's no better illustration than the current Covid-19 pandemic which grips us. The strong collaboration we have seen between the UK and India in responding across the world, including through the COVAX facility which is helping the more vulnerable countries in the world,” he said. “Equally, we are looking forward to further cooperation with India in its tenure as a Security Council member. Environment and climate change, healthcare, technology – the relationship between the UK and India is an important one across all these sectors and more,” he added. Lord Ahmad’s visit kicks off with ministerial meetings in Delhi and then covers Chandigarh, Chennai and Hyderabad before he flies back to the UK following trade and investment talks in Mumbai. The minister said the tour would very much be “touching upon the important matters” of the planning for the visit of UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson, which is expected in the coming weeks to finalise the much-anticipated UK-India Enhanced Trade Partnership. Johnson’s visit to India is set to be followed up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to the UK in June for the G7 Summit in Cornwall, where India is one of the guest countries invited by host-nation Britain. “My very intensive and full programme reflects the incredible diversity that is India, and all its fantastic and incredible states and reflects the wide nature of the relationship and the bilateral engagement we have with one of our close partners,” said the minister, whose father's roots trace back to Punjab and mother's to Rajasthan. The visit will also coincide with the release of the UK’s major foreign policy statement in the form of an Integrated Review next week, which is widely expected to confirm Britain’s decisive Indo-Pacific tilt in a post-Brexit era. “It can be taken as read in as much as government policy is concerned, there is a very strong belief and focus on the Indo-Pacific tilt and it’s right we do so. When you look at the countries within that part of the region, India is foremost in our minds,” Ahmad said. Though the visit comes against the backdrop of a UK parliamentary committee room debate on the issue of farmers’ protests against India’s agricultural reforms earlier this week, the minister ruled out the issue in any way overshadowing his itinerary because the British government's longstanding stance on the matter has been clear. “We've always been consistently clear on matters such as these protests, it's an internal matter,” he said. India had strongly reacted to the debate as “gross interference in the politics of another democratic country”, after which foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla had even summoned British High Commissioner to the UK Alex Ellis, a meeting Lord Ahmad described as “very cordial”. “Our position as a government is that the protests have been taking place for several months now and India as a democracy has totally guaranteed and secured the right to protest, which we fully acknowledge… There have been occasions where people have sought to disrupt those protests and that should be dealt with in accordance with the rule of law,” he said. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price for their crops. The Indian government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and the 'mandi' system. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and farmer unions have been held in order to try and resolve the deadlock. India has maintained that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-role-as-worlds-pharmacy-phenomenal-says-uk-foreign-office-minister-961642.html
13-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa discuss topical developments, cooperation in multilateral forums||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa had a telephonic conversation on Saturday during which they reviewed topical developments as well as ongoing cooperation between both the countries in bilateral and multilateral forums. The two leaders agreed to maintain regular contact between relevant officials, including in the context of the continuing Covid-19 challenges, a Prime Minister's Office statement (PMO) said. The leaders reviewed topical developments and the ongoing cooperation between both the countries in bilateral and multilateral forums, it said.  During the call, Prime Minister Modi reiterated the importance of Sri Lanka to India's Neighbourhood First policy, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-sri-lankan-president-gotabaya-rajapaksa-discuss-topical-developments-cooperation-in-multilateral-forums-961653.html
13-03-2021||National||Without taking names, UP CM Yogi Adityanath likens Yadav clan to Mahabharata’s characters||Without taking names, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Saturday likened Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav’s family members to characters in the Mahabharata. “Kaka, chacha, mama, naana… (uncle, maternal uncle, maternal grandfather…) You must have heard of them either in the Mahabharata or between 2012 and 2017 (during the Samajwadi Party’s rule),” said Chief Minister Adityanath. “There were some clans in which different people used to be allotted charges of recruitments in different departments -- some to uncles, some to brothers and others to nephews – and all this actually used to happen,” he added. “They are the same characters of the Mahabharata who have taken rebirth. The way they impeded earlier India’s progress by launching Mahabharata (the war), they blocked the Uttar Pradesh development again,” the chief minister further said. Adityanath made the remarks while addressing newly-appointed 271 block education officers in Lok Bhawan that houses the chief minister’s office among others. Attacking the previous government, Adityanath said, “When the merit and honesty are put at discount and recruitments are made on the strength of caste and money, the state has to suffer.” “Did you too have to get recommendations from ministers, politicians or officials for the appointments?” the chief minister suddenly asked the newly appointed officials, apparently seeking to demonstrate that the corruption and nepotism in government recruitments are things of the past. "There have been no complaints regarding recruitments. We have given full freedom so that the recruitment process is completely transparent and honest and there is no discrimination," he asserted. Adityanath recalled that after he became the UP chief minister, people used to ask him how will the state be run. "I told them UP has immense potential. Only leadership is needed (to run it). The system is the same and UP has been transformed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/without-taking-names-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-likens-yadav-clan-to-mahabharata-s-characters-961662.html
13-03-2021||National||Around 200 terrorists active in J&K, another 250 in launch pads across LoC: DGP||Around 200 terrorists are active in Jammu and Kashmir while intelligence inputs suggest that another 250 are waiting in launch pads across the border, Director General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh said on Saturday. In a clear reference to Pakistan, Singh said security forces are alive to the threat and on alert to scuttle the nefarious designs of the neighbouring country to disturb peace in the union territory. The DGP also said all necessary security arrangements would be made to ensure that the Amarnath Yatra in south Kashmir Himalayas, scheduled to commence on June 28, is peaceful. Talking to reporters before inaugurating the inter zone sports meet at the police headquarters here, Singh said there are around 200 terrorists active in Jammu and Kashmir. “I am hopeful that the number will drop further this year like the previous year when the figure dropped to a large extent,” he said. On the number of terrorists present in launching pads across the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB), the police chief said as per intelligence inputs, the number is between 200 to 250 which is almost the same as previous years. “We are keeping an eye on them as well,” he said. Responding to a question about the preparations for the Amarnath Yatra, he said, “All arrangements with regard to the pilgrimage will be done like previous years including large scale deployment (of security personnel) at different levels.” “This year too, our efforts are on and every necessary arrangement will be put in place for the safety and security of the pilgrims,” he added. Without naming Pakistan, he said the agencies of the neighbouring country are involved in terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir for the last over 30 years to disturb peace and harm the lives and property of the people. “We have been foiling their nefarious designs for a long time and will continue to do so,” he said when asked about the recovery of Rs 91 lakh by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from a field in Samba district following a disclosure by one of the five people arrested in connection with Handwara narco-terrorism case. The DGP said police has unearthed a number of narco-terrorism cases in 2020 and 2021 and every one of them is being investigated to unveil the conspiracy and bring the culprits to book. “Some of the cases which had a widened scale of nexus between terrorists and narco traders were transferred to the NIA. They too are probing these cases with full capability,” he said. Singh said besides narcotics, weapons including ready-to-use Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs), smuggled from across the border, are being seized before they could land in the hands of terrorists and used against civilians and security forces. “A few incidents do take place here and there but after investigation the accused are being identified and stern action is being taken against them,” he said, assuring appropriate action against terrorists involved in the grenade attack in Sopore which left two policemen injured. The police chief said a befitting response was given to every terror act. Asked about the recent recovery of sticky bombs, he said such types of explosives are a threat because they have magnets and can be stuck on any metallic surface. “This is a conspiracy to target civilian and security forces vehicles. We have seized such bombs and if some of these have managed to reach terrorists, we will recover them too,” he said while referring to the recovery of a 7 kg IED in Jammu on February 14 and busting of a terror module in Awantipora area of south Kashmir which was planning to carry out a Pulwama-type attack. “The fidayeen (suicide bomber) was prepared to blow himself but timely action prevented the attack…I want to assure that any activity, whether going on the ground or underground, is being watched and neutralised. We are having a strict watch on them,” the police chief said. On the Inter zone sports meet-2021, the DGP said all six zones of the force are taking part in the tournament. “About 1000 police personnel, covering all wings of police, are taking part in 30 sports activities during the tournament. I am hopeful that the policemen who are performing their duties satisfactorily on every front will display sportsmanship spirit during the tournament,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-200-terrorists-active-in-jk-another-250-in-launch-pads-across-loc-dgp-961667.html
13-03-2021||National||BJP's central election committee meets to finalise candidates for assembly polls||The BJP's central election committee held its meeting on Saturday to finalise its remaining candidates for the Assam and West Bengal assembly polls, with top party leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, attending it.  This is the second CEC meeting over the assembly polls in four states, which also include Tamil Nadu and Kerala, besides the Union Territory of Puducherry.  The party had earlier declared the names of its candidates for the first two rounds of polls in Assam and Bengal scheduled on March 27 and April 1. While Assam will have a three-phase election, polling in Bengal will be held in eight phases. Three other states and Union Territories will have single-round polls on April 6.  Other top leaders who attended the meeting at the BJP headquarters here, included Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and party president J P Nadda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjps-central-election-committee-meets-to-finalise-candidates-for-assembly-polls-961669.html
13-03-2021||National||Over six Covid-19 vaccines in the offing in India: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday announced that more than six coronavirus vaccines will come up in India. He also said that 1.84 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Saturday morning, while 23 crore tests have been conducted. The latest figures from Health ministry say that 2.91 crore people had been vaccinated till 7 PM on Saturday. "India has developed two vaccines, which have been given to 71 countries. Many more nations are seeking the vaccines, and these are not little-known nations...Canada, Brazil and other developed countries are using Indian vaccines with a great zeal," he said. "More than half a dozen vaccines are going to come up," he said. "Till Saturday morning, 1.84 crore vaccine shots have been given in the country and 20 lakh people were inoculated yesterday," the minister added. He was speaking while inaugurating the new green campus of the National Institute of Research in Environmental Health near here. Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants to create a new India to turn it into a 'vishwa guru' (world leader), he added. "Respect science. There is a need to end politics over it (vaccine) given that it is a scientific fight not a political one. That is why we should work unitedly," Vardhan said. The efforts of our scientists are praiseworthy as due to their labour we have achieved all this. Year 2020, apart from being a Covid-19 year, will be remembered as the year of science and scientists, he added. He said that initially there was only one laboratory in India for Covid-19 testing. "But we have 2,412 testing facilities now," he added. "We were the first in the world to isolate the coronavirus. We isolated its mutation. And our scientists helped the ICMR in vaccine. People have praised it (vaccine). Some people tried to create confusion, but truth is unbeatable," he said. Talking about the rising infection cases, the minister said this "disturbing trend" was due to the carelessness and misunderstanding. "People think that as the vaccine has come and all is well now," he said, while urging them to follow the Covid-19 rules for protection against the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-six-covid-19-vaccines-in-the-offing-in-india-harsh-vardhan-961689.html
13-03-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Mamata Banerjee urges supporters to maintain peace, says she will be back to campaign even on wheelchair||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that despite being badly hurt in the alleged attack on her on Wednesday in Nandigram, she would not waste a single day of campaigning and will campaign on a wheelchair if need be. The feisty Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader, in a video message from the hospital bed, also urged her party workers and supporters to remain calm and peaceful and not do anything which will cause problems for others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-mamata-banerjee-urges-supporters-to-maintain-peace-says-she-will-be-back-to-campaign-even-on-wheelchair-961452.html
13-03-2021||National Politics||Congress most corrupt party, vote for BJP to continue to avail central and state schemes: Smriti Irani||Union Textiles Minister Smriti Zubin Irani on Saturday described Congress as the "most corrupt party" and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP to continue to avail benefits of various central and state schemes. Addressing her maiden election campaign rally in Assam, she said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal have rolled out a number of schemes, benefitting the poor people of the state. "...there is no one more corrupt than Congress. Only BJP is the party, which works for the benefit of the poors." "The BJP government has worked tirelessly for the people in tea gardens across the state," said Irani, also the Minister of Women and Child Development. Irani had defeated Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in his family seat of Amethi in Uttar Pradesh in 2019 general election. Listing out a series of schemes launched by the central and state governments, she said the Congress government never worked for the poor people and appealed to the people to vote for the BJP in the assembly polls. Without naming former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, who was a Rajya Sabha MP from Assam, Irani said "There are some tall leaders of Congress from Assam who even became PM. But, AIIMS came to Assam only during Narendra Modi's tenure." She was in Mariani to campaign for BJP candidate Ramani Tanti, who is facing a direct contest with the sitting three- time heavyweight Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi. Mariani constituency will go to polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-most-corrupt-party-vote-for-bjp-to-continue-to-avail-central-and-state-schemes-smriti-irani-961555.html
13-03-2021||National Politics||Congress only showed dreams of development in Assam; promises fulfilled by Modi: Smriti Irani||Union minister and senior BJP leader Smriti Zubin Irani said here on Saturday the opposition Congress only showed dreams of development during its regime in Assam, but the promises were fulfilled after the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi came to power at the Centre. Addressing her second rally during the day ahead of the state assembly elections, the Union textiles minister alleged that the Congress "looted public money" and did not undertake developmental works in Assam during its regime in the state. "Congress had ruled Assam for years and showed dreams of development. However, development works started only when Narendra Modi became prime minister in 2014," she said. Irani, also the minister of women and child development, said funds will continue to come from the Centre, but it will reach the people through the state exchequer if there is a government of the BJP in the northeastern state. "One Congress leader had said only 10 paise reach the people for every rupee released by the Centre. That means the leader also accepted that Congress workers and local activists looted public money," she added. The Union minister asserted that no one has dared to touch the taxpayers' money after Modi came to power at the Centre. Taking a dig at the "mismanagement" in the Congress party, Irani said, "Their leaders don't see eye to eye. Two leaders in that party cannot take a decision, and they allied with an outfit which is destroying Assamese culture." Irani said the Congress could not even construct toilets for poor people but is promising to build colleges and universities. "There was a mistake last time, it should not happen this time," she said, referring to the Congress' victory at the Sivasagar constituency in the 2016 Assembly polls. Irani was in Sivasagar, which is going to poll on March 27, to campaign for BJP candidate Surabhi Rajkonwar. Rajkonwar is pitted against jailed anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi and Congress leader Subhramitra Gogoi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-only-showed-dreams-of-development-in-assam-promises-fulfilled-by-modi-smriti-irani-961597.html
13-03-2021||National Politics||Congress announces list of 21 candidates for Tamil Nadu polls||Congress announced a list of 21 candidates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections on Saturday. Tamil Nadu with 234 assembly constituencies will have a single-phase elections on April 6 in which fronts led by arch-rivals AIADMK and DMK are the main contenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-announces-list-of-21-candidates-for-tamil-nadu-polls-961711.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Two killed as truck hits nearly dozen vehicles at Jammu market||Two persons were killed and four others critically injured when a truck driver lost control over his vehicle that hit and damaged nearly a dozen vehicles inside a vegetable and fruit market here on Saturday, police said. The accident occurred at the Narwal mandi, when the main terminal market of the city was crowded with early morning shoppers, a police official said. He said the driver of the truck, bearing a Rajasthan registration number, lost control over the wheel apparently due to a brake failure and the truck hit and damaged nearly a dozen vehicles, including four mini load carriers, three cars and two two-wheelers. Suraj Prakash (45) of Akhnoor and Bodh Raj (40) of R S Pura were killed in the accident, while four other critically-injured persons were shifted to the Government Medical College (GMC) hospital, the official said. He said the truck driver fled the spot after the accident and efforts are on to arrest him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-killed-as-truck-hits-nearly-dozen-vehicles-at-jammu-market-961492.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Police arrest 7 overground workers of Hizbul Mujahideen from J&K's Shopian||Police on Saturday said they have arrested seven overground workers (OGWs) of terror outfit Hizbul Mujahideen from Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir. "Shopian Police arrested seven terrorist associates linked with proscribed terrorist outfit HM," the police said in a tweet. They said incriminating materials were seized from the possession of the arrested persons. A case has been registered and a probe is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-arrest-7-overground-workers-of-hizbul-mujahideen-from-jks-shopian-961508.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||After massage centers and gyms, farmers construct brick houses at Singhu Border amid protests||For 106 days, Singhu Border has harboured farmers from Punjab and Haryana as they protest against the Centre's farm laws. In an attempt to make it feel like home, the agitating farmers have made the border into a mini village or a 'pind'.  Brick houses or 'pucca' houses are the latest addition to the protest site. Farmers are graduating from living and sleeping in trolleys attached to their tractors, which they used as shelters to brave the winter of Delhi in the past three months. As the scorching summer heat awaits, permanent housing arrangements are being made. These houses can be seen a few kilometres ahead of the protest site at Singhu border. Since the protest began on November 26, 2020, farmers have moulded Singhu border into a place suitable for a prolonged stay. Among the protesting farmers was Mangat Singh, former Captain of the Indian Kabaddi team, who opened a 'gym ka langar'  or an open-for-all gymnasium. The idea behind this facility was that anyone who wanted to be a part of the protest but also did not want to give up their fitness routine could join. It was stacked with equipment such as dumbells. Earlier they were complaining about farmers having Pizzas and foot massagers at the protests, now a gym too has started at the site. A protestor shouldn’t starve herself always, they can eat, merry and still deserve their equal rights!   On December 11, 2020, charity organisation Khalsa Aid created a makeshift massage centre for the farmers with massage chairs for their "farmer brothers and sisters who were experiencing pain." Doctors' clinics, soup kitchens and community spaces have come up in the protest sites during the protests.  The ongoing farmer protest shows no signs of slowing down and the construction of permanent structures is another way in which the farmers are showing their unwillingness to move from the border till their demands are met.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-massage-centers-and-gyms-farmers-construct-brick-houses-at-singhu-border-amid-protests-961517.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Wanted criminal held following shootout in west Delhi: Police||A criminal wanted in a murder case was arrested following a shootout with a police team in west Delhi's Bakkarwala area in the early hours of Saturday, police said. The accused, Kamal Gehlot, sustained injuries in the shootout and was shifted to a nearby hospital, they added. "A shootout took place in the early hours of Saturday between a police team and wanted criminal Kamal Gehlot in the Bakkarwala area, in which he got injured," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. Arms and ammunition were seized from the possession of the accused, he said. Gehlot was wanted in a murder case lodged at the Mohan Garden police station, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wanted-criminal-held-following-shootout-in-west-delhi-police-961522.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||BJP would divide Uttar Pradesh into four parts, alleges BSP MP||BSP MP Afzal Ansari has accused the BJP of indulging in politics of hatred and pushing the country backwards by five decades by "destroying" social harmony. Ansari claimed that after the upcoming Assembly elections to five states were over, the BJP government would divide Uttar Pradesh into four parts. Speaking at a programme at Belthara Road in Ballia district on Friday evening, the Ghazipur MP hit out at Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, accusing him of trying to be "Mr Clean" by withdrawing cases registered against him. "Yogi ji says that his government is moving bulldozers over the mafia. But he is withdrawing cases registered against himself and Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. This is against the Constitution," Ansari added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-would-divide-uttar-pradesh-into-four-parts-alleges-bsp-mp-961525.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Night curfew likely in Bhopal, Indore, says CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that night curfew might be imposed in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday in view of spurt in coronavirus cases in these two districts. He said this during a meeting held on Friday evening to review the coronavirus situation in the state. "Look at the rise in infection cases...Tough measures will be taken to flatten the curve. Night curfew might be clamped in Bhopal and Indore from Sunday or Monday," Chouhan was quoted as saying in an official statement. The chief minister said that people coming to the state by air, trains or roads from neighbouring Maharashtra, where there is a spike in cases, should be thermally scanned. During the meeting, ways to restrict the influx of people from Maharashtra were also discussed, the statement said. Chouhan also instructed the officials to ensure that Covid-19 rules are strictly followed by people to prevent the spread of the virus. On Friday, 603 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh. Indore, the worst-hit district in the state by the pandemic, saw 219 new cases, taking the caseload there to 61,642, Bhopal witnessed 138 fresh cases, which pushed its total count to 45,079. Indore has so far reported 940 deaths and Bhopal 621. There are 1,528 active cases in Indore, while the state capital has 806 such cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-night-curfew-likely-in-bhopal-indore-says-cm-shivraj-singh-chouhan-961543.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Two cops injured in grenade attack by militants in J&K's Baramulla||Two policemen were injured in a grenade attack by militants in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. The ultras hurled a grenade at a police post at Sopore bus stand in the district, a police official said. He said the two policemen sustained injuries in the blast and were taken to an Army medical facility for treatment, where their condition is stated to be stable. They  have been identified as Constable Azad Ahmad and Special Police Officer (SPO) Mohammad Afzal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-cops-injured-in-grenade-attack-by-militants-in-jks-baramulla-961584.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||All anganwadi centres shut in Punjab amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Punjab Minister Aruna Chaudhary on Saturday instructed to close all anganwadi centres till further orders in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases in the state. The social security, women and child development minister said ration and other material will be distributed door to door through anganwadi workers and helpers so that nutritional support to beneficiaries is not affected. Thirty-four more fatalities due to Covid-19 were reported in Punjab on Friday, taking the death toll to 6,030, while the infection count climbed to 1,94,753 with 1,414 new coronavirus cases in the state. In January, the Punjab government had announced that all anganwadi centres for children and other beneficiaries across the state would reopen from February 1. The centres were closed earlier due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/all-anganwadi-centres-shut-in-punjab-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-961603.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||J&K BJP files complaint against Waseem Rizvi for hurting Muslim sentiments||The Kashmir unit of the BJP Saturday filed a complaint against the former chairman of UP Shia Waqf Board Waseem Rizvi for hurting the sentiments of the Muslim community with his ‘outrageous and anti-Quran’ comments. “We have filed a complaint at Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Srinagar's officer against Waseem Rizvi for his anti-Quran remarks,” Manzoor Bhat, who was recently made party-in-charge of the BJP for the Kashmir province, told reporters. "Nobody will be allowed to speak against any community or their holy book," Bhatt said. “We have filed a complaint and want the accused to be dealt with strictly so that no one will be allowed to interfere or make the remarks that would hurt the sentiments of any particular community,” he added. Another religious body in Kashmir, ‘Majlis-e-Ulmae Imamia’ has also demanded the arrest of Rizvi for hurting religious sentiments of Muslims across the globe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bjp-files-complaint-against-waseem-rizvi-for-hurting-muslim-sentiments-961607.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav, 20 SP workers booked over alleged assault on journalists in Moradabad||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and 20 party workers have been booked in connection with an alleged assault of some journalists in Uttar Pradesh's Moradabad district, police said on Saturday. A counter-FIR has been also lodged against the journalists by Samajwadi Party district president Jaiveer Yadav. On the basis of a complaint by a journalist, an FIR was registered at Pakbara police station late on Friday night under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), officials said. According to the complainant, Yadav, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister, was irked by a few personal questions posed by some journalists during an interaction with him at a hotel on March 11 after a press conference. Following this, Yadav allegedly instigated his security guards and aides to attack the journalists, the FIR claimed. It also alleged that the security guards and over 20 SP workers beat up the journalists injuring them grievously. The journalists in question claimed, "We asked many questions about Azam Khan and since Yadav couldn't answer those properly he got irritated and ordered his security guards to force the journalists out. During the scuffle, we got injured." Reacting to the development, Akhilesh Yadav tweeted a copy of the FIR and said, "The FIR, which has been registered against me by the UP government, is being published in the interest of every citizen of the state." "If needed, the FIR would be put up on hoardings in state capital Lucknow. This FIR is a symbol of dejection of the BJP which is on the path of defeat," he said in the tweet in hindi. On the complaint of the Samajwadi Party's Moradabad district unit president Jaiveer Singh Yadav, an FIR has been registered against two persons. The complaint stated, "Before the press conference commenced, around 5 pm two persons Fareed Shamsi and Uvaidul Rehman, who introduced themselves as journalists were continuously hurling accusations on security personnel and workers. "After the press conference ended, around 7.30 pm, they after flashing their identity cards tried to defy the security cordon, and forcibly tried to take the byte of the former chief minister." It was alleged in the cross-FIR that they pushed the security personnel, beat them up and tried to act as if they were unconscious along with their cameras, and lay on the ground. "Both of them tarnished the image of the former chief minister as a part of a pre-planned conspiracy," Yadav said in the complaint. He also claimed that a staff attached to Yadav's security detail was seriously injured and was admitted to a district hospital in Moradabad, from where he was referred to Lucknow for better treatment. Moradabad Superintendent of Police Amit Anand said TV and CCTV footage would be examined during the probe into the case. It was initially reported that a journalist had suffered injuries allegedly after being pushed by security personnel guarding Yadav as mediapersons jostled to get a byte from the leader in Moradabad district. After the incident, Shalabh Mani Tripathi, the media advisor to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, alleged that SP goons badly beat up journalists for asking questions to Yadav, threatened, humiliated and chased them away. "Many were injured," he had claimed. Rejecting the allegation, Samajwadi Party MP from Moradabad Syed Tufail Hasan, who was with Yadav during the incident, said the former chief minister did not refuse to talk to mediapersons. "Some electronic mediapersons broke the security cordon and fell amid jostling after being stopped by guards. One journalist suffered injuries in his leg and has been sent to a hospital," Hasan told PTI. Yadav has expressed grief over the incident, he said. The Samajwadi Party chief was in Moradabad to attend the wedding of an MLA, Hasan had said. Tripathi tweeted, "The most tarnished day in the history of UP after the state guest house incident. Out of power at the moment and yet so much hooliganism. Imagine how intoxicated they must have been when in power." In his tweet, Tripathi was referring to the attack on BSP supremo Mayawati by SP workers at the state guest house in Lucknow in 1995.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-20-sp-workers-booked-over-alleged-assault-on-journalists-in-moradabad-961628.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Minor thrashed, made to lick shoes in Madhya Pradesh, video goes viral||A video showing a 17-year-old boy being thrashed, made to smoke a cigarette and lick shoes over a monetary dispute in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh went viral on social media, leading to the arrest of one of the four offenders, police said on Saturday. The four, including arrested accused Deepak Passi (20), have been charged with kidnapping and assault, Inspector Sahadev Sahu of Gora Bazar police station said. "The incident happened due to a dispute over Rs 2,000. When the victim did not return home on Thursday night, a missing person complaint was filed by his parents. Later the video of the boy being thrashed surfaced," he said. The police's probe has found that the four accused took the victim to a ground in Nayagaon area, where one of them slapped him multiple times, while another tried to make him smoke a cigarette, and all of them forced him to clean and lick their shoes. Passi was arrested two days ago, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/minor-thrashed-made-to-lick-shoes-in-madhya-pradesh-video-goes-viral-961635.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||J&K police releases list of eight wanted militants in Srinagar||Jammu and Kashmir Police Saturday released a list of eight most-wanted militants operating in Srinagar city and its outskirts.  The list by the J&K Police reads: "Wanted Militants—Wasseem Qadir Mir of Shahzadpora, Nowgam Srinagar, who joined militancy on December 20, 2020, Shahid Khursheed resident of Methan, Chanapora, date of joining militancy—6 February 2021, Irfan Sofi of Astan Mohalla, Natipora, who joined on. 14 December 2020, Bilal Bhat of Natipora, date of joining 14 February 2020, Saqib Dar of Old Barzulla, Srinagar, who joined on 5 August 2020." The police list further reads that among the other wanted militants are Abrar Bhat of Eidgah, date of joining 12 December 2018, Muhammad Yousuf Dar alias Iss Kantroo, a recycled militant who joined in 2012 and again in 2015, Abbas Sheikh of Kulgam and Ubaid Shafi Dar of Batamaloo, Srinagar. The police lookout notice has a landline and mobile numbers for anyone who has information about these militants. “Informer shall be suitably rewarded,” the notice reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-releases-list-of-eight-wanted-militants-in-srinagar-961655.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||BJP may get more than 350 seats in next UP assembly polls: Pankaj Singh||Claiming the BJP to be in a “strong position” a year ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh assembly elections, the party’s state unit vice-president Pankaj Singh Saturday said his party is eyeing 350-plus seats in the next assembly polls. "The feedback, which we are getting from the ground, suggests that the party is in a strong position. The party will emerge victorious not only in the panchayat elections but will also register a historic win in the 2022 UP assembly elections," Singh told PTI. The party is "eyeing 350-plus seats", said Singh, the son of Defence minister Rajnath Singh, in reply to a question on the possible number of seats that the BJP may get after the UP assembly elections. Singh attributed the BJP’s bright poll prospect to UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath work. "People in the state have reposed their faith in the UP government led by Chief Minister Adityanath,” he said. “The state budget which was recently tabled in the assembly is not only bigger but is also holistic and all-inclusive," he added. Singh said earlier when the party used to speak about 300-plus seats, people used to attribute it to party workers’ "over-enthusiasm", but now they find it possible and “rather natural”. “A large number of welfare programmes have been implemented, and with such credibility, we will increase our seats as well as votes," the UP BJP vice-president said. Talking of the party electoral strategy for the upcoming panchayat elections, Singh said “for the three-tier panchayat elections, the BJP has framed a 'chaupal' programme to reach out to people in more than 58,000 villages” “ Senior party office bearers and those in government are participating in the chaupal, which was kicked off on Thursday," he added. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh kicked off the 'Gram Chaupal Abhiyaan' (campaign) on Thursday from Lucknow's Gangaganj village. The campaign will continue till March 18. Asked about Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav’s consistent attack on the state government on different issues, Pankaj Singh said they appear to have become habitual of raising questions over whatever decisions the state government takes in peoples interest. “When the entire world has been acknowledging India's role in anti-COVID vaccination, the SP leaders have been making baseless remarks. I think their credibility has been completely eroded and the public understands this," said Singh "A political party cannot survive if its credibility is lost,” said Singh, asking SP leaders to save their party’s credibility. Taking a dig at the Congress and SP, Singh said the two parties might have excelled in using Twitter and Facebook, but the ground level politics cannot be practised on social media. "Politics in the country cannot be done on Twitter and Facebook. The Congress and SP should understand that the people want those political parties which stand by them." "When it comes to moving along with people and farmers and stand by them, understanding their pain and redressing their woes, only the BJP can do it," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-may-get-more-than-350-seats-in-next-up-assembly-polls-pankaj-singh-961658.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Centre suspends Air Quality Commission after 5 months||In a major administrative lapse, the Centre has suspended the functioning of the newly formed Air Quality Commission after just five months as the ordinance giving legal status to its foundation expired two days ago. Sources told DH that with the Parliament in session, the government couldn't extend the ordinance. It couldn't even bring a Bill to replace the ordinance as the Bill was still pending before the Cabinet. Since the ordinance expired on March 12, the environment ministry asked the commission members to stop working. The fate of the commission, set up in October to replace the Supreme Court’s Environment Pollution Control Authority, is uncertain at the moment. The ordinance to form the panel was promulgated on October 28, 2020, but the ordinance must be approved by the Parliament within six weeks of the Parliament convening or they cease to operate. Union Environment Secretary R P Gupta on Saturday said since the ordinance on the Air Quality Commission was not introduced in the Parliament within six weeks of its convention, it lapsed and consequently, the commission also stood shut. The commission, with administrative and legal powers, had the task of cleaning up the air in the National Capital Region and neighbouring states where air pollution emerged as one of the major public health concerns. Its mandate was to monitor the status of air pollution, enforcement of laws after monitoring and research, and provide for innovative solutions to curb air pollution. In case of any conflict in the orders or directions of the commission and any state government, the direction of the commission was to prevail. It replaced the EPCA that for decades advised the SC, monitored the Graded Rapid Action Plan during pollution emergencies in Delhi-NCR and served as a watchdog. Former Union Environment Minister Jairam Ramesh said he tried to draw the attention of the government on the issue but failed. “This happened in spite of my efforts to remind the floor managers of the government in the Rajya Sabha, that the ordinance on commission on air pollution in NCR will lapse on March 12. It shows their less-than-serious approach on the issue of air pollution and public health,” said Ramesh, who is the chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science, Technology and Environment. Sources said two options before the government was either to bring a fresh ordinance after the Parliament sessions or get the Bill to set up the commission approved by the Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-suspends-air-quality-commission-after-5-months-961666.html
13-03-2021||North and Central||Pending salaries: Governing body representatives of 12 DU colleges allege financial irregularities||Governing body representatives of 12 Delhi government-funded colleges of DU on Saturday alleged irregularities in management of funds meant for clearing pending staff salaries, and questioned whether the principals are using the surplus amount as their "personal kitty". Their remarks came a day after Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia set up an enquiry committee to look into alleged irregularities of funds in 12 city government-funded colleges. Demanding a high-level probe, the representatives from all the 12 colleges alleged that despite the Delhi government releasing funds regularly, the colleges have not paid the salaries to the teaching and non-teaching staff for the past several months. "Despite the Delhi government clearing the third instalment in December 2020 and the remaining fourth instalment has also been released on March 12, 2021, the colleges have not paid the salaries to their teachers and staff for the last several months yet," said Rita Benjamin, chairperson of the governing body at Bhim Rao Ambedkar College in a statement. The representatives said the colleges have surplus funds and they have not submitted the fund utilisation certificate for the third quarter to the Delhi government. "The situation implies financial irregularities and mismanagement of funds by the college authorities; we urge the Delhi government to immediately order a high-level (CAG) inquiry," Pawan Sharma, a member of the governing body at Bhagini Nivedita College, said. The members of the governing bodies questioned whether the surplus amount was being utilised as "personal kitty" by the college principals. "Even if we were not to include the student society fund in the calculation of the surplus, funds are there in its bank account. What is the reason for stashing so much surplus fund under different heads? "Is the interest income from the surplus being utilized as a personal kitty by the principal where expenses are being made without following any norms and without any scrutiny?," the representatives said in a joint statement released on Saturday. Chairman of the governing body of Maharishi Valmiki College Deepanshu Srivastav also alleged that colleges have created teaching and non-teaching posts without any approval from the government resulting in financial liabilities. "The government of Delhi cannot be expected to fund teaching posts for which approvals have not been solved or remain pending. We have also seen that contracts for security guards and housekeeping staff have been given without following GFR norms. This is extremely shocking," Srivastav said. He added that since the colleges are fully funded by the Delhi government, no appointments can be made unless the creation of the post is approved by the competent authority or the government. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Friday set up an enquiry committee to look into the alleged irregularities of funds in 12 city government-funded colleges. According to a government statement, Sisodia said the decision was made after noticing that these Delhi University colleges had not disbursed the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff and also that many colleges did not submit the utilisation certificates of the third quarter grants. "If the colleges have not disbursed salaries, then what has been done with the funds with the college? What is the reason that utilisation certificates have not been submitted? The non-submission of utilisation certificates seems to indicate financial irregularities. It seems like an attempt to avoid scrutiny and accountability," Sisodia said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pending-salaries-governing-body-representatives-of-12-du-colleges-allege-financial-irregularities-961675.html
13-03-2021||Opinion||India uses digital banking, biometrics to organise 1.3 billion population||By Aashish Chandorkar In the futurist law now named after him, the late Stanford University computer scientist Roy Amara once declared, “We tend to overestimate the effect of a technology in the short run and underestimate the effect in the long run.” India’s public digital infrastructure — in many ways, an immense online bureaucracy — is an outlier to this principle. The effort was written-off in the short run, but, less than a decade after it was introduced, it has mobilized technology at the grass-roots, tapping into the country’s huge domestic potential. India is now ready to share its experience with the developing world.  The system — built on a unique 12-digit identification code for each Indian resident — has significantly improved financial inclusion, access to public documents and services, tax compliance, retail payments and the management of government subsidies. The key has been the Aadhaar card – the national identity document. Aadhaar was launched in 2009 by the government of then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. To run the program, he roped in Nandan Nilekani, a veteran of Infosys, the country’s homegrown technology giant. It was an ambitious attempt to reach and electronically organize the more than 1.3-billion people living in India’s sprawling, varied and sometimes inaccessible territory.  While questions were raised about privacy issues, Aadhaar was cleared by the Indian Supreme Court for opt-in use in September 2018; a larger bench of judges affirmed the decision in January 2021. Today, most of India has chosen to join the biometric data system: there are 1.26 billion people officially registered in Aadhaar. While it began with the Manmohan Singh government, Aadhaar became the backbone of the India’s public digital infrastructure in 2014 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi combined it with his government’s Jan Dhan initiative, a financial inclusion program for India’s huge number of unbanked households. These new accounts were linked to both mobile numbers and Aadhaar, creating the Jan Dhan-Aadhaar-Mobile, or JAM. Today more than 80% of all Indians have a bank account, up from half that level when the program started.  The digital network is now the lynchpin for most of India’s social security and cash transfer programs — which had been notorious for corruption and unreliability. Today, the government uses JAM’s direct benefit transfers for 317 programs. It made 2.6 billion transactions in the current financial year, getting more than $46 billion to beneficiaries. The cumulative value of the transfers since the first programs started in 2013 stands at more than $195 billion. The four big successes of India’s public digital infrastructure have been Unified Payments Interface (UPI), Bharat QR, Bharat Bill Pay System (BBPS) and the RuPay card — which work with all or parts of the digital network’s threefold components of banking, secure identity and mobility.  UPI allows peer-to-peer and consumer-to-merchant transactions through mobile apps and e-commerce platforms, with JAM providing identification for money transfers. It registers 2-billion transactions a month and, in just about four years, is now in use from the largest departmental stores to roadside trinket shops. Bharat QR allows consumers to scan the graphic codes to transfer money without sharing phone numbers. This system performs 250 million transactions a month.  Going live in 2018, BBPS allows Indian consumers to pay bills for practically everything online and via UPI apps — utilities, school fees, insurance premiums and loans. Launched in 2012, RuPay cards were meant to rival Visa and Mastercard. Already, more than 600-million cards have been issued, chiefly on Jan Dhan accounts. RuPay has a 30% market share in point of sale transactions and 25% in online transactions. India is working with nine countries to ensure RuPay cards are integrated with local payment systems — including, Australia, Bahrain, Bhutan, Maldives, Myanmar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and South Korea.  Indeed, other countries with the same logistical challenges and demographic needs as India may be tempted to adopt much of the digital network. In 2018, Bill Gates, technology stalwart, backed Aadhaar and praised Modi for fully embracing the scheme. In its March 2019 report “Digital India,” McKinsey Global Institute observed that “the public sector has been one strong catalyst for India’s rapid digitization. The government’s efforts to ramp up Aadhaar has played a major role.” Exporting India’s public digital infrastructure would increase the country’s influence on a massive scale even as it improves quality of life of millions globally. In fact, the digital infrastructure has only grown and adapted with the Covid-19 crisis. Two apps, the JAM-linked vaccination monitor Cowin and the contact tracer Aarogya Setu, were integral to India’s battle against the coronavirus. The Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network is a smartphone-based supply chain platform developed connecting 27,000 vaccine storage centers supported by 50,000 cold chain handlers. It deals primarily with maternal care and infant inoculation; each year it has to manage the needs of 27 million newborns.  Bridging the digital divide is the best way to overcome socio-economic differences. India can lead from the front.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-uses-digital-banking-biometrics-to-organise-13-billion-population-961590.html
13-03-2021||Right in the Middle||The invisible walkers||The many parks of Bengaluru have always been a favourite walking destination for those who include exercise in their early morning routine. Just into my 30s, I was undoubtedly the youngest of those regulars in the park, but by no means the most enthusiastic. Each one of those early birds had a distinct style and characteristic, which I remember even today. Yoga Uncle inevitably brightened our morning with his vociferous breathing and elastic poses. Next to him was the group of ladies led by Guffaw Aunty. Her loud laughter and clamorous clapping often led me to wonder if I had ventured out forgetting to wear my track pants, Of course, they were merely in pursuit of some happy therapy, and not focused on any individual.  Gossip Chacha was of the most popular inhabitant of that park, never failing to update us with the spicy news his milkman had delivered every morning along with the equally fresh dairy produce. But Army Sir hated all the gossip and ensured he maintained social distancing from the hearsay while walking at lightning speed. I reciprocated by keeping such distance from him, fearing being run over by his pace, or accidentally knocked off by his swagger stick.  One could however not resist the herbal tea collection of Pekoe Madam, who managed to reach the park everyday just as the walkers were finishing their exercise. She sold fourteen varieties of therapeutic teas, although I never figured out any difference between the flavours.  The park had a small area for a flag pole and every Independence and Republic day, Army Sir ensured that we all gathered exactly at 9 am in celebration of the country’s freedom and democracy. Gossip Chacha usually avoided chatter on those occasions but Guffaw Aunty and her troupe ensured that their session of merriment and cacophony finished up just minutes before the more sober patriotic activities commenced. It has been almost two decades since I moved away to a different part of the city - and a few weeks back I wondered if any of the usual characters still inhabit the park in the mornings. I took a drive towards the park and discovered that a sprawling apartment complex had taken its place. So just as many of us confine our walks and exercise routines within apartment societies and gymnasiums nowadays, the happy scenes of that vibrant group of fellow walkers, now invisible in this modern city, are well confined in my memory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-invisible-walkers-961409.html
13-03-2021||Second Edit||Wages of saving tigers, shrinking forests||The Karnataka government has issued orders to shoot down a tiger in Kodagu’s Nagarahole forest region after it killed four people and at least 16 heads of cattle in the past few days. With the forest department and environmentalists taking the easy way out by blaming man-animal conflict on shrinkage of wild habitats due to human encroachment, the real issue has been ignored, resulting in more such encounters. With a healthy population of 125 tigers, which translates to a density of one tiger per about 12 sq km, Nagarahole is said to have reached its ecological carrying capacity. Each tiger needs a territory of at least 20 sq km, which they fiercely defend. Thus, as the population increases, the older and weaker big cats are edged out of the forest, forcing them to take shelter in bordering estates or villages. The fact that over the years, tigers are being increasingly sighted in coffee plantations is a clear indication that they have begun marking and occupying new territory, something that the authorities have overlooked, leading to the current situation. A solution has been evasive, as wildlife experts are divided over how to deal with the problem. While one section feels that the tiger population in Nagarahole should be reduced by translocating them to other forest reserves in the country, another is of the view that the entire exercise of tranquilising, transporting and introducing them to alien areas will cause immense trauma to the animals. Some experts also fault the government’s policy of modifying the habitat to make it conducive to accommodate tigers much beyond the territory’s carrying capacity. According to them, unnecessary interventions in the forest interferes with the natural mortality cycle or survival of the fittest animals, which prevents the natural weeding out of weaker animals. The focus, they say, should be on saving the species as a whole and not individual animals. The government should take an impassionate view of the ground realities and initiate some concrete steps in the interest of both man and animal. People living in the periphery of forests should regard wildlife as their friends, rather than enemies, but if the authorities continue to brush the real concerns under the carpet, human hostility towards tigers will only increase with each conflict. And given the government’s inability and inertia in responding to animal attacks on time, there could be a situation in which people begin to take law into their hands to protect themselves from predators, negating all the efforts that have gone into tiger conservation so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/wages-of-saving-tigers-shrinking-forests-961405.html
13-03-2021||South||TTD to construct super speciality kids' hospital with Rs 300 crore donation from Mumbai based firm||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has entered an agreement to construct a super speciality hospital for kids with a Rs 300 crore donation from Mumbai based Udveg Infrastructure and Consultancy Private Limited. The planned state of the art pediatric hospital would be made operational as part of the Sri Venkateshwara Institute of Medical Sciences in Tirupati. On Friday, the MoU to set up the hospital in the temple town was inked between TTD Executive Officer Dr Jawahar Reddy and UIC CEO and MD Sanjay K Singh, in the presence of TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy. EO Reddy said that TTD would soon conduct the Bhumi puja for the children’s hospital. The UIC, apart from bearing the entire construction cost of Rs 300 crore, will also manage the hospital operations for a few initial years. Sanjay Singh said that “it was a great privilege to collaborate with the world-renowned Hindu religious organization TTD and commence a noble project meant for health care of children at the lotus feet of Sri Venkateshwara.” “Covid-19 positive Vedic school students safe”  Chairman Subba Reddy visited SVIMS on Friday and interacted with the Dharmagiri Veda Vignana Peetham students who had tested positive and are undergoing treatment. At least 57 students of the TTD run Vedic school tested positive earlier this week, after their return to the institution that reopened a few days back. Reddy said that all the Covid-19 positive students and one faculty are asymptomatic and safe. The chairman has also inspected the Vedic school in Tirumala and assured the parents of the students that TTD is taking all measures to ensure the health safety of all. Reddy inquired about the reason for the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the school. The TTD chief inspected the dining hall, kitchens, hostels and classrooms and directed officials to accommodate only four students per room.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-to-construct-super-speciality-kids-hospital-with-rs-300-crore-donation-from-mumbai-based-firm-961410.html
13-03-2021||South||AIADMK now is not Jayalalithaa's AIADMK, DMK is arrogant: Asaduddin Owaisi ahead of Tamil Nadu Assembly polls||AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday slammed the two Dravidian majors-- DMK and AIADMK, accusing them of deviating from their principles and compromising for political gains. In stark contrast to the two parties, T T V Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK), with whom he has forged an alliance for the April 6 Tamil Nadu polls, is emerging as a viable political alternative in the state, he said. Addressing a well-attended rally organised by the AMMK here, sharing the dais with Dhinakaran, Owaisi said, "both the ruling AIADMK and the opposition DMK drifted from Annas (late chief minister C N Annadurai) path". The present AIADMK, he said, was not the party that it was when late chief minister J Jayalalithaa was at the helm. "The AIADMK that you see now is not the AIADMK of madam Jayalalithaa, who kept away the BJP from entering Tamil Nadu. The party has now become subservient to Modi," he alleged.  Training his guns on the DMK, Owaisi accused the party of duplicity in its claims of being secular. "DMK leader M K Stalin should explain if his party and ally Congress considered Shiv Sena, which is in alliance with the Congress in Maharashtra, secular or communal," he asked. He also accused Congress of backing the BJP government's amendment to the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. "While on the one hand, DMK's ally claimed to be secular, on the other it supported the Centre on the "draconian" law," he said. On the charge from some sections that AMMK was the "B team of the BJP," Owaisi said Dhinakaran was politically mature to respect leaders and minorities. "His AMMK is the only party which can secure the interests of the poor and the minorities," he said. AIMIM is seeking to make its foray into Tamil Nadu and has joined the AMMK-led alliance from which it will be contesting three seats--Vaniyambadi, Krishnagiri and Sankarapuram.  Hitting out at DMK, Owaisi said "unfortunately, DMK lacks political courtesy and became the most arrogant party," recalling the incident when the Dravidian party's minority wing invited him to attend a conference in Chennai, which he obliged and the party later denied the meeting. "If they do something like this to me, imagine what they can to the common people," Owaisi said. Meanwhile, Dhinakaran released his party's manifesto for the polls, at the rally. The promises include a "corruption-free Tamil Nadu," the "Amma Economic Revolution Scheme" that will provide jobs for one person in every household, various pro-industry initiatives, port management, creation of additional assembly constituencies, better medical care for the poor, sops to the farm sector, river inter-linking and a subsidy of Rs 100 for one LPG cylinder a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-now-is-not-jayalalithaas-aiadmk-dmk-is-arrogant-asaduddin-owaisi-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-961441.html
13-03-2021||South||BJP believes in crushing, conquering: Yashwant Sinha joins TMC ahead of West Bengal polls||Former Union minister Yashwant Sinha on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) ahead of the Assembly elections in West Bengal. A vocal critic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Sinha had quit the BJP in 2018. "Our country is going through a strange and perilous situation. The constitutional and democratic values which we cherished for so long are being jeopardised... democratic institutions are being systematically weakened,” said the 83-year-old after joining the party.  The need of the hour is to ensure a “thumping victory” for the TMC in Bengal which will become a catalyst in the defeat of the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, he said. He alleged that the BJP government wasn't bothered about being accountable to people and that it was going by its own whims due to lack of opposition. "The farmers are agitating on Delhi streets but the government is aloof,” he said. Claiming that the present-day BJP was strikingly different from the one led by Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Sinha said Modi and Shah only believe in crushing dissent. "Atal ji believed in consensus. He believed in taking people along. But the current BJP leadership believes in conquering people,” said Sinha, who served as the finance minister in the Vajpayee government.   He also said that while Vajpayee believed in the coalition, alliance partners are leaving the BJP one by one under the current leadership. He also lauded West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her fight against the BJP and said the TMC will emerge victorious in the Assembly elections, "but our job is to take the victory to another level". The TMC’s win will usher in changes in the 2024 elections and ensure the defeat of the BJP, he added. "It was the attack on Mamata Ji which made me decide that I will join the TMC," said Sinha. He also recalled the hijack of an Air India plane at Kandahar when Mamata, then an alliance partner of the Vajpayee government, volunteered at the Cabinet meeting to go and meet the hijackers to ensure the release of hostages. It showed that “she had no fear for her life,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-believes-in-crushing-conquering-yashwant-sinha-joins-tmc-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-961529.html
13-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: High drama in Puthuppally over speculations of Oommen Chandy shifting to Nemom constituency||Amidst speculation that former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will contest from Nemom in the April 6 Assembly polls, Puthuppally, his home constituency in Kottayam district, witnessed dramatic scenes on Saturday as a group of Congress workers staged a protest near his house and made suicide threats. Nemom constituency, a suburb located in Thiruvananthapuram district, is the lone seat of the BJP in the Kerala Assembly. A large number of party workers and followers including women gathered near his house since morning and raised slogans, saying they would not let their long-time MLA leave Puthuppally to contest in any other segment. The two-time Chief Minister has been representing Puthuppally in the state Assembly for the last 51 years since the 1970s. An emotional supporter even climbed atop the rooftop of his house and threatened to commit suicide, holding the party flag in his hands.  "We will give our life, but not Chandy... he is our dearest leader... we will not let him go to Nemom," another Congress activist said. Chandy, who got back home from Delhi this morning, was even waylaid by the supporters and appealed him not to switch to any other constituency. The 77 years-old leader, who somehow managed to enter the house amidst the rush of party workers, seemed to be moved by the support showed by followers. Senior leaders K C Joseph and Thiruvanchoor Radhakrishnan also reached Chandy's home by the time. As the protests intensified, the leader assured the supporters that he would not leave Puthuppally to contest in Nemom. "Candidates have been finalised in 81 constituencies. In the list, my name is given as the candidate in Puthuppally. Neither state nor the central leadership have asked me to contest from Nemom. I completely understand and acknowledge the emotions of party workers and followers. There is no way to leave Puthuppally," Chandy said. However, he said discussions were still on over the candidature in Nemom. Speculations are high that Chandy, the veteran leader with a mass support base across the southern state, would be fielded in Nemom, the high-profile constituency where a fierce three-corned fight is expected, in the upcoming polls. A section of media also reported that Chandy had consented to contest from Nemom, which was considered to be the reason for the emotional reaction of followers. The names of Shashi Tharoor and K Muraleedharan, both members of parliament, were also said to have been discussed as possible candidates in Nemom, but the Congress leadership already made it clear that MPs would not be contesting in Assembly polls. Wresting Nemom seat from the saffron party is a major challenge for both the traditional fronts-Congress-led UDF and the CPI(M)-headed LDF- as BJP had opened its maiden account in the state Assembly by winning this constituency. As BJP leaders hail Nemom as the "Gujarat of Kerala" and the party's iron fortress, it's a matter of pride for both the traditional fronts, who have been dominating the state's bipolar polity for so many decades, to snatch it from the BJP- NDA. Congress sources said by fielding a high-profile leader like Chandy, the grand-old party can give a befitting reply to the CPI(M)'s allegation that the BJP and Congress were going hand-in-hand in many constituencies including Nemom. If the party wins and it can wrest the lone seat from BJP, it would be a game-changer in state politics, they added. However, the Congress leadership is yet to make any formal announcement on the Nemom candidature. Speculations were rife that the Congress high command was keen that either Chandy or Chennithala should be prepared to try their luck from Nemon seat. The CPI(M) has already announced its former MLA, V Sivankutty as the candidate in Nemom. There were also media reports that former Mizoram Governor, Kummanam Rajasekharan would be the BJP nominee there. BJP veteran and former union minister, O Rajagopal had won Nemom in 2016 assembly polls by garnering 67,813 votes by defeating CPI(M)-LDF's V Sivankutty who secured 59,142 votes. However, UDF candidate V Surendran Pillai (JD-S) could finish only in a distant third position with 13,860 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-high-drama-in-puthuppally-over-speculations-of-oommen-chandy-shifting-to-nemom-constituency-961566.html
13-03-2021||South||Kerala Congress (J) faction releases candidate list for assembly polls||The Kerala Congress (Joseph) group, an ally of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on Saturday announced the candidate list for the April 6 state Assembly election with party supremo P J Joseph fighting the poll from Thodupuzha constituency. Senior leaders Advocate Monce Joseph MLA, K Franscis George, Thomas Unniyadan are contesting from Kaduthuruthy, Idukki and Irinjalakuda constituencies. M P Joseph, son-in-law of former minister and Kerala Congress supremo, K M Mani, is contesting from Trikaripurconstituency. The UDF leaders had yesterday announced that as per the seat sharing agreement, 10 seats have been allocated for the Joseph faction of Kerala Congress. Kerala Congress (M) had last year severed its three- decade-old ties with the opposition UDF and joined the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), however, a faction led by senior leader Joseph remained with the UDF. A legal battle following the split resulted in the Election Commission allottingthe official 'Two Leaves' symbol to Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K Mani, who joined the LDF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-congress-j-faction-releases-candidate-list-for-assembly-polls-961598.html
13-03-2021||South||Sadhguru thanks Stalin on fund allocation for temple restoration||Isha Foundation founder and Spiritual leader Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev on Saturday expressed gratitude to DMK president M K Stalin on allocation of funds for temple restoration in the party manifesto. "Gratitude & congratulations on allocation of funds for temple restoration in your manifesto.Thank you Shri.@mkstalin. -Sg #FreeTNTemples," he tweeted. "Long term well-being and development of these temples can only be assured by devolution of temples to be managed by devotees.Hope to see a favourable movement in this direction -Sg @mkstalin #FreeTNTemples," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sadhguru-thanks-stalin-on-fund-allocation-for-temple-restoration-961645.html
13-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Polls: BJP's lone seat Nemom becomes focal point for Congress||The Nemom constituency in Thiruvananthapuram city, known to have become the first BJP constituency ever in the Kerala Assembly, has now emerged as the focal point of candidate selection for the coming Assembly elections. The Congress is planning to field a high-profile candidate to lock horns with BJP in its lone seat in Kerala. The grand old party is pulling out all stops at Nemon this time, as the constituency has been a disappointment for Congress in the last two Assembly elections. Votes secured by candidates of the Congress-led United Democratic Front at Nemom in 2011 and 2016 were very low and the party came in at the third position. This had triggered allegations that UDF had helped BJP secure the seat. The CPM has already fielded former MLA of Nemom V Sivankutty as its candidate. He won with a majority of around 6,400 votes in 2011. BJP's O Rajagopal was a runner-up then, with 43, 661 votes. UDF candidate in the election Charupara Ravi of Socialist Janata (Democratic) got close to 20,000 votes. In 2016, BJP's O Rajagopal won the seat with around 67,800 votes, while CPM's Sivankutty came second with around 59,000 votes. UDF candidate V Surendran Pillai of Janata Dal (United) got just 13,800 votes. This time the Congress national leadership is committed to defeating the BJP at Nemom, hence a strong candidate is expected to be fielded. The BJP is yet to finalise its candidate for Nemom. CPM former state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan said that BJP's defeat in the seat was sure if the Congress fields a strong candidate. He also said that last time O Rajagopal managed to get sympathy votes due to his age and a string of unsuccessful elections. However, BJP sources pointed out that the saffron party was quite confident in the seat as there was a considerable Hindu population in the region. BJP candidates won in several wards in Nemom during the local body elections. BJP former state president Kummanam Rajasekharan, who was also former Mizoram governor,  and actor-turned Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi are under consideration for the seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-bjps-lone-seat-nemom-becomes-focal-point-for-congress-961657.html
13-03-2021||State||Karnataka reports 833 new Covid-19 cases, five deaths||Karnataka reported 833 new Covid-19 cases and five fatalities, taking the caseload to 9.58 lakh and the toll to 12,386, on Friday. The day also saw 545 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban continued to top the list of positive cases, accounting for 526 infections. Cumulatively 9,58,417 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,37,898 discharges. Out of 8,114 active cases, 125 are in Intensive Care Units. Bengaluru Urban also accounted for two deaths, while the other three were from Bidar, Dharwad and Kalaburagi. Among fresh cases, Kalaburagi followed Bengaluru Urban with 38, Tumakuru 36, Dakshina Kannada 35 and Kolar 30, followed by others. A total of over 1,96,44,839 samples have been tested so far, out of which 73,632 were tested on Friday alone. Till 5.30 pm, on day 56, on Friday, 85,765 were vaccinated taking the cumulative vaccinated to 12,70,782.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-833-new-covid-19-cases-five-deaths-961461.html
13-03-2021||State||Bhatkal man detained in Goa; 2.1 kg gold seized||A 45-year-old resident of Karnataka's Bhatkal has been detained for alleged possession of 2.1 kg gold soon after he landed at Goa's international airport from Dubai on Saturday, according to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence. "We have seized 18 gold biscuits worth Rs 97 lakh and weighing 2.1 kg by one Akbar Abubakr. He had arrived in Goa by air from Dubai," a statement, issued by the DRI, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bhatkal-man-detained-in-goa-21-kg-gold-seized-961683.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD row: Ramesh Jarkiholi's confidant calls CD 'fake'; police registers FIR||The sex CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi took a new turn on Saturday afternoon after the Sadashivanagar police registered an FIR against unknown persons based on the complaint filed by former MLA Nagaraju on behalf of the former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi.  Nagaraju, in the complaint, has alleged that a group of unknown persons had made a fake CD and released it to activist Dinesh Kallahalli and on social media. It is an act of blackmailing, defaming, extortion and forgery, the complaint said. It added that the CD was a political conspiracy to get him to step down from the minister's post and some people who couldn't digest his political growth were behind it. Speaking with the media, Nagaraju said that he had filed a complaint on behalf of the former minister because he was busy in discussions with the advocates. "It is clearly mentioned that Ramesh was blackmailed," Nagaraju said. The complaint does not mention any name but it says that some unknown people were behind the release of the fake CD and asked the police to thoroughly investigate the matter and take necessary action against the concerned persons.  According to Sadashivanagar police, former MLA Nagaraju approached the police with a copy of the complaint signed by Jarkiholi and told them that he had come to file the complaint on behalf of the former minister. The details and allegations made in the complaint were verified by the station house officer and the police officials contacted their seniors, including the officers in the SIT, and briefed them about the complaint details.  The police also contacted legal experts to take their opinion before registering an FIR and said that it looked like the complaint was drafted with the help of advocates.    According to sources, the FIR was registered around 7 pm. Nagaraju was in the police station till the FIR was registered and took a copy of it along with him to hand it over to Jarkiholi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-row-ramesh-jarkiholis-confidant-calls-cd-fake-police-registers-fir-961608.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||SC notice to ED on former Karnataka Minister Katta Subramanya Naidu's plea against PLMA proceedings||Former Karnataka Minister Katta Subramanya Naidu has approached the Supreme Court against proceedings initiated to attach properties worth over Rs 27 crore and others under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy issued notice to the Enforcement Directorate on a plea by him and others to stay the proceedings.  The Karnataka High Court, by a common judgement on December 14, 2020, had dismissed writ petitions by several persons against retrospective application of the PMLA, 2009 and held that nobody had an inviolable right to enjoy wealth acquired through illegitimate means. The Deputy Director of the ED filed had a complaint under Section 45(1) of the PMLA on March 24, 2014, against Naidu and 23 other accused seeking their prosecution under Sections 3 and 4 of the Act and also for the confiscation of all the attached properties. The ED claimed that Naidu had directly and indirectly indulged, knowingly assisted, and knowingly was a party and was involved in the process and activities connected with the proceeds of crime, including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and claiming it as untainted property. The total amount involved in the offence of money laundering was Rs 27.05 crore.  The petitioners were represented by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi, Sidharth Luthra, P S Narsimha and R Basant and advocate Nishanth Patil, among others. They claimed that the PMLA Amendment Act, 2009 cannot operate retrospectively in respect of offences alleged to have been committed before the amendment.  As on the date of the alleged offence, there was no criminality attached to the ‘proceeds of crime’ arising out of the alleged offence. Therefore, there could not have been any criminal proceedings arising out of such proceeds of crime, their plea said.  "In the present case, when the offence of money laundering was not a crime in respect of the alleged offences, no charge of money-laundering can be framed against the petitioner herein. The proceedings under the PMLA Act therefore violate Article 20(1) of the Constitution. In other words, ex post facto criminal laws cannot be made applicable retrospectively," the plea added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-notice-to-ed-on-former-karnataka-minister-katta-subramanya-naidus-plea-against-plma-proceedings-961629.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to submit response to SC over reservation on March 23||Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the state government would convey to the Supreme Court its stand on exceeding the 50 per cent cap on reservation on March 23.  Bommai chaired a meeting with legal experts where they discussed various aspects, modalities and implications of the issue.  Early this week, while making a statement on this in the Legislative Assembly, Bommai said it was “inevitable” to breach the 50 per cent cap on quota if demands made by various caste groups are to be fulfilled. “The Supreme Court, while referring Maharashtra’s Maratha reservation issue to a larger bench, posed six questions to all the states and has sought opinions. We have to submit our response on March 23. We will prepare a draft and send it to the experts for vetting,” Bommai said after the meeting.  Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes chairperson Jayaprakash Hegde, advocate general Prabhuling Navadgi, former advocate generals Ravivarma Kumar, Uday Holla, Madhusudhan Naik among others attended the meeting.  “It was a significant meeting,” Bommai said. “We discussed the Indira Sawhney judgement in which the Supreme Court capped the reservations at 50 per cent. Should we increase this or not? Will the state’s powers to amend laws in this regard be curtailed or not? We discussed all this,” he said.  The state government, Bommai asserted, was committed to meet the aspirations of all communities.“We want to safeguard the interests of SC, ST and OBC while also protecting our Constitutional rights.”  Bommai also pointed out that Karnataka was a progressive state on the reservation front. “Before the Indira Sawhney judgement and before independence, there was reservation here during the Maharaja rule. Before the Mandal Commission, we had a backward classes commission here,” he said.  The state government is under pressure to fulfil reservation demands made by various communities: the SCs have demanded an increase in their state quota from 15 per cent to 17 per cent and the STs from 3 per cent to 7.5 per cent. The Kurubas want to be included under ST, whereas the Panchamshalis, a sub-sect of the Veerashaiva-Lingayats, want Category 2A reservation. Earlier in the day, Bommai said he would reach out to BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal with the hope of convincing him to drop his plan to protest in the Assembly, which resumes its session Monday. Yatnal has threatened to protest if the government failed to make its stand clear on whether or not the Panchamasali sub-sect will be put under Category 2A.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-submit-response-to-sc-over-reservation-on-march-23-961638.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD scandal: Will not drop this case until it's solved, says Ramesh Jarkiholi||After registering a complaint on Saturday through former MLA Nagaraj, former Water Resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi vowed to see the case through till the very end and declined to comment on a video featuring a woman in which she names him as having offered her a job.  "I will not let this go," Jarkiholi told media persons, speaking about the CD scandal due to which he had to resign as a minister. He reiterated that the sex-for-job allegation was a political conspiracy. "I am not the lone victim here. This can happen to anyone. Everyone should fight against it together," he said, urging not to encourage such "blackmail tactics".  Further, talking about the woman in the video, he said, "I don’t know and authorities will investigate". “You should all questions the woman. Why did (her) video come after 12 days? Imagine how big this conspiracy is. Everything will be known in the investigation,” he added.  As for the ongoing investigation in the case, he said he would extend his full co-operation. "Police have sped up the investigation. The scam involves hundreds of crores of rupees. Soon, all the actors involved in it will be identified," he stated. The former minister, who recently broke his silence on the issue has been maintaining that the alleged CD that showed him in a compromising situation, was fake. Former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Saturday night||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-scandal-will-not-drop-this-case-until-its-solved-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-961679.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees 900-plus new Covid-19 cases for first time since January||Karnataka, for the first time since January 22, recorded more than 900 new Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour period. Saturday’s tally of 921 fresh infections took the state’s caseload to 9,59,338. The state had last reported 900-plus cases on January 8 (970) and January 22 (902). The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.26% but its weekly average stood at 0.9% till March 12. In the last seven days alone it has added 4,607 new cases to the tally. Bengaluru Urban registered 630 fresh cases which is 68% of the total cases reported in the last 24 hours. As many as 992 patients were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 9,38,890. There are 8,042 active carriers of the virus in the state which includes 5,853 in Bengaluru Urban alone. So far, 12,387 have succumbed to the disease. On March 13, the state capital conducted 39,881 tests which is marginally lesser than its daily target of 40,000. 72,650 tests were carried out in the day across Karnataka. In Bengaluru Urban, there are 10,203 people in active quarantine as of March 12. A total of 29 patients have tested positive for the UK strain of virus while three contracted South Africa strain of Covid. On day 57 of the vaccination drive on Saturday, 39,253 were vaccinated (till 5.30 pm) taking the total number of vaccinated to 13,40,542.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-900-plus-new-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-since-january-961680.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bhalki youth detained in Ramesh Jarkiholi sex CD case||The sleuths of the Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing a controversial CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, are said to have detained a youth from Bhalki for questioning. Call data records The SIT zeroed in on Abhishek Jinde on the basis of call data records. His laptop has been seized. Jinde, who left his house around 2.30 on March Thursday did not return home till Friday noon. His family members had checked the CCTV footage in the locality and found that some unidentified persons were taking way Jinde. His uncle had lodged missing complaint.  Superintendent of Police Nagesh D L said that the officials of Special Investigation Team had detained a youth for inquiry. "But, there is no definite information on the case he is linked to," the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bhalki-youth-detained-in-ramesh-jarkiholi-sex-cd-case-961681.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka government releases White Paper on RTC workers’ demands||As the March 15-deadline set by the protesting workers of the four transport corporations nears, the Transport Department has released a ‘White Paper’ providing details of the work done by the officials towards fulfilling the promise made by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi. The document provided the details of seven of the nine demands fulfilled by the department as well as the status of the two pending demands, including the major demand of revising the pay grade of 1.3 lakh transport workers to bring it on par with the government employees as per the 6th Pay Commission recommendations. The government has set up a committee to look into the issue. The latest demand to be fulfilled is a revised system for the inter-corporation transfer of employees. Employees of BMTC, KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC have sought a chance to switch from one corporation to another to stay close to their hometowns or for other conveniences. On Wednesday, the department issued a release along with the government notification on the transfer. Some of the demands that were fulfilled include the health insurance scheme, compensation of Rs 30 lakh to the family of the employees who died of Covid-19, driver allowance, and relaxing the rule on failure to issue a ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-government-releases-white-paper-on-rtc-workers-demands-961682.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi scandal: Woman in purported sleaze video seeks protection||A woman, who is said to have featured in a video purportedly showing her in a compromising position with BJP MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi, on Saturday sought protection from the State government. "I don't have protection.All that I ask you all is 'give me protection'," she said in a video message addressed to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai. She stressed that she was not aware how the video was made. "My dignity is lost after the video became public. People are coming to our house enquiring about me. My parents tried to commit suicide twice and I too attempted suicide at least three to four times," she said in the video message which has gone viral on social media. Stating that she did not have political backing, she claimed that Ramesh Jarkiholi had offered her a job and now released her video. "I don't know how it has happened," she said.  The video message came on a day police registered a case of extortion and conspiracy against unknown people following a complaint lodged by Jarkiholi, who alleged a "conspiracy" to finish him off politically. According to sources, the Special Investigation Team formed by the government to probe the conspiracy behind the scandal have detained at least six people. Ahead of the assembly session early this month, a social activist had lodged a complaint with police accusing Jarkiholi of exploiting a woman. Dubbing it as 'sex for job' scandal, video clips purportedly showing Ramesh Jarkiholi in a compromising position with an unidentified woman was widely aired by Kannada news channels. Jarkiholi rubbished them as fake and said there was a "deep conspiracy". However, he stepped down as Water Resources Minister on moral grounds. The activist later withdrew his complaint.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-scandal-woman-in-purported-sleaze-video-seeks-protection-961685.html
13-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panchamasalis quota: Karnataka Govt to reply SC on March 23||Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday said the state government would convey to the Supreme Court its stand on exceeding the 50% cap on reservation on March 23.  Bommai chaired a meeting with legal experts where they discussed various aspects, modalities and implications of this issue.  Early this week, while making a statement on this in the Legislative Assembly, Bommai said it was “inevitable” to breach the 50% cap on quota if demands made by various caste groups are to be fulfilled. “The Supreme Court, while referring Maharashtra’s Maratha reservation issue to a larger bench, has posed six questions to all the states and has sought opinions. We have to submit our response on March 23. We will prepare a draft and send it to the experts for vetting,” Bommai said after the meeting.  Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes chairperson Jayaprakash Hegde, advocate general Prabhuling Navadgi, former advocate generals Ravivarma Kumar, Uday Holla, Madhusudhan Naik among others attended the meeting.  “It was a significant meeting,” Bommai said. “We discussed the Indira Sawhney judgement in which the Supreme Court capped the reservations at 50%. Should we increase this or not? Will the state’s powers to amend laws in this regard be curtailed or not? We discussed all this,” he said.  The state government, Bommai asserted, was committed to meet the aspirations of all communities. “We want to safeguard the interests of SC, ST and OBC while also protecting our Constitutional rights.”  Bommai also pointed out that Karnataka was a progressive state on the reservation front. “Before the Indira Sawhney judgement and before independence, there was reservation here during the Maharaja rule. Before the Mandal Commission, we had a backward classes commission here,” he said.  The state government is under pressure to fulfil reservation demands made by various communities: the SCs have demanded an increase in their state quota from 15% to 17% and the STs from 3% to 7.5%. The Kurubas want to be included under ST whereas the Panchamasalis, a sub-sect of the Veerashaiva-Lingayats, want Category 2A reservation. Earlier in the day, Bommai said he would reach out to BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal with the hope of convincing him to drop his plan to protest in the Assembly, which resumes its session Monday. Yatnal has threatened to protest if the government failed to make its stand clear on whether or not the Panchamasali sub-sect will be put under Category 2A.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panchamasalis-quota-karnataka-govt-to-reply-sc-on-march-23-961686.html
13-03-2021||West||SC slams Goa for appointing government official as state election chief; CM assures corrective measures||On a day when the Supreme Court of India rapped the Goa government for "making a mockery of democracy" by appointing a serving government officer as State Election Commissioner, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said that the government will follow the directives of the apex court. Even as the opposition has collectively demanded the resignation of the Chief Minister over the apex court's strictures over the conduct of the upcoming municipal polls, Sawant also said that mistakes which were committed by his government's Directorate of Municipal Administration would be rectified. "We accept the court order and whatever mistakes were committed at the level of the Directorate of Municipal Administration will be rectified. Whatever instructions have been given by court, we will follow," Sawant told reporters.  Reacting to the Supreme Court's strictures related to the appointment of a serving Secretary of the Goa government as a State Election Commissioner (SEC), the Chief Minister said that other states also followed similar practices. "In most states, the SEC is a serving IAS officer or a state cadre officer. There were no strict instructions until now. There will be a full-fledged officer henceforth," Sawant said. The state government last week had appealed against a Bombay High Court order, which had slammed the procedure for reservation of constituencies for women and Scheduled Tribes candidates, while postponing polls in five out of the 11 municipal councils (and one municipal corporation) to April 15, after completion of fresh reservation procedures. Polls were originally scheduled to be held on March 20.  Goa's Advocate General Devidas Pangam had appealed against the order in the SC, which on Friday lambasted the state government in its order, while directing that the elections to the five municipal councils mentioned in the High Court's order be completed by April 30. The Opposition, in unison, has demanded the resignation of the Chief Minister for what state Congress president Girish Chodankar said amounted to "harakiri" of the municipal poll process. "After this SC order, the CM should not be sitting in the chair for a single minute because of all the harakiri and flouting of election processes, his government has violated ahead of the municipal polls," Chodankar demanded on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sc-slams-goa-for-appointing-government-official-as-state-election-chief-cm-assures-corrective-measures-961413.html
13-03-2021||West||No sign of forcible entry seen on Mansukh Hiren's SUV found near Ambani's house: Mumbai Police||There were no marks indicating a forcible opening of doors of the Scorpio which was found with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house last month, a senior police official said here on Friday. This led the investigators of Mumbai Crime Branch to suspect that it may have been opened with a duplicate key when it was stolen, he said. The case has been now taken over by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). Mansukh Hiren, in whose possession the SUV was, had claimed that it was stolen from Vikhroli area a week before it was found outside Ambani's house. Hiren was found dead in mysterious circumstances on March 5. "We did not find any marks suggesting that the doors were opened using force," said the official who was part of the crime branch probe team. But the forensic lab report of the vehicle was awaited, he added. Hiren had said he had left it on the road as its steering got jammed on the night of February 17. Meanwhile, on Friday an NIA team visited Thane police officials to get information related to the case, sources said. The Maharashtra ATS, which is probing Hiren's death, also recorded some persons' statements in Thane, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-sign-of-forcible-entry-seen-on-mansukh-hirens-suv-found-near-ambanis-house-mumbai-police-961448.html
13-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb case: Vaze moves anticipatory bail application at Thane court||Mumbai crime branch's Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze has moved an anticipatory bail application in the Thane District & Sessions Court. The court has scheduled the hearing for March 19. Maharashtra: Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze has moved an anticipatory bail application in District & Sessions Court, Thane. The court has kept the matter for hearing on 19th March. Vaze, after being quizzed by the Mumbai Police regarding his alleged involvement in the Mansukh Hiren death case was transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre on Friday. Hiren's wife has alleged that Vaze was involved in her husband's death, the cause or reason for which is yet to be known.   More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-case-vaze-moves-anticipatory-bail-application-at-thane-court-961471.html
13-03-2021||West||As Covid-19 surges, doctors’ body sends suggestions for vaccination drive||With Covid-19 cases surging and the vaccination drive yet to run on full steam, the Organised Medicine Academic Guild (OMAG), has sent a series of suggestions to the government including making it available in more places, starting 16-hour shifts and launching mobile vans. OMAG, the umbrella organisation of 15 professional medical associations representing 250,000 post-graduate doctors, said that vaccines should be made available right up to Primary Health Centres in the public sector and in all hospitals, nursing homes, day-care centres, poly-clinics in the private sector. “The vaccines should be made available round the clock, maybe in two shifts of a total 16 hours, from 8 am till midnight, initially. It should be available all days of the week irrespective of holidays. Rather than keeping the vaccination centres closed on public holidays, they should work overtime with a higher workforce on holidays. Mobile vaccination vans should come handy,” said Dr Ishwar Gilada, the Secretary General of OMAG. According to him, the majority population is not net-savvy and hence NGOs should take-up registration drives to help people. “As it is Aadhaar-linked, any-one should be able to take it at any centre. Drop-in vaccination including registration should be smoothened. Similarly, they should be offered a choice of vaccines,” he said. “As India has a superb capacity of quality and quantity vaccine production with reasonable base cost at Rs 150-200, let the vaccine be made available everywhere. Not counting doctors from alternative medicines and nurses, India has 12,50,000 registered MBBS and 3,70,000 specialist doctors. If 15 to 20 per cent of them got involved in vaccination drives as private players, we will have staggering 300,000 additional vaccination centres,” he said. “Mediclaim insurance companies should be told to demand Covid vaccination certificates to be given incentive or rebate in premium amounts. Cost on vaccination of family members should be tax-deductible in Income Tax returns of the family head. Similarly, it can be part of Corporate Social Responsibility,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-surges-doctors-body-sends-suggestions-for-vaccination-drive-961514.html
13-03-2021||West||Sanjay Raut wants all-party delegation to visit Belgaum over border dispute||With the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute flaring up yet again, the Shiv Sena on Saturday proposed an all-party delegation to visit Belagavi and express solidarity with the Marathi-speaking people in the disputed areas. In the wake of instances of alleged attacks on party leaders and office by pro-Kannada outfits, the Shiv Sena also requested the Centre to review the recent happenings on the Karnataka side of the state boundary. “Belgaum is part of India and the Maharashtra-Karnataka dispute is a language dispute... it is not India-Pakistan dispute... It shouldn't be stretched too far and this is the responsibility of the Karnataka government too," Shiv Sena chief spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said. According to him, Prime Minister Narendra Modi must intervene. “If the situation goes out of hand, the Shiv Sena and the Maharashtra government shouldn't be blamed since the response would not be official but political,” he said. Raut said that he would request Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray to send an all-party delegation to Belgaum. “We must stand by Marathi people and express solidarity with them. An all-party delegation from Maharashtra must go to Belgaum,” he said. Maharashtra claims 814 villages along the borders in Belgaum, Karwar, Nippani, Bidar and wants them to be included in the state - as a large population here speaks Marathi. It may be recalled, in January, the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government, backed by Opposition BJP, had called for a "time-bound resolution" of the issue and urged the Centre to declare the disputed areas as Union Territory till a final solution is reached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-wants-all-party-delegation-to-visit-belgaum-over-border-dispute-961518.html
13-03-2021||West||Journalist arrested in Hyderabad for NCP worker’s murder||After evading arrest for nearly three-and-a-half months, police have arrested senior journalist, editor and writer Dr Bal Bothe, the alleged key conspirator behind the brutal murder of NCP lady activist Rekha Jare in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra. Bothe was arrested from Hyderabad, according to Ahmednagar’s Superintendent of Police Manoj Patil, who was personally monitoring the progress of the case. It needs to be mentioned that the Ahmednagar Sessions Court and the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court had rejected the bail application of Bothe. Bothe worked in a top position in a prominent Marathi news media house and was based in Ahmednagar. Rekha (39), who was the president of the Yashaswini Mahila Brigade, a local organisation working for women’s welfare, was murdered on November 30, 2020 by two motorcycle-borne persons at Jategaon Phata in Parner along the Ahmednagar-Pune Highway. The incident took place when Rekha Jare was travelling from Pune to Ahmednagar in a car along with her mother, son and a friend. The assailants slit her throat. Initially, it was suspected to be a road rage incident but later it emerged to be a contract killing. An offence was registered at the Supa police station based on a complaint lodged by Jare's mother Sindhubai Waykar. A case had been filed under IPC section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention). Within a fortnight, police arrested 10 suspects including Feroze Raju Shaikh (26) of Rahuri, Dnyaneshwar Shivaji Shinde (24) of Shrirampur, Aditya Cholke (25) of Kolhar, Sagar Bhingardive (31) of Kedgaon and Rishikesh Pawar (23) from Pravaranagar. The accused had named Dr Bothe as the mastermind.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/journalist-arrested-in-hyderabad-for-ncp-worker-s-murder-961545.html
13-03-2021||West||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis named new chairman of Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini||Senior BJP leader and Maharashtra’s Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis was elected as the new chairman of the Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini (RMP), a prominent institution for training and research that focuses on leadership development and socio-political research. Rajya Sabha member and President of the Indian Council for Cultural Relations Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe was elected the vice chairman. Bhai Girkar was named the new RMP Secretary and Arvind Rege was picked as the Treasurer. Their appointments were announced at the Annual General Meeting of the institute held on Saturday. Fadnavis replaces Prof. Aniruddha Deshpande. The RMP,  located in Bhayander in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, was initiated as a unique leadership development academy to train elected representatives, social workers, as well as people running institutions, organizations, and start-ups. The institute has also been given a special consultative status by the United Nations Economic and Social Council. Since its inception, the RMP has trained more than 35,000 people, including MPs, MLAs, their associated staff, panchayat office bearers, NGOs, corporate, entrepreneurs and youth. The RMP leadership training mission was implemented first at the behest of parliamentarian Rambhau Mhalgi. Mhalgi was influenced by RSS thinker and BJP leader Deendayal Upadhyaya, who had conceived the idea of an academy for socio-political activists. In 1982, BJP stalwart Pramod Mahajan opened Rambhau Mhalgi Prabodhini campus at Uttan village, near Bhayandar. Mahajan was also the first chairman of the RMP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-leader-devendra-fadnavis-named-new-chairman-of-rambhau-mhalgi-prabodhini-961593.html
13-03-2021||West||Vaze denied interim bail, court says prima facie evidence against him||A sessions court in Maharashtra's Thane district has refused to grant interim bail to police officer Sachin Vaze, who has been facing heat in the death case of Mansukh Hiran, noting that there was prima facie evidence and material against him. Additional sessions Judge Shailendra Tambe, in the order that was made available on Saturday, refused to grant interim bail to Vaze and said his custodial interrogation was required. "Thiscourtisnotagreedtogrant interim bail to the applicant (Vaze) because there is prima facie evidence and material against the applicant. The custodial interrogation of the applicant is necessary," the order said. Vaze had on Friday filed an application seeking pre-arrest bail. His lawyer A M Kalekar had sought the court to grant Vaze interim protection from arrest on the ground that he was cooperating with the investigation. Additional public prosecutor Vivek Kadu, however, opposed and argued that the probe in the case was at a crucial stage. The court, while refusing interim bail, noted that the charges in the case include section 302 (murder), section 201 (destruction of evidence) and 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC, which are serious offences. "This court has found that on February 27 and 28, 2021 the deceased Mansukh Hiran was along with the applicant in Mumbai," the court said. It added that Hiran's wife in her complaint has specifically taken Vaze's name. "The informant (Hiran's wife) has made direct allegations against the applicant in the FIR. Hence, this court has come to the conclusion that the investigation is at initial stage," the court said. It directed the investigating officer of the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), which is probing the case, to file an affidavit in reply to the plea, and posted it for hearing on March 19. In his plea, Vaze said the FIR, registered by the ATS in connection with Hiran's death, has not named any person. He termed the FIR as "baseless and without any motive", and said it was a result of a "witch-hunt". He further claimed that at the time when Hiran went missing and was allegedly killed, he was at Dongri in south Mumbai. Vaze filed the plea under section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in the Thane district sessions court. Under this section, a person can seek bail if he or she is apprehending arrest in a case. In his plea, Vaze said the complaint lodged by Hiran's wife is based on "bald suspicion and is without any basis or motive". "It is trite law that a bald suspicion of the first informant regarding the commission of a crime cannot justify arrest of a citizen," the plea said. Vaze, accused by Hiran's wife of involvement in her husband's suspicious death, was shunted out of the Mumbai crime branch on Wednesday. Vaze's application further said that there is no incriminating material against him and that he has not even been named as accused in the case. "Applicant (Vaze) is a resident of Thane for a long time. Even if he was a customer and acquaintance of the deceased, no motive can be attributed to the applicant from the bare reading of the FIR," it said. The ATS, which is probing the case, has recorded Vaze's statement earlier this week. Vaze, in the plea, said he was questioned extensively by senior officers of the ATS on March 8, during which he said that he was in south Mumbai at the relevant time (when Hiran was allegedly killed). "On March 4 (entire day) the applicant was in South Mumbai. Thereafter during the intervening night between March 4 and 5, the applicant had been in Dongri area. The said fact is duly corroborated from the contemporaneous records such as Station Diary Entries of Dongri Police Station," the plea said. "There is a virtual witch-hunt in news and social media casting speculative aspersion regarding the applicants' involvement on the basis of half-baked information without proper research and pre-judging his guilt or innocence," it added. Vaze said he was cooperating with the investigation and hence should be protected from arrest. Vaze, who was the crime branch's Assistant Police Inspector, has been transferred to the Citizen Facilitation Centre (CFC) unit of Mumbai police. Meanwhile, in his new WhatsApp status message put on Saturday morning, Vaze said "the time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer". "3rd March 2004. Fellow officers from the CID arrested me in a false case. That arrest inconclusive to date. Sensing the history is going to repeat. My fellow officers are on to falsely trap me. There's a slight difference in the scenario. Then probably I had 17 years of hope, patience, life and service too. Now I will have neither 17 years of further life nor service nor patience to live. I think the time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer," the status read. On February 25, a Scorpio was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai with explosives and a threat letter inside. Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when he was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Hiran's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Vaze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February. During his questioning by the ATS, Vaze has denied using the SUV that was in possession of Hiran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaze-denied-interim-bail-court-says-prima-facie-evidence-against-him-961612.html
13-03-2021||West||Man kills 4-year-old girl during rape bid; victim's father dies by suicide||A 30-year-old man slit the throat of a four-year-old girl when she resisted his bid to rape her at his flat in a village in Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH), stuffed her body in a sack and threw it into a narrow shaft attached to the toilet of his flat, police said on Saturday, adding the accused was arrested. Unable to bear the trauma, the victim's father killed himself by consuming a disinfectant, a day after the incident on Saturday, he said. "The incident occurred on Friday afternoon after the accused Santosh Rajat lured the victim who was playing outside her home in Naroli village," DNH superintendent of police Hareshwar Swami said. He said Rajat took the girl to his apartment and tried to rape her, but when she started crying, he slit her throat with a sharp weapon, stuffed her body in a sack and threw it in the narrow shaft attached to the toilet of the flat by breaking the window. After family members of the victim lodged a missing person's complaint with Naroli police station, the police launched a search and scanned around 40 flats in the residential building where the girl lived, he said. "During the search operation, the police found blood stains in the bathroom of Rajat's apartment. A sack with the body was found in the shaft attached to the toilet," Swami said. During interrogation, Rajat "confessed" to luring the girl to his flat and trying to sexually assault her, the SP said. Unable to bear the loss, the girl's father consumed a disinfectant after seeing his daughter's body, the SP said, adding that he was rushed to a hospital where he died on Saturday morning. The accused, who hails from Dhanbad in Jharkhand, was living in Dadra and Nagar Haveli for the last four years, working in different factories, he said. A case was registered against the accused under sections 364 (abduction), 376 (rape), 377 (unnatural offences) and 302 (murder) of the IPC apart from provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-kills-4-year-old-girl-during-rape-bid-victims-father-dies-by-suicide-961632.html
13-03-2021||West||Time to say goodbye: Sachin Vaze puts up cryptic WhatsApp status||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze created a sensation through a cryptic WhatsApp status message, which read, “time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer”. Facing the heat in the mysterious death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren in connection with the SUV probe in Mumbai, Vaze has been grilled twice by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and once by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). While the Maharashtra government has assigned the Hiren probe to the state ATS, the central agency NIA has taken over the probe of the Scorpio SUV laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani. Vaze (49), an Assistant Police Inspector, had moved the Thane Sessions Court for anticipatory bail, but his plea was rejected. His next hearing is on 19 March.  His WhatsApp status message reads: “3rd March 2004. Fellow officers from the CID arrested me in a false case. That arrest is inconclusive till date. Sensing the history is going to repeat. My fellow officers are on to falsely trap me. There’s a slight difference in the scenario. Then probably I had 17 years of hope, patience, life and service, too. Now I will have neither 17 years of further life nor service nor patience to live. I think the time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer.”  This was an apparent reference to the Khwaja Yunus custodial death case, in which he was suspended, arrested and later, had to resign. Vaze was reinstated by the government on his request, based on a review committee’s decision in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday and Thursday, Vaze was grilled by the state ATS. An FIR has been registered based on the statement of Hiren’s wife, Vimla, who suspects Vaze's role in the death of her husband. On Friday, he was transferred by the Mumbai Police from the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID to Special Branch and then attached to the Citizen Facilitation Centre. In the pre-arrest bail plea, Vaze had denied any role in the death of Hiran.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/time-to-say-goodbye-sachin-vaze-puts-up-cryptic-whatsapp-status-961646.html
13-03-2021||West||Maharashtra sees over 15,000 Covid-19 cases for second day in a row||The Covid-19 surge continued in Maharashtra on Saturday with the state recording over 15,000 cases for the second day in a row. Similar 24-hour figures were reported almost five months ago in the state with 8 out of the 10 worst-affected districts in the country and account for over 60 per cent of the cases. Except for Mumbai, most of the important cities, including Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Amravati, have some kind of restrictions, night curfew, Janata curfew, lockdown and partial lockdown. The tally of active cases has now crossed the 1-lakh mark and stands at 1,18,525. On Friday and Saturday, 15,817 and 15,602 cases were recorded respectively — compounding the problems. In the last 48 hours, 144 deaths were reported across the state. What is more alarming is that while Mumbai recorded 1,709 cases on Saturday, the same for the MMR is 3,198 cases. Mumbai being the financial capital has been kept away from the restrictions as of now and the governments will gauge the situation next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-over-15000-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-961649.html
13-03-2021||West||Don't force us to impose strict lockdown: Maharashtra CM's last warning to hotels, restaurants flouting Covid rules||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday ordered hotels and restaurants in the state to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols in their premises and not force the state to enforce drastic measures like lockdown. Speaking at a virtual meeting attended by representatives of hotel and restaurant associations, shopping centre groups, the CM said a "lackadaisical" attitude towards outbreak norms had crept in lately. "Do not force us to impose a strict lockdown. Consider this as the last warning. Follow all the rules. Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions," Thackeray said. The CM pointed out that crowds had increased in most places since activities resumed in a phased manner from October, and safety rules were not being followed and this had resulted in a steep surge in cases. Incidentally, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded 15,602 Covid-19 cases and 88 deaths, taking the tally to 22,97,793 and the toll to 52,811. "Last week, a Central team visited Mumbai and one of the members told me no one was wearing masks or following social distancing at a hotel they visited. Initially, hotels, restaurants were adhering strictly to Covid-19 norms, but now everyone has become lackadaisical," he said. He said his government was not in favour of a lockdown to tackle the latest surge and asked people to cooperate to avoid having to take such a drastic decision. Mumbai municipal commissioner IS Chahal suggested that the hotel and restaurant associations can organise flying squads to check if outbreak norms were being followed. These association said member establishments not adhering to rules will be removed, while shopping centre representatives said they could deploy "Covid marshals" to check people in malls, while entry into food courts will be restricted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-force-us-to-impose-strict-lockdown-maharashtra-cms-last-warning-to-hotels-restaurants-flouting-covid-rules-961671.html
