14-03-2021||Comment||Karnataka legislators: Improved functioning key||At the introspection meeting of Karnataka legislators convened by the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, Chief Minister Yediyurappa lamented the declining values of the parliamentary system with the legislators placing the self over the state, unlike in the pre-independence era, when politicians sacrificed for the country.  A lofty speech indeed. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah blamed the electoral system, openly talked about voters being bribed and the victory of candidates with a criminal background. As a result, the quality and commitment of legislators have declined sharply, a point sharply alluded to by the noted educationist Gururaja Karjegi.  At this juncture, it is worth recalling the British conservative scholar Edmund Burke’s speech to the voters of Bristol in 1774 in which he said: “It ought to be the happiness and glory of the elected representative to live in the strictest union, the closest correspondence and the most unreserved communication with his constituents. Their wishes ought to have great weight with him, their opinions high respect, their business unremitting attention”. In contemporary times, Burke’s observations sound idealistic as modern-day elected representatives are increasingly disconnected from their constituents. Their primary concern seems to be to achieve their personal ambitions or at best to serve the interests of the party which has elected them and its supreme leader. The interests of the constituency they represent occupy secondary importance in their scheme of things.  It is depressing to note that while being present in the House/Council, a few elected representatives often disconnect themselves from the deliberations of the House and indulge in viewing pleasure-seeking videos, as reported in the media. An attempt is made here to present factual data about the sessions held by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly from 1952 to the present along with suggestions to improve its functioning.  Available data reveals that the Assembly held sessions for a record 425 days during 1972-1978, preceded by 278 days during 1952-57, 375 days during 1957-1961 and 366 days between 1962-1966. In the 1980s and 1990s, the number days the House met came down to 200 plus, only to fall below 200 days since 2000, notwithstanding the decision taken in 2000 to hold annual sessions for not less than 60 days in a year, amounting to 300 days in five years.  The 13th Assembly met for only 156 days from 2008-2012 while the 14th Assembly managed to hold sessions for 216 days from 2013 to February 2018. The 15th Assembly sat for 33 days in 2018, a mere 18 days in 2019 and 31 days in 2020. In 2020, the Assembly met for seven days as part of the winter session. Currently, the Budget session is on from March 5 to 31.  Statistics apart, sessions in recent years have been marred by dharnas, walkouts and frequent adjournments obstructing meaningful transaction of legislative business and debates. The 13th Assembly witnessed a new low in parliamentary behaviour with a few members standing on the table, a member tearing his shirt and waving it, with TV channels beaming pictures of it. The last session of the 14th Assembly passed a slew of bills without any discussion including the Budget, with the BJP members staging a walk out.   The previous session of the Legislative Council, supposedly the House of elders, witnessed despicable behaviour by some members of the ruling and Opposition Parties. The JD(S) and BJP combined to install a new Chairman and Deputy Chairman from their parties, respectively. Suggestions for reform Keeping in mind the deterioration in the functioning, specially of the Assembly, the following suggestions can be considered: 1) The ruling and Opposition parties should commit themselves to uninterrupted conduct of 60 days sessions in a year and for extra days, to compensate for loss of man hours due to adjournments, etc; 2) The Speaker should be vested with the power to convene sessions unlike the present practice of the cabinet deciding it; 3) The  question hour be completed within the stipulated time to allow transaction of the agenda fixed for the day; 4) Calling Attention Motions on issues of public importance be taken up after 4 pm so as to not upset the scheduled legislative business; 5) Legislative scrutiny of Bills be mandatorily carried out; 6) Strict monitoring of attendance and performance of members in the House be done on the notice board and the legislature website; 7) Members trooping into the well of the House be suspended for the rest of the week; 8) Ministers be compulsorily present in the House to furnish replies to questions raised by members; 9) Increase in salaries and allowances of the members be decided by a Commission appointed by the government and not by members themselves; 10) Live telecasting of the proceedings of the House to help citizens observe the ‘legislative behaviour and performance’ of their elected representatives; 11) Most importantly, since Speakers have often behaved in partisan manner, the British tradition of a person elected to Speaker’s post should resign from his/her party to ensure impartial behavior. In India, often Speakership is offered to persons not accommodated as ministers. Many times, they become ministers after their term ends or are removed from office during their term.  Keeping in mind the promises made by the senior leaders at the introspection meeting, it would be worth observing how the leaders of the ruling and the Opposition parties would rein in themselves and their members to allow healthy debates and smooth conduct of the legislature in the Budget session and the monsoon session that would follow. (The writer is a former Professor of Political Science, Bangalore University. As Senior Fellow, Indian Council of Social Science Research, New Delhi, he recently carried out a research project on the changing composition and functioning of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/karnataka-legislators-improved-functioning-key-962046.html
14-03-2021||First Edit||Leave hospitality to private sector||The Karnataka government has decided to construct four three-star hotels at world-famous tourist destinations like Hampi, Badami, Belur and Vijayapura at a cost of Rs 84 crore. While the intent behind the move may be good as it aims to promote tourism, the bigger question is, should the government be involved in the business of hospitality? When it comes to non-core areas of governance, the state’s role should be limited to that of an enabler and facilitator. Instead of stretching its limited resources, the government should create a favourable atmosphere for the private sector to invest, as is the case in most parts of the world. The government, on the other hand, should concentrate on providing basic infrastructure like toilets, good roads, connectivity, upkeep of monuments, cleanliness and safety of tourists, most of which are lacking in several holiday spots today. Investing in star-hotels without first providing the minimum amenities required, amounts to putting the cart before the horse. Karnataka has rightly been described as ‘One state, many worlds’ as it has something of interest for all categories of tourists:  ancient temples, palaces, forts, historic monuments, hill stations, wildlife sanctuaries, beaches, not to mention Bengaluru’s famous watering holes. Yet, the tourist footfall is much below expectation due to the poor infrastructure and the failure of the government to market the potential of the state to a global audience. Though the services offered by Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation (KSTDC) and Jungle Lodges and Resorts are on a much higher par than that of other similar state-run organisations, it is far from the gold standard that a discerning tourist would expect. A few years ago, there was a proposal to privatise loss-making KSTDC hotels, but not much seems to have come of it. Instead of expansion and consolidation, the government should opt for complete disinvestment or at least lease out the properties to private players so that they can be run professionally. This will not only save precious recourses but will also help the government earn some revenue. The state government should take a leaf out of the Centre which has privatised several India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) properties, including the iconic Hotel Ashok in Bengaluru. It should also look at replicating the homestay model of Kodagu and Chikkamagaluru, which while providing an additional source of revenue to local people, enables the tourist to savour the culture and cuisine of the region. Unless the government concentrates on providing basic infrastructure and safety of travellers and leaves the hospitality and service part to the private sector, which is better equipped to handle them, tourism will never flourish in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/leave-hospitality-to-private-sector-962044.html
14-03-2021||In Perspective||A long road to gender equality?||Amid the crises created by unusual events like the Covid-19 pandemic, the farmers’ struggle and the drama of state elections, we celebrated yet another International Women’s Day on March 8. Taking this forward, the India report will be presented at the 65th Commission on the Status of Women (CSW) meeting to be held in New York from March 15 to 26. The CSW, the main global inter-governmental body dedicated to the promotion of gender equality and the empowerment of women, is instrumental in promoting women’s rights and documenting the reality of women’s lives throughout the world.   How does India fare on the Sustainable Development Goal-5 (SDG) on Gender Equality?  NITI Aayog’s last Voluntary National Review (VNR) report (2020) can shed some light on India’s progress towards gender equality goals. The VNR, well-produced and substantive, while celebrating achievements, also reflects on the challenges facing India as the country seeks to fulfil its commitment towards the SDGs.  An unprecedented feature of the VNR is the consultative process through which it was produced and the chapter on ‘Leaving No One Behind: Voices from the Community’ symbolising the government’s maxim of ‘Sabka Saath, Sabka vikaas’. The report notes the progress that the country has made, based on the NITI Aayog SDG India Index -  from 57 in 2018 to 60 in 2019, on a scale of 0 to 100. This score of 60 indicates that India must accelerate its programmes across all 17 SDGs to achieve a score of 100 by 2030.  The SDG India Index Score in 2019 for SDG 5 (with eight indicators) for the country is 42, much lower than the overall SDG Index score of 60.  Himachal Pradesh and Kerala are the states with the highest scores (52 and 51), and Telangana and Tripura are the lowest-performing on Gender Equality (26 and 32 respectively). Among the UTs, quite ironically, Jammu and Kashmir is the best (53) and Delhi, the capital of India and therefore what should be a role model, the worst (27). Global perspective Equal Measures 2030’s SDG Gender Index -  considering gender across all SDGs and using 51 indicators -  gives a global perspective on India’s performance, ranking India 95 out of 129 countries with a score of 56. This is much below its BRICS friends   - Brazil with a score of 63, Russia 68, China and South Africa with 65.  Further analysis by Equal Measures 2030 in its Bending the Curve Report (2020) finds that half of the countries studied (67 out of 129) will not achieve any of the five key gender equality targets by 2030, at their current pace. The five targets covered in the report are: access to contraception, girls’ education, political leadership, workplace equality laws, and women’s perception of safety. An analysis of each of these five dimensions shows that at the current rate of change, India will be able to achieve its desired goal of universal access to contraception only by 2086. We will achieve our target of all girls completing secondary education by 2047.  With respect to the goal of political leadership, though there has been significant improvement in India’s score, we will reach the target value only by 2044.  The rate of change for the composite indicator based on laws for workplace equality shows that this target will be achieved by 2037. However, true equality in work could take even longer given the high number of workers in the informal sector to whom this indicator does not apply. The analysis on the dimension of women’s perception of safety indicates that progress on this indicator is incredibly slow and suggests that, by the SDG deadline of 2030, almost 200 million women in India will still feel unsafe walking alone at night. These trends show that there is a need to improve the trajectories of these indicators through urgent measures. Building on the Bending the Curve analysis for India, we in SAHAJ (as EM 2030’s national partner), note that gender equality indicators across several domains in the National Indicator Framework need to be refined further. In addition to more nuanced gender indicators, there is urgent need for disaggregated data to realise the SDG principle of ‘Leave No One Behind’. Differential access to services, schemes and benefits, across sectors, should be tracked across gender, caste, economic class and other dimensions of vulnerability and marginalisation. This need for the generation of disaggregated data has also found mention in several sections of the VNR. And finally, the consultative process adopted by the NITI Aayog in preparation for this VNR should, in fact, be strengthened at the district and state levels. The pace required to achieve the desired goals is going to require close collaboration between the official machinery and civil society groups, including a place at the table for those who have been ‘left behind’. (The writer is co-founder of SAHAJ Vadodara,  Joint National Convenor, Jan Swasthya Abhiyan and co-founder, Commonhealth - a coalition on maternal neonatal health and safe abortion)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/a-long-road-to-gender-equality-962047.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 lockdown brings out storytelling skills among children||During the Covid-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, a group of 18 children ignited their creativity by discovering a passion for storytelling. The children, not content with mere reading aloud the stories, went ahead and launched ‘Katha Sagara’ in October. Children in the age group of 5-17 years are the soul of ‘Katha Sagara’. “It is an hour-long session of stories, games and so on, when we all gather every Sunday at my house in Ballalbagh,” informs Anirudh, a first year Pre-University student of Shakthi Pre-University College. Anirudh told DH that members highlight stories from epics like Ramayana, Mahabharata, the Puranas, and the Panchatantra. “We were taught in schools about the Bhagavad Gita, Mahabharata and other epics. During our visits to Bal Vihar of Chinmaya Mission, we were introduced to storytelling sessions and the art of storytelling. The lockdown motivated us to launch a storytelling platform, where each got an opportunity to narrate stories,” he said. Support, guidance from mentor Anirudh says they also received a lot of support and guidance from their mentor, Usha Rao. “She used to visit us and tell us stories,” he said with gratefulness. Usha Rao, a trained storyteller and volunteer at Chinmaya Mission, informs that her association with Chinmaya Mission, Ramakrishna Mission and Bhagini Samaja, had ensured that her stories were motivational and loaded with values.  “I also used to visit government schools in interior areas and initiate children into the art of storytelling prior to Covid-19 pandemic. These storytelling sessions ignites creativity, improves mental health and prepares children to face any difficult situations in life,” she emphasised. One day Usha Rao, departing from the convention, told the story on ‘Rani Abbakka’ to the members of ‘Katha Sagara’. Skit on Abbakka The children were so inspired that they went on and staged a skit based on her exploits. “We were all inspired by the bravery of Rani Abbakka,” stresses Anirudh. He adds that Rani Abbakka was the first woman to fight against the Portuguese in order to protect her motherland. "But we seem to have forgotten her. Thus, the team decided to perform a skit,” Anirudh elaborated. Usha says the children, in a way, had responded to the call of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to inculcate the national spirit through stories of freedom fighters. “We performed the skit on fearless Rani Abbakka at the Someshwara beach. Though the ruins of Abbakka’s fort are still visible in Ullal, many people residing in the locality are clueless about its history. “Thus, we uploaded the skit on YouTube and the response has been tremendous,” informs Anirudh.  Usha Rao says she just highlighted the exploits of Rani Abbakka. It was Anirudh and members of ‘Katha Sagara’ including Adithi, Nitheen, Suraj, Tejas, Niharika M, Niharika S, Aaradhya, Gagan, Vikas, Gokul, Charvi, Shrishti and Sukesh, who worked on the dialogues and performed the skit. They have done a wonderful job through skit,” she stresses. Anirudh’s future plans include presenting the skit at many more places. “We will narrate stories of many unknown and forgotten freedom fighters from the coastal belt through skits,” Anirudh declares.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lockdown-brings-out-storytelling-skills-among-children-961722.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Engineers' theatre fest to begin in Mysuru on March 18||Abhiyenthararu, a theatre group for engineers, in association with Kannada and Culture department, is hosting a four-day national theatre festival from March 18 to 21, at Kirurangamandira, Kalamandira, Mysuru. Abhiyenthararu is celebrating its 28th anniversary this year. It will be hosting four best plays in Kannada, Hindi and English and also organising a music programme by popular singers. Senior theatre personality M S Satyu will inaugurate the festival at Kalamandira on March 18, at 6.30 pm. Rangayana Director Addanda C Cariappa and Kannada and Culture Assistant Director Channappa will be the guests. On March 18, Yuvashree and troupe will present Kannada play Simhachalam Sampige, directed by Shankar Ganesh, at 7 pm. On March 19, Abhinay Kalyan and troupe, Mumbai, will present Hindi play Khidki, directed by Abhijit Junjarao. Rangarathna, Bengaluru, will present Kannada play, Malavikagnimitra, directed by Asif Kshatriya and Shwetha Srinivas on March 20. Centre for Film and Drama, Bengaluru, will present English play Investigation-SBC, adapted and directed by Prakash Belawadi, on March 21. Besides music programme 'Sangeetha malike' will be held on the premises, every day at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/engineers-theatre-fest-to-begin-in-mysuru-on-march-18-961981.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government plans merger of departments: Deputy CM Karjol||The state government is planning merger of various departments to curtain unnecessary expenditure, Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol has said. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, he said a committee headed by retired chief secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar had been constituted for this purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-plans-merger-of-departments-deputy-cm-karjol-962004.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Baby boom begins at Daroji Bear Sanctuary||The calm environs of the Daroji bear sanctuary these days have proved a fertile ground, literally, for its adored inhabitants. The sanctuary has seen a steady rise in the number of hairy creatures for some time now, thanks to the curbs on stone quarrying in and around the sanctuary, after it was declared an eco-sensitive zone on September 25, 2019. The average births, earlier, was five to six a year. Now, it is a healthy 20 additions each year. Two bears had a couple of offsprings each in January this year and February saw another one mothering two cubs. Two cubs at a time is the norm for bears and seven to eight of them delivered between September and December in 2019.  However, there’s a glitch here, in that it’s not very easy for forest personnel to keep a count of the newborns as bears normally prefer the cosy comforts of caves among rocks and boulders. They seldom come out of their confines. One estimate shows their present numbers in the sanctuary to be over 130.  Daroji was declared a bear sanctuary on October 17, 1994. But there was little to justify the tag as stone quarrying had been going on rampantly in the vicinity.  A number of bear-human conflicts used to be reported with the animals entering human habitations in search of food and water. Incidents of people beating the bears to death were common.  Things changed for good when stringent curbs were put in place and quarrying was completely stopped in the region, following its declaration as an eco-sensitive zone.  Soaking pits were constructed and tanks were desilted under MGNREGA works, leading to an improvement in the water table and availability of drinking water for the bears. Twenty eight varieties of fruit trees have been grown here, much to the joy of the bear population.  Range forest officer Usha told DH that a census of the bears would be undertaken soon.  Now that a secure environment has been ensured for the bears, it’s a happily-ever-after tale for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/baby-boom-begins-at-daroji-bear-sanctuary-962010.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||LED streetlights scheme for 10 major cities in Karnataka yet to switch on||The government’s ambitious plan to instal LED streetlights in 10 major cities with the hope of saving crores of rupees of public money is yet to take off, more than two years after it was put in motion.  LEDs streetlights have been installed in Tumakuru only and the plan appears to be moving slow in nine other cities.  The project to replace all street lights with LEDs in the 10 city corporations was approved in March 2018. Authorities say the project will lead to energy savings of 40%, translating to crores of rupees every year. Ten city corporations - Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Mangaluru, Davangere, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad, Mysuru, Ballari, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi - will have LEDs replacing the conventional street lights under public-private partnership (PPP).  But according to information tabled by the government in the Assembly recently, 22,104 street lights have been changed in Tumakuru only.  Process underway In Ballari, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi, the government’s empowered committee approved the project as recently as January this year. In Mysuru, the tender process is underway.  In Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Davangere and Mangaluru, letters of acceptance have been issued to the contractors and the contract agreements are being finalised. In Shivamogga, the contract agreement has been inked and “work is in progress,” the government said.  “We have expedited this,” urban development principal secretary (municipalities and urban development authorities) Tushar Girinath told DH. “In the bigger city corporations, the tender process and technical evaluation are over. Some demonstration has to be done. We’ve asked them to speed it up,” he said.  Initially, replacing conventional street lights with LED was approved for BBMP limits. It was later decided to extend this to city corporations across the state. LEDs are considered energy-efficient and environment-friendly with reduced carbon dioxide emissions.   Under this project, LED street lights have to be installed within eight months from the issue of work orders and the private players have to maintain them for seven years.  According to Girinath, the project is being implemented on “something like a deferred annuity” model. “The capital investment and maintenance will be done by the private player. The government, because we’re saving on energy, will pay them every year. That’s the only cash outgo,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/led-streetlights-scheme-for-10-major-cities-in-karnataka-yet-to-switch-on-962011.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||16 members of a Covid-19 victim's family contract virus||As many as 16 members of a family from Bavanasaundatti in Raibag taluk have tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. All 16 infected are the primary contacts of an elderly person of the family, who died of Covid-19 a few days back. Raibag taluk health officer Dr R H Rangannavar told DH, “An elderly person of the family had died of Covid-19 recently. Hence, the family members were subjected to Covid-19 test. Throat swab samples of 16 persons have returned positive for the virus. We have suggested them to be in home quarantine. Also swab samples of 415 people including 45 members of the family, who had attended the Covid victim’s funeral, have been sent for lab for testing. We are awaiting their test reports,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/16-members-of-a-covid-19-victims-family-contract-virus-962013.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi airport gets nod for outbound cargo services||The Hubballi airport on Sunday got the approval of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security for the commencement of outbound & inbound air cargo services through the existing passenger terminal building With this, the airport became north Karnataka’s first air cargo service terminal. Speaking with DH, Hubballi airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre said that until now, the airport was handling only inbound cargo. However, on Sunday, IndiGo airline started outgoing cargo too through the existing passenger terminal. “This is a temporary arrangement, as we are expecting a final inspection by standing committee headed by Regional Director BCAS, Bengaluru on March 17 for the commencement of air cargo operations from the dedicated domestic air cargo terminal," Thakre said. "We are hopeful that by April, the Hubballi Airport will be able to operate its cargo from the dedicated terminal," he added..||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-airport-gets-nod-for-outbound-cargo-services-962023.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Education should instil culture among students: Dr Parvathi Appaiah||Education becomes more meaningful if it instils cultural values among students, opined Karnataka Kodava Sahitya Academy chairperson Dr Parvathi Appaiah. She was delivering the keynote address during the International Women's Day programme observed by Kodava Sahitya Academy and Aimanda Pommakkada Koota, in Maragodu village recently. Stressing on the need for more reservation for women in education and in the job sector, Dr Parvathi said that girls should not be deprived of education. Madikeri Government First Grade College lecturer Bodukuttada Radhika Kuttappa said education alone can bring positive development among girls. During the session, Taluk Panchayat former president Revathi Parameshwar spoke on 'Kalakottaneke Pommakkada Badkal Badalavane'. Aimanda Divya presented her views on 'Kodagra Samskruthi, Samkraratha Bolachel Avvangada Pathra'. Books and CDs brought out by Kodava Sahitya Academy were kept for exhibition and sale. As part of the cultural programmes, students from Kaveri Degree College, Gonikoppa, members of Aimanda Pommakkada Koota and dance troupes from Virajpet performed dances on the occasion. The best performances were awarded cash prizes, sponsored by Non-resident Indian Aimanda Jagadish. Prior to the programme, office-bearers of Aimanda Pommakkada Koota and Kodava Sahitya Academy took out a cultural procession in the town. Pommakkada Koota president Pushpavathi, Maragodu Gram Panchayat president Ayyandra Poornima Shrinivas, academy member Gowramma Madammaiah, academy former president Rani Machaiah, former principal Dr Pushpa Kuttana, academy members Babbira Saraswathi, Prabu Kumar and registrar Ajjikuttira Girish were present, among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/education-should-instil-culture-among-students-dr-parvathi-appaiah-962029.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephant attacks car near Virajpet, passengers escape unhurt||A wild elephant damaged a car in Karada village near Virajpet on Sunday. Luckily, it was a narrow escape for the people, including children and women, travelling in the vehicle. M Ashoka, a resident of Palangala village, was on his way to the temple on Malethirike Betta in Karada village, along with his family. At a narrow road, the wild elephant suddenly confronted the vehicle and attacked it with its tusks. When the passersby raised an alarm, the elephant left the spot. Women have sustained minor injuries and are being treated at a government hospital in Virajpet. RFO K M Devaiah and other personnel visited the spot.  A case has been registered in Virajpet rural police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephant-attacks-car-near-virajpet-passengers-escape-unhurt-962033.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to hold meeting with officials, health experts after state sees surge in Covid-19 cases||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will hold an informal meeting with his Cabinet ministers, before the resumption of the Budget session today. Speaking to reporters, the CM said that the meeting would discuss how the ministers could work together in the upcoming session, and on responding to people's grievances. The meeting gained significance following the opposition Congress' decision to boycott replies from six ministers in the Yediyurappa government, who approached a city court seeking an injunction against the publication of anything defamatory against them. Their petition came days after the resignation of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi following the release of a sleaze CD. Opposition parties have sought a discussion on the 'CD' episode in a bid to corner the government. During the first few days of the budget session, Congress legislators had rejected replies to questions by the six ministers saying that they had lost the moral right to continue in power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-hold-meeting-with-officials-health-experts-after-state-sees-surge-in-covid-19-cases-961893.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Backward classes to oppose quota for Panchamasali sect||Opposing any proposal to include Panchamasali sub-sect of Lingayat community under 2A reservation category, Backward Class groups will carry out protests across the state. In a meeting of the Karnataka Rajya Hindulida Vargagala Hitarakshana Sangha held in the city on Sunday, representatives of various communities falling under 2A category said that including Panchamasalis would hurt the prospects of more than 300 castes. Sangha President M Ramachandrappa also criticised the appointment of retired Justice Subash B Adi to the three-member committee to review quota demands of various communities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/backward-classes-to-oppose-quota-for-panchamasali-sect-962007.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar smells a conspiracy to fix him in sex CD row||KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Sunday said that he doesn’t know much about the Ramesh Jarkiholi scandal and that it was a systematic conspiracy to drag his name in the issue. Speaking to reporters in Shivamogga, Shivakumar said, “I have not seen the CD in which former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly seen with a woman. I know very little about it. I will react on the issue only after getting complete details on the same.” “A few BJP leaders, including Basanagouda Yatnal and A H Vishwanath have spoken about it. A suo motu complaint could have been registered based on their reactions. But the government did not do it,” he charged. Replying to a specific query, Shivakumar said, “I am a victim of conspiracy. Vested interests have troubled me in the past and they continue to unsettle me even now.” ‘Why DKS thinks he’s the mahanayak’ Meanwhile, JD(S) leader and former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy wondered why KPCC president D K Shivakumar dragged himself into the CD row. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Sunday, Kumaraswamy said, “Shivakumar himself is linking his name in the CD case by saying that the BJP had made attempts to fix him in the case.” “Has anyone mentioned Shivakumar’s name in the case? There was an allegation that a ‘mahanayaka’ (a great leader) had hatched a conspiracy against Jarkiholi. Why Shivakumar thinks that it is him. There are many mahanayakas in the state and one such leader is growing in BJP itself,” hesaid. “Shivakumar is a seasoned politician. I don’t know why he is getting into trouble and linking himself with the case,” Kumaraswamy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-smells-a-conspiracy-to-fix-him-in-sex-cd-row-962014.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Shiv Sena raking up border issue to hide failures: HDK||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy has said that Shiv Sena had been raking up the Belagavi border dispute to hide the failures of its coalition government in Maharastra. Objecting to remarks by Sena leader Sanjay Raut about “continuous attacks” against Marathi-speakers in the district, Kumaraswamy said that repeated attempts to raise the border issue were condemnable. Raut has called for an all-party delegation from Maharashtra to visit Belagavi for taking stock of the situation. The JD(S) leader also expressed reservations on the suggestion by DyCM Laxman Savadi, who had sought Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s intervention to resolve the issue. “There is no need for anyone to intervene. If the PM intervenes, won’t he be influenced by the BJP leaders of Maharashtra? Will (state) BJP leaders approve if Modi hands Belagavi over to Maharashtra?” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/shiv-sena-raking-up-border-issue-to-hide-failures-hdk-962015.html
14-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||CID row: SIT probe will reveal truth, says Satish Jarkiholi||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) Working President Satish Jarkiholi said that the SIT probe into the sleaze CD of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi would reveal the truth behind the incident. Speaking to media persons in Dharwad on Sunday, Satish said that if there was a conspiracy hatched to malign Ramesh, it would be unearthed by the investigating team. "There should not be any hurry in taking this case to an end. An FIR has been registered two days back and everyone should have patience till there is a breakthrough," he added. Stating that the CD row is taking new twists and turns every day, Satish said that police have to take this to a logical end. "They have 90 days to file the charge sheet and as the investigation is still in the initial stage, it would be immature to comment anything on the issue," he said. The Congress leader said that the police were on the lookout for the woman, allegedly seen in the video, and expressed confidence that justice would prevail. To a query on whether the CD was fake Satish said that nothing can be said at this point in time. "Law will take its own course. No person is above law and the truth will be revealed after a detailed probe," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cid-row-sit-probe-will-reveal-truth-says-satish-jarkiholi-962019.html
14-03-2021||Mysuru||H D Kumaraswamy demands thorough probe in Jarkiholi case||JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Sunday recommended Special Investigation Team (SIT) to conduct a thorough probe in connection with the Ramesh Jarkiholi CD case. In a press conference in Mysuru, Kumaraswamy said, the CD case in which Jarikiholi is involved needs to be investigated without any prejudice. Kumaraswamy alleged that the concerned authorities have not taken the case seriously. The officials conducting the probe must not yield to any pressure, he said. Added that KPCC president D K Shivakumar is a seasoned politician and well experienced, Kumaraswamy said, "Shivakumar himself linked his name with the CD case but I don't know why did he do it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/h-d-kumaraswamy-demands-thorough-probe-in-jarkiholi-case-961861.html
14-03-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru university PG student kill self at hostel||A 24-year-old Post Graduate student killed himself at the University of Mysore hostel. Siddarameshwara of Yadgir district was pursuing PG in Sociology at the university. The reason behind the suicide is yet to be ascertained. Jayalakshmi Puram police visited the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-university-pg-student-kill-self-at-hostel-961865.html
14-03-2021||National||The quota knot persists as more rise in protest||It’s a debate that never dies. Reservation, long considered a political hot potato, continues to bring people out on the streets demanding adequate “representation” and more “inclusivity”. Irrespective of the judicial contours of the topic, political parties fashion their quota policies to appease vote banks as they gingerly reassemble caste cards in election years. In the recent past, several groups including the Patidars in Gujarat and Jats across North India, violently agitated for inclusion in the OBC (Other Backward Class) category. More recently in Bengaluru, thousands from across Karnataka belonging to the Panchamasali sect within Lingayats rose in protest, demanding separate reservation.  At the same time, the Supreme Court stayed the Maratha reservation in Maharashtra, as it exceeded the 50% limit set in the Indira Sawhney judgement. The court referred the matter to a five-judge bench since a substantial question of law on the powers of the state government to determine socially and educationally backward communities were involved. Accordingly, the larger bench directed all states to submit their responses. So, who is a “backward class citizen”? The question remains unanswered even decades after Dr B R Ambedkar elaborated on the topic in the Constituent Assembly. Different communities continue to claim to be backward to corner reservation benefits, and if at all considered, are not satisfied with the quantum of benefits. And regardless of the constitutional underpinnings of the policy, political parties continue to churn out caste-based opinions and extract mileage. Article 14 of the Constitution commands the State to not deny any person equality before the law and ensure there is equal protection of the law, thereby enunciating the principle of: Equals should be treated equally and unequals unequally. Similarly, Article 16 was added to ensure equality of opportunities in employment. It also gave power to the State to provide reservation benefits to backward classes who are not adequately represented in State services. The introduction of Article 16 brought about questions in the Constituent Assembly as to who constitute “backward class citizens”. What was the need for such a special provision, and if at all required, what should be the quantum of such benefits? Ambedkar, in response, stated that it was agreed in principle that there should be “equality of opportunity, without any hindrance”; it is also equally important that there should be a “provision made for entry of certain communities, which have been outside the administration — due to historical reasons — which has been controlled by one community or a few communities”. In the absence of such a provision, the principle of “equality of opportunity is destroyed”.  Ambedkar said, “A backward community is a community which is backward in the opinion of the government.”  For more specific answers, we can refer to Article 340 which empowers the President to appoint a commission to investigate the conditions of backward classes, especially socially and educationally backward classes. Furthermore, with respect to the quantum of reservation, there was no specific percentage laid down, but benefits “must be confined to a minority of seats”. The concerns raised in the Constituent Assembly seemed to have been settled at that point in time, but for generations to come, those confusions remained. The Indra Sawhney case The Supreme Court came to the rescue in the Indra Sawhney case (1993) while upholding the recommendations of the Mandal Commission. The court held that caste can be a base to determine backwardness. But it rejected economic criteria alone as a base for backwardness. The court also set a limit of 50% reservation benefits, but in extreme situations, it can be relaxed. While thus stood the law, in 2019, the Modi government, in deviation from this judgement, introduced Articles 15(6) and 16(6) to the Constitution, creating an ‘Economically Weaker Sections' (EWSs) category, enabling the State to provide the benefits of 10% reservation based on economic criteria alone. However, the objective behind introducing such a provision seems to be to corner the votes of forwarding communities, which became evident in Karnataka when several Brahmin community members approached Chief Minister Yediyurappa for EWS benefits. Similarly, dominant caste groups like the Patidars, Gujjars, Jats and Marathas, who, irrespective of being majority land-holding communities, continue to demand reservation due to a perception that economic power is increasingly shifting from rural areas to big corporations.  Political parties capitalise on such apprehensions. For instance, the Devendra Fadnavis government used Maratha reservation in excess of a 50% limit to gain the trust of the community. The Jat community has also been victims of vote bank politics under the UPA as well as NDA governments. The UPA tried to please them by including them in the OBC list, while the National Commission for Backward Class had in fact declared them as not socially backward. The decision came to be struck down by the Supreme court in 2015.  Closer home in Karnataka, Yediyurappa has constituted a three-member high-powered committee to look into the demands of the Panchamasali community, as well as that of Kurubas and Valmikis, while the fact remains that some of them are already enjoying the benefits of reservation.  Voice of dissatisfaction The demand for reservation, regardless of how effective it may be in the context of shrinking jobs in the state sector, has become the voice of dissatisfaction with the options available to youth. Vote bank politics that polarises communities defeats the purpose of inclusive policy. The introduction of reservation as a constitutional provision was to ensure that caste identity withers away by guaranteeing representation of competent members from marginalised communities in State administration. However, over a period of time, the reservation has become part of the grammar of Indian politics and has deviated from the objective of redressing historic discrimination to becoming a way to garner votes. This has led to the entrenching of caste divisions, without redressing real inequality. Moreover, the emergence of the private sector, where reservation policy does not apply, has led to a downsising of government departments, cutting down the prospects of public employment. While resources continue to be monopolised and inequality is rampant in administration, the need to increase the 50% cap or expand the benefits to others will only make the caste identity stronger and the hostility bitter. The tragedy of course is that reservation has not been implemented effectively, yet it remains the calling card of not only those who were discriminated against but of even those communities which were relatively better off. The government has failed to address the unequal distribution of existing reservation among castes. The demand for ‘internal reservation’ with groups like the Madigas in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka indicate the failure of the reservation to cater equally to all sections. The only solution put forward by courts has been to limit the policy by excluding the “creamy layer” — a socially and economically advanced group among the backward class. There is a need to expand employment avenues, provide better education facilities for students among Dalit communities and ensure that the State plays a proactive role so that reservation reaches all those who have been denied its benefits. But that’s a long way to go, considering the present state of affairs. (The author is an advocate with the Alternative Law Forum, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-quota-knot-persists-as-more-rise-in-protest-961725.html
14-03-2021||National||Students of Class 1 to 8 may be promoted to next class without any examination: Odisha Minister||Odisha School and Mass Education Minister SR Dash Saturday said students from class-1 to Class-8 may be given a promotion to the next class without any examination as schools have remained closed for them since March 2020 in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. The minister said a final decision in this regard will be taken by the government soon. The classes for the students of Class-I to Class-8 will not reopen soon in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases in some states. He also said that the new academic session may not start in April this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/students-of-class-1-to-8-may-be-promoted-to-next-class-without-any-examination-odisha-minister-961738.html
14-03-2021||National||India, not just Indo Pacific must be open and free: P Chidambaram||A day after the Quad leaders' summit, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram Saturday took a dig at the government, saying it is not enough that the Indo-Pacific region is open and free, India must be so too. In a first such summit, the Quad leaders -- Prime Minister Narendra Modi, US President Joe Biden, Australian PM Scott Morrison and Japanese PM Yoshihide Suga -- vowed to strive for an Indo-Pacific region that is free, open, inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by coercion. It is not enough that, as the Quad leaders said, the Indo-Pacific region is open and free. India must be open and free. The repressive laws and the suppression of dissent are the not the hallmark of an open and free country. "It is not enough that, as the Quad leaders said, the Indo-Pacific region is open and free. India must be open and free," Chidambaram tweeted. "The repressive laws and the suppression of dissent are the not the hallmark of an open and free country," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-not-just-indo-pacific-must-be-open-and-free-p-chidambaram-961746.html
14-03-2021||National||Service of Covid-19 warriors enabled India to move towards unprecedented victory: Harsh Vardhan||Selfless service and sacrifice made by health professionals during the Covid-19 pandemic will be remembered forever as it has enabled the country to move towards an "unprecedented victory", Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Saturday. He also said that India's case recovery rate was the highest while the death rate is the lowest in the world. "These are our Covid warriors. Their labour, dedication and selfless service for the entire one year in the fight against Covid has enabled the country to move towards an unprecedented victory," the minister said as he inaugurated various facilities at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here. Vardhan said family members of health professionals too have played a crucial role during the pandemic. India recorded the highest number of daily novel coronavirus cases in 83 days on Saturday. The Union Health Ministry reported 24,882 fresh Covid-19 infections, up from 23,285 the day earlier and in keeping with a graph steadily inching upwards. This is the highest daily rise since December 20 when 26,624 new infections were recorded. Vardhan further said the country made a rapid progress under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the last six years. The health minister said then prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee started the journey to increase the number of AIIMS from one to six, while PM Modi led this journey to take the number of AIIMS from six to 22. He said the number of seats for MBBS course has risen by around 30,000 in the last 6 to 7 years while the number of seats for post-graduate (medical) courses has gone up by approximately 24,000 in this period. Moreover, health was given a 137 per cent hike in the Union budget 2021-22, Vardhan said, adding that 1.75 crore poor people have been treated free under the Ayushman Bharat Yojana so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/service-of-covid-19-warriors-enabled-india-to-move-towards-unprecedented-victory-harsh-vardhan-961749.html
14-03-2021||National||Inter-Parliamentary Union president to address Indian MPs on Mar 16||Duarte Pacheco, the president of the International parliamentary body IPU, will address Indian MPs on March 16 in the Central Hall of parliament, the Lok Sabha Secretariat said Saturday. The president of the Geneva-headquartered Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) is on India visit from March 14-20 on the invitation of the Parliament of India. Pacheco will call on Vice President and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla during his visit, the LS Secretariat said in a statement. Pacheco will also attend the felicitation ceremony and address the members under the auspices of the Indian Parliamentary Group (IPG) in Central Hall of Parliament House, it said. Later in the day, he will have an interaction with the Parliamentary Committee on External Affairs. He will also visit Goa and Agra during his stay in India. IPU is one of the oldest and largest international Parliamentary bodies consisting of more than 179 Members. IPU espouses the cause of promoting democracy across the world and take up issues of international importance. Since its independence, India has been an active Member of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inter-parliamentary-union-president-to-address-indian-mps-on-mar-16-961759.html
14-03-2021||National||Clean water in all homes is Modi’s next big India election play||By Archana Chaudhary Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity has endured over the years in part due to his focus on giving poorer Indians things like cooking gas, toilets and electricity. Now he wants every rural home to have water by the next national election in 2024. The Rs 3.6 lakh crore ($49 billion) programme will put piped water in all of India’s 192 million rural homes — more than all the houses in the US — over the next four years. That won’t be easy: Currently only 70 million Indian households have piped water, or about 36 per cent of the target. People collect water from a pump at a village in Khair district, Uttar Pradesh, India, on Wednesday, Sept. 2, 2020. Six months after the start of the pandemic — as the developed world tries to restore some semblance of normalcy — the virus is arriving with a vengeance in India’s vast hinterland, where 70 per cent of its more than 1.3 billion citizens live. “The mission is an acknowledgment that if we in India don’t fix our water availability this might become a limiting factor in our quest for faster socio-economic development,” Bharat Lal, who heads the Jal Jeevan Mission, a special division for piped and potable water in India’s Water Ministry, said in an interview in New Delhi. “Water is critical, the most important fundamental.” Modi’s government has faced months of protests from farmers over a law they say will boost corporate influence over agriculture, a movement that has helped rally opposition forces who also accuse him of stoking sectarian tensions between Hindus and Muslims. Still, programs like the piped water plan help explain why the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has steadily consolidated power across the country since 2014. Access to water is becoming a more urgent political issue: The government’s planning body projects demand will be twice the available supply by 2030, leading to shortages for hundreds of millions of people that will hurt economic growth. The 2018 report said India was “suffering from the worst water crisis in its history and millions of lives and livelihoods are under threat.” Depleting Resource Modi’s program aims to supply at least 55 litres of potable water to each person per day by building new pipelines and refurbishing existing networks, Lal said. It plans to use groundwater in areas of large river basins and set up desalination plants in coastal areas, he added. Currently, India is the world’s biggest extractor of groundwater — more than China and the US combined — accounting for almost a quarter of the total extracted globally, according to Water Aid. Groundwater levels in the country declined by 61 per cent between 2007 and 2017, the government told parliament in Nov. 2019 citing data from an irrigation census. A fisherman walks past a hose and motor being used to pump water from the Bendsura reservoir in Beed district, Maharashtra, India, on Sunday, Apr. 14, 2019. A three-year drought has left some farmers with no income to pay back loans, with tragic “The plan will work if India manages to simultaneously strengthen water sources,” said Romit Sen, associate director at the Montpelier, Vermont-based Institute for Sustainable Communities. “We will need to fix the backend to ensure it doesn’t encourage exploitation.” Past efforts at supplying drinking water to Indian villages have largely failed. In 2018, India’s federal auditor blamed poor execution and contract management for shortcomings in its rural drinking water program, a former avatar of the country’s piped water push. Modi’s plan calls for working with village bodies, states and private companies. It’s already seeing some initial gains: The number of rural homes with tap water has more than doubled since 2019 to about 70 million. Election Connection Adding 100,000-plus water connections every day has also meant creating more jobs and revenue at companies that make pipes, cement and plastic, Lal said. The government plans to contract work worth $27 billion in 2021. Since coming to power, Modi has used welfare schemes to target voters, especially women. In 2016, the government subsidised cooking fuel for poor families. Two years later ahead of national elections it introduced minimum wages as well as social security for domestic workers, the bulk of whom are women. It also increased maternity and childcare benefits. “On a socio-political front, a program like this really matters. In most parts of India, it is the women who fetch water for their households,” said Aditya Bhol, a researcher at New Delhi’s Center for Policy Research. “Having said that, this is an ambitious plan and going by the earlier projects in this field, the government will have to ensure it is thinking long term.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clean-water-in-all-homes-is-modi-s-next-big-india-election-play-961777.html
14-03-2021||National||DH Toon | PM Modi flags off 'symbolic' Dandi March on 91st anniversary at Sabarmati||Prime Minister Narendra Modi landed at Ahmedabad airport on Friday morning to launch the celebration of 75 years of independence by flagging off a symbolic "Dandi March" from Mahatma Gandhi-founded Sabarmati Ashram in Ahmedabad. The event named "Azadi ka Amrit Mahotsav" is part of a series of events being organised by the government to commemorate the 75th anniversary of independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-pm-modi-flags-off-symbolic-dandi-march-on-91st-anniversary-at-sabarmati-961781.html
14-03-2021||National||India reports over 25,000 new Covid-19 cases, highest this year||India on Sunday recorded 25,320 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise in 84 days, taking the case tally to 1,13,59,048, according to Union health ministry data. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded on December 20. The death toll increased to 1,58,607 on Sunday with 161 new fatalities, the highest in 44 days, the data updated at 8 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,10,544 and constitutes 1.85 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.75 per cent from 96.82 per cent on Saturday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,09,89,897, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 22,67,03,641 samples had been tested up to March 13 with 8,64,368 being tested on Saturday. The 161 new fatalities include 88 from Maharashtra, 22 from Punjab and 12 from Kerala. So far, 1,58,607 deaths have been reported in the country including 52,811 from Maharashtra, 12,543 from Tamil Nadu, 12,387 from Karnataka, 10,939 from Delhi, 10,288 from West Bengal, 8,745 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,182 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-25000-new-covid-19-cases-highest-this-year-961809.html
14-03-2021||National||Note to arrest: Timeline of Ambani bomb threat case||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday night. Vaze (49), an Assistant Police Inspector, was grilled for 13 hours at the NIA Mumbai office at Peddar Road and placed under arrest around midnight. The NIA has been investigating the suspicious planting of a Mahindra Scorpio SUV laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Mumbai residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani, the richest businessman of India. Here's a timeline of the events: November 2020 Mansukh Hiren gives the Mahindra Scorpio SUV to Sachin Vaze, as he was the Thane-based automobile spare parts businessman's old client and have known each other 5 February Sachin Vaze gives the Scorpio back to Mansukh Hiren owing to a technical snag in the steering 17 February Mansukh Hiren parks his Scorpio after the “steering gets jammed” at the Eastern Express Highway in Vikhroli. He hires a cab and reaches Crawford Market 18 February: Mansukh Hiren goes to Vikhroli to fetch his car, finds it missing. He lodges a complaint with Vikhroli police station in Mumbai 24-25 February Around midnight, the Scorpio SUV was parked off Antilia at Carmichael Road, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani 25 February By evening, the SUV was spotted by Police officials and the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad were immediately rushed to the spot. 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter were recovered. Investigators found that the Scorpio had a fake number plate – identical to one of the cars part of the Ambani family's security The threatening letter reportedly read: "Ye to sirf ek trailer hai. Neeta Bhabhi, Mukesh Bhaiyya, family... ye to sirf ek jhalak hai. Agli baar ye saaman pura hokar tumhare pass aayega, aur pura intezaam ho gaya hai.” 26 February Around midnight, the Gamdevi police station registered an FIR under Indian Penal Code Sections 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 465 (punishment for forgery), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), 120(B) (criminal conspiracy) and Section 4 of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, (punishment for attempting to cause explosion, or for making or keeping explosives with intent to endanger life or property) Mumbai Police says an Assistant Commissioner of Police-level officer would spearhead the probe The Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police launches parallel investigations into the case, Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze is made the Investigation Officer Mansukh Hiren’s statement is recorded at Crime Intelligence Unit at Crawford Market RIL thank Mumbai Police 2 March Mansukh Hiren reportedly writes to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, Thane Police chief Vivek Phansalkar about harrassment by police 4 March Mansukh Hiren gets a call from “some Tawde of Kandivli Crime Branch” who asks him to meet at Ghodbunder Road in Thane 5 March Family lodge missing complaint for Mansukh Hiren with the Naupada police station The body of Mansukh Hirenfished out from Reti Bunder in Mumbra in Thane district Thane Police register an ADR, body sent for post-mortem at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalva The matter figures in the Maharashtra Legislature BJP's Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis demands NIA probe into the incident Maharashtra Home Minister hands over probe to state Anti-Terror Squad Mansukh Hiren’s friend Sandeep Khambe says that he was a good swimmer, raising questions over Hiren's death Hiren's wife says her husband cannot commit suicide. "He was cooperating...he was called almost daily and made to sit the entire day". 6 March Post-mortem conducted, viscera sent for chemical analysis Last rites of Mansukh Hiren performed in Thane 7 March Maharashtra government decides to remove Sachin Vaze from Crime BranchATS registers FIR in Mansukh Hiren's case 8 March Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis claims that a white Innova was also seen with the Scorpio on February 24-25, says as per his knowledge the car is till in Mumbai Home Minister Anil Deshmukh rules out suspension, arrest of Sachin Vaze 10 March Defending the officer, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray says: 'Sachin Vaze is not Osama Bin Laden' Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis calls Uddhav Thackeray an "advocate of Sachin Vaze" 11 March Sachin Vaze grilled by state ATS in Mansukh Hiren death case NIA team intensifies probe, visits places in Mumbai, Thane, Palghar 12 March Sachin Vaze grilled by state ATS for second day Mumbai Police transfer Sachin Vaze from Crime Branch to Special Branch attached to Citizen's Facilitation Centre Thane Sessions Court rejects anticipatory bail application of Sachin Vaze 13 March Sachin Vaze puts up cryptic WhatsApp message -  "time to say goodbye to the world coming closer" Sachin Vaze grilled by NIA for 13 hours, arrested mightnight||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/note-to-arrest-timeline-of-ambani-bomb-threat-case-961819.html
14-03-2021||National||Controversies, thy name is Sachin Vaze||Controversies are not something new to Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, one of the famed encounter specialists of the Mumbai Police who was involved in around 63 encounters. On June 6, 2020, when he was reinstated after 17 years, he was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU), a part of the elite Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police. He was assigned several important cases like the sensational TRP rigging scam, the Anvay Naik suicide case and the death of her mother Kumud Naik, in which he arrested TV anchor-editor Arnab Goswami, sports car scam involving Dilip Chhabria and the Bollywood-TV-entertainment industry’s casting couch racket. Besides, he also recently recorded the statement of Hrithik Roshan vis-à-vis the dispute that the actor had with Kangana Ranaut in 2016. Tech-savvy Vaze, who knows how to get the best out of gadgets and gizmos, has solved several cyber crimes and financial frauds as well as an international credit card fraud. The 1972-born Vaze, who hails from Kolhapur, joined the police in 1990 as a Sub-Inspector and was initially posted in the Naxalite-infested Gadchiroli district and then posted in Thane. 'Encounter specialist' When he entered the Mumbai Police, he went on to become one of the “encounter specialist” and eliminated several gangsters including those of the Dawood Ibrahim and Chhota Rajan gangs. On 3 March 2004, Sachin Vaze was suspended along with 14 other policemen on murder charges on the alleged custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, a suspect in the December 2, 2002, Ghatkopar bomb blast case. He subsequently resigned from the police on November 30, 2007. Although requests for his reinstatement were rejected by the Maharashtra Government, he was taken back to Mumbai police on June 6, 2020 – during the Covid-19 outbreak and lockdown period – due to a shortage of police staff. After his reinstatement, Khawaja Yunus's mother Asiya Begum has filed contempt pleas in the Bombay High Court against Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and Additional Director General of Police Amitabh Gupta, who was the Principal Secretary of Home Department and now Pune Police chief. While he was out of the Mumbai Police, between 2004-2017, in 2008 he had joined the Shiv Sena, however, did not renew his membership. He had written two books – ‘The Scout: The Definitive Account of David Headley and the Mumbai Attacks’ co-authored with Shirish Thorat and ‘Sheena Bora: The Murder That Shook India’ presented by S Husain Zaidi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/controversies-thy-name-is-sachin-vaze-961825.html
14-03-2021||National||BJP leader moves SC, seeks strict action against fake complainants in criminal cases||A BJP leader has moved the Supreme Court seeking directions to the Centre for framing guidelines to ensure strict action against fake complainants in criminal cases and for compensating victims of such wrongful prosecutions. The PIL has been filed by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Kapil Mishra in the backdrop of a sensational case in which the Allahabad High Court, on January 28, declared rape convict Vishnu Tiwari innocent, observing that the motive behind the FIR was related to a land dispute. Tiwari was arrested on September 16, 2000, after being booked for rape and atrocities under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and was in jail for 20 years. The PIL, filed through advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey, has also sought "adequate compensation" for Tiwari for his wrongful conviction and life imprisonment in the fake case.  "Direct the Centre to fame guidelines and to make a mechanism to take strict action and to prosecute fake complainants as well as to frame guidelines to pay adequate compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and implement the recommendations of law commission Report ...on miscarriage of justice," the plea said.   The BJP leader has made union ministries of Home Affairs and Law and Justice, the Uttar Pradesh government and the Law Commission as parties to his PIL.   It has also sought direct for setting up of a mechanism for speedy disposal of cases pertaining to undertrial prisoners prosecuted in special Acts and to frame guidelines for undertrial prisoners to decide their cases in a time bound manner. "Direct the respondents (Centre and others) to frame rules to release poor persons who are victim of malicious and vague prosecution who are facing jail in the absence of not furnishing the adequate sureties/bonds," it said. Mishra, in his PIL, submitted that the SC/ST law is being misused and abused by filing fake and malicious complaints and no action is taken against the culprit in the absence of effective statutory/legal scheme. "False cases lead to suicides of innocents who are victims of police and prosecutorial misconduct, who lose hope and lives of their families destroyed after years of delayed trials due to the non-effective machinery...,” the plea said. The PIL has made the Union ministries of Home Affairs, Law and Justice, the Law Commission and state of Uttar Pradesh as parties.  On March 11, a similar plea was filed by BJP leader and lawyer Ashwini Upadhyay seeking a direction to the Centre, all states and Union territories (UTs) to frame and implement guidelines to compensate victims of "wrongful prosecution" through government machineries. Upadhyay urged the apex court to "use its plenary constitutional power to frame guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions and direct the Centre and states to implement them till recommendations of the Law Commission on miscarriage of justice are implemented religiously".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-moves-sc-seeks-strict-action-against-fake-complainants-in-criminal-cases-961833.html
14-03-2021||National||Election FAQs: How to change address on your voter ID||Four states and one Union Territory – Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry – are gearing up for the biggest festival of democracy. About 18.68 crore electors are set to cast their votes in the upcoming polls. For some it is not a new experience, but for the many first-time voters, it would be the first opportunity to exercise their franchise. Here is a quick guide on how you can update the address on your voter card: You will then have to login or sign up by feeding in your credentials. If you are signing up for the first time, you will need to register as a new user and enter your phone number, OTP and captcha code. After adding a valid password you will be redirected to the login page. Ensure that you save the password and add the EPIC number mentioned on your Voter ID card. After you are logged in and have updated your profile with the EPIC number, click on the "Migration to another place" option on the left tab. Choose the appropriate detail in the next window. If your new address is outside the constituency of your Voter ID card, click on "Migration outside your constituency" and click next. In case your new address is within the same constituency, you will still need to update the details by choosing the "Migration within your constituency". Selecting the option will take you to the Form 6 page, which is divided into a number of sections, each of which requires you to fill in your details either mandatorily or optionally. Rule of thumb, if the field is marked with a red *, it is a mandatory field. You can choose your preferred language from the drop-down menu in the upper right corner. For now, only English, Hindi and Malayalam are available.  Add basic details such as name/age/date of birth. Add the current residential address and a permanent address appropriately. Reverify to ensure there are no errors. You will also have to add your photo, age and proof of addresses. Documents you will need:  Age proof: Either birth certificate, Marksheet for 10th, 8th and 5th, Indian Passport, Driving Licence, PAN card or a letter issued by the UIDAI Address proof: Either Indian Passport, Driving Licence, Pass Book, Ration Card, Income Tax Assessment Order, Rent Agreement, Water/Telephone/Electricity/Gas Connection bill, Post/Mail delivered through India Post    In case your new address is in the same constituency as the old one, choose the "Migration within your constituency" option after clicking on the "Migration to another place" tab on the home page. It shall lead you to Form 8a. After you hit submit, you will receive a tracking number on your phone number, which can be used to check the status of the application. As soon as your application is approved, you will be updated via a text message on your registered mobile number.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-faqs-how-to-change-address-on-your-voter-id-961834.html
14-03-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM scraps negative Covid-19 report requirement for Kumbh pilgrims||New Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat announced on Saturday that pilgrims arriving for the Kumbh mela would no longer need a negative RT-PCR test report. Former Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat had issued protocols making a negative RT-PCR report a must for pilgrims. The Kumbh is slated to go on till the end of April. Recognised as a cultural heritage by UNESCO, the last edition of the Kumbh — in Allahabad in 2019 — attracted around 55 million people over 48 days. This year Haridwar is the host, and lakhs of people are expected to throng the holy city in Uttarakhand.  It is expected that about 10 lakh people will attend the fair on a normal day and about 50 lakh people will attend the mela on auspicious days. "All we want is the happiness of saints, devotees, traders and locals. We will ensure that Covid-19 norms are followed and the required health infrastructure is available for Kumbh," Tirath Singh Rawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-scraps-negative-covid-19-report-requirement-for-kumbh-pilgrims-961840.html
14-03-2021||National||Parliamentary panel asks Highways Ministry to complete 888 delayed projects before announcing new ones||Unhappy over delayed highway projects which amount to Rs 3.15 lakh crore, a parliamentary panel has asked Ministry of Road Transport and Highways to prioritise their completion instead of announcing new projects. The delayed 888 projects pertain to construction of 27,665 km of national highways. The Department-related Parliamentary Standing Committee on Transport, Tourism and Culture, in its latest report tabled in Parliament also asked the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to prioritise its delayed road projects. "The committee is anguished to note that 888 road projects under the Ministry are delayed at present, which amount to Rs 3,15,373.3 crore involving a length of 27,665.3 km," the 31-member panel chaired by TG Venkatesh said. Delays in completion of ongoing road projects cause a huge loss of time and greater consumption of fuel, to countless number of road users across the country, besides the increase in the project cost that has to be incurred by the Ministry, it said. "The committee desires the Ministry to focus and prioritise completion of ongoing delayed projects instead of announcing and awarding new road projects in the country," it said. Noting delays in projects in various states, it asked the Ministry to evolve a delay-resolution mechanism. It said while Maharashtra has an abnormally high number of delayed road projects as compared to other states, it is "equally worried over long delays in completion of four-laning project in Gaya-Hisua-Rajgir-Nalanda-Bihar Sharif section and the Patna-Gaya-Dobhi road project connecting Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya. It expressed concerns over other delayed projects including Goa to Karnataka and Goa border to Mumbai project besides construction of a bypass on NH 77 at Muzaffarpur, in Bihar and ongoing road projects at Kaudiyala in Uttarakhand. "The committee recommends that the Ministry may look into the reasons behind these delays and sort them out so as to complete these important road projects at the earliest. It also expressed concern that against a target of 6,469 km during the current fiscal, the Ministry has been able to award only 2,517 km till January 2021. Similarly, the Ministry has been able to complete construction of only 2,273 km, as against the target of 4,571 km under the scheme, it said. "The committee feels that if this trend continues, it would not be possible for the Ministry to meet the targeted timeline for completion of Bharatmala Pariyojna Phase -1 by 2025-26, which is already lagging four years behind the originally targeted completion of Phase -1 by FY 2021-22," it said. Expressing its displeasure over a whopping Rs 97,115 crore debt servicing liability on NHAI, it also asked the authority to explore restructuring of existing debt and look for options to raise long-term funds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-asks-highways-ministry-to-complete-888-delayed-projects-before-announcing-new-ones-961850.html
14-03-2021||National||No govt communication ever threatened social media platforms' staff of jail term: IT Ministry||The government has never threatened employees of any social media platform, such as Twitter, of jail term, the IT Ministry has said. Reacting to reports that alluded to Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter employees being threatened with jail term, the Ministry said social media platforms are "obliged to follow the laws of India and the Constitution of India, just like all other businesses in India have to." "As has been conveyed on the floor of Parliament, users of social media can criticise the government, the Prime Minister or any Minister but promotion of violence, rampant communal divide and stoking the flames of terrorism will have to be reflected upon," it said. The government had ordered Twitter to take down hundreds of posts, accounts and hashtags, that it saw violating rules. Twitter initially did not fully comply but fell in line after the government showed the rule book that contained penal provisions. The IT Ministry went on to state that the recent guidelines pertaining to social media simply require the platforms to put in place a robust grievance redressal mechanism for users. "None of the government communications, either written or oral, have ever threatened the employees of any of the social media platforms of jail term," it said. "The government welcomes criticism and dissent. However, of late, repeated instances of abuse of social media to foment hate, discord and violence by terrorist groups from outside India and circulation of morphed images of women, revenge porn posing threat to the safety of users especially women users have become grave concerns," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-govt-communication-ever-threatened-social-media-platforms-staff-of-jail-term-it-ministry-961871.html
14-03-2021||National||7 states account for 87.73% of the new cases reported in a day||States like Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh are showing a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases and have accounted for 87.73 per cent of the new instances of the disease reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Maharashtra registered the highest daily new cases at 15,602, followed by Kerala with 2,035 and Punjab 1,510 new cases. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 2.10 lakh, the ministry said adding Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab account for 76.93 per cent of India's total active cases. The total number of recoveries in the country has surged to 1,09,89,897 with 16,637 people recuperating from the disease in a day. The ministry said 83.13 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in six states. Maharashtra has reported a maximum number of 7,467 single-day recoveries. The ministry said 161 deaths were reported in a day. Six states account for 84.47 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 88. Punjab reported 22 fatalities and Kerala 12. Fourteen states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Meanwhile, the country is nearing 3 crore cumulative vaccination doses.  A total of 2,97,38,409 vaccine doses have been administered through 5,10,400 sessions, according to a provisional report till Sunday at 7 am. Of these, 73,47,895 healthcare and 11,35,573 frontline workers were given the first dose, while 42,95,201 healthcare and 73,32,641 frontline workers were given the second dose. Also, 14,40,092 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 81,87,007 senior citizens have received the first dose of the vaccine so far. As on day 57 of the vaccination drive, more than 15 lakh vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 12,32,131 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 24,086 sessions for the first dose and 2,87,821 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose of vaccine. Besides, 8,95,291 beneficiaries aged over 60 years and 1,85,624 individuals aged 45 to 60 years with comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/7-states-account-for-8773-of-the-new-cases-reported-in-a-day-961896.html
14-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK will continue to fight against CAA, says Stalin||DMK chief M K Stalin on Sunday said his party would continue to urge the union government to scrap the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and confer citizenship on Sri Lankan Tamils living in refugee camps in India. In an addendum to the party manifesto unveiled on Saturday, he said DMK had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures pressing for scrapping the law. "The Central government will be urged to withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019," Stalin said in the addendum. The DMK in its manifesto has said that the Centre would be requested to include Sri Lanka in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and give citizenship to Lankan Tamil refugees living in camps in India. Making the addition, Stalin said his party had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a signature campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures seeking the scrapping of the legislation.  "I would like to reiterate again that a resolution will be passed in the assembly (if DMK is voted to power) and will raise its voice for scrapping CAA," he said in a statement. The DMK top leader also added two more points to the manifesto, an assurance that the "anti-farmer" Chennai-Salem expressway project would not be implemented and the Kattupalli port shall not be allowed here and the draft environment assessment report for it would be rejected. The DMK released its 505-point manifesto featuring a host of highly populist promises. Waiver of crop and jewel loans in cooperative banks and a one-time assistance of Rs 4,000 for Covid-19 hit rice ration card holders were among the assurances. Protests were held in various parts of the state against the CAA, which expedites citizenship applications from religious minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. DMK had questioned why Muslims and Tamil refugees of Sri Lanka were kept out of the ambit of the act and alleged it 'divided' people on the basis of religion. The expressway project witnessed several protests by farmers and others over land acquisition and environment concerns. The greenfield corridor was challenged in the Madras High Court which quashed the land acquisition proceedings and Pattali Makkal Katchi (an ally of the AIADMK now) leader Anbumani Ramadoss was among the petitioners against the project in court. However, the Supreme Court had in December last year upheld the notification for land acquisition for the Rs 10,000 crore eight lane project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-dmk-will-continue-to-fight-against-caa-says-stalin-961897.html
14-03-2021||National||Terrorism, insurgency on decline in Assam, state on path of progress, says Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said that terrorism and insurgency have declined in Assam, leading to the speeding up of the government's development activities. Singh, while addressing his maiden election rally here, said peace has returned to Assam, with dozens of insurgent groups laying down their arms in the last five years of the BJP rule in the state. "When I was asked to come to Biswanath, the 2014 massacre of Adivasis here came to my mind. But now, the situation has improved. There cannot be any better news than prevailing of peace in the region," he said. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed charge in 2014, the Centre had taken a resolve to end terrorism and insurgency, Singh, who was the Union Home Minister during the Adivasi killings, said. "The condition in Assam has improved a lot. The state is on the path of progress," the senior BJP leader said. He said the BJP-led government has sealed a major portion of the India-Bangladesh border and installed electronic surveillance along the riverine stretch. "We have sealed the international border in Dhubri. Whatever little stretch is left unfenced will be completely seated after the BJP returns to power in Assam," he said. Singh said the BJP government in Tripura is also working towards stopping illegal immigration from the neighbouring country. He was campaigning for sitting BJP MLA Promod Borthakur, who will have a direct contest with Congress nominee Anjan Borah in Biswanath seat that is going to polls in the first phase on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorism-insurgency-on-decline-in-assam-state-on-path-of-progress-says-union-defence-minister-rajnath-singh-961901.html
14-03-2021||National||Bank operations may be hit on March 15, 16 due to nationwide unions' strike||Banking operations across the country could be impacted on Monday and Tuesday as United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has given a call for a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. Services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals would be affected due to the strike. UFBU, an umbrella body of nine unions, in a statement claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike. Many public sector lenders, including the State Bank of India (SBI) have informed their customers that their normal working could be affected at the branches and offices if the strike materialises. Banks have also informed that they are taking necessary steps for the smooth functioning of bank branches and offices. In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019 and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. Conciliation meetings - before the Additional Chief Labour Commissioner on March 4, 9 and 10 - did not yield any positive result, so the strike stands, All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary C H Venkatachalam said. Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI). Others are Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bank-operations-may-be-hit-on-march-15-16-due-to-nationwide-unions-strike-961906.html
14-03-2021||National||US-made rifle recovered as J&K forces trap JeM commander Sajjad Afghani||Security forces Sunday recovered a US-made M-4 carbine and 36 armour-piercing bullets from an encounter site in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, where one militant has been killed so-far. The army on its official Twitter handle wrote that they recovered US made M4 Carbine, three magazines, 36 armour-piercing rounds and Rs 9,600 from the encounter site in Rawalpora, Shopian, 56 kms from Srinagar. The encounter erupted on Saturday evening after security forces trapped Sajjad Afghani, a top commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) along with a foreign militant in the area. The operation was put on hold during the night and the cordon around the village was tightened to prevent militants from fleeing the village, a police official said. Another reason to halt the operation yesterday was that five villagers, taken by the security forces to guide them in the search operation, were trapped in the target house. “However, they all were safely taken out before we launched an assault on hiding terrorists” Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said. Early on Sunday, J&K police tweeted: “#ShopianEncounterUpdate: 01 unidentified #terrorist killed. #Operation going on. Further details shall follow.” However, official confirmation on whether the slain militant is Sajad Afghani is yet to come as police is ascertaining the identity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-made-rifle-recovered-as-jk-forces-trap-jem-commander-sajjad-afghani-961908.html
14-03-2021||National||Indus Commissioners of India, Pakistan to meet in New Delhi on March 23-24||The Indus Commissioners of India and Pakistan will meet here on March 23 and 24 to discuss a host of issues, including Islamabad's concerns to the design of Indian hydropower projects on the Chenab River, a top official said on Sunday. This will be the annual meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission. Under the provisions of the Indus Water Treaty, both the commissioners are required to meet at least once a year alternately in India and Pakistan. "The meeting will take place in New Delhi on March 23-24," P K Saxena, India's Indus Commissioner, told PTI.  This will also be the first meeting between the two commissioners after the nullification of special provisions under Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The state was later carved into two union territories -- Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Since then, India has cleared several hydropower projects in Ladakh. They are Durbuk Shyok (19 MW), Shankoo (18.5 MW), Nimu Chilling (24 MW), Rongdo (12 MW), Ratan Nag (10.5 MW) for Leh, while Mangdum Sangra (19 MW), Kargil Hunderman (25 MW) and Tamasha (12 MW) have been cleared for Kargil. India had conveyed the projects to Pakistan and the issue is expected to come for discussion during the meeting. Saxena said that Pakistan's concerns to the design of Indian hydropower projects on the Chenab river will also be discussed.  The last year's meeting, which was earlier scheduled to be held in New Delhi in March 2020, was cancelled for the first time since the signing of the Treaty, in view of the pandemic situation. India in July 2020 had proposed to Pakistan that the meeting to discuss pending issues pertaining to the Indus Water Treaty be held virtually in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, but Pakistan insisted on holding the talks at the Attari check post. However, India said it was not conducive to hold the meeting at the Attari Joint Check Post due to the pandemic.  With the improvement in the situation, this mandatory meeting is being held. All COVID-related protocols will be followed, Saxena said. The meeting will take place after a gap of nearly two-and-half years. The last meeting took place in Lahore in August 2018. The Indian delegation will be led by Saxena with his advisors from the Central Water Commission, Central Electricity Authority and National Hydroelectric Power Corporation. The Pakistani delegation will be led by Syed Muhammad Meher Ali Shah, Pakistan Commissioner for Indus Waters and his eight advisors.  Under the provisions of the Indus Waters Treaty, signed between India and Pakistan in 1960, all the waters of the eastern rivers -- the Sutlej, Beas, and Ravi -- amounting to around 33 million acre-feet annually is allocated to India for unrestricted use and the waters of western rivers -- Indus, Jhelum, and Chenab -- amounting to around 135 MAF annually largely for Pakistan. Under the Treaty, India has been given the right to generate hydroelectricity through a run of the river projects on the western rivers subject to specific criteria for design and operation. It also gives the right to Pakistan to raise concerns on the design of Indian hydroelectric projects on western rivers.  "India is committed towards full utilisation of its rights under the Treaty and believes in an amicable solution of issues through discussion," Saxena said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indus-commissioners-of-india-pakistan-to-meet-in-new-delhi-on-march-23-24-961934.html
14-03-2021||National||SC to examine if Lokayukta can reopen case to impose higher penalty for misconduct||The Supreme Court has decided to examine a question of law if punishment given by a disciplinary authority assumes finality or if the case can be reopened by the Karnataka Lokayukta to impose a higher penalty against an erring employee. A bench of Justices Indira Banerjee and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to the Karnataka government and the Commissioner of Bruhath Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), among others on a petition by the Lokayukta. The anti-corruption watchdog through advocate Nishanth Patil questioned the validity of the High Court's order of May 5, 2020. The HC had then allowed a plea by Divakar V who claimed that he was already given a punishment of censure by the BBMP for allegedly having been caught in a sting operation demanding and accepting a bribe in a case involving a food licence. In its plea before the top court, the Lokayukta contended that the result of the High Court's judgment was that except minor punishment of censure for major misconduct, no disciplinary inquiry under the applicable rules has been conducted by any authority against the employee. "The public confidence in statutory and constitutional authorities will be shattered if public servants who have been caught on camera demanding and accepting bribes are not brought to justice and are given a minor penalty," it said.  "In the present case, the entire system has been turned in favour of the respondent-employee due to his illegal and unjust strategies," it added. The plea gave details of how, due to manipulation and connivance, the proceedings initiated by the Lokayukta were concealed before the departmental authority. In the instant case, the Lokayukta found that no regular enquiry proceedings as required under Rule 11 and 12 of Karnataka Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1957 has been held even though the allegations were grave in nature. Therefore, the proceedings already held cannot be a bar for proceeding against the employee.  The contention that the enquiry has already been conducted and penalty of censure has been imposed upon him cannot be accepted at this stage, it said, while recommending the state government to initiate disciplinary enquiry against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-if-lokayukta-can-reopen-case-to-impose-higher-penalty-for-misconduct-961941.html
14-03-2021||National||Kerala Mahila Cong chief gets her head shaved after being denied party ticket; resigns from post||In an embarrassment to the Congress in Kerala, party's women's wing President Lathika Subhash on Sunday resigned from the post as she was hurt over the denial of Ettumanoor seat to her, shortly after the candidates list for the April 6 Assembly polls was released in New Delhi. The 56-year-old senior leader also shaved her head sitting in front of the Congress office as a mark of protest. Subhash, who met reporters at the party headquarters Indira Bhavan here, soon after the KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran announced the party list at New Delhi, said it was short of women candidates. Of the list of 86 candidates released today by the Congress, only 9 are women. It may be for the first time that any leader in any political party in Kerala has taken such a drastic step in protest against the party leadership for denial of poll ticket. A known woman face among party leaders and activists, Lathika Subhash had taken over as the head of Mahila Congress in 2018 from Bindhu Krishna, now a party candidate in Kollam. A weeping Subhash said she had tonsured her head as a symbol of protest for all the women in the party who have been toiling hard for the success of other candidates, have been sidelined and ignored by the leadership for years. She also said she does not want to continue in a position which could not earn her even a deserved election ticket. "I am saddened by the candidate selection of KPCC. We sought for 20 per cent seats for women.. but at least expected one woman candidate from each district. But those women leaders who used to work for the party have been totally ignored," she said. Recollecting her journey with the Congress through these years, the woman leader said her name used to be heard during the time of elections, but never found a place in the candidate list. "This time, a 27-year-old woman was given a chance. We are happy... but many senior leaders have been ignored. I have been working for this party for a long time. Many MLAs of the Congress party are junior to me," she said. Subhash also pointed out that former Mahila Congress chief and present DCC president Bindhu Krishna had to cry on Saturday to get her name included in the candidates' list. She also said she would not quit the Congress or join any other but would live from now onwards as an ordinary party worker. Reacting to the development, however, Mullappally Ramachandran rejected her charges that she had been sidelined. She has always been a very obedient party worker and the Congress had not ignored her, he said. "We could not give her seat this time... but it was not intentional... She wanted Ettumanoor seat which had to be given to Kerala Congress (M) Joseph faction. We will surely accommodate her in future," he said. Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, said the party had tried its best to include everyone and there are many able leaders who have not been given ticket for this election. I request every UDF members and workers to work for the front's victory. UDF Convenor M M Hassan said the party wanted to give the Ettumanoor seat to Lathika, but the KC(J) was adamant in getting the seat. Though some other seats were considered for her, it did not work out, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-mahila-cong-chief-gets-her-head-shaved-after-being-denied-party-ticket-resigns-from-post-961950.html
14-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Sachin Vaze sent to NIA custody till March 25||In your evening news brief, Sachin Vaze sent to NIA custody till March 25; the United Forum of Bank Unions gives a call for a nationwide strike and female cub of tigress Avni dead.  Here is the top news of March 14, 2021: A day after Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency, a special court in Mumbai has sent him to NIA custody till March 25. Amid tight security, Vaze (49) was produced before a special court set up under NIA Act, where he was remanded to custody. Earlier, he was taken for medical examination at the Sir JJ Hospital for a Covid-19 test.  Vaze has been booked by the NIA in connection with the planting of gelatin stick-laden Scorpio SUV near the residence of RIL Chairman Mukesh Ambani. He is also under scanner for the case, which is being investigated by the state Anti-Terrorism Squad, involving the death of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Banking operations across the country could be impacted on Monday and Tuesday as United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) has given a call for a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. Services such as deposits and withdrawal at branches, cheque clearance and loan approvals would be affected due to the strike. UFBU, an umbrella body of nine unions, in a statement claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike. A female offspring of tigress Avni, who was shot dead in 2018 after being declared man-eater, has died during treatment of injuries following an internecine fight at a forest here in Maharashtra, officials said on Sunday. The three-year-old offspring, named PTRF-84, was on March 5 released in the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Nagpur after over two years of "re-wilding" efforts, they said. However, the feline was retrieved from the wild on March 8 after it received injuries on its right foreleg following an internecine fight, PTR's Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director Ravikiran Govekar said in a release. The big cat was kept in an enclosure at Titralmangi in the PTR and was being monitored and treated daily by veterinary experts, he said. On Saturday evening, the animal's health deteriorated and the veterinary team advised to shift it to a medical facility at Gorewada in Nagpur. "Preparations were immediately made, but the tigress died around 10 pm on Saturday," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sachin-vaze-sent-to-nia-custody-till-march-25-961951.html
14-03-2021||National||Farmers’ stir may continue till December: Rakesh Tikait||The Bhartiya Kisan Union-led farmer agitation against the three central farm laws may continue till December this year, the outfit national spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said here on Sunday. Tikait made the statement while talking to reporters here after his recent visit to poll-bound West Bengal. “This agitation possibly will stretch up to November or December this year,” he said. Talking about his West Bengal visit, Tikait said during their poll campaigning there, the central government people have been asking farmers to give them one fistful of rice. “I have advised Bengal farmers to ask grain seekers to fix an MSP of Rs 1850 per quintal for paddy before giving them a single grain of rice,” Tikait told reporters here. He said after Bengal, he was planning to visit other parts of the country to press for the enactment of a law guaranteeing an MSP for various crops. “In Bihar, the paddy is currently being bought by traders at an abysmally low rate of Rs 750 to Rs 800 per quintal. I want a law guaranteeing the minimum support price for various crops,” said Tikait.  He said he was not going to sit in Delhi alone but was planning to visit all over the country, including Madhya Pradesh on March 14 and 15, Ganga Nagar in Rajasthan on March 17, Ghazipur’s UP Gate border in Delhi on March 18, Odisha on March 19 and Karnataka on March 21 and 22. During his visit here, Tikait also garlanded a statue of his late father and farmer leader Mahendra Singh Tikait at Tikait Park in Jhalwa near here. The BKU spokesperson claimed the three central laws will lead to the closure of all small-time neighbourhood shops, leaving only big commercial malls to survive. “These farm laws will ruin traders and lead to the closure of small business utilities and the collapse of small industries. These laws will bring in big multinational firms like Wallmart," claimed Tikait. “Had this government belonged to a political party, it would have talked to farmers and resolved the matter,” Tikait said. “But this government is being run by big business houses. It is bent upon selling the entire country,” he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-stir-may-continue-till-december-rakesh-tikait-961955.html
14-03-2021||National||Pakistani drone spotted in Punjab's Bamial, returns after BSF opens fire||A Pakistani drone entered the Indian territory on Sunday but was forced to return as BSF jawans spotted it and opened fire in its direction in Punjab's Pathankot district, a police official said. "The drone which came from the Pakistani side was sighted at Dinda post close to Bamial along the Indo-Pak international border," Pathankot Senior Superintendent of Police Gulneet Singh Khurana told PTI over phone. He said the BSF opened fire in its direction after which it returned to the neighbouring country. Asked if the drone dropped anything inside the Indian territory before flying back, Khurana said, "A thorough search operation was carried out at the site, but nothing was found." In December 2020, 11 hand grenades dropped by a drone flying in from Pakistan were recovered from a field near the International Border in Punjab's Gurdaspur district. The consignment was found in Salach village, located about one km from the border. The box of hand grenades had been attached to a wooden frame which was lowered from the drone onto the ground with a nylon rope, police had then said. The first incident of dropping of arms and weapons through drones from Pakistan came to light in Punjab in September 2019 when police recovered AK-47 rifles, magazines and rounds of ammunition, hand grenades, fake currency and other items in Tarn Taran district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistani-drone-spotted-in-punjabs-bamial-returns-after-bsf-opens-fire-961961.html
14-03-2021||National||Amit Shah holds colourful roadshow in Bengal's Kharagpur||Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a colourful roadshow here in West Midnapore district on Sunday as he sought to bolster the BJP's campaign in West Bengal ahead of the assembly elections. The roadshow, which commenced at the local BJP office, 'Premhari Bhavan', and concluded at Malancha petrol pump in the town, covering a distance of nearly one kilometre. Shah was accompanied by BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya and party state President Dilip Ghosh. Thousands of supporters took part in the rally, which began after sundown, as residents stood on balconies and rooftops to witness the show. Shah waved at the spectators and showered rose petals on the participants of the roadshow, as saffron party candidate for Kharagpur Sadar constituency Hiran Chatterjee, who is also a film star, stood by his side.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-holds-colourful-roadshow-in-bengals-kharagpur-961976.html
14-03-2021||National||Clean water in all homes is Narendra Modi's next big election play||By Archana Chaudhary Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity has endured over the years in part due to his focus on giving poorer Indians things like cooking gas, toilets and electricity. Now he wants every rural home to have water by the next national election in 2024. The 3.6 trillion-rupee ($49 billion) program will put piped water in all of India’s 192 million rural homes -- more than all the houses in the US -- over the next four years. That won’t be easy: Currently only 70 million Indian households have piped water, or about 36 per cent of the target. “The mission is an acknowledgment that if we in India don’t fix our water availability this might become a limiting factor in our quest for faster socio-economic development,” Bharat Lal, who heads the Jal Jeevan Mission, a special division for piped and potable water in India’s Water Ministry, said in an interview in New Delhi. “Water is critical, the most important fundamental.” Modi’s government has faced months of protests from farmers over a law they say will boost corporate influence over agriculture, a movement that has helped rally opposition forces who also accuse him of stoking sectarian tensions between Hindus and Muslims. Still, programs like the piped water plan help explain why the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party has steadily consolidated power across the country since 2014. Access to water is becoming a more urgent political issue: The government’s planning body projects demand will be twice the available supply by 2030, leading to shortages for hundreds of millions of people that will hurt economic growth. The 2018 report said India was “suffering from the worst water crisis in its history and millions of lives and livelihoods are under threat.” Depleting Resource Modi’s program aims to supply at least 55 liters of potable water to each person per day by building new pipelines and refurbishing existing networks, Lal said. It plans to use groundwater in areas of large river basins and set up desalination plants in coastal areas, he added. Currently, India is the world’s biggest extractor of groundwater — more than China and the US combined — accounting for almost a quarter of the total extracted globally, according to Water Aid. Groundwater levels in the country declined by 61 per cent between 2007 and 2017, the government told parliament in Nov. 2019 citing data from an irrigation census. “The plan will work if India manages to simultaneously strengthen water sources,” said Romit Sen, associate director at the Montpelier, Vermont-based Institute for Sustainable Communities. “We will need to fix the backend to ensure it doesn’t encourage exploitation.” Past efforts at supplying drinking water to Indian villages have largely failed. In 2018, India’s federal auditor blamed poor execution and contract management for shortcomings in its rural drinking water program, a former avatar of the country’s piped water push. Modi’s plan calls for working with village bodies, states and private companies. It’s already seeing some initial gains: The number of rural homes with tap water has more than doubled since 2019 to about 70 million. Election Connection Adding 100,000-plus water connections every day has also meant creating more jobs and revenue at companies that make pipes, cement and plastic, Lal said. The government plans to contract work worth $27 billion in 2021. Since coming to power, Modi has used welfare schemes to target voters, especially women. In 2016, the government subsidized cooking fuel for poor families. Two years later ahead of national elections it introduced minimum wages as well as social security for domestic workers, the bulk of whom are women. It also increased maternity and childcare benefits. “On a socio-political front, a program like this really matters. In most parts of India, it is the women who fetch water for their households,” said Aditya Bhol, a researcher at New Delhi’s Center for Policy Research. “Having said that, this is an ambitious plan and going by the earlier projects in this field, the government will have to ensure it is thinking long term.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clean-water-in-all-homes-is-narendra-modis-next-big-election-play-961978.html
14-03-2021||National||Vehicle operators can apply for all-India tourist permit online||Tourist vehicle operators may now apply for an all-India tourist authorisation/permit online, as per a new scheme announced by the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The permits will be issued within 30 days under the scheme which will come into force from April 1. The permits will be granted for three months or multiples thereof, up to three years. All existing permits shall continue to be in force during their validity, said a statement from the ministry. “The new rules for permits are expected to go a long way in promoting tourism across the states in our country, while simultaneously, growing the revenue of state governments," said the statement. “The step was discussed in the 39th and 40th transport development council meetings and was appreciated and concurred to by participants from the states. The rules come even as the ministry is in the pursuit of providing seamless movement to tourist passenger vehicles, after the success of goods carriage vehicles under the National Permit Regime," according to the statement. “Moreover, the scheme allows flexibility in the form of authorisation/permit being granted, for three months or its multiples thereof, not exceeding three years at a time. This provision has been incorporated keeping in mind those areas of our country where there is a limited season of tourism and also for those operators who have limited financial capacity," the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vehicle-operators-can-apply-for-all-india-tourist-permit-online-961994.html
14-03-2021||National||At current pace, vaccination would be completed in 18 years: Congress hits out at Centre||The Congress on Sunday launched an attack on the Modi government criticising the 'slow pace' of Covid-19 vaccination in India, saying that at this pace, it would take 18 years to complete the immunisation. Addressing a press conference, Rajya Sabha member Shaktisinh Gohil also alleged that the government was using vaccination numbers to divert attention from the resurgence of Covid-19 across the country. “Nearly three crore vaccine shots have been administered till now, In March, 95 lakh persons got the vaccine and only 47 lakh persons have received both the doses of vaccine,” Gohil said. “What is absolutely unfathomable is the fact that vaccines are not in short supply. It is the total mindlessness in execution and implementation that has caused this situation to arise,” he said. “If we continue at the current pace, it will take 12.6 years to administer both doses to 70 per cent of the population and about 18 years to achieve 100 per cent vaccination,” the Congress leader said. Gohil also demanded that state governments be given greater freedom in the vaccination exercise. The Congress leader further alleged that the poor have been left out of the vaccination, with nearly 90 per cent of the beneficiaries in Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru belonging to middle and upper class. “The poor, in addition to the established traditional disabilities, are being doubly disadvantaged because of being on the negative side of the digital divide,” Gohil said. He sought to know whether the government had stepped up genome sequencing to identify mutant variants of the coronavirus amid a surge in new Covid-19 cases. Gohil also asked the government to speed up the vaccination drive and complete it within a year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-current-pace-vaccination-would-be-completed-in-18-years-congress-hits-out-at-centre-961998.html
14-03-2021||National||Four states hold up full roll out of 'One Nation, One Ration Card'||Centre set to miss the March 2021 target for ‘one nation, one ration card’ as four states – West Bengal, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi – were yet to come on board the initiative that seeks to provide beneficiaries access to their entitled foodgrains anywhere in the country. As many as 32 states and union territories have joined the initiative that picked up steam during the Covid-19 lockdown months which saw more than 15 crore portability transactions, indicating that persons having ration cards in their hometowns had claimed entitled foodgrains from other towns and cities. In West Bengal and Delhi, the delays over the integration of Aadhar seeded ration cards with point of sale (POS) machines available at fair price shops, while Chhattisgarh was still in the process of procuring POS machines. In Assam, the Unique Identification Authority of India was struggling to link Aadhaar cards with ration cards, leading to a delay in rollout of the scheme. “Aadhaar seeding is low in Assam at 30 per cent and the UIDAI is working closely with the government there,” Sudhanshu Pandey, Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution, said. Since its rollout in August 2019, the ‘one nation, one ration card’ (ONORC) scheme has witnessed 23.3 crore transaction of which 15.4 crore took place between April 2020 and February 2021. The initiative was also rolled out swiftly during the Covid-19 pandemic with the number of states covered rising from 12 in April 2020 to 32 states & UTs in December 2020. Almost 86 per cent of the beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act or 69 crore persons have been covered under the ONORC scheme. “On average, each month has been recording 1.5 crore to 1.6 crore portability transactions,” S Jagannathan, Joint Secretary, Department of Food and Public Distribution said. The ONORC scheme allows the holder of a ration card to claim part of the full entitlement of foodgrains from any fair price shop in the country, an initiative targeted at helping migrant workers||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-states-hold-up-full-roll-out-of-one-nation-one-ration-card-962025.html
14-03-2021||National||Covid-19: With over 25K new cases, scientists spot another red flag||As India reported more than 25,000 new Covid-19 cases for the first time in three months on Sunday, scientists tracking the pandemic waved yet another red flag. The value of R (or reproduction number) that denotes how quickly the virus is spreading, is above one in 11 out of 16 states that have the most active cases as well as in metro cities including Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai. For the pandemic to shrink, its value should be less than one. An R value of 1.5 would mean that 10 Covid-19 infected persons would spread the infection to 15 others. "For the last couple of weeks, 11 out of the 16 states having the highest active cases have R more than one. Also, all major metros have R greater than one,” Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai told DH. More than two weeks ago, Sinha’s model had forecast the current surge. Besides Maharashtra and Punjab, other states that may become causes to worry are Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi and Uttarakhand. With data up to March 11, the R value for the entire nation stands at 1.08, which is similar to the value reported in late August-early September when coronavirus was ballooning. Therefore, the key question is whether the same pattern would be repeated? “I do not expect a second wave for the reason that the daily total is not rising fast. The present upsurge is geographically limited to high density populations — hence localised. We must wait for daily numbers and keep interpreting periodically,” T Jacob John, a former professor at the Christian Medical College Vellore and one of India’s foremost virologists told DH. On Sunday, the Union Health Ministry reported 25,320 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, of which 15,602 was from Maharashtra. Punjab not only reported 1,510 new cases but recorded more than 1,000 fresh cases in the last nine out of ten days. Kerala reported 2,000 plus cases, but a declining trend is observed in the Malabar state. In the last 24 hours, 161 Covid-19 deaths were reported, of which more than half were from Maharashtra. The daily death toll is 100 plus since the last five days. Meanwhile, biologists are trying to determine whether coronavirus variants with a worrisome mutation designated E484K detected among samples from Maharashtra have played any role in the state’s puzzling Covid-19 resurgence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-with-over-25k-new-cases-scientists-spot-another-red-flag-962042.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Injury to Mamata Banerjee was due to accident: Report by poll observers||The incident in Nandigram which caused injury to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee was an accident and not a planned attack, according to the report of two poll observers submitted to the EC on Saturday. The incident which took place at Birulia Bazar in Nandigram in East Midnapore district on March 10 after Banerjee filed her nomination had taken place "suddenly" though a "conspiracy theory" was spoken about, the report prepared by special observer Ajay Nayak and special police observer Vivek Dubey to West Bengal for the state election stated, a source at the CEO office said. The report also said that Banerjee was injured due to the suddenness of the incident. "The incident was not a planned attack but an accident. It had taken place suddenly", the source said quoting the report. About the injury to Banerjee, who is also the TMC supremo, in the incident, the report also said that "there was no conspiracy behind the incident." The report took into account the details provided by eyewitnesses present during the incident as well as the video grabs collected from them. It also referred to the failure of the police personnel in charge of the chief minister's security in controlling the crowd which came "too close" to her. "The local police and CM's security failed to control the crowd and that led to the untoward situation," the source said referring to the report. Following the Nandigram incident, state ADG (Law and Order) and nodal officer Jagmohan on Saturday directed all district administrations to arrange for the strictest security measures for the chief minister during her tours for campaigning in the districts for the eight-phase poll beginning on March 27. "Security measures should be stringent for the CM. Security for other star campaigners must be tightened. We cannot take any chance after the Nandigram incident," the source at the CEO said quoting Jagmohan. According to another official at the office of the CEO, the two observers may visit South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly districts starting March 18. "The two observers will meet senior officials of the district administrations and supervise the poll preparedness," he said. Meanwhile, state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay in a reply to the EC for a detailed report stated that the cause of the incident at Nandigram was "not clear from the video grab" collected from the place. A second report was submitted on Saturday evening after the EC called the one submitted on Friday by the state administration "sketchy" and asked the state administration to furnish a detailed one. "The CM's vehicle was passing through a crowded area. It was then that there was a push on the door of her car. But it's not clear whether the push was deliberate or not. The video grabs collected are not very clear," a source at the CEO said quoting Bandopadhyay's second report. The chief secretary was learnt to have attached one video grab along with the report, he added. The EC had sought reports from the state government as well as the two observers on the incident. The state administration had submitted its report on Friday. Election to the 294 assembly seats in West Bengal will be held between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/injury-to-mamata-banerjee-was-due-to-accident-report-by-poll-observers-961728.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Politicians ride the 'Khela hobe' wave, modify TMC slogan for their rallies||Didi's party slogan 'Khela Hobe' seems to really have brought the game on, not just between the Trinamool Congress and the BJP, who have both hit out at each other using this jingle, but among parties in other states as well. Poll-bound states, such as Assam, are capitalising on the power-charged slogan to assure their victory in the upcoming elections. Originally written by TMC leader Debangshu Bhattacharya in January, the party's jingle and slogan has undergone many variations by parties. Addressing a mega rally in Kolkata, PM Modi himself took his own spin on the slogan, "Khela toh hobe, ei bar, khela shesh (The game is on, but this time the game will be over)," alluding to the end of TMC's 10-year long rule. In Assam, Congress and BJP have improvised the slogan to attract voters in Bengali-majority constituencies. Congress candidate and former state minister, Rockybul Hussain came up with, "Khela khela hobe, khela hobe, ei bar Congress sarkar hobe (The game is on, this time Congress will form government)," at a rally in Lumding on Saturday, clearly inspired by Didi's campaign. “It’s ‘Khela hobe’ for our candidates Swapan Kar and Debabrata Saha," he said at the rally. BJP minister and strategist Himata Biswa Sarma twisted the slogan to project himself as a football striker against a goal without a keeper. He said, "Khela to hobe, kintu goalkeeper thakbe na. Ami khali shoot korte thakbo. Joto ta shambhab, toto ta goal hoye jaabe." Which translates to, "The game will go on, however, without a goalkeeper. I will keep shooting at the goal and the ball with be netted with my shots." Sarma may have unleashed his variation of the slogan as a retort to Mamata Banerjee. A few days ago, Mamata Banerjee said, "Khela hobe. Aami goalkeeper. Dekhi ke jeetbe. (The game is on. I will be the goalkeeper. Let's see who wins)."  The BJP in West Bengal, which had initially criticised the TMC for likening the political battle with a game and "trivialising" the democratic process, co-adopted the slogan later, with defence minister Rajnath Singh, among other saffron camp leaders, bringing 'khela hobe' references in their speech, in a bid to take a jibes at Banerjee and her party. Former BJP MLA Dilip Paul, now an independent candidate from Silchar said, "Ei matite khela hobe, Dilip Paul er joy hobe." Which translates to "The game will be played on this ground and Dilip Paul will win." (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politicians-ride-the-khela-hobe-wave-modify-tmc-slogan-for-their-rallies-961837.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Election Commission rules out Mamata Banerjee was attacked at Nandigram||The Election Commission has ruled out that there was any attack on West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee that led to her injuries, sources in the poll body said on Sunday. After reviewing the reports sent by its two special poll observers and the state government, the Commission concluded that Banerjee sustained injuries due to a lapse on part of her security in charge.  The EC will issue directions in this regard, the sources aware of the development said. They said Banerjee was not using a bullet proof or an armoured vehicle despite being a star campaigner and it was a lapse on part of those responsible for her security. Banerjee fell down and sustained injuries on her left leg and waist. There were allegations that she was pushed by unidentified people while she was campaigning in Nandigram Assembly segment on Wednesday evening after filing her nomination from the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/election-commission-rules-out-mamata-banerjee-was-attacked-at-nandigram-961856.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi benefits friends at the cost of the country: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday slammed the Centre over the rise in fuel and gas prices as well as the alleged sale of public sector undertakings. Gandhi and his Congress party have been attacking the government over high fuel prices, alleging that it has collected over Rs 21 lakh crore by way of taxes on petroleum products ever since coming to power in 2014. "The central government looting in broad daylight. 1. Massive tax collection on gas-diesel-petrol. 2. Snatching people's share, employment and facilities by selling PSU-PSB to friends," he charged in a tweet in Hindi. "PM's only method, benefit friends at the cost of the country," the former Congress chief alleged. The Congress has been stalling proceedings in both houses of Parliament over the rise in prices of petroleum products and demanded a discussion on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-benefits-friends-at-the-cost-of-the-country-rahul-gandhi-961862.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Violent political thought: Akhilesh Yadav launches fresh attack on BJP||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday slammed the BJP, alleging that false cases are being registered against various leaders as a result of the saffron party's "violent political thought". The former Uttar Pradesh chief minister has been attacking the BJP government at the Centre and in the state over the law and order issue and other matters. In a tweet in Hindi, Yadav said, "Today, the way in which the Constitution is attacked, false cases registered against leaders, and physical assaults taking place after raids by probe agencies, are all an adverse result of BJP's violent political thought." आज जिस प्रकार संविधान पर हमले हो रहे हैं, नेताओं पर झूठे मुक़दमों व जाँच एजेंसियों के छापे के बाद अब शारीरिक हमले तक हो रहे हैं, वो भाजपा की हिंसक राजनीतिक सोच का कुपरिणाम है.   He also said, "Those who level allegations on others of running a syndicate, are in fact themselves running a 'sanghicate'." Yadav had on Saturday said that Yogi Adityanath had got the chief minister's post by chance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/violent-political-thought-akhilesh-yadav-launches-fresh-attack-on-bjp-961914.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Congress allying with outfits that wish to divide nation: Amit Shah at rally in Assam||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday launched a scathing attack on the Congress and its leader Rahul Gandhi for entering into alliances with political parties who are "out to divide the country", and asserted that the BJP does not practise vote-bank politics. He alleged that the grand old party, despite "ruling the state for 15 years and having a prime minister who was a representative from the state", did nothing to solve the issue of illegal immigration from neighbouring countries. Shah was referring to Manmohan Singh, who has represented Assam in the Upper House of Parliament. "The Congress can go to any length to win an election. It has aligned with Badruddin Ajmal's AIUDF in Assam, the Muslim League in Kerala and the Indian Secular Front in Bengal. Assam cannot be safe in the hands of Ajmal. "People of Assam can decide who is more concerned about their welfare -- Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Badruddin Ajmal," Shah said at a poll rally. The BJP, during the last five years, has successfully ousted infiltrators who had encroached land at Kaziranga National Park and occupied plots owned by religious bodies, the Union minister said. "Five years ago, I, as BJP president, had promised to make Assam 'andolan mukt' (agitation-free) and 'aatankbad mukt' (militancy-free). We have fulfilled our pledge, and there is no longer any agitation or militancy in the state. "Assam is experiencing peace and development. Give us another five years and we will also be able to solve the problem of infiltration," Shah claimed. In a jibe at Congress leaders, who has promised doles to tea garden workers if elected to power, he said the party remembers these labourers only during elections. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi has already taken several initiatives to improve the lives and working condition of the tea garden workers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-allying-with-outfits-that-wish-to-divide-nation-amit-shah-at-rally-in-assam-961937.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Congress fields K Muraleedharan to take on BJP at its lone incumbent seat in Kerala||In a bid to defeat BJP in its lone sitting seat in Kerala, the Congress has decided to field Lok Sabha MP K Muraleedharan at Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram. Muraleedharan, who is the son of former Chief Minister K Karunakaran, has been fielded by relaxing the party norms of not fielding any MPs in the Assembly election fray. Muraleedharan was a two-time MLA from Vattiyoorkavu, which is adjacent to Nemom, and hence, the party considered him as the most ideal candidate. Kerala PCC president Mullapally Ramachandran said that BJP leaders were terming Nemom as "Gujarat of Kerala" and so, the Congress wanted to give a direct fight to the BJP. Hence, Muraleedharan, who was found to be the most ideal candidate, was given exemption. He is now MP representing Vatakara in North Kerala. Senior leaders like former Chief Minster Oommen Chandy and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala were also willing to take up the challenge. Chandy and Chenniithala will contest from their incumbent seats - Puthupally in Kottayam and Harippad in Alappuzha respectively.  Other prominent candidates in the fray are K Karunakaran's daughter Padmaja Venugopal at Thrissur, Mahila Congress former state president Bindu Krishna at Kollam, former technical officer at World Health Organisation and All India Professionals' Congress, Kerala Chapter president Dr. S S Lal at Kazhakkoottam in Thiruvananthapuram and actor-turned politician Dharmajan Bolgatty at Balusserry in Kozhikode.  Kerala PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that 55 per cent of the candidates are new faces, including 27-year-old Aritha Babu at Kayamkulam in Alappuzha district, who is the youngest among the Congress candidates. While 46 Congress candidates are in the 25-50 age group, 22 are in 51-60 age group, 15 in 60-70 age group and three are above 70. Among the candidates, 15 are under graduates, 42 graduates, 12 post-graduates, two PhD holders and two doctors. Of the 92 seats in which Congress is contesting, candidates of 86 seats have been announced. Meanwhile, there is widespread resentment in the Congress, especially, over alleged seat-sharing between the groups led by Chandy and Chennithala. Mahila Congress president Lathika Subash reacted that Mahila Congress sought 20 per cent seat for women and expected at least 14 - one each in each district. But only nine women were fielded. She was also denied seat. Ramachandran said that the party wanted to field more women but owing to unavoidable circumstances, many had to be avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-fields-k-muraleedharan-to-take-on-bjp-at-its-lone-incumbent-seat-in-kerala-961939.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||BJP polarising Hindus by showing my face, invoking Mughals: AIUDF chief||Asserting that unlike in 2016 there is "no Modi wave" in the Assam Assembly polls this time, AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal on Sunday alleged that the BJP was attempting to polarise the Hindus by pointing at him, invoking the 'Mughals' and portraying the Muslims as enemies, but said the ruling party will not succeed. Dismissing as "baseless" the BJP's charge of communalism against his All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), Ajmal claimed "no outfit was more secular" than his party in Assam, and cited the AIUDF giving substantial representation to non-Muslims in elections in the past. In an interview with PTI, Ajmal said the Assam election would be a "turning point" for the country as the BJP's defeat will begin from the state. The grand alliance, of which it is a part of along with the Congress, is fighting hard for it, he said. The BJP will be defeated in the polls in West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, and this will send a message to the entire country, he said, exuding confidence that "secular forces" will win. The AIUDF is secular and will always remain so, but since the BJP is itself "communal" and plays communal politics, it looks at others through that lens, Ajmal said. "The BJP doesn't have any development issue to talk about. They talked about jobs last time, could not provide any. At the national level, they talked about getting black money back, instead sent black money abroad," he alleged. The BJP has not been able to solve the farmers' issue also, he told PTI over phone. Asserting that almost every other day industries are shuttering in Assam, he said the AIUDF has promised that as soon as it comes to power, two paper mills that were closed down, will be revived. "Last time (in 2016) when Narendra Modi campaigned here there was a wave. But there is no Modi wave this time. He has visited five times, but has been unable to generate any wave," Ajmal claimed. "By showing my face, by portraying Muslims as enemies, and making communal comments, the BJP wants to polarise Hindus, but unlike last time, they will not succeed," he said. On its tie-up with the Congress and forming the 'Mahajot' alliance, the Lok Sabha MP from Dhubri said after seeing that wherever opposition parties were coming together along with the Congress, results were good, his party decided to forge the alliance. "I have been a part of the UPA for the last 15 years at the Centre, so it was important that we come together. Some people were not allowing it. But things fell in place. The Congress high command also gave the green signal and a grand alliance of seven parties has been formed, and we are confident of succeeding," Ajmal said. There is a wave against the BJP and that will benefit the grand alliance, he added. On the recent controversy surrounding a "doctored" video of his doing the rounds on social media, Ajmal alleged that the BJP doesn't have anything to say against his party so they are coming up with such tactics. He said action has been taken by Twitter over those who were behind the "doctored" video. "There is only one party in the country that talks about Hindutva and that is the BJP. If somebody is talking about Ram Mandir, it is the BJP. We are neither raising this nor making it an issue," Ajmal said. Asked about the key issue in Assam polls, he said the main issue is of tea garden workers and his party will strongly fight for their rights. "The Citizenship (Amendment) Act is another big issue. We are opposing it and so is the Congress party. We were against it, are against it and will remain against it," he asserted. With the AIUDF expected to fight on 21 seats as part of the grand alliance headed by Congress, Ajmal said it could have contested 30-31 seats but decided to sacrifice for the sake of the alliance to prevent a division of opposition votes. "Earlier, we lost seats between our party and the Congress. So, we thought that let us sacrifice this time but prevent a division of votes. We agreed to take fewer seats, but we expect to win 90-95 per cent of the seats we are contesting," he said, adding that the grand alliance taking on the ruling BJP will get a majority in the Assam polls. On BJP leader and state minister Himanta Biswa Sarma's repeated attacks on him and invoking the erstwhile Mughal rule, Ajmal said, "He (Sarma) has lost it. He had done good work under the Congress, but now after going to the BJP he is talking completely opposite of what he earlier said." The BJP doesn't have anything else to say, so it is using "Badruddin Ajmal's face, calling me a Mughal. What do I have to do with the Mughals?" the AIUDF chief said. "Sarma has no developmental issue to talk. So, he is attacking me thinking that by doing so they can polarise votes," he said. The BJP has not been able to fulfil the promises made to the people and is lying continuously, he alleged, asserting that people's memories are not so weak that they can be duped easily. Asked will the chief minister be from the Congress and deputy CM from the AIUDF if the alliance wins, Ajmal said this will be decided after the polls depending on how many seats are won. Also, a common minimum programme about key issues such as the CAA, NRC and jobs, would be prepared. The AIUDF and the Congress are contesting the forthcoming polls as a part of the 'Grand Alliance' along with the Bodoland People's Front (BPF), CPI(M), CPI, CPI-ML and the Anchalik Gana Morcha. Elections to the 126-member Assam assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-polarising-hindus-by-showing-my-face-invoking-mughals-aiudf-chief-961959.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||Denied poll ticket, BJP aspirants protest across Bengal; Sovan Chatterjee quits||The rift between old-timers and newcomers in West Bengal BJP came out in the open as several aspirants voiced their anguish against the party and resigned after they were denied tickets for the assembly elections, while protests were held across the state. BJP leader and TMC turncoat Sovan Chattopadhyay along with his friend Baisakhi Bandopadhyay quit the party after both of them were denied tickets. Chatterjee's constituency for several decades, Behala Purba, was given to actor-turned- politician Payel Sarkar, who joined the party a few days back. In his resignation letter to the party's state president Dilip Ghosh, Chattopadhyay accused the saffron camp of humiliating him. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters in New Delhi, party general secretary Arun Singh along with Union ministers from West Bengal, Babul Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri, released the names of 63 candidates for the third and fourth phase of polls to be held on April 6 and 10. As soon as the names were announced, protests erupted in various parts of the state with several leaders openly expressing their dissatisfaction over newcomers being given more importance than the old-timers. In some cases, fresh inductees also expressed their unhappiness over the constituencies allotted to them. The nomination of Ashok Lahiri, former chief economic advisor to the government, from the Alipurduar seat and Gorkha Janmukti Morcha turncoat Bishal Lama from Kalchini triggered a wave of protests in North Bengal with the local leadership hitting the streets. "We don't know who is Ashok Lahiri and why was he nominated. If he contests from Alipurduar, what the old-timers who had fought for the party for years will do. Bishal Lama joined the party just two days ago and he was nominated. Local BJP workers will never accept this injustice," a saffron party leader said. In Hooghly district's Singur assembly constituency, BJP activists locked up party functionaries over the nomination of TMC turncoat and sitting MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya. The octogenarian leader switched sides after being denied ticket by the ruling party this time. "Rabindranath Bhattacharya is a TMC leader, who joined the BJP after he was denied ticket by his party. And today, some of the central BJP leaders in collusion with Bhattacharya gave him party nomination. We will never accept it. The party has to change its decision," a local BJP leader of Singur said. Protests were also held in various other constituencies after ticket aspirants did not find their names in the list. Shyampur is one such constituency where actress Tanushree Chakraborty, a newcomer in the BJP, was nominated. Angry BJP workers ransacked a party office in Panchla seat in Howrah district, where TMC turncoat Mohitlal Ghati was given the poll ticket. Several district level leaders also resigned from the party after failing to get tickets. After the BJP announced the candidates for fthe irst and second phases of polls earlier, similar incidents had taken place with at least nine disgruntled BJP leaders filing nominations as independents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/denied-poll-ticket-bjp-aspirants-protest-across-bengal-sovan-chatterjee-quits-961960.html
14-03-2021||National Politics||AIADMK promises to cut fuel prices, provide govt jobs in poll manifesto||Continuing with its populist measures, the ruling AIADMK on Sunday announced it would provide free washing machines and solar gas stoves to all ration card holders and government jobs for one in each family with no one already in it. Releasing the manifesto for April 6 assembly elections, the AIADMK said it would urge the Centre to revoke Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and reduce the price of petrol and diesel. It is to be recalled that the AIADMK supported the Bill when it was tabled in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha in December 2019. In fact, the 11 AIADMK MPs helped the Bill get passed in the Upper House. The manifesto, which runs into 75 pages, was released by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, and his deputy O Panneerselvam at the AIADMK head quarters. “We will take these promises to the people. People will vote for us because they know that the Amma's government has a track record of implementing all promises,” Palaniswami said. Besides free washing machine and solar gas stove, the AIADMK also reiterated its promise of six LPG cylinders free of cost for every household and a monthly assistance of Rs 1,500 to woman heads of families. The manifesto also promised a housing scheme after late J Jayalalithaa under which people who do not have own house in rural areas will get concrete houses. The manifesto also promised to get the Madras High Court renamed as Tamil Nadu High Court. It also announced concession for women who travel in buses run by the state-owned transport corporation. The party also promised government jobs for one person in each family with none already in it. Some of the promises made by AIADMK are a repeat of the ones announced by DMK on Saturday. DMK also faced the same criticism from Makkal Needhi Maiam which accused the former of “stealing” its ideas. The manifesto further promised caste-based reservation after the caste census by the government is ready, while announcing that education loans will be waived off. During his brief interaction with the media, Palaniswami blamed the DMK for Jayalalithaa's death when reporters sought his reaction on the Opposition party promising to get “truth” behind her death. “Everyone knows why Amma died. It was DMK that had her stressed and because of the false cases (she died),” Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aiadmk-promises-to-cut-fuel-prices-provide-govt-jobs-in-poll-manifesto-961965.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath got CM's post by chance: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday attacked Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, saying he got the CM’s post by chance. Referring to Uttarakhand where the BJP changed its CM, Yadav at a "kisan mahapanchayat" organised by his party and the Mahan Dal in UP’s Kasganj said the day the BJP MLAs came to know that they are being denied ticket (for polls), on that day, UP's chief minister will be changed. He had become the UP’s chief minister by chance ("tukke se"), Yadav added referring to Adityanath’s surprise selection for the post by the BJP after the Assembly polls in 2017. Further taking a dig at Adityanath, he said, "If the Uttar Pradesh chief minister knew how to use a laptop, then he would have distributed laptops among the youth.” The UP chief minister is an amazing CM and (I) don't know what happens to him when he sees a red cap, Yadav said referring to Adityanath’s remarks in the state legislature some days ago. In an obvious reference to the SP members who wear red caps, Adityanath recalled that he had once been to village school when a child called a politician sporting a cap as "goonda" (hooligan). Yadav said, "The chief minister had said that a two-and-a-half-year-old child had told him that those wearing a red cap are like this. But I say that you take a photo of a person wearing a red cap and your own and the child will tell who is what. I wonder how much can a two-and-a-half-year-old child speak." Yadav further advised the CM to wear a red cap, saying he would look nice. “Remember that a yogi is a person who considers other's pain his own,” he said. The SP chief on this occasion said that in the 2022 Assembly elections, the SP will have an alliance with the Mahan Dal and the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The relationship between the Mahan Dal and us is strong, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-got-cms-post-by-chance-akhilesh-yadav-961750.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt to withdraw cases lodged for violation of Covid-19 guidelines||The Uttarakhand government on Friday decided to withdraw the cases lodged for the violation of coronavirus guidelines in the state. This decision was taken in the first meeting of the newly formed state cabinet here under the chairmanship of Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat. State Chief Secretary Omprakash said the state cabinet has decided to withdraw all cases filed for the violation of Covid-19 guidelines. The chief secretary has issued orders to celebrate four years of the government in all Assembly constituencies on March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-to-withdraw-cases-lodged-for-violation-of-covid-19-guidelines-961802.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||Militant killed in encounter in J&K's Shopian district||A militant was killed on Sunday in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said.  Security forces launched a cordon and search operation on Saturday in Rawalpora area of the district following information about presence of militants there, a police official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after militants opened fire on the security forces who retaliated. After an overnight lull, the exchange of fire resumed this morning in which one militant has been killed, the official said.  He said arms, ammunition and other incriminating material were recovered from the scene of the encounter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militant-killed-in-encounter-in-jks-shopian-district-961851.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||J&K police registers first case under Triple Talaq Act||Nearly two years since the Parliament passed the legislation declaring Triple Talaq illegal, Jammu and Kashmir police registered the first case under the act against a husband for pronouncing talaq three times to his wife.   The case was registered against one Rafaqat Ahmad Lone, who lives near Line of Control (LoC) in Mundya Nagam village of Keran in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on the directions of a local court. Reports said on the directions of the court, police in February last initiated an investigation in a divorce case of Tahira Begum. “During investigations it was found that the accused had pronounced talaq three times to her ex-wife and subsequently a case under Muslim Women’s (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act 2019 (Triple Talaq Act) was registered in Women’s Police Station Kupwara,” he said. The couple had married three years ago. The government passed the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Ordinance in 2019, making triple talaq an offence which can invite a jail term of three years. The Supreme Court had struck down the practice of triple talaq, calling the practice unconstitutional and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, which provides for equality before the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-registers-first-case-under-triple-talaq-act-961876.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal government's plan to bring Olympics to Delhi in 2048: Is India there yet?||Earlier in the week, Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, while presenting the Budget, vowed that his government has pledged to bid for the Olympics venue for 2048.  "Our government aims to bring the sports facilities and the atmosphere towards sports competitions to such a level through the new Sports University so that we can apply to host the 39th Olympic sports competitions for 2048,” he said in his speech. The reason Sisodia is aiming for 2048 is that bids for the next three venues for the Olympics are already in. More importantly, International Olympics Committee, or the IOC, has a tedious bidding process that involves clearing various parameters.  Hosting the mega sporting event has been a developmental milestone for cities across the world. China, which played host to Olympics in Beijing in 2008, began preparations for it in 1985. But the Kejriwal government's plan, while ambitious, may also be seen as far-fetched by many, especially since India's previous attempts have failed.   IOC is currently deciding the venue for the 2032 Olympics, which is likely to be Brisbane. Later, cities for the next three fixtures — 2036, 2040, 2044 — will be picked from those already in the fray.  How is the venue picked? Interested cities can bid for the opportunity after which the authorities take a call. Earlier, however, several cities went head-to-head in the fight for the venue. The members of the committee used to vote for a winner based on several requirements. This process was expensive and deemed unfair.  But now, the IOC directly engages with the aspirants' governments, other stakeholders and then recommends to those at the Executive level to finalise a venue.  Not India's first go at Olympics venue Earlier governments too had made a bid for hosting the Olympics. India wanted to be the host for the 2024 fixture with Delhi and Ahmedabad as potential venues. However, the plan did not gain any momentum.  IOC president Thomas Bach, on his first visit to India, thought the country was not prepared. "Because of different reasons, we think it will be a little too quick for India to have a successful Olympics in 2024," he had said. Delhi isn't the first state government to make a wish. Erstwhile Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, too, had pitched Mumbai as a venue for 2032. Preparation needed Sisodia doesn't believe Delhi as a venue for the 2048 Olympics is impossible, simply because there is substantial time to prepare. “This may seem far away, but we have to bid for it 10 years before 2048. Before that, it will take 15 years to build adequate infrastructure, to create an atmosphere where sports flourishes and to bring our players to a level where they bring medals in the sports competitions leading to Olympics 2048,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-governments-plan-to-bring-olympics-to-delhi-in-2048-is-india-there-yet-961918.html
14-03-2021||North and Central||Muslim teen thrashed for drinking water at Ghaziabad temple||A 14-year-old Muslim boy was allegedly assaulted by a temple caretaker in Ghaziabad on Thursday for entering the temple premises to drink water. The act was recorded and circulated on social media and the two accused, Shringi Nandan Yadav and Shivanand, were arrested by Ghaziabad Police after the video came to their notice. “The main accused was arrested shortly after the incident was brought to light. Any person found indulging in anti-social activities will face strict action by the police,” Ghaziabad SSP Kalanidhi Naithani told the publication. The video was uploaded by co-accused Shivanand on an Instagram account, ‘Hindu Ekta Sangh’, which has now been taken down.  Yadav has allegedly posted photographs of him posing with guns and knives on social media. In addition, he also reportedly posted ‘inflammatory speeches’ by Narsinghanand Saraswati, who is a right-wing preacher. An FIR has been filed against the two accused under IPC sections 504 (intentional insult to provoke peace), 505 (statements conducive to public mischief), 323 (causing hurt) and 352 (assault). Speaking to The Indian Express, the minor’s father said, “He was in the area when he felt thirsty. He saw a tap at the temple and began drinking when he was held by them. He was badly beaten up and humiliated. Does water have a religion? I don’t think there is any religion that can refuse water to a thirsty person.” He further says, “The temple used to be open for everyone, but that has changed over the past few years. We hope our son gets justice and such people do not attack another child”. The family stays in a one-room rented space and the boy occasionally works at shops to help their income.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-teen-thrashed-for-drinking-water-at-ghaziabad-temple-961925.html
14-03-2021||Opinion||Robots don’t take lunch breaks, but they don’t spend money either||In the last five years, India’s working-age population, or individuals over the age of 15, has gone up by about 118 million. This means, on average, every year in those five years, some 23.6 million individuals have crossed the age of 15. Of course, everyone who crosses the age of 15 doesn’t necessarily go into the workforce, seeking to earn a living. Some of them continue to study; many women get married and are forced to drop out of the labour force. Assuming even just 40% of the people entering working age are looking for a job, close to 9.5 million Indians would have entered the job market every year, on average over the last five years. At 50%, 11.8 million individuals would have done so. In other words, a million Indians are entering the workforce every month. The fact that India hasn’t been producing enough jobs can be gauged from the high unemployment rates prevailing among the youth. Data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy shows that as of February 2021, 48.5% of individuals in the age bracket 15-19 were unemployed; and so were 39.2% of those in the age group 20-24. Of course, it is not just the lack of jobs. Ask any HR manager and you will be told that there is a major problem on the skills front. Clearly, as a country, we have a big problem on our hands. Our so-called demographic dividend is sinking. What makes the problem even graver is the automation risk to jobs. In fact, as Daniel Susskind writes in A World Without Work – Technology, Automation and How We Should Respond: ‘Automation risk’ is the percentage of jobs in an economy that, in the OECD’s opinion, have a greater than 70% chance of being automated. (OECD is an Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development). All kinds of jobs at different levels are being automated. Susskind provides a long list in his book about driverless tractors, cow-milking machines, cattle-herding drones, tree-shaking robots that harvest oranges, sprayers that drop fertiliser on crops, bricklaying robots, algorithms that can write news stories, machines that can compose sophisticated music which sounds like a symphony, and so on. The larger point here is that the threat of automation has gone way beyond being confined to factories. In manufacturing itself, too, robots and automation are now an even more important part than was the case in the past. As Susskind writes: “Robots now account for 80% of the work undertaken in manufacturing a car. Nor is this only a story about cars. McKinsey & Co. estimate that, as of 2015, 64% of worker hours in all areas of manufacturing were spent on tasks that could be automated with existing technologies – never mind the future ones.” Also, the automation risk as per OECD is higher in poorer countries. As Susskind writes: “The sorts of tasks that OECD considers to be the easiest to automate are disproportionately found in poorer countries.” And India is a poor country. In fact, when it comes to factories, the Indian entrepreneur has long preferred to expand by buying and installing new machines rather than hiring human workers. The rate of capital expansion in India has been much faster than the rate of labour expansion. Hence, the creation of new jobs in the formal space in India will continue to slowdown in the years to come. Also, our recent focus on big business is not going to help, given that most jobs are created by small businesses growing bigger. This means, the model that the world followed until now where countries grew their manufacturing sector significantly to draw themselves out of poverty, may not be available to India at all. As Cambridge University economist Ha-Joon Chang writes in Bad Samaritans—The Guilty Secrets of Rich Nations & the Threat to Global Prosperity: “History has repeatedly shown that the single most important thing that distinguishes rich countries from poor ones is basically their higher capabilities in manufacturing, where productivity is generally higher, and more importantly, where productivity tends to grow faster than agriculture and services.” Robots and automation will create problems of a different kind in the western world where prosperity has been achieved. The question that needs to be asked here is, what keeps capitalism going? The simple answer is: Consumption. People work. They get paid money. This money is used to buy goods and services. This keeps corporations in business, which in turn employ people and pay them. If more and more jobs are automated, this entire dynamic will break down. Corporates prefer automation for the simple reason that they don’t have to deal with and pay human beings and the problems that come with it. Also, this increases their profits. But, while robots may not take lunch breaks, they don’t earn money and spend it either. The point is, if human beings don’t earn and spend money, what will keep corporations going? Who will buy the stuff their robots will produce? This is a question well worth asking. This could possibly lead to governments taxing corporates in the western world at higher rates. And the money could then be used to pay a universal basic income (UBI) to everyone. While UBI might partly solve the dynamic at the heart of capitalism, nevertheless it doesn’t do anything about the sense of meaning and identity that a job provides to individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/robots-don-t-take-lunch-breaks-but-they-don-t-spend-money-either-961753.html
14-03-2021||Opinion||Brother, don’t you know it!||Having spent a considerable amount of my childhood in the American south naturally afforded me the privilege, from time to time, of hearing myself called a ‘sand nigger’. Anyone reading this knows what a nigger is: if you live in Delhi, it’s effectively what you heard the mob yelling at Masonda Ketanda Olivier, the Congolese man lynched to death. Or you might have heard the analogous slurs in Bengaluru while a Tanzanian woman was being stripped and beaten by a mob in reaction to some other random event elsewhere involving a Sudanese man. She was forced to pay his price for her blackness. But a ‘sand nigger’, do you know what that is? You are a sand nigger, my friend. It makes no difference if you think you’re Aryan, Dravidian, or even Arab. This is equal opportunity colourism. Kind of like how any South Asian in the UK is eligible to be dubbed a ‘Paki’. My own early experiences of racism – in school in the American south, and later in college in England – would serve to heighten my admiration for the Godfather of Soul, aka James Brown, aka Soul Brother No. 1. In fact, I’m blasting his 1968 black-pride anthem as I write this: Say it loud: I’m black and I’m proud! Say it loud: I’m black and I’m proud! It is also these early experiences of racism, mixed with an increasing identification with black power and black pride movements, that fostered my easy lateral drift into Dalit power circles, and ultimately to become a prominent researcher into that foremost champion of Dalit pride, B R Ambedkar. Both young Ambedkar, living in upper Manhattan on the eve of the Harlem Renaissance, and W E B DuBois, the pioneering black protest leader and civil rights activist, recognised the deep affinities between the black and the Dalit struggles, as the extant letters between them attest:   Dear Prof DuBois, Although I have not met you personally, I know you by name as everyone does who is working in the cause of securing liberty to oppressed people…There is so much similarity between the position of the Untouchables in India and of the position of the Negroes in America that the study of the latter is not only natural but necessary. —B R Ambedkar   Dear Dr Ambedkar, I have often heard of your name and work and, of course, have every sympathy with the Untouchables of India. I shall be glad to be of any service I can render if possible in the future. —W E B DuBois   As I read through the newspapers this week, humming along to James Brown and sipping my coffee (black, of course), two pieces of news jump out at me. The first, that Harvard University has denied black American philosopher Cornel West’s request for tenure. West has been as much an activist as a scholar over the last few decades, and is an irrepressible voice for racial justice. You can find videos of West on YouTube dancing and singing along with James Brown… Some people say we’ve got a lot of malice/Some say it’s a lot of nerve/ But I say we won’t quit moving until we get what we deserve. We have been ‘buked and we have been scorned/ But just as sure as it takes two eyes to make a pair/ Brother we can’t quit until we get our share. Does Cornel West deserve tenure? The answer is best expressed in West’s own words. When I asked the great philosopher to endorse my new set of books, B R Ambedkar: The Quest for Justice, and especially the fourth volume on Racial Justice, West pithily responded: ‘Brother, don’t you know it!’ The second piece of news is about the young Indian woman (I won’t cite her name because I am not adequately apprised of the veracity of the charges) who made history upon becoming elected president of the Oxford Student Union. She has now resigned from the position amid controversy over social media posts decried as racist and insensitive. What?! Upper-caste Indians, aka sand niggers, making racially insensitive remarks about others? Brother, don’t you know it!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/brother-don-t-you-know-it-961755.html
14-03-2021||Opinion||Free or partly free?||Early this month, many outraged Indians were busy trying to prove an international conspiracy after the US-based think tank Freedom House downgraded India’s democracy from “free” to “partly free”. And almost immediately, as folks were calming down, another think tank – Sweden’s V-Dem Institute – downgraded India to an “electoral autocracy”, alongside Kenya and Lebanon. But let’s leave aside for a moment what the rest of the world thinks of us. Let’s instead ask ourselves what freedom really means to us. Like other post-colonial democracies of the East, India too has long struggled between the ideals of a liberal democracy and the norms of a conservative society. Several countries – from Turkey and Pakistan to Bangladesh and Indonesia – have found it difficult to reconcile a political dream that aspired to give citizens individual rights with a society that suffers prejudices and imposes several crippling restrictions on personal life. Many people in the post-colonial world made the fatal mistake of assuming that the right to vote is all that one needs in order to be free. But in country after country, elections merely helped establish tyranny and oppression, instead of the protection of individual freedom. In Turkey, for instance, secularism has traditionally been imposed by the military, while Islamism has won the vote. In the Philippines, Malaysia, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and many parts of Africa, the dominant majority often voted to oppress the marginalised minority. In Romania’s 2001 presidential election, one candidate declared: “I’m Vlad, the Impaler!” And referring to the Hungarian minority in his country, he promised, “We will hang them directly by their Hungarian tongue.” India was different, because the relatively liberal vision of our Constitution was sustained for the most part. Its founding fathers laid down such an inclusive national identity that even those who descended from the British colonialists (today’s Anglo-Indians) could play a part in politics and society. And Indian law and policy observed important redlines that protected many individual freedoms from society’s discriminatory practices and illiberal values. The courts often led the way in calling out society’s regressive practices, whether the practice of dowry or the discrimination of the LGBT community. Those redlines are now fast disappearing. In the name of majority appeasement, Indian politics, law and policy have begun adopting the norms of the neighbourhood uncles and aunties. Actions have been taken in many parts of the country to dictate whom one can marry, what one can eat and how one should joke. An ever-expanding list of topics is now taboo on grounds of ‘national security’. Honesty is frowned upon and ostracised – entirely oblivious to the fact that, if one does not allow honest thought and debate on national security, then one is doomed to live in a false reality that does far more damage to national security. On most ‘sensitive topics’, our political discourse adopts the same attitude that the middle-aged often adopt towards the young on pretty much anything: “You don’t know anything, beta. You are too young.” (Recall that that’s how Sourav Ganguly had silenced his daughter on social media.) The experience of much of the world shows that liberal democracy and individual freedoms cannot co-exist with conservative social norms and prejudiced social beliefs. India has long been an exception – managing to uphold an extraordinary democracy without ever reforming its society. But our tipping point now seems close at hand. We must decide if we want to maintain and protect individual freedoms, or to do away with them entirely in the interest of our prejudices. In other words, we must decide whether we want to be “free” or “partly free”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/free-or-partly-free-961756.html
14-03-2021||Opinion||Scavenger of the World||Written in his mid-20s, Kuvempu’s first play, Jalagara (The Scavenger, 1928), continues to hold out a special significance. An early enactment of his philosophical ideal that later came to be named as Vishvamanava, the play also reveals the poet’s creative engagement with tradition. But first, a bare outline of Jalagara. The play opens with Mother Earth ushering in a glorious dawn. An untouchable scavenger is seen at work in a village. His song of admiration for the splendour of the sun quickly reveals a mature, sophisticated mind. A farmer passer-by asks him to accompany him to the fair being held near Shiva’s shrine. The scavenger declines to join him: the priests, he replies, wouldn’t let him anywhere near the shrine. Enchanted by the scavenger’s songs from afar, two learned Brahmin priests withhold their applause, however, after discovering that the voice belonged to a low caste man. Poets, scholars, sculptors, singers and yogis, they contend, can never be born among the Shudras. In the evening, on his way back from the shrine, the farmer, who was ecstatic about the ritual pomp, has coconuts, flowers, kumkuma and camphor to show from his visit. “Haven’t you brought back Shiva?” The scavenger is unimpressed. Later, when the scavenger beseeches Shiva to reveal himself, the Lord appears in the guise of a scavenger. “You look human but seem to be superhuman. Your eyes shine brighter than the stars. Who are you?” Noticing the scavenger’s bewilderment, Shiva says, “Don’t be afraid, brother. I’m your relative.” He continues, “I’m of your caste (jati). I’m a scavenger. A scavenger of the world. I swallow the sins of the world. Beauty flourishes in the world due to my scavenging work. The radiant moon, the roaring oceans, the clear rivers, the majestic forests, all of them are in my debt. They call me Rudra at times and Shiva at other times, but they are hesitant and afraid to call me a Jalagara.” “I had never heard this about you. Scholars and learned people describe you in other ways.” “Their descriptions are imaginary and deceptive. My true form will terrify them. You are the only one to have worshipped me in my true form in your work. My dear brother, I’m not the Shiva found in the shastras and in poetry. I’m not the erotic Shiva who cavorts with Parvati on a silver mountain. I’m the scavenger who climbs the heap of filth built up in the cosmos and dances on it. The true Shiva is a scavenger. I appeared unattractive to the learned scholars and priests. So, they tried to change my looks. The priests don’t let me inside the shrine before placing a moon and Ganga on my head. The real Shiva is never ever inside a shrine!” “Where else are you then?” “I reside in the hearts of the poor who keep the streets clean. I move alongside the farmers’ ploughing the land. I hold the hands of the crippled, the blind, the orphans and the suffering people and care for them. Come, my brother. You are my true devotee. You have become me. I have become you. You are Shiva!” “I’m Shiva! I’m Shiva!” The village scavenger merges into Shiva’s embrace.   Kuvempu’s distinct invocation of the figure of Shiva in his play does several things. As in the case of his predecessors in the folk tradition, it releases Shiva from the dominant theological imaginations and makes him intimately available to the powerless people. It shakes up the moral stupor of the powerful groups, too, in asking them to shift out of the easy habits of ritual worship and imagine God and their relationship with religion in morally daring and socially sensitive ways. Further, Kuvempu is working within the reality of God. His recomposing of the world picture – in order to both make theology open its eyes to the new demands of social justice and to make the pursuit of God an individual act and not parcelled along caste, religion or any other community lines -- does not proceed therefore in an iconoclastic manner, from a point outside religion or tradition. Indeed, the rhythmic verse form of Jalagara appears to place immense faith in the capacity of humans to replace an undesirable social order. Minor characters lay out the social complexity: a youth who admires the tireless work of the sweeper, two young men who boldly dismiss religion as originating from an encounter between a thief and a fool, but are lacking in sympathy towards a starving beggar, a few boys who are blissful in their stupidity, among others. Jalagara belongs to the precious lineage of efforts to get tradition and the present to speak to each other in the noblest ways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/scavenger-of-the-world-961757.html
14-03-2021||Opinion||Sitayanas for our times||Only a determined feminist will connect Clara Zetkin – once emblazoned on a 10 Deutsche Mark note, sharing semiotic space with a laundry worker – to the celebration of International Women’s Day since 1911, in commemoration of the socialist workers of New York who marched for better wages and hours in 1909. Nothing could be further from these revolutionary origins than the Covid vaccination centre that was awash with pink and white balloons on March 8 while armies of women swathed in pink fervour awaited the (male, naturally) minister’s visit. Women’s Day has long been turned into a ‘Hallmark moment’ worldwide, with ‘Happy Hours’, bike rallies, sponsored golf tournaments, buy-one-get-two-frees and so on. Didn’t the Soviet Union itself, once the revolution was ‘over’, declare that it had ‘answered’ the women’s question with the invention of the potato peeler? It is enough to give that felicitous phrase, ‘the invention of tradition’, a really bad name. So it is as good a time as any to move in quite the opposite direction, and revisit the rich ‘inventions of tradition’ of a different kind, of the many lives that the paragon of Indian virtue, Sita, has herself enjoyed, as she has passed through many retellings, oral and written, by balladeers, women pounding grain, feminists, revolutionaries, and troubadours. I grew up hearing snatches of the ‘parrot song’ of Thunchathu Ezuthachan, written in Malayalam in the 16th century, the most popular text for domestic recitation in homes across Kerala. At that time, I was too young to relate to the background – until I read AK Ramanujam’s insightful essay. He points out that, in this version, Sita herself clearly acknowledged the many lives of the great epic. She said, upon hearing of Rama’s decision to depart on his forest exile alone for 14 years:   Countless Ramayanas have been composed before this. Do you know of one where Sita doesn’t go with Rama to the forest?   Not for Ezuthachan the threat of suicide or self-immolation from Sita, as in one variant, but a beautiful self-referencing and humorous acknowledgement of the multiple renderings of this epic form. Later, I learned of the songs of non-Brahmin women who call up a different, defiant Sita. Why did the peasant women of the Telugu region sing of the casual way in which Sita picked up Shiva’s bow, giving her father the idea of finding her a perfect match by using that very bow as the standard of princely strength? Why did these women balladeers refuse to make their Sita simper and fret for the golden deer, making her say to a reluctant Rama, “You give me your bows and arrows, I will go right now and get the animal”? These Sitas are given meaning, made their own. What do we make of folk tellings in Kannada which depart considerably from the versions of Valmiki and Tulsidas, or even Ezhuthachan, so that it is Ravula (aka Ravana) who gives birth to Sita in a sneeze, before she is deposited in Janaka’s field. There are, too, the radical retellings of Sita’s destiny – no, fate -- by Polanki Rama Moorthy, EV Ramaswami Naicker, and not least, Ranganayakkamma. They unpack what was said, what was left unsaid, or simply query what was intended by the story of Rama, and his virtuous wife. Why, asks Ranganayakamma, does Sita plead to be allowed to join Rama in his forest exile if only to fulfill what the Brahmins had foretold? Of what social order was that a sign, and what was the place of women in it? Paula Richman has a detailed discussion of Ranganayaki Thatham’s innovative portrayal of Sita. Using the pen name Kumudini, in a story written in 1934, the author recovers Sita’s speech in four letters she writes to the Chief Queen of Mithila, describing her life in her marital home. Though she appears, in her request for specific kinds of saris for Deepavali, (not with big borders, please!) to be succumbing to the sartorial pressure of her peers, she is quick to recognise the unexpected offer of freedom from such pressures that is presented by exile to the forest.   “I do not want you to send a sari. Everything is over. We are going to live in the forest…The only thing for me to wear is bark-cloth. If you consider how much it rains in the forest, you will realise that nothing else is appropriate. Therefore, if you can arrange it, send bark-cloth clothing.”   Why return to this rich heritage of ‘Sitayanas’ – of the continuous invention of tradition -- in a week that has gone by in a blaze of dubious celebrations? To recall, if only momentarily, that Sita has been a very useful figure through which the women of India voice their experiences, their desires, and even their moral outrage. They may not change the world, but they remind us that even ‘perfection’ is riddled with ambiguities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/sitayanas-for-our-times-961758.html
14-03-2021||Panorama||Efficient operation of waste to energy plants ||India’s waste-to-energy sector, which kicked off in 1987, is still searching for a successful role model even after tens of millions of dollars of investment. The Narendra Modi government’s quest for an efficient solid waste management (SWM) system has prompted it to look westward, where countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Germany manage their waste with clockwork precision. Sweden’s sophisticated system that handles waste and convert them into energy, is so good that it has run out of waste to feed the plant. But hype aside, Sweden does a pretty impressive job of keeping its municipal solid waste (MSW) — household garbage — out of landfills because it receives largely segregated, high calorific value wastes to feed its waste-to-energy (WTE) plants that is easy to manage. So, why are WTE plants struggling to survive in India while they are doing reasonably well in Sweden? India’s experience with WTE has been lacklustre until now. The progress of the WTE sector in India is hampered by multiple issues including poor quality of municipal waste, high operation and maintenance cost of WTE plants and lack of successful projects. According to a recent study by the Centre for Science and Environment, nearly half of India’s WTE plants are defunct. The fundamental reason is the quality and composition of waste. Bengaluru generates around 5,000 tonnes of waste on a daily basis.   In a bid to solve garbage-related issues in Bengaluru, the BBMP is set to establish five WTE power plants in public-private partnership model in and around the city as part of Swacch Bharat Mission as well as Atma Nirbhar mission. The first WTE power plant being set up in Bidadi would generate 11.5 MW power using 600 MT processed waste every day - built at a cost of Rs 260 crore - followed by other four projects around Bengaluru. There are many challenges and speed bumps in the efficient operation of the existing WTE projects.  One of the biggest challenges encountered in MSW-fired boilers are the increased tendency for bed agglomeration and increased fouling of convective heat transfer surfaces, associated with increased corrosion due to their ash constituents such as sulphur, chlorine and phosphorous. This is one of the reasons for the unforeseen shutdown of the MSW-fired boilers resulting in constant repairs thereby adding to the running cost. These problems can be eliminated by avoiding the use of mixed waste and totally eliminating the presence of chlorinated hydrocarbons like PVC and paying attention to the materials used in the boiler.  Union Power and Renewable Energy Minister R K Singh said in a written reply in Parliament: “The compositional characteristics of waste in India are very distinct compared to those in developed countries. Waste generated in the country has more organic components, more moisture content and low calorific value compared to waste generated in developed countries, which has a direct influence on the efficiency of electricity generation.” Smells emanating from the landfill have also triggered widespread opprobrium among citizens when the plant location is not isolated. Hence, the waste should be stored in an enclosed area with a negative pressure, which prevents unpleasant odours from escaping and the air drawn from the storage area is sent into the boiler. Heap of garbage The crashing down of massive heap of garbage has sometimes been fatal. On September 1, 2017, a massive heap of garbage came crashing down from the Ghazipur landfill site near Delhi, killing two people on the spot and sweeping away several vehicles. This incident captures the seriousness and importance of the subject of MSW management. The presence of chlorinated hydrocarbons like PVC in waste results in the release of dioxins and furans, which are extremely difficult and costly to measure. They are known to be carcinogenic. SWM Rules 2016 require that PVC be phased out in incinerators by April 2018. But it is impossible to identify and remove PVC beverage labels, from mixed waste streams. As a preventive measure, the National Green Tribunal directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to consider the phase-out of such single-use short-life PVC by July 2017. Their failure to do so till date is inexcusable. Appropriate efficient filtering mechanisms need to be installed to prevent the emission of dioxins and furans. There will be wastewater discharge as leachate from waste collection, storage and processing areas and effluent from the power generation process to avoid groundwater pollution which invites public protest demanding the closure of the plant. Leachate management is very critical and appropriate filtering mechanisms need to be installed. The total amount of ash produced by WTE plants ranges from 15% to 25% by weight of the original quantity of waste and the fly ash amounts to about 10% to 20% of the total ash. The fly ash, by far, constitutes more of a potential health hazard than does the bottom ash because fly ash contains toxic metals such as lead, cadmium, copper and zinc as well as small amounts of dioxins and furans. The bottom ash may or may not contain significant levels of health hazardous materials. Hence, ash is tested for toxicity before disposal in landfills. If ash is found to be hazardous, it can only be disposed of in landfills which are carefully designed to prevent pollutants in ash from leaching into underground aquifers.  In the above context of existing WTE projects, the state government should give due consideration to the above challenges. Rather than blindly ape Sweden, we should try to learn from the Swedish example and adapt the learning to the Indian context. If the government fails to initiate corrective measures to alleviate the root cause or causes while executing the project, the government will not only fail to appease the local residents, which may exacerbate the situation, but also may fail in the successful operation of the projects. (The writer is retired Deputy Director of Boilers, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/efficient-operation-of-waste-to-energy-plants-962049.html
14-03-2021||Panorama||Off the record: March 15,2021||Tough fight  Nemom is the lone BJP sitting seat in Kerala and is the cynosure of all eyes in this election season as Congress, BJP and the CPI(M) want to win this seat at any cost. After much suspense and names like Oommen Chandy popping up, Congress has decided on Lok Sabha MP K Muralidharan to take on BJP’s Kummanom Rajashekharan and CPI(M)’s V Sivankutty. Congress has been facing allegations of not putting a strong candidate there in the past to help the BJP. The contest was interesting as Muralidharan had in 2016 Assembly polls trounced Rajashekharan in the nearby Vattiyoorkaavu segment. This shouldn’t dishearten Rajashekharan as in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, when he unsuccessfully contested against Shashi Tharoor, he polled 12,000 more than the Congress leader in Nemom. Sivankutty is also confident of winning the seat as he was elected earlier from the segment. Unmasked Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had been repeatedly appealing to people to wear masks in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, however, his estranged cousin and MNS President Raj Thackeray seems to defy the requests. In fact, Uddhav recently snubbed people not wearing masks. But, in some public appearances that Raj made, he was seen without mask. “I don’t wear masks,” he said when he was asked by reporters. After that, Mumbai Mayor and Shiv Sena leader Kishori Pednekar, a former nurse, appealed, “Raj saheb...people adore you, they follow you...please do wear masks and set an example,” she said.  In all of his speeches over the past year, Thackeray had been requesting people to wear masks and to wear it properly, wash and sanitise hands.  Weak excuse  A few months back Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stepped down from Kerala CPM state secretary post citing ill health, even as it was quite obvious that it was an attempt to save the party from the embarrassment caused by his son Bineesh Kodiyeri’s arrest in connection with Bengaluru drug peddling case. To convince the official stand of ‘ill health’ Balakrishnan even stayed away from the limelight for a couple of months. But now he is actively taking part in the Assembly election campaign but had not returned to the party secretary post. This is indeed exposing the ill health reason cited by the party earlier.  Much appreciation Prime Minister Narendra Modi shed a tear for Congress veteran Ghulam Nabi Azad on the latter’s farewell as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha last month. The government’s admiration of Azad is also reflected in the committee constituted to guide the celebrations of the 75th anniversary of India’s independence. While Azad, as former Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha, has been made a member of the 259-member Committee, incumbent Mallikarjun Kharge’s name is conspicuous by its absence. Kharge was named as Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha soon after Azad completed his tenure on February 15. Another exclusion in the committee is of D Raja, the General Secretary of the CPI. Sitaram Yechury is the sole member from the Left parties. A rot  Every year in Kashmir after the declaration of results by the Board of School Education, marks and grades of school children are paraded on newspaper pages in the ‘best school race’. The pictures of toppers along with congratulatory messages are displayed even on hoardings in the city centre and its adjoining areas. These ‘best’ schools don’t answer one question. If toppers are their products, who will take the responsibility of poor scorers from these schools? If at all it does anything, it exposes the rot in the education system has become.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-march-152021-962050.html
14-03-2021||Panorama||Towards inner peace||Towards the end of the second chapter of the Bhagavad Geeta, there is a question “where is happiness for one who has no peace”? The explanation put forth by Lord Krishna is a logical construct, beginning with the method of attaining peace. Man lives in this world of material and sense pleasures and it is understandable that he needs them for leading his life. The Geeta, or for that matter, any spiritual text does not say that man should totally keep away from any sort of material or sensual pleasures and desires. All that is said is that excessive attachment to them, that obsession with fulfilling each and every desire of the mind is not good for both his mental and physical well being. Both these deleterious effects are clearly seen in this world where afflictions of the mind and the body are traceable to the endless pursuit of the insatiable monster of desire. It is in this context that the Geeta advises that even while living amidst all  the pulls and pressures of this world. Taking this argument further, the Lord says that when man attains this inner peace, his intellect is stable. It must be noted that both mind and intellect are two facets of man’s thinking faculty, wherein the mind receives the stimuli from the external world and the intellect generates a suitable response to this. So, when there is inner peace, the intellect is stable and grounded, rather than being in a disturbed state.  In this condition, man’s response to the world’s challenges and problems is more mature and wise and thus he is able to avoid many troubles. Therefore, the Lord says that man must consciously control his wants by sensibly analyzing what he legitimately needs and what is mere fulfilment of desire which everyone else is running after. When he does this, his mind is peaceful, he can think calmly and decide appropriately. “This is the way to live- live comfortably, not with the beast of greed constantly tailing you, giving you the illusion that happiness lies in the fulfilment of these desires” says the Geeta. Saint Thyagaraja’s famous composition ‘Shantamu Leka, saukhyamu ledu’ echoes similar thoughts, saying this is the path to an ennobled life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/towards-inner-peace-962051.html
14-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Missing baggage||On the night before we left for Biligirranga Hills, my husband and I placed our bags near the front door, ready to be carried to the car the next morning. We were less organised, on an earlier occasion, with tiresome consequences.  In February, 2020, we arrived at Tharangampadi (the former Danish colony of Tranquebar), in Tamil Nadu. Its blue skies were still undimmed by Covid-19 clouds, and we sauntered through the streets until darkness fell. We planned to visit the 17th-century Fort Dansborg, overlooking the Bay of Bengal, the following day. Checking into our hotel after a stroll on the beach, we found that we had not brought my husband’s suitcase from Bengaluru. Even Manju, who drives us around and looks out for our lapses, had not noticed its absence while loading the car. After the inevitable recriminations, we went into town to buy some readymade clothes. The roads were unfamiliar but a young man, whom we asked for directions, kindly came to our rescue. Telling us to follow his bike, he led us to a store that had everything we needed. My husband acquired a holiday wardrobe, secure in the knowledge that his old belongings were safe at home. There was no such assurance, 16 years ago, when one of his prized garments disappeared. We were flying from Milan to Mumbai, and my husband inadvertently left his knit jacket in the bus that took us from the airport terminal to the aircraft. We realised what had happened the moment we entered the cabin, and I requested a flight attendant to help us. She made a call to the ground staff, but they told her that the vehicle had been searched and there was no sign of the sweater. Long before that unfortunate incident, we lost part of our luggage after a train journey. We squeezed into an auto-rickshaw at the station, with our boxes full of Delhi purchases. Uncomfortably cramped, we were relieved to reach our house. As we hurriedly alighted, we forgot our bedding that was stowed behind the seat. We were not worried. After all, we kept hearing stories of honest auto-drivers handing over briefcases crammed with cash to careless passengers. Our pillows and sheets were commonplace in comparison, and we were sure that they would be returned. Over three decades later, we are still awaiting our missing baggage!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/missing-baggage-962048.html
14-03-2021||Second Edit||Delhi’s social welfare budget||Budgets are economic documents that provide statements of income and expenditure of governments. But they are often political statements also and sometimes even serve as election manifestos of ruling parties. The AAP government in Delhi has presented a budget for the city-state which reflects many of the priorities that it has been known for. The AAP has given importance to social welfare in its governance plans and so the budget has provided a 23.74% outlay for education and 14% for healthcare. It has set a target of doubling the number of `mohalla clinics’ and opening 100 such clinics, especially for women. It plans to build infrastructure to cater to a population of 3.28 crore by 2047 and has laid out a vision to increase the per capita income of a Delhi resident to the per capita income of a Singapore resident by then. But the dominant theme of the budget is patriotism and the government has chosen to call it a “deshbhakti” budget. It may be called a variety of political budget with its focus on sentiments like national pride and ideas like the citizens’ duties to the nation. It sets aside Rs 45 crore for installing 500 high-mast national flags in the city, one visible every two km, to boost the love of the nation and national pride among the people. It has proposed a “patriotism” curriculum in schools and events to mark the lives of Bhagat Singh and B R Ambedkar. The government would facilitate the pilgrimage of the city's elderly to the Ram temple at Ayodhya once it is completed. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has said that his government’s ideal is Ram Rajya. He has also enunciated the primary responsibilities of governance like health, housing, education and security as 10 principles within the framework of Ram Rajya.  The AAP has in the recent past tried to present a soft Hindu face, obviously emulating the BJP with which it is in competition. Kejriwal has declared that he is a devotee of Ram and Hanuman. Religion was a private matter for most, but now it has been brought out in the public domain as an identity marker and political counter. This is a sign of political shift, and the AAP is not the only party that is flying the Hindu flag. The Rajasthan government has legalised mining to supply stones for the Ram temple at Ayodhya and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee recites Chandi path at an election meeting. But competitive Hinduism can only lead to the legitimisation of harder and more fundamentalist forms of it and greater exclusion of others in social and political fields. Should a citizen be reminded of the nation every day with the sight of a neighbourhood tricolour?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/delhi-s-social-welfare-budget-962045.html
14-03-2021||South||A ‘people’s CM’ eyes hot seat again in Puducherry||N Rangasamy is unassuming and, some would argue, an unusual politician. One can spot him in a neighbourhood snack bar, see him zip through his locality on his Yamaha motorcycle and watch him play tennis at a playground almost every morning. In other words: he is an oddity in a country where most politicians roam with swagger, arrogance and maintain a safe distance from the common man, except during elections. Though he was Puducherry’s Chief Minister for 12 years, power never went to Rangasamy’s head. Known for his spartan lifestyle, the 72-year-old former Congressman is the chief of the All India NR Congress (AINRC), which he created after he broke away from his parent party in a tale that will be familiar to those who follow politics. Rangasamy, with his trademark oversized shirt, is nicknamed ‘Pudhuvai Kamarajar’ (Puducherry’s very own Kamaraj), not just because he plunged into politics inspired by the late Tamil Nadu Chief Minister, but also because he leads a simple life. And like Kamaraj, he is a bachelor. How Rangasamy began wearing oversized shirts has an interesting back story. “Rangasamy had asked his tailor to stitch him a shirt. I think it was in the 1980s and the tailor’s name was Vinayagam. When he wore the shirt, Rangasamy was not very happy as it was loose. But a friend told him he looked like Kamaraj and he began wearing that shirt. Rest is history,” Rangasamy’s close aide tells DH. But not much is known about Rangasamy outside the Union Territory and neighbouring Tamil Nadu. Born in 1950 to Panjali Ammal and Nadesan Krishnasamy, Rangasamy studied law and made his electoral debut in 1989 but tasted defeat at the hands of his ‘political guru’ V Pethaperumal. But he took revenge on his friend-turned-political foe by defeating Pethaperumal in 1991 from the Thattanchavady constituency and there was no looking back – Rangasamy has not lost an election since 1991. He is the first chief minister from the Vanniyar community and earned the sobriquet ‘Makkal Mudhalvar’ (People’s chief minister) for his pro-people initiatives like enhancing the old age pension and providing breakfast to school children along with mid-day meals. Another landmark initiative of Rangasamy is an education assistance scheme that allowed reimbursement of tuition fees of students enrolled in colleges under the government quota. Notwithstanding all these qualities and public image, Rangasamy is an enigma. He was accessible to the general public but not to officials and his colleagues while in power. His entire Cabinet turned against him in 2008 after being in the CM’s seat since 2001, leading to his ouster. But the common man on the street still looked up to him. “No one can guess what is on his mind. There are only a few people who muster the courage to tell him what is right and wrong. Even then it is Rangasamy who decides whether to listen or to ignore,” another aide of the AINRC leader says. Rangasamy was a victim of the Congress’ familiar weakness: ignoring its mass leaders. Feeling insulted after being left high and dry by his party, Rangasamy took a gamble in February 2011 by launching AINRC, weeks before Puducherry went to the polls. The risk paid off as he led the AINRC to an emphatic win within 48 days of its launch, taking sweet revenge on his parent party. But, Rangasamy thought people’s sympathy would keep him in power for eternity. In his last shot at power (2011-2016), Rangasamy was accused of not delivering on his promises, delaying important files and not being accessible even to his Cabinet colleagues. As his political stock plummeted, Rangasamy aligned with the BJP in 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, despite the latter lacking any credible base in the UT. A shrewd politician, Rangasamy, who played a crucial role in destabilising the V Narayanasamy government, has made the BJP accept him as the leader of the rainbow coalition for the April 6 elections. Rangasamy believes his pro-people initiatives and his ‘public touch’ will put him firmly in the chief minister’s saddle for the fourth time. And since he believes in ‘divine intervention’, Rangaswamy began temple-hopping before he launched his election work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/a-people-s-cm-eyes-hot-seat-again-in-puducherry-961771.html
14-03-2021||South||DMK MLA Dr P Saravanan joins BJP||As polls to the Tamil Nadu Assembly near, a DMK MLA, Dr P Saravanan, switched parties and joined the BJP in Chennai on Sunday Main Opposition party, DMK, had released its list of 173 candidates on Friday for the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly elections. The MK Stalin-led DMK and Congress reached an agreement on the latter's 25 constituencies, out of which the national party will be locked a direct fight with the BJP in five. The DMK hopes to stage a comeback in the polls after a ten-year stint in opposition. The DMK, out of power since 2011, is eyeing a comeback by dethroning the ruling AIADMK and has stitched up a rainbow coalition comprising the Congress, the Left, MDMK, VCK and other smaller outfits, apportioning them a total of 61 of the 234 seats at stake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-dr-p-saravanan-joins-bjp-961836.html
14-03-2021||South||Tirupur garment units to down shutters on March 15 against steep rise in yarn prices||Garment manufacturers based in Tirupur, a major textile cluster in Tamil Nadu, will shut their units on Monday to protest against the steep hike in yarn prices over the last six months which industry officials said has crippled the industry. Tirupur-based industry representatives spoke to PTI about their ordeal in terms of order cancellations and margins being hit owing to the yarn price hike, and appealed that the Centre must regulate the exports of yarn, the key raw material in garment manufacturing. They shared that the shortage of yarn in the domestic market has led to a rise in production cost for the hosiery and knitwear industry. "We want the government to immediately regulate the exports to ensure the supply of yarn to the domestic industry," Tirupur Exporters Association President Raja Shanmugam told PTI. He stressed that the raw material should not be exported until the needs of the domestic industry are met. "We will register our protest on the ground through the voluntary closure on March 15 and take up the issue with the Commerce and Textile Ministries. We would also like to enlighten the Prime Minister's Office," Shanmugam said. Joint Secretary of Tirupur-based South India Hosieries Manufacturers Association Shashi Prakash Agarwala said yarn prices have shot up by 40-45 per cent from October last year till now, leading to a rise in product prices. "Exporters are unable to take new orders because yarn prices have not increased in the international market whereas our raw material prices have gone up," Agarwala said. He argued that if yarn exports are capped, yarn prices will be controlled and the domestic garment industry will be in a better position. “We have been facing this price hike issue since last year which resulted in an increase in our product prices ranging from 1-1.5 per cent to 4 per cent. We have written to the Finance Minister and the Union Textile Minister to look into the steep rise in cotton yarn prices which is impacting most of the MSMEs," said Vinod Kumar Gupta, Managing Director, Dollar Industries Limited. He cautioned that many players are facing issues due to raw material shortage and might be forced to halt their operations if this continues. "This Voluntary Closure is an effort to unanimously raise our voices in support of the whole industry on the abnormal price hike of the yarn which is putting pressure on not only businesses but also on the consumers," Gupta said. Dollar Industries has a manufacturing facility in Tirupur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirupur-garment-units-to-down-shutters-on-march-15-against-steep-rise-in-yarn-prices-961848.html
14-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly election: CM to file nomination on Monday||AIADMK top leader and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami would on Monday file his nomination for the April 6 assembly polls from Edappadi constituency, aiming for a hat-trick of wins from the segment in his home district of Salem in western Tamil Nadu. Palaniswami, who has been named the chief ministerial candidate of the AIADMK-led alliance, would submit his papers at the taluk office in Edappadi at 1 pm and embark on a campaign in areas including Nangavalli and Jalagandapuram in his constituency, a party release here said on Sunday. The CM, who is also the AIADMK co-coordinator, has won from Edappadi four times (1989,91,2011 and 2016) and the region is among the strongholds of the ruling party. Palaniswami had launched his campaign in December last and has addressed a slew of public meetings across the state. Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam filed his nomination to contest from Bodinayakkanur constituency in Theni district on March 12, the opening day to submit papers. Panneerselvam had emerged victorious from Bodinayakanur in 2011 and 2016 and the segment has favoured AIADMK nominees in several polls including 1989, when late ruling party matriarch J Jayalalithaa won heading a separate AIADMK faction. The ruling party is contesting in 179 of the 234 constituencies. The last date to submit nomination is March 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-election-cm-to-file-nomination-on-monday-961868.html
14-03-2021||South||BJP to contest 115 of 140 seats in Kerala; 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan to contest from Palakkad||The BJP will field Kerala party president K Surendran for two seats - Manjeshwaram in Kasargod, where he lost by just 89 votes in the last Assembly election, and Konni in Pathanamthitta, where the party feels it has the advantage of the Sabarimala issue over the entry of women to the temple. BJP former state president Kummanam Rajasekharan, who is also a former Governor of Mizoram, will contest from BJP's incumbent seat in Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram, where the Congress is also planning to field a high-profile candidate. Rajasekharan came second in the nearby Vattiyoorkavu constituency in the 2016 polls. 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan will be fielded from Palakkad where the BJP came second in the 2016 elections. Actor-turned Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi will contest from Thrissur in central Kerala. He had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls from Thrissur and had lost. Surendran told reporters that the party has given due consideration to minority communities and women. Eight Christians and two Muslims are among the 115 BJP candidates. Alphonse Kannanthanam at Kanjirapally in Kottayam, former vice-chancellor of Calicut University Abdul Salam at Tirur in Malappuram and IPS-officer turned BJP leader Jacob Thomas at Irinjalakuda in Thrissur are among the prominent candidates from the Christian and Muslim communities. Surendran also said that he is contesting from Manjeshwaram as last time he had lost by just 89 votes "due to malpractices and nexus by the UDF and LDF" and he is contesting from Konni, which is close to Sabarimala, owing to his "emotional attachment" due to Sabarimala women entry row. He also added that Sabarimala is still a big issue in Kerala. Surendran had secured 39,786 votes at Konni in the 2019 by-polls, compared to 16,713 by another BJP candidate in 2016 elections. Other prominent persons in the list are former state president C K Padmanabhan against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at Dharmadam in Kannur, another former state president P K Krishnadas at Kattakada in Thiruvananthapuram, actor turned BJP leader Krishna Kumar in Thiruvananthapuram. Also, first engineer from the tribal community Manikuttan has been fielded by BJP at Mananthavady seat in Wayanad. There are twelve women among the 112 candidates already announced by the party. Senior leader Sobha Surendran, who is not in good terms with the state leadership, has so far not been fielded. Candidates in a couple of key constituencies are yet to be announced. Speculations are rife that Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan will be fielded for Kazhakkoottam in Thiruvananthapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-to-contest-115-of-140-seats-in-kerala-metro-man-e-sreedharan-to-contest-from-palakkad-961894.html
14-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu elections: BJP to contest 20 seats in alliance with AIADMK; Annamalai, Khushbu Sundar among candidates||BJP to contest 20 seats in alliance with AIADMK in upcoming Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Former Karnataka cadre IPS officer K Annamalai to contest for BJP from Aravakurichi in Karur district. Khushbu Sundar will be party's candidate in Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai.  Tamil Nadu BJP president L Murugan will contest from Dharapuram, while H Raja will fight for Karaikudi. BJP Women's Wing chief Vanathi Srinivasan to contest against Kamal Haasan in Coimbatore South.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-elections-bjp-to-contest-20-seats-in-alliance-with-aiadmk-annamalai-khushbu-sundar-among-candidates-961895.html
14-03-2021||South||6 farm workers killed, 8 hurt in Andhra Pradesh hit-and-run accident||Six farm workers were killed and eight others injured in a hit-and-run accident near Nuzividu in Krishna district in Andhra Pradesh early Sunday. The victims belonged to Lion Tanda, a tribal hamlet near Nuzividu, about 55 kms from Vijayawada, and were on their way to a nearby village in an autorickshaw when an unidentified vehicle rammed into it, police said. While six workers died on the spot, eight were injured. The injured were rushed to hospitals in Nuzividu and Vijayawada. Nuzividu sub-divisional police officer Srinivasulu said they have registered a case and launched a hunt to trace the vehicle that caused the accident. Andhra Pradesh Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan, Deputy Chief Minister (Health) A K K Srinivas, Home Minister M Sucharita, TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu and Jana Sena chief K Pawan Kalyan expressed grief over the mishap. Srinivas directed the Krishna district medical officer to ensure better treatment to the injured persons. He promised government assistance to the kin of the deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/6-farm-workers-killed-8-hurt-in-andhra-pradesh-hit-and-run-accident-961898.html
14-03-2021||South||BJP gives ticket to ex-IPS officer Annamalai; Vanathi to face-off with Kamal Haasan||Seven months after he joined the BJP in Tamil Nadu, former Karnataka-cadre IPS officer K Annamalai was on Sunday named as the party's candidate for Aravakurichi assembly constituency that will go to polls on April 6. BJP women's wing chief Vanathi Srinivasan will face-off with actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MIM) chief Kamal Haasan in Coimbatore (South), and actor Khushbu Sundar will take on DMK's Dr N Ezhilan in Thousand Lights constituency in Chennai. BJP, which will contest 20 seats in an alliance with AIADMK, announced candidates for 17 constituencies on Sunday. In a move that has invited criticism, the party gave Madurai (North) seat to Dr P Saravanan, sitting MLA from the near-by Thiruparankundram constituency, just three hours after he quit the DMK and joined the party. Khushbu Sundar is also a newcomer after jumping ship from Congress in October 2020. While state president L Murugan will contest from Dharapuram (SC) seat, the party's controversial leader H Raja will enter the fray from Karaikudi in Sivaganga district. Besides Vanathi Srinivasan and Khushbu Sundar, the party gave a ticket to another woman, Dr D K Saraswathi from Modakurichi. The BJP also gave a ticket to former AIADMK minister Nainar Nagendran from Tirunelveli. Vanathi Srinivasan, a prominent leader of the Tamil Nadu BJP, will be locked in an intense battle with Kamal Haasan and Mayura S Jayakumar of the Congress. The contest in Aravakurichi, from where Annamalai will make his electoral debut, will also be interesting as it is the former IPS officer's native constituency. Annamalai, who quit service in 2019 after opting for voluntary retirement, joined the BJP in August 2020 and was appointed as one of the vice-presidents of the state unit. It is said that the former police officer, who earned the sobriquet 'Singham' for his flamboyant style of functioning, wanted to contest from his native seat. Aravakurichi is currently represented by V Senthil Balaji, who won the seat in the by-election held in 2019 by a huge margin. Balaji, who was Transport Minister in J Jayalalithaa government, joined the DMK in 2018 after being disqualified as a legislator for owing allegiance to T T V Dhinakaran. The constituency, which has a sizeable Muslim population, has a total of 2,13,110 voters. Since 1952, the AIADMK has won the seat 5 times, DMK won it four times, Congress 3, Muslim League once and Sudhandhira Party, and Independent candidate once each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-gives-ticket-to-ex-ips-officer-annamalai-vanathi-to-face-off-with-kamal-haasan-961924.html
14-03-2021||South||DMK will continue to fight against CAA, says Stalin||DMK chief M K Stalin on Sunday said his party would continue to urge the union government to scrap the contentious Citizenship Amendment Act and confer citizeship on Sri Lankan Tamils living in refugee camps in India. In an addendum to the party manifesto unveiled on Saturday, he said DMK had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures pressing for scrapping the law. "The Central government will be urged to withdraw the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019," Stalin said in the addendum. The DMK in its manifesto has said that the Centre would be requested to include Sri Lanka in the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and give citizenship to Lankan Tamil refugees living in camps in India. Making the addition, Stalin said his party had all along opposed the CAA and campaigned against it and he even ran a signature campaign in Tamil Nadu collecting one crore signatures seeking the scrapping of the legislation. "I would like to reiterate again that a resolution will be passed in the assembly (if DMK is voted to power) and will raise its voice for scrapping CAA," he said in a statement. The DMK top leader also added two more points to the manifesto, an assurance that the "anti-farmer" Chennai-Salem expressway project would not be implemented and the Kattupalli port shall not be allowed here and the draft environment assessment report for it would be rejected. The DMK released its 505-point manifesto featuring a host of highly populist promises. Waiver of crop and jewel loans in cooperative banks and a one-time assistance of Rs 4,000 for COVID-19 hit rice ration card holders were among the assurances. Protests were held in various parts of the state against the CAA, which expedites citizenship applications from religious minorities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh. DMK had questioned why Muslims and Tamil refugees of Sri Lanka were kept out of the ambit of the act and alleged it 'divided' people on the basis of religion. The expressway project witnessed several protests by farmers and others over land acquisition and environment concerns. The greenfield corridor was challenged in the Madras High Court which quashed the land acquisition proceedings and Pattali Makkal Katchi (an ally of the AIADMK now) leader Anbumani Ramadoss was among the petitioners against the project in court. However, the Supreme Court had in December last year upheld the notification for land acquisition for the Rs 10,000 crore eight lane project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-will-continue-to-fight-against-caa-says-stalin-961926.html
14-03-2021||South||Can DMK end deadlock over NEET in Tamil Nadu?||Ahead of the Tamil Nadu assembly elections, M K Stalin's DMK, in its poll manifesto, has said if voted to power, the government would abolish the NEET examination for MBBS and BDS aspirants.  The DMK, the main Opposition in the state, has been fighting to get rid of the entrance exam in Tamil Nadu for a long time, claiming that it discriminates against some sections of the students.  "The present Union Government has introduced NEET and snatched the opportunities of students in Tamil Nadu to fulfill their medical ambitions. Once DMK comes to power, a law will be passed to abolish NEET in the first Assembly session and steps will be taken to acquire the President's assent for the law,” the manifesto says.  However, the NEET exam, introduced by the Centre, comes with its own set of complications. If voted to power, the DMK will have to clear various hurdles, including the blessing of the President and the Union government, before bringing such a law.  In theory, matters seem plausible but how to actually get through it remains a concern. In 2017, the state government passed an ordinance to get an exemption from the  NEET. Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman backed the effort but Tamil Nadu failed to get the necessary President's nod.  “I doubt if there will be any further relaxations on this. The only way it is possible is if the Centre takes a stand that they are going to exempt some states and convinces the court. Merely passing a law will not help because Tamil Nadu had already passed a law for this," K Venkataramanan, a Constitutional expert, told the publication.  Among other efforts to get rid of NEET include AIADMK's bid to acquire an 85 per cent reservation quota for MBBS and BDS aspirants in state medical colleges. But in 2017, the Madras High Court,  while hearing a petition against the law, said it was discriminatory, prolonging the exam's rule in the state. In addition to that, six MBBS students had also filed a petition at the Supreme Court seeking direction to the state government to follow the NEET results. The court sought a reply from the Centre and the govt refused to back the state's ordinance. The apex court eventually ruled against a separate provision for Tamil Nadu.  "We have the power to legislate on this subject. If there is any issue relating to overlapping, we need to get the assent of the President. In 2007, when Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) was the Chief Minister, he had already brought in legislation, which said that qualifying criteria for MBBS and BDS admissions in Class 12 Board examination (sic).," DMK Rajya Sabha MP and former Additional Solicitor General of India P Wilson said. According to him, the AIADMK government had sent two BIlls for President's nod but never followed up on that.  In January 2020, the state government has filed a fresh plea saying NEET is unconstitutional and is impacting students from rural Tamil Nadu.  The DMK has also vowed to shift education to State List. But experts say that requires massive political support and is not likely since the Centre is keen on keeping the power over education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/can-dmk-end-deadlock-over-neet-in-tamil-nadu-961949.html
14-03-2021||South||BJP's attempts to make inroads into Kerala Christian vote banks suffer set back||The BJP's efforts to make inroads into the Christian vote bank of Kerala recently suffered a blow as a meeting between the saffron party and heads of the prominent Jacobite faction of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church fell through. The personalities had gone to Delhi and were supposed to meet Home Minister Amit Shah. The Jacobite faction was expecting a favourable response from the BJP in resolving a tussle with the Orthodox faction, which had received control over 1,000 churches through a Supreme Court ruling. However, the church leadership did not get a favourable response for the same by the BJP national leadership or the Centre. Church leaders maintained that the members would identify the candidates who would support the church and would favour them in the elections. There had been reports that some representatives of the Jacobite faction may also contest as NDA candidates in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-attempts-to-make-inroads-into-kerala-christian-vote-banks-suffer-set-back-961970.html
14-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Vijayakant’s DMDK allies with AMMK to contest 60 seats||After walking out of the AIADMK, Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) led by actor Vijayakant on Sunday entered into an electoral alliance with T T V Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) to contest 60 seats in the April 6 Assembly elections. The seat-sharing agreement was signed between leaders of the two parties on Sunday evening. AMMK had announced candidates for many constituencies that have now been allotted to DMDK, but said they will be asked to withdraw from the fray. With this, the AMMK alliance has the DMDK, the SDPI, Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM and a few other parties. The  DMDK had launched talks with the AMMK on March 9 immediately after walking out of the AIADMK alliance alleging “mistreatment” but the talks did not progress well. The DMDK was planning to go it alone but it came around, restarted talks on Sunday and signed the deal. The DMDK will contest in 60 seats, including Vridachalam, where Vijayakant won in 2006. The AMMK will lead the alliance with Dhinakaran as their chief ministerial candidate. The announcement by the DMDK on March 9 was not surprising as the AIADMK was playing hardball with its junior partner, which was expecting to be “treated on par” with another constituent of the alliance, the PMK. The DMDK wanted at least 23 Assembly seats in the April 6 Assembly election, while the AIADMK was not willing to part with more than 13 constituencies. Once projected as an alternative to the DMK and the AIADMK and launched with much fanfare in 2005 when stalwarts M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa were active, the DMDK’s rise was meteoric and so was its fall as its vote share shrunk to a mere 2.19% in 2019 from an impressive 10.3% in 2009.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-vijayakant-s-dmdk-allies-with-ammk-to-contest-60-seats-962006.html
14-03-2021||South||62 percent polling recorded in Telangana Graduate MLC polls||Elections to the two MLC graduate constituencies including the Hyderabad area were held on Sunday in Telangana. While a polling percentage of about 65 percent was recorded in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam, 60 percent was recorded in the Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar constituency. The ruling TRS and the opposition BJP were engaged in fierce campaigning, attacking each other over issues like jobs in the state, PSU privatization, and price rise. In an interesting turn, Telangana IT and industries minister KT Rama Rao extended his party TRS's support to the protests led by the Vizag Steel Plant workers and the public organizations in Andhra Pradesh opposing the Narendra Modi government's bid to privatize the Navaratna PSU. The Congress and the BJP have slammed KTR's expression of solidarity with VSP protests as an election stunt. The votes of graduate settlers from the Andhra region are seen as crucial in the MLC polls. As many as 93 contestants were in the fray for Hyderabad-RangaReddy-Mahbubnagar, requiring a jumbo ballot paper. Sitting MLC Ramchander Rao is the BJP candidate while TRS has fielded former PM PV Narasimha Rao's daughter Surabhi Vani Devi. Veteran Congress leader and former minister Chinna Reddy is the Congress candidate. Former MLC and renowned political analyst Prof K Nageshwar is an independent candidate from there. 71 candidates contested for the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. The T-BJP, which is invigorated by its electoral performance in Dubbaka assembly constituency and the Hyderabad corporation recently, saying that it is confident of winning both the seats. Counting of votes in on 17 March. A person who is a graduate or above is eligible to vote in the MLC graduate constituency elections. In a shift from the assembly polls, the poll campaign here is largely focused on education, jobs and developmental matters. The MLCs represent their constituents in the legislative council, the upper house of the state legislature, for a term of six years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/62-percent-polling-recorded-in-telangana-graduate-mlc-polls-962030.html
14-03-2021||South||After Panchayat elections, YSRCP sweeps municipal polls in Andhra Pradesh||The ruling YSRCP has swept the municipal polls in Andhra Pradesh, dealing a major blow to Chandrababu Naidu's TDP. Chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy's party has grabbed 11 out of the 12 city corporations and has claimed 74 out of the 75 municipalities. Counting in Eluru is withheld, following AP high court orders. The urban body polls were held on March 10 for 12 corporations and 71 municipalities, as in four civic bodies – Pulivendula, Punganur, Macharla, and Piduguralla – YSRCP candidates were elected unopposed. The TDP alleged that other candidates were threatened to withdraw nominations. The urban polls followed by the Panchayat polls conducted in the state last month were too the YSRCP supported candidates emerged victorious in most of the villages. In the four-phased polls, the YSRCP backed candidates had won about 80 per cent of the Gram Panchayats. The two local elections outcome has shattered Naidu's hopes to revive the party which was reduced to 23 MLAs in a 175 member assembly in 2019. The former CM had campaigned vigorously, especially in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada where the TDP was expected to perform well. However, the opposition party looks set to win only one municipality - Tadipatri in Anantapuram district where it won 18 out of 36 wards. The largest civic bodies in the state - Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada – went the YSRCP way. In the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation with 98 wards, the YSRCP won 58 divisions, TDP 30, and Pawan Kalyan's JanaSena three. CPI and CPM won in the two wards where the Vizag Steel Plant is located. The Left trade unions are spearheading the agitation against the Narendra Modi government bid to privatize the steel plant. The BJP managed to win only one ward. In Vijayawada corporation with 64 wards, YSRCP has won in 35 out of the 44 results declared, leaving the TDP only nine. Though the TDP has won in more divisions than the YSRCP in Mydukuru municipality in the Kadapa district, YSRCP sources said that their party would claim the chairman post with the ex-officio votes. Results are out for the 11 corporations only as the Andhra Pradesh high court has suspended the counting of votes in Eluru. The court was hearing petitions filed on the alleged lapses in the preparation of the electoral rolls in the corporation area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-panchayat-elections-ysrcp-sweeps-municipal-polls-in-andhra-pradesh-962052.html
14-03-2021||State||Facebook account of Davangere SP hacked||The Facebook account of Davangere's Superintendent of Police, Hanumantaraya, had been hacked on Sunday.  Speaking to DH, Hanumantaraya said "My fake Facebook account was hacked. I came to know about it from my wife. I took immediate steps to delete the fake Facebook account and alerted all my friends and contacts through my Twitter account, WhatsApp groups & media. We will conduct an awareness programme on cybercrime shortly. "||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/facebook-account-of-davangere-sp-hacked-961989.html
14-03-2021||State||Not linked with any private agencies, NAAC clarifies to state's higher educational institutes||The National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) has advised the higher education institutions in Karnataka not to fall prey to the assistance extended by any organisation or individual in applying to NAAC’s assessment and accreditation process.  Following information about some private agencies and individuals posting on their websites about extending assistance in applying for NAAC process, the NAAC has issued a public notice and has warned the higher education institutions to be careful about such claims and also clarified that the NAAC is neither associated with any such agencies nor does it encourage association with the same. The public notice issued by the NAAC reads: “It has come to the notice that many private companies/agencies and individuals have posted on websites and are contacting institutions offering their assistance for applying to NAAC’s assessment and accreditation process. It is also learnt that they are trying to lure such institutions with claims that they will secure better grades if they approach such agencies or individuals for assistance. It is also learnt that some of these agencies/individuals also claim to be well-versed and knowledgeable about the internal working of NAAC. In this regard, NAAC would like to inform all higher education institutions that it is neither associated with such agencies/individuals nor does it encourage association with the same.” A senior official of NAAC said, “The entire process of NAAC is ICT-driven and completely transparent. In case of any queries, the institutions concerned can contact NAAC directly through the help desk.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/not-linked-with-any-private-agencies-naac-clarifies-to-states-higher-educational-institutes-962009.html
14-03-2021||State||Farmers can now choose contractor to implement ‘Ganga Kalyana’ scheme||D Deveraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation Chairman R Raghu Kautilya said marginal and small farmers will be given ‘freedom’ to select a contractor to implement the ‘Ganga Kalyana’ scheme in State. Speaking to media persons here on Sunday, he said a decision in this regard has been taken in the cabinet and would be announced soon. Funds also have been allocated for the same in the recently announced budget, he said and added that earlier, the beneficiaries were made to run around the contractors to dig borewells in their field. “Henceforth contractors will rush to the doorsteps of farmers to dig borewell,” he said and added that the government will select six to seven agencies in each district to implement the project and the farmers will be given permission to select any of the enlisted agencies. “This revolutionary decision is expected to bring transparency in the scheme, which has been seeing a lot of backlogging and hurdles,” he said. The government provides Rs 2 lakh subsidy for a marginal farmer to dig a borewell along with Rs 50,000 loan at 4 per cent interest. Unlike the present scenario, where one agency digs the borewell another installs the pump and the third energise the borewell, the government has decided to allow one single agency to complete the entire process. And the entire process has to be completed in the stipulated time, he said. Raghu said the Corporation aims to train at least 100 people per month with various skills that can help them get employment or entrepreneurial opportunity. The corporation aims to train more than one lakh people from the 206 communities that come under the corporation’s jurisdiction. He said since 2013, the Corporation has pending due of more than Rs 400 crore from the beneficiaries, who have not repaid the loans taken under various schemes. “We are chalking out plans to recover these dues over the next one year. The corporation will first offer the beneficiaries to voluntarily repay the loan. If they fail, we will be forced to use legal remedies,” he said, and added that there are no proposals in front of the Corporation to waiver loans/interest and the beneficiaries have to understand that repaying of the loan will help members of their own community to grow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmers-can-now-choose-contractor-to-implement-ganga-kalyana-scheme-962012.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Police register FIR in Ramesh Jarkiholi CD case||Police on Saturday registered an FIR in the sex CD case after former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi sought a probe into the creators and conspirators behind the “fake CD”. Hours later, the case saw another twist as a video clip surfaced, in which a woman claimed that Jarkiholi promised her a job and also got videos released, bringing her shame and pushing her to kill herself. According to Sadashivanagar police, former Nelamangala MLA Nagaraju approached them with a complaint copy signed by Jarkiholi following which an FIR was registered against unknown persons behind the CD scandal.  In the FIR, the complainant alleged a conspiracy, claiming that a “fake CD” was created and released to the activist and on social media. “To humiliate me politically, finish my political career and extort money, unknown persons have made conspiracy,” the complaint stated. “For three months, they plotted and made a fake CD cheating me, harassing me mentally, to politically defame and tried to extort money from me.” According to the complaint, “many people are involved in it”. “A few conspired, a few made fake videos. They used others and uploaded them on social media and made me politically unstable. So take necessary action against them,” it states. Later, speaking to reporters, Jarkiholi said he will not drop the case until it was solved but refused to comment on the new clip.  “I am not the lone victim here. This can happen to anyone. Everyone should fight against it together,” he said, urging not to encourage such “blackmail tactics”. “Police have speeded up the investigation. The scam involves hundreds of crores of rupees. Soon, all the actors involved in it will be identified,” he added. After verifying the details and allegations in the complaint, senior police officials, including the SIT team, were alerted. Police even contacted legal experts and took their opinion before making the decision on registering the FIR.  Nagaraju said he brought the complaint to the police since Jarkiholi was busy. “It is clearly mentioned that Ramesh was blackmailed. It is an act of injustice done to Ramesh, a conspiracy,” he added. City police commissioner Kamal Pant said the FIR was transferred to the SIT. Meanwhile, the SIT on Saturday conducted searches on the residences of media persons being questioned since Friday evening. The searches were conducted in Vijayanagar, Vijayapura in Bengaluru rural and other places. FIR The FIR (case no. 21/2021) invoked IPC sections 120 B (criminal conspiracy), 385 (whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts any person in fear, or attempts to put any person in fear), 465 (forgery), 469 (forgery for the purpose of harming reputation), 34 (acts done by several persons with commonintention).  Dinesh Kallahalli reacts To a question on the complaint, Dinesh Kallahalli told DH that police should have registered FIR based on his complaint. “But police have acted due to pressure from the government. I have no personal contact with media persons who are being questioned. Only one among them had contacted me a few times with regard to complaints filed by me before the court and chief secretary. He had covered the news,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/police-register-fir-in-ramesh-jarkiholi-cd-case-961741.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTI activist faces case; official claims he was threatened||An RTI activist who moved the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC) to get information on government expenditure, is staring at criminal proceedings after an information commissioner hearing the appeal ordered registering a case against him. N Narayanaswamy, a Right to Information activist based in Srinivasapur, had filed a second appeal in the KIC after officials in Kolar failed to provide details of the borewells drilled and pump sets supplied in the district under the Gangakalyana scheme. However, Information Commissioner Dr K E Kumaraswamy, who heard the appeal, stated in his order that Narayanaswamy has moved the KIC despite getting the information he sought. The order further states that Narayanaswamy abused the commissioner and made a threat against his life. “The appellant has used abusive words and told the commissioner, ‘I will see you outside the commission. I have a gang and we will be waiting. We will not allow you to live,” the order stated. Directing the secretary of the commission to register a case against Narayanaswamy, the commissioner sought police security by issuing “directions” to Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant. To direct the police commissioner, Kumaraswamy has invoked the RTI Act’s 19(8)(a). However, this Act doesn’t give such powers to information commissioners. “I have the authority to direct the police under the said sections. They need to protect the information commissioner,” he said. Based on a complaint by KIC Secretary Narasimhappa, police have registered a case against Nrayanaswamy under IPC sections 506, 504 and 353. DH sought details from Narasimhappa, but he said he was not aware of the case details. “I have only forwarded the order of the commissioner to the police. I was on leave when the incident happened,” he said. Speaking to DH, Narayanaswamy refuted the accusation of threatening the commissioner. “The commissioner got angry because I stuck to my position that expenditure for the last three years is required. He got angry and ordered the police to take me out of the court. I was manhandled,” he said. Mahithi Hakku Adhayana Kendra’s B H Veeresh said the information commission was becoming a khap panchayat. “The commission should protect appellants. An information commissioner cannot order for registration of a case against an appellant. He can personally approach the police and file a complaint. This is a misuse of authority. Invoking provisions that do not exist will only bring disrepute to the commission,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rti-activist-faces-case-official-claims-he-was-threatened-961744.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No proposal of a lockdown or curfew in Karnataka, says CM B S Yediyurappa||With Covid-19 cases steadily rising, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday ruled out imposing lockdown or night curfew for now but asked pandemic-weary citizens to strictly observe Covid protocols if they want to avoid another round of restrictions.  Yediyurappa will chair a meeting on Monday to review the Covid-19 situation with health department officials and experts. "For the last one month, Covid cases are spiralling out of control. The number of cases is growing by the day," he said and asked people to cooperate to avert another lockdown. "Masks and social distancing measures will be compulsory and the government will limit the number of participants at marriages and other ceremonies."  The CM said that the government is not considering any lockdown as of now as daily activities will be hit and people have suffered in the past. "I won't let it (lockdown) happen. But people should cooperate," he said. The government is taking measures to regulate arrivals from neighbouring Maharashtra, where cases have surged, the CM said, adding he was confident of controlling cases without any lockdown. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that a decision on implementing stringent regulations will be taken on Monday following the meeting. "As of now, there is no discussion on prohibitory orders or night curfew," he said. More than 8,600 Covid-19 cases were reported in the state over the last two weeks amid fears of a second wave of infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-proposal-of-a-lockdown-or-curfew-in-karnataka-says-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-961857.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka cut nearly Rs 20K crore funds due to Covid-19||Karnataka's urban development, irrigation, public works, and rural developments are the biggest losers as the B S Yediyurappa administration resorted to cut funding in the pandemic-hit 2020-21 fiscal, official data shows.  In all, the government has cut Rs 19,774 crore from 40 departments to manage costs during the Covid-19 pandemic, according to information Yediyurappa tabled in the ongoing session of the Legislative Assembly.  The biggest cut  - Rs 4,816.23 crore - was effected in the Budget of Urban Development Department, followed by Major Irrigation (Rs 3,713.44 crore), Public Works (Rs 2,317.93 crore) and Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (Rs 1,486.48 crore).  The Covid-19 lockdown brought life to a halt and hit the government's finances hard, forcing Yediyurappa, who holds the finance portfolio, to cut funds as revenues plummeted.   "The state and central government's tax collections are less than the budgetary estimates due to complete stoppage of economic activities on account of lockdown," Yediyurappa said in his 2021-22 Budget speech, adding that "it has become difficult for the state's revenue resources to reach the targets of 2020-21". According to the data, the government estimated to generate Rs 1.79 lakh crore through tax revenues, own non-tax revenues, devolution of tax from the Centre and grants-in-aid in 2020-21 fiscal. From April 2020 to January 2021, the government’s receipts were Rs 1.19 lakh crore - about 66%.  "...despite recovery, reaching pre-lockdown levels will take time," the state’s Medium Term Fiscal Plan 2021-25 pointed out.  "Due to reduced receipts in the year 2020-21 and also due to increased committed expenditure in the future years, it will be difficult to adhere to Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) parameters unless long term reforms are taken up," the MTFP said.  "Hence, it is imperative that schemes are rationalised; restructured and merge certain departments and also abolish certain unnecessary posts across various departments." The state’s fiscal management review committee has recommended reviewing schemes whose size is less than Rs 20 crore and "remove them from the next financial year".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cut-nearly-rs-20k-crore-funds-due-to-covid-19-961881.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Diversion' of SC/ST funds leaves Karnataka legislators fuming||In 2013, Karnataka become the second Indian state after Andhra Pradesh to enact a law that mandates spending public money to uplift Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.  Under the pioneering law - the Karnataka Scheduled Castes Sub Plan and Tribal Sub Plan (Planning, Allocation and Utilisation of Financial Resources) Act - the state has to spend 24.1% of its total budget on SC/ST welfare: 17.15% for SCs and 6.95% for STs.  Years later, questions are being raised on the way the law is being implemented, with legislators crying foul. This discontentment among SC/ST legislators could potentially cast a shadow on the B S Yediyurappa-led BJP government.  In December 2020, a furore ensued in the Legislative Assembly with MLAs from both the BJP and the Congress lashing out at the government for diversion of SC/ST funds. Three months later, even as the government announced a fresh allocation of close to Rs 27,000 crore under the sub-plans for the 2021-22 fiscal, legislators remain wary.  The legislation provides for penalisation if the money is used for other purposes and also says that the funds are non-lapsable. This means the money, once allocated, cannot be returned to the treasury. But to show utilization, departments haphazardly make use of the money for projects without assessing whether or not it will contribute to SC/ST welfare, MLAs argue.   The bone of contention is Section 7(D) of the Act that deals with ‘deemed expenditure’: when it comes to infrastructure works, a portion of the project cost shall be ‘deemed’ to have been provided for the SC/ST sub-plans. Officials maintain that without 7(D), they would be hard-pressed to find other means of funding infrastructure projects, but MLAs are angry.  “For instance, they take up works for construction of a canal under the sub-plan grants allocated to the irrigation department. Even though this is not specific to SC/ST welfare, their argument is that even SC/STs use this water. So, it is presumed or deemed to be expended for their welfare,” BJP’s Kudachi MLA P Rajeev explained.  Kollegal MLA N Mahesh, the lone BSP representative in the state, illustrates a specific example of the ‘misuse’. “One case was that of the Narayanapura right canal. The official justification for using the SC/ST sub-plan grants for this was that there were three reserved constituencies in the surrounding region with a significant SC/ST population. However, this is not the right way to go about it,” he contended. “They should look at the extent of land belonging to the SC/ST communities that can be irrigated through this project.”  Rajeev and Mahesh are among many SC/ST legislators who believe that the “deemed expenditure” provision must be repealed. If it is removed, the government will have at least Rs 5,000 - Rs 6,000 crore every year specifically for SC/ST welfare, Mahesh pointed out.  According to official data, save for the pandemic-hit 2020 where only 54% of the allocated funds were used, the government has been consistently utilising over 90% of the sub-plans money. However, over 60% is used under deemed expenditure, experts said.   To ensure that the money is used specifically for the welfare of SC, ST communities, the government must establish a single-window system with a sector-wise allocation of money, instead of department-wise distribution, R V Chandrashekar from the National Law School’s Centre for the Study of Marginalized Communities said. “Health, education and skilling must be a priority,” he said. “There are 74 Notified Tribes and Denotified Tribes (NTDNT) under SC/ST category. Many of them are homeless. The government should use this money to provide them shelter,” he added, pointing out that the government had not created any parameters to measure the progress of communities under the law. “From 2013 till now, there is no evaluation on its implementation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/diversion-of-sc/st-funds-leaves-karnataka-legislators-fuming-961889.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi scandal: Woman in purported sleaze video summoned by police||Cubbon Park police on Sunday issued notice to the woman who in a video clip alleged that former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi had promised to get her a job and later got the video released, forcing her to attempt self-harm. The viral video surfaced minutes after Jarkiholi filed a complaint through his confidant, alleging that a fake video was created to defame him. However, the woman in the 34-second clip alleged that Jarkiholi was behind the entire episode. Cubbon Park police, who are looking into the original complaint filed by activist Dinesh Kallahalli, have now issued notice to the woman, asking for her statement. A copy of the notice was also posted on the door of the woman’s grandmother who lives in a town in Vijayapura district. Police sources said Kallahalli had written a letter seeking to withdraw the complaint but there was no scope for the same. “The investigation has continued. Meanwhile, the video clip has surfaced. We have issued notice to seeking a statement,” police said. Meanwhile, police are also verifying the authenticity of the short video clip as per the standard operating procedure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-scandal-woman-in-purported-sleaze-video-summoned-by-police-961996.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No holiday for colleges and schools in Karnataka, circular fake: Dy CM||Higher Education Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Sunday said that a criminal case would be filed against those who were involved in circulating fake government notification on college holiday. A fake circular that went viral on various social media platforms about the state government declaring a 15-day holiday for degree colleges from March 15 to 30 in the wake of the resurgence of Covid-19, had created confusion among teachers, students and college managements. Speaking to media persons on the sidelines of a private function in Hubballi, Ashwath Narayan said that the government had not issued any such notification. “The government had not discussed this issue so far,” he added. He said that some miscreants had uploaded this fake notification on social media, which has gone viral and has created confusion among the students and parents. Saying that creating a fake notification in the name of the government is a big crime, he directed the cybercrime police to bookcases against those behind the fake notification. He said nobody should play with the future of the students. “In these Covid pandemic times, people are still fear-stricken. When the government is taking all measures to see that the education system is not derailed in the state, it is unfortunate that such false news is being spread, the minister said. Meanwhile, a senior official of the department told DH, “It (notification) was edited by some miscreants and we are filing a complaint with the cyber police on Monday. No holiday has been declared and colleges are functioning as usual,” the official clarified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-holiday-for-colleges-and-schools-in-karnataka-circular-fake-dy-cm-962016.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Over 167 Covid-19 patients died at home in Karnataka: RTI||As many as 167 Covid patients have died in their homes in the state since the start of the pandemic in March (till Feb 20). This includes 128 at-home deaths in Bengaluru, according to a reply to an RTI query raised by DH. The at-home deaths also included brought-dead cases.  Members of the Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU) said that the delay in seeking care and comorbidities were major factors for these deaths adding that many of the home isolation cases were brought-dead. Experts from eight-member CCSU teams are available every day for two tele rounds of the ICUs in the district hospitals in the morning and evening for about two hours each. While in the beginning hospitals were saturated, post-August, the situation changed and patients were being stringently monitored at home. Dr Vasanth Kumar, assistant deputy director of, Health department, who looks after the e-hospital initiative told DH, “There were many brought-dead cases in home isolation deaths. After last July/August, the deaths were fewer. A large chunk of at-home deaths were diabetics, elderly and those with multiple comorbidities.” In some cases, families chose not to admit bedridden immobile patients. Dr Sunil Karanth, chairman and consultant - Critical Care Medicine, Manipal Hospital, also a member of the CCSU, said even today the hospital conducts e-rounds or tele-hospital rounds of Covid patients in 15 districts in the state, the remaining 15 districts are handled by another team of the CCSU from Columbia Asia Hospital. Karanth told DH, “I don’t think any of these deaths could have been avoided even if they were in a high-end setup. Home isolation doesn’t mean, Covid patients are left high and dry. They’re monitored day after day, and mapped to a medical facility.” “The BBMP also ensures that there is compliance with all protocols. Monitoring oxygen saturation twice a day and maintaining a temperature log is important in home isolation. It is difficult to predict who will become sick in Covid,” he said. “Most of the cases that came to CCSU were very sick. Now they’re coming in early, relatively speaking,” Dr Karanth added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/over-167-covid-19-patients-died-at-home-in-karnataka-rti-962018.html
14-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's weekly Covid-19 cases go up by 39%||Karnataka has registered a massive 39.6% jump in the number of Covid-19 cases in the course of the past week.  According to data from the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 5,257 cases were found in the last seven days, compared to only 3,764 cases found in the week before (1 to 7 March).  Curiously, the surge in cases comes at a time the number of tests is lower when compared with the first week of March. Data shows that 4.85 lakh tests were conducted in Karnataka this week, against the 5.08 lakh tests conducted from March 1 to 7. Officials in Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said testing in Bengaluru had increased by 10,000 per day since the end of February.  As many as 934 new cases were found in Karnataka on Sunday, out of which 628 (or 67%) were found in Bengaluru Urban. Kalaburagi district reported 43 fresh infections in the last 24 hours followed by Dakshina Kannada 40 and Mysuru district 31.  The state also discharged 609 people on Sunday, out of which 371 were in Bengaluru Urban. Only three new deaths were announced on Sunday. The oldest was a 92-year-old man with symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) who died in a private hospital in Bengaluru Urban on March 12, seven days after being diagnosed with the disease. The remaining two fatalities were two men in their sixties. One died at a private hospital in Bengaluru nine days after diagnosis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-weekly-covid-19-cases-go-up-by-39-962021.html
14-03-2021||West||NIA arrests Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze in Ambani bomb threat case||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday night. Vaze (49), an Assistant Police Inspector, was grilled for 13 hours at the NIA Mumbai office at Peddar Road and placed under arrest around midnight. "Sachin Vaze arrested in NIA In Case RC no. 01/2021/NIA/MUM under section 286, 465, 473, 506(2), 120 B of IPC, and 4(a)(b)(I) Explosive Substances Act 1908," a brief NIA statement said The NIA has been investigating the suspicious planting of a Mahindra Scorpio SUV laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Mumbai residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani, the richest businessman of India. Vaze would be produced before a special NIA court on Sunday after a mandatory medical examination. This comes as a major embarrassment to the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The BJP has been demanding his arrest and has raised the issue in the Budget Session of the Maharashtra Legislature. The state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is proving the death of Mansukh Hiren, the owner of the Scorpio, whose body was recovered on 5 March form the Reti Bunder creek in the Mumbra-Kalwa area of neighbouring Thane district. Hiren's wife Vimla had suspected that Vaze could be behind the death of the automobile spare parts businessman. Assistant Commissioner of Police Nitin Alaknure too was grilled and allowed to go.  Reacting to the development, Leader of Opposition Pravin Darekar said, “His arrest was very much necessary in the case and that’s what the BJP had been demanding.” Vaze, in the morning, created a sensation through his WhatsApp status message – “time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer”. While the Maharashtra government has assigned the probe to the death of Hiren to the state ATS, the central agency NIA has taken over the probe of the planting of the Scorpio SUV. Vaze has moved the Thane Sessions Court for an anticipatory bail in the Mansukh Hiren case, however, it has not granted any interim relief and posted the next hearing on March 19. His WhatsApp status message read, “March 3, 2004. Fellow officers from the CID arrested me in a false case. That arrest is inconclusive to date. Sensing history is going to repeat. My fellow officers are on to falsely trap me. There’s a slight difference in the scenario. Then probably I had 17 years of hope, patience, life and service too. Now I will have neither 17 years of further life nor service nor patience to live. I think the time to say goodbye to the world is coming closer.” This was an apparent reference to the Khwaja Yunus custodial death case, in which he was suspended and arrested and later resigned. However, he was reinstated by the government on his request and based on a review committee’s decision in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Wednesday and Thursday, Vaze was grilled by the state ATS, which has registered an FIR into the case based on the statement of Hiren's wife Vimla, who suspects his role behind the death of her husband. On Friday, he was transferred by the Mumbai Police from the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID to Special Branch and then attached to the Citizen Facilitation Centre. The case vis-a-vis the Scorpio was registered in the Gamdevi police station, however, later NIA took it over at the order of the Ministry of External Affairs. Vaze was handling several high profile cases like the TRP rigging scam, Anvay Naik suicide case. It may be recalled that Vaze led the police team that went to the home of editor-TV anchor Arnab Goswami in the Anvay Naik suicide case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-arrests-mumbai-cop-sachin-vaze-in-ambani-bomb-threat-case-961723.html
14-03-2021||West||Singer attempts suicide, streams it live on Facebook; saved||A singer in Nagpur facing financial woes due to the coronavirus outbreak and lockdown attempted suicide by cutting his wrist on Saturday and uploading it live on Facebook, police said. However, he was saved by friends who saw the social media upload in time and rushed him to hospital, police added. "While the 35-year-old man was attempting suicide, his wife and children were crying for help. Several of his friends who saw the live stream reached his house in Pardi area here and took him to a nearby hospital. His condition is critical," an official said. Incidentally, he was among a group of people who had met authorities here demanding help for artistes affected by the lockdown, a colleague said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/singer-attempts-suicide-streams-it-live-on-facebook-saved-by-friends-961730.html
14-03-2021||West||Tigress Avni's offspring dies 8 days after release into wild||The female cub of tigress Avni that was released into the wild over a week ago died due to injuries that she sustained in a territorial fight. On November 2, 2018, tigress T1, known by her nickname Avni, aged between five and six years, was shot dead near the Borati village in Pandharkawada division of Yavatmal in Vidarbha region. Avni was protecting the two cubs in the vicinity of the Tipeshwar Tiger Sanctuary when she was shot. It was a matter of prestige for the Maharashtra Forest Department (MFD) to secure her two sub-adult cubs, aged around one year. On December 22, 2018, the female cub was caught and had been sent to a 5.11-hectare enclosure at Titralmangi in the Pench Tiger Reserve (PTR). The male club escaped in the wild and was never caught. On March 5, the female cub, now over three-years-old and tagged PTR-84, was released into the wild from the PTR enclosure. The female cub was reared/re-wilded as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). With the help of scientists from the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), the tigress was radio-collared before her release, for further monitoring. The feline was retrieved from the wild on March 8 after it injuried its right foreleg following an internecine fight, PTR's Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director Ravikiran Govekar. The tigress died around 10 pm on Saturday. Over the last two years, as part of the ''re-wilding'' lessons, the tigress spent most of its time in the enclosure, learning to hunt.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tigress-avnis-offspring-dies-8-days-after-release-into-wild-961824.html
14-03-2021||West||'Centre trying to create instability in Maharashtra,' says Sanjay Raut after Sachin Vaze's arrest||Rattled by the arrest of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said that by entering Mumbai the federal agency is trying to create instability. According to him, the act of unilaterally taking over cases demoralises a force like the Mumbai Police. “We respect NIA but our police could've done it too. Mumbai Police and ATS are well respected but central agencies (like CBI and NIA) repeatedly enter Mumbai and demoralise Mumbai Police. It creates instability in the state and puts (unnecessary) pressure on Mumbai police and administration," Raut told reporters in Mumbai. Raut said he believes that Vaze is an honest and capable officer. “He has investigated and unearthed the TRP rigging scam…in the suicide of Anvay Naik and death of his mother he has arrested an editor-anchor (Republic Media Network’s Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami),” he said. Raut further said Vaze has been arrested in connection with gelatin sticks that were found. “One suspicious death also occurred...mysterious…. It's Mumbai Police's responsibility to investigate the matter. No central team was needed,” he said, pointing out that the Mumbai Police has solved several important cases like  the 26/11 terror attacks. “Terrorists like (Pakistani fidayeen) Mohammed Ajmal Kasab, who was part of the Lashkar-e-Taiba group that attacked Mumbai during 26/11, and Yaqub Memon, one of the conspirators of the 12 March, 1993 serial blasts in Mumbai, have been hanged to death,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-trying-to-create-instability-in-maharashtra-says-sanjay-raut-after-sachin-vazes-arrest-961844.html
14-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren case: Action will be taken based on truth, says Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that action in the case related to the recovery of gelatin sticks in a Scorpio vehicle parked near Ambani's house and the death of Mansukh Hiren would be based on truth.   “The matter where gelatin sticks were found in a Scorpio vehicle outside Mukesh Ambani's residence and Mansukh Hiren murder case are being investigated by NIA and ATS. Action will be taken based on the truth that comes out of it,” he said in his brief comments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-case-action-will-be-taken-based-on-truth-says-anil-deshmukh-961855.html
14-03-2021||West||Fire at cooperative bank in Mumbai, none hurt||A fire broke out in a cooperative bank in Kurla area of Mumbai on Sunday, bur there was no casualty, a fire official said. The fire brigade received a call at 11.45 am about the blaze in the Janakalyan Sahakari Bank, located in a commercial building at Sakinaka junction, the official from the fire control room here said, adding it was a 'level-1' (minor) blaze. "It is a ground-plus-two-floor building. The bank is located on the first floor, and there are restaurants on the ground and second floor. As today is Sunday, the bank was closed and no one was present inside it," the official said. Five fire engines and four water jumbo tankers were rushed to the spot and the blaze was brought under control after some time, he said. The exact cause of the fire was not yet known, the official said. Cooling operations are currently underway, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-cooperative-bank-in-mumbai-none-hurt-961891.html
14-03-2021||West||Part of empty building collapses in Mumbai, no casualty||A portion of an empty five-storey building collapsed in Nagpada area of south Mumbai, a fire brigade official said on Sunday. The incident took place on Saturday afternoon, he said, adding that no casualty was reported. The building, located on Morland Road, had been declared dangerous and no was staying in it, he said. A portion of the structure crashed on Saturday following which fire brigade, police and local civic personnel rushed to the spot, the official said. "It was a 'level-1' (minor) disaster. Work is still underway to remove the debris," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/part-of-empty-building-collapses-in-mumbai-no-casualty-961892.html
14-03-2021||West||Antilia security scare: NIA produces Vaze before Mumbai court||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday presented police officer Sachin Vaze before a court here in connection with a probe into the recovery of explosives from a car parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis house in Mumbai. Vaze was brought to the court in south Mumbai after being taken to a local hospital for his medical examination, an official said. The NIA arrested Vaze on Saturday night for his alleged involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle on Carmichael Road near billionaire Mukesh Ambani's residence Antilia on February 25, an agency spokesperson said. Vaze was summoned to the agency's Mumbai office at Cumballa Hill in south Mumbai around 11.30 am on Saturday to record his statement. The spokesperson said Vaze was arrested under Sections of IPC and Explosive Substances Act after being questioned by NIA officials for around 12 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-security-scare-nia-produces-vaze-before-mumbai-court-961907.html
14-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare: Sachin Vaze sent to NIA custody till March 25||A day after Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency, a special court in Mumbai has sent him to NIA custody till March 25. Amid tight security, Vaze (49) was produced before a special court set up under NIA Act, where he was remanded to custody. Earlier, he was taken for medical examination at the Sir JJ Hospital for a Covid-19 test.   Vaze has been booked by the NIA in connection with the planting of gelatin stick-laden Scorpio SUV near the residence of RIL Chairman Mukesh Ambani. He is also under scanner for the case, which is being investigated by the state Anti-Terrorism Squad, involving the death of the SUV owner Mansukh Hiren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-sachin-vaze-sent-to-nia-custody-till-march-25-961915.html
14-03-2021||West||Kangana 'detects' huge controversy about Sachin Vaze||Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut, who has been targeting the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, has spoken out again in the wake of the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze. “My X-rays can detect a huge conspiracy here….this cop was suspended but after the Shiv Sena came in power they got him back,” she said. “If investigated properly not only hidden skeletons will roll out but even the Maharashtra government will fall, I can also sense 200 more FIR’s on me, bring it on, Jai Hind,” she tweeted. Vaze has been accused of being involved in the killing of Mansukh Hiren, the man whose explosives-laden SUV was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, along with a threatening letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kangana-detects-huge-controversy-about-sachin-vaze-961917.html
14-03-2021||West||Barring Assam, BJP will lose all upcoming state polls: Sharad Pawar||The outcome of upcoming Assembly polls in the five states of West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry will give a new direction to the country, NCP supremo Sharad Pawar said.  Pawar claimed that barring the northeastern state, the BJP would be defeated in all other places. According to him, the BJP is better posed to win the elections in Assam where it is in power. Meanwhile, other parties are likely to form governments in the other states. “The results for sure would give a new direction to the country,” the 80-year-old politician told reporters in his hometown of Baramati in Pune district on Sunday. Four-time Maharashtra Chief Minister and ex-Union Minister Pawar feels that these polls are very crucial. “In Kerala, the Left government is in place…the NCP is an ally…the Left-NCP combine will get a clear-cut majority,” he said. In West Bengal, Pawar accused the Centre and the BJP of “grossly abusing its power” to target the ruling AITMC leader and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee who is fighting a single-handed battle for the people of her state. “The people of West Bengal are self-respecting… If anyone tries to attack the Bengali culture, ethos and pride, the whole state will stand up unitedly and retaliate…” Pawar warned. “Mamata Banerjee will return to power, no matter whosoever may claim anything,” he said. Pawar said that in Tamil Nadu the situation seems to be in favour of the opposition DMK and M K Stalin which will unseat the ruling AIADMK. “People of the state will wholeheartedly support him to take over the reins of the state, Pawar said. Pawar hits out at Maharashtra governor Pawar also hit out at Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for not clearing the 13 names that the Maha Vikas Aghadi had submitted for nominations to the Legislative Council. “As per Constitution, it is mandatory for the Governor to accept the Cabinet recommendations. It is unfortunate that the Governor is not fulfilling his constitutional obligation. This has never happened in the state…it is an unfortunate miracle,” Pawar said. “It is worrisome that in a state like Maharashtra, the Governor is acting in this fashion while the Central government is quietly watching,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/barring-assam-bjp-will-lose-all-upcoming-state-polls-sharad-pawar-961919.html
14-03-2021||West||Surat college, 2 schools shut as 20 students contract Covid-19||Two primary schools and a college in Gujarat's Surat city have been shut for two weeks after 20 students there tested positive for coronavirus, officials said on Sunday. Since the educational institutions re-opened in Surat in February 2021 after being shut following the outbreak of Covid-19 last year, so far 118 students and teachers in the city have tested positive for the viral infection, they said. On Saturday, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) decided to close the C D Barfiwala College here for 14 days after 10 students there tested positive for the coronavirus, a civic official said. Besides, six students of one primary school and four of another school also tested positive for the infection on Saturday, following which both the educational institutions were also asked to remain closed for 14 days, he said. So far, 118 students and teachers have tested positive for the coronavirus in various educational institutions in the city, Deputy Commissioner (Health) Dr Ashish Naik said. "We have now decided to close an institution if it reports more than five cases, unlike earlier when we would seal individual classes from where the positive cases were detected," he said. The SMC has also requested managements of schools and colleges to conduct online classes and keep their campuses closed as far as possible, considering the recent rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in educational institutions. On Saturday, Surat reported 188 new Covid-19 cases, taking the tally in the city to 42,259. So far, 40,503 patients have recovered from the viral infection, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surat-college-2-schools-shut-as-20-students-contract-covid-19-961927.html
14-03-2021||West||Big plot will come out in Sachin Vaze probe: Devendra Fadnavis||Stepping up its offensive against the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the BJP on Sunday said that the arrest of Sachin Vaze is just the starting of the probe and much more would come out in the days to come. “It is big plot…the arrest of Sachin Vaze is just the beginning…in the days to come much more would come out…what was the conspiracy, who asked him to do all this,” Leader of Opposition in Assembly and two-time Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said. Fadnavis said: “The NIA has arrested Sachin Vaze…this is one part of the crime, the other part is death of Mansukh Hiran.” “The planting of the Scorpio SUV near the residence of RIL Chairman Mukesh Ambani and the death of the vehicle Mansukh Hiran are serious issue….how can a person who planted the vehicle can be the investigating officer of the same case,”  Fadnavis said. His counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar demanded a statement from Thackeray on the entire episode and the latter had been defending Vaze during the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature. BJP MLA and spokesperson Ram Kadam demanded that there should be a narco test on Vaze so that the names of the master conspirators behind the incident come out while former MP Kirit Somaiya said that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh must be removed. Fadnavis, who had held the Home portfolio for five years, said that when he was the Chief Minister – the Shiv Sena, its former alliance partner, recommended that Vaze be reinstated. “I took the advice of the Advocate General and did not take it forward…he was suspended and a case was pending in the Bombay High Court,” he said. The BJP leader further noted that when the Thackeray government came in power, it ensured the reinstatement of Vaze. “He is an officer of the rank of an Assistant Police Inspector….the Crime Intelligence Unit is headed by a Police Inspector…the incumbent Police Inspector was removed and the API was given the full charge of the all-important unit,” he said. He said he has nothing against Vaze and has never met him but raised the issue as the Leader of Opposition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/big-plot-will-come-out-in-sachin-vaze-probe-devendra-fadnavis-961954.html
14-03-2021||West||NIA looking for links in SUV probe, Mansukh Hiren case||A day after controversial police officer Sachin Vaze was arrested, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) is trying to pick up the common threads between the planting of gelatin stick-laden green Scorpio near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani, the white Innova that was tailing it throughout and the mysterious death of Thane-based automobile spare parts showroom owner Mansukh Hiran. Vaze, an Assistant Police Inspector, was produced before a Special NIA Court on Sunday, which remanded him to NIA custody till March 25. Vaze (49), a former ‘encounter specialist’ and an ace detective, will now be suspended from the Mumbai Police pending investigations. The police officer is likely to challenge his arrest in the Bombay High Court. After grilling Vaze for two days, the NIA has been able to extract some names from the police officer, based on which the federal agency has intensified the probe. Meanwhile, the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) continues to investigate the death of Hiren (48) and reviewed the crime scene reconstruction conducted last week. The NIA and ATS have already shared notes vis-à-vis their respective investigations. It may be mentioned that the Thane Sessions Court has refused to grant any relief to Vaze in the Mansukh Hiren case and will hear his anticipatory bail application on Friday along with the response of the ATS Investigating Officer in the case. Meanwhile, in a significant development, the NIA has confiscated the white Innova that was seen together with the Scorpio. The Innova was in use by the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID. The NIA and ATS are also gathering more details about one Dr Peter Newton, the original owner of the Scorpio, who had given it to Hiren. Some more persons have come under the net of the NIA and are being called for the investigation. The drivers who used the Scorpio and Innova have also been called. The statement of Vaze’s immediate superior Assistant Commissioner of Police, Nitin Alaknure, has also been recorded. Vaze’s juniors will also be called for investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-looking-for-links-in-suv-probe-mansukh-hiren-case-961963.html
14-03-2021||West||Maharashtra's 'Golden Triangle' in trouble again||As the daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 16,000 mark in Maharashtra, the 'Golden Triangle', comprising the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and neighbouring belt of Pune and Nashik, has emerged as one of India’s worst hotspots yet again. In terms of figures, the state is back to what it was in the second fortnight of September 2020. On Sunday, the state recorded 16,620 fresh cases and 50 deaths taking the progressive total to 23,14,413 and 52,816 respectively. The MMR, comprising the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and neighbouring districts of Thane, Palghar and Raigad, posted a total of 3,676 cases, of which Mumbai accounts for 1,963 cases, ringing alarm bells for India’s financial capital. However, the Maharashtra government is yet to take a final call on restrictions or lockdown in the MMR where crowding in public places and public transport has emerged as the key reason behind the numbers shooting up. The Pune and Nashik districts — where there are restrictions and night curfew in place — recorded 3,259 and 1,344 fresh cases respectively, on Sunday. The districts of Aurangabad and Amravati recorded 943 and 375 cases respectively. Nagpur, where a week-long lockdown will commence on Monday, recorded 2,353 cases. “Everyone has to realise there is a difference between self-discipline and restrictions," Chief Minister Uddha Thackeray said on Saturday. "Last week, a Central team visited Mumbai and one of the members told me no one was wearing masks or following social distancing at a hotel they visited. Initially, hotels, restaurants were adhering strictly to Covid-19 norms, but now everyone has become lackadaisical," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-golden-triangle-in-trouble-again-961992.html
