15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||NHAI invites fresh bid for B C Road-Addahole road works; to be taken up in 2 packages||After Larsen & Toubro (L&T) stopped work on the four-laning of NH 75 from B C Road to Addahole, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) authorities have invited a fresh bid to take up the work. According to information obtained under RTI from the NHAI by DH, the bidding for the work is in progress and the work is yet to be awarded to a contractor. If everything had gone as planned, then the work on four-laning of the NH 75 would have been completed by September 2019. The foundation for the work was laid by Union Minister Nithin Gadkari at Panambur on March 28, 2017. Initially, due to the descoping of works in forest stretch, land acquisition and financial issues, the project from Addahole to B C Road was delayed. Later, the contractor (L&T) had requested the NHAI for amicable foreclosure of the proposal. Now, fresh bids have been prepared for the appointment of a new agency to take up the work. Information sought under the RTI revealed that after M/s L & T stopped the work, the project was bifurcated into two packages. The fresh bid documents after conducting Detailed Project Report (DPR) have been submitted to the NHAI headquarter for the stretch from Periyashanthi to Bantwal (covering 49 km) and for the forest stretch from Periyashanthi to Addahole (covering 15 km) on NH75 and the bidding is under progress. The DPR cost estimate for the project has been escalated to Rs 1,937.73 crore from Rs 821 crore. In the past, the project was taken up under engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. The project had comprised the construction of 14.5 km of service roads, two flyovers, two major bridges, 14 minor bridges, and nine underpasses. In the revised proposal, there is one flyover and 11 underpasses, including those at Nelyadi and Uppinangady. With the works remaining incomplete on the entire stretch from B C Road to Addahole, the motorists are facing inconvenience. Works have remained incomplete at Bedrodi, Valalu, Udane, Perne, Kokkada and other places. At Kokkada, a huge hillock has been cut to straighten the road. The mud from the hillocks enters the drains during monsoon and thus disrupts the easy flow of water, motorists said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nhai-invites-fresh-bid-for-b-c-road-addahole-road-works-to-be-taken-up-in-2-packages-962083.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tourists on safari at BRT have close shave with elephants||Wildlife enthusiasts on a safari at K Gudi range, at Biligiri Ranganathaswamy Temple (BRT) Tiger Reserve, had a close shave from the chasing wild elephants. The video clip of the jumbos chasing the safari vehicle has gone viral on social media. The incident is said to have occurred two days ago. The video clip shows a female elephant chasing the vehicle from behind. The alert driver drives fast to escape from the jumbo, which stops chasing after a few metres. When the people on the safari are breathing a sigh of relief, another female jumbo comes right in front of the vehicle, much to their shock. The alert safari vehicle driver, without panicking, switches on the headlight and tries to move the vehicle further. The sound of horn and shouting passengers makes the jumbos move away from the road. The 1.10 minute video has been widely circulated and was captured by the person in the vehicle, at the time of the incident. The passengers have also released a video clip thanking the driver Nagaraju. "The guests come to safari trusting us and it is our responsibility to protect them as their safety is very important", Nagaraju says in the video clip. Speaking to DH, BRT Tiger Reserve Deputy Conservator of Forest Santosh Kumar said, he will provide complete information after verifying with the staff.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tourists-on-safari-at-brt-have-close-shave-with-elephants-962328.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Funds sanctioned, but Karnataka govt drags feet on reviving Halanayakanahalli Lake||Despite allocation of funds for rejuvenation, government foot-dragging means the Halanayakanahalli Lake in Doddakannelli is withering away. Activists and residents warn the lake is now in imminent danger of vanishing.  The sense of urgency is propelled by historically low water retention during the last two monsoons despite copious rainfall, explained Suresh Mathew, a retired civil engineer who lives in the area. According to Mathew, the monsoonal depth of the lake in previous years was about 30-40 feet. "However, in 2019 and 2020, the levels were extremely low," he said.  When DH visited the site on Sunday, it found that the lake had shrunk to a sliver of water, which some locals were taking advantage of to catch fish. It is a far cry from a lake whose original dimensions measured 78.97 acres, said Shadab Lari, of the Halanayakanahalli Lake group, which represents 7,000 local residents.  "Encroachment and the blocking of inlets and outlets have shrunk the boundaries of the lake dramatically," he said.  As per sources, while funds were released to the Minor Irrigation Department in 2017 to carry out the desilting of the lake bed, plus improvements and the building of a feeder channel, little work has actually materialised. Officials of the Minor Irrigation Department who were contacted by DH declined to comment on the funds allotted for the lake.  Two officers blamed the Revenue Department for delaying a survey of the lake. "How can we establish lake boundaries and illegal structures without a survey? Rejuvenation is not possible without a survey," one official said, adding that the problem has been compounded by "legal" issues.  "The lake is split into three survey areas coming under the jurisdiction of three villages: Halanayakanahalli (Survey No 67), Chikkanayakanahalli (Survey No 7) and Chikanahalli (Survey No 12). This has created a lot of legal problems," a resident confirmed.  Residents have called for a survey, after which they said that a fence needs to be erected around the lake to prevent encroachment. Mathew added that the lake’s deterioration is directly linked to the declining water table in the area. "About five years ago, borewells could find water 300 feet down. Now, that depth is 1,300 feet. Never mind the lake itself was a biodiversity hub," he said.  According to the Bangalore Environmental Trust, the lake's decline is similar to that of other waterbodies falling outside the jurisdiction of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). "The inlets and canals which have traditionally supplied these lakes have been dammed or encroached. All of the downstream lakes have been ignored,” said Dr Nidhi Paliwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/funds-sanctioned-but-karnataka-govt-drags-feet-on-reviving-halanayakanahalli-lake-962394.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Job Kart commences at Karnataka State Open University||The week-long ‘KSOU Virtual Job Kart’, job fair, organised by the Placement Cell of Karnataka State Open University (KSOU), in collaboration with Job Kart India, received good response with 8,200 people registered to participate in the mela. The job mela commenced on Monday and concludes on March 22. KSOU Vice-Chancellor S Vidyashankar inaugurated the event online. More than 103 companies from across the state are participating in the job mela. The purpose of the job fair is to provide employment to rural youth, women and the deprived. Candidates who have completed Bachelor’s, Postgraduate, ITI or PUC from any university can attend the fair. The candidates can download Job Kart app on their mobile phones and fill their name, qualification and date of birth. One can also upload a profile and video of their skills. The companies will provide employment information through the app and interview will be conducted online, said R H Pavithra, KSOU Placement Officer. There are 3,200 different positions available with the companies that participated and a few more companies are likely to participate in the mela in the days to come, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/job-kart-commences-at-karnataka-state-open-university-962400.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jumbo may have died in fight, says Hassan deputy conservator of forest||Ruling out any firing, Deputy Conservator of Forest K N Basavaraj clarified that the tusker that was found dead at a coffee plantation was not shot to death and there are possibilities that it might have died in a fight with another jumbo. The carcass of a male elephant was found at Sundakere Estate in Sakleshpur on Sunday, raising doubts if it was shot to death. Addressing media persons here, on Monday, Basavaraj said that the tusker was around 20 years old and died a week ago. “The tusks, measuring 50 cm, were intact. There were holes near the neck. Veterinarians Dr Ravikumar and Dr Sagar conducted the post-mortem, but no bullets were found in the body. The viscera has been sent to the lab to find if it had died of consuming poisonous food,” he said. There are possibilities of the elephant in masth, injuring itself in a fight with another jumbo. The estate manager had informed the Forest department that two herds of elephants were camping in the estate on March 2. No one entered the estate due to fear. After stench emanated from the place, the department personnel visited the place, only to find the carcass, he said. In all, 70 people have died of elephant attack in Hassan district from 1991 and 53 elephants have died. Railway fencing works is in progress at Alur to prevent jumbos entering the villages and 40 km retaining wall is yet to be constructed, he said. The government has released Rs 2 crore for compensation and Rs 20 lakh is pending with the department, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jumbo-may-have-died-in-fight-says-hassan-deputy-conservator-of-forest-962401.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Have taken steps to assure job security, health facilities for civic workers'||Steps have been taken to emphasise job security for civic workers, school fees for children, housing and free medical facility, assured National Safai Karmachari Commission Chairman Venkateshan and State Commission Chairman M Shivanna. Chairing a meeting of officials at the deputy commissioner's office here, on Monday, Venkateshan said, "The problems faced by safai karmacharis would be discussed in a high-level meeting and measures will be taken to resolve them. A delegation will meet Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in a couple of days and discuss the issues." Pourakarmika leaders, who attended the meeting, stressed on health facilities and education for their children, and job security. Venkateshan also watched a video of a pourakarmika colony in a pathetic condition, in HD Kote taluk. Irked over this, he took the officials to task. He asked them if they have visited the colony and inspected the condition of the houses. "Will you stay in such a house?" he asked. One of the district-level members of the commission demanded identity cards for civic workers, that would help them in getting various facilities and benefits. Commenting on ill-treating civic workers, M Shivanna said, "The commission has the power to punish any officer. A few incidents of pourakarmikas being attacked at Udupi has come to our notice. Such incidents will be considered seriously. A survey will be conducted to collect complete details of pourakarmikas in the state." Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, ZP CEO A M Yogesh and Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner Shilpa Nag attended the meeting. Later, Venkateshan and Shivanna visited a pourakarmika colony in Jyothi Nagar and interacted with the residents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/have-taken-steps-to-assure-job-security-health-facilities-for-civic-workers-962403.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kerala government rejects Mandya jaggery; stops supply||The neighbouring state of Kerala, the largest purchaser of Mandya jaggery, has claimed that the product supplied now is substandard and not fit for human consumption, stalling the supply, according to sources. Recently, Gujarat had rejected a jaggery consignment and had stopped purchase. Kerala is the second state to do so. Kerala is distributing jaggery under the Public Distribution System (PDS) for ration cardholders.  Mandya district, which is popularly known as ‘The Land of Sugar’ (Sakkarenadu), is now in trouble for producing poor quality and chemical-heavy jaggery. Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) traders were supplying jaggery under the brand ‘Mandya jaggery’. According to a trader, as banned chemicals and sugar content were found in jaggery making, the Kerala government has rejected Mandya jaggery. Hence, hundreds of lorries, that had transported jaggery, have returned. Only three days ago, the food safety officials had raided the APMC godowns and had seized adulterated and substandard jaggery. Later, aalemanes (jaggery units) and trading companies, manufacturing and selling adulterated jaggery, have closed shops. According to the sources, traders and some jaggery making units are involved in the largescale business, misusing the brand. They are allegedly getting poor quality jaggery from Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, adding sugar and chemicals in the units to increase production and sell it under the ‘Mandya jaggery’ brand. Aalemane Owners’ Association president Somashankaregowda said, “Around 90 kg of jaggery can be manufactured from one tonne of sugarcane. But, some people are adding substandard jaggery and sugar to increase production by another 30 kg. The people from other states and a few traders are misusing the brand name of Mandya jaggery”. The APMC system is for selling farmers’ produce. But, selling adulterated jaggery from other states has raised suspicions. APMC president Prema Thimmegowda said the products can be sold at any market in the country. But, the traders are directed not to sell jaggery from other states for the benefit of local farmers, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kerala-government-rejects-mandya-jaggery-stops-supply-962404.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||14 couples enter wedlock in mass marriage at Chamundi Hills||As many as 14 couples entered wedlock in a mass wedding organised under Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana, a mass marriage scheme of the Religious Endowment (Muzarai) department, atop the Chamundi Hill on Monday.  Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda called upon the people not to get trapped in a debt trap for a wedding. Starting a new life in a temple is sacred. More number of people should be part of mass marriages, he said. Devegowda said that even his children entered into wedlock in a simple manner in a mass marriage at Tirupati. “I had organised simple mass marriages at Hunsur and mass marriages are much suitable for the present situation,” he said. Devegowda asked the newly-wed couples to take care of their in-laws and parents. Treat them in a respectful manner and face any situation together, he said. The next mass marriage programme will be held on April 22 in Nanjangud, on May 13 in Mudukutore, June 17 in Chamundi Hills, and on July 7 in Nanjangud. The marriages will take place only if the parents of both the bride and the groom are present during the ceremony. The age of the bride must be 18 years or above and the groom must be 21 years or above. The scheme is applicable only for marriages in Hindu religion. The brides and grooms, willing to get married under the mass marriage scheme, should register at their respective taluk office. The beneficiaries must submit personal details along with the documents, during registration, said an officer. Chamundeshwari temple chief priest N Shashishekara Dixit and Nanjangud Srikanteshwara temple chief priest Nagachandra Dixit performed the marriage. Zilla Panchayat president Parimala Shyam, Kannada Book Authority Nandish Hanche, Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited  (MPVL) Chairman N V Phaneesh, Zoo Authority of Karnataka Chairman L R Mahadevaswamy and Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/14-couples-enter-wedlock-in-mass-marriage-at-chamundi-hills-962407.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Portuguese, Halegannada inscriptions found in Mangaluru||Two inscriptions, one in Portuguese and another in Halegannada (Old Kannada) have been found on the technology wing campus of the College of Fisheries at Hoige Bazar in the city. A team of inscription experts from Mysuru have taken the estampage of the inscription to conduct an in-depth study. According to the preliminary studies, the Kannada inscription has 11 lines and belongs to the 11th century. There is a need to conduct an in-depth study into the inscription in the Portuguese language, experts Sridevi Tejaswini and Veera Manikantan said. The inscriptions were unearthed during an excavation work taken up after demolishing an old building for the construction of a skill development and safety training centre taken up under the Smart City project. Fisheries College Dean Senthil Vel said that the inscriptions are five foot tall and are kept on a side where the work on the building has been taken up. "On March 13, the inscriptions were noticed by Shreyas, a third-year BFSc student and he had clicked a photo on his mobile phone and brought it to my notice. I immediately sent an email to the PMO's office. Within 10 minutes, I received a reply stating that Archaeological Survey of India director general Vidyavathi has directed ASI experts in Mysuru to examine the inscriptions," he said. The experts took the estampage of the inscription on Monday. Inscription expert Veera Manikantan said a report on the inscriptions will be published in the Annual Report on Indian Epigraphy. The inscriptions can be preserved either in Fisheries College or in a museum by the urban local body, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/portuguese-halegannada-inscriptions-found-in-mangaluru-962440.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Farmers in Kodagu vent ire over delay in capturing tiger||During a protest held under the aegis of Raitha Sangha in Madikeri on Monday, farmers and labourers vented their ire over the delay by the forest department in capturing the tiger which killed three persons in Kodagu in the recent past. Farmer leaders from Mandya and Mysuru also took part in the protest. They said the forest department’s move as an eye-wash.  Farmers alleged that the tiger capturing operation has created confusion among people and the labourers are living in panic. “Even after 23 days of the tiger claiming the life of a labourer, the forest department has no clear vision to deal with the problem. The forest department personnel have been conducting trips for namesake,” they said. During the protest meeting held in front of the DC’s office, Kodagu Raitha Sangha district president Manu Somaiah said, “How many more lives need to be sacrificed till the real tiger is captured? The higher officials of the forest department are not issuing written orders. This is the reason why sharpshooter Susheel Kumar stepped back from the operation.” He alleged that Deputy Commissioner Charulata Somal and Superintendent of Police Kshama Mishra have not visited the protest site even though the farmers are protesting in Bellur in Ponnampet for a week. Also, the MP of the region, Pratap Simha has not taken care to speak to the farmers.  The deputy commissioner has assured the protestors that she will visit the spot in the next two days. Former minister M C Nanaiah, Kodagu Rakshana Vedike president Pawan Pemmaiah and Mysuru Raitha Sangha leader Hosakete Basavaraj were present, among others. Department in need of expert hands Meanwhile, forest department sources stated that the lives of other tigers could not be taken, presuming that it is the same tiger that had killed people. In the current team, only three persons are entitled to shoot the tranquillizer at the tiger. It is said that the personnel have been hesitating to shoot down the tiger as the repercussions of the action could be serious, given the provisions under the National Tiger Conservation Act. Even though PCCF Vijay Kumar Gogi who had visited Srimangala last week had said that the forest department officials have been given the power to make the decision, the operation has not been successful so far. In case of violation, the officials may land up in trouble.  Four days ago, sharpshooter Susheel Kumar waited on the terrace of a house located near the place where the tiger had killed a cow. A tiger was spotted in the region. However, the animal could be shot at, only when the tranquillizing fails. As there was no tranquillizer specialist right then, this procedure could not be followed. A forest department official who was on the spot is believed to have told Susheel Kumar to shoot the animal at his own risk, as they were not sure it was the same tiger that had killed the people. Even though the National Tiger Conservation Authority had given its permission to Susheel Kumar to shoot the tiger down, the ambiguity resulted in Susheel dropping the plan and returning to Bengaluru. The department is trying to deploy another sharpshooter Tyag Uttappa, according to sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/farmers-in-kodagu-vent-ire-over-delay-in-capturing-tiger-962441.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||KVIC launches RE-HAB pilot project in Kodagu||Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has launched research project RE-HAB (Reducing Elephant Human Attack by using Bees) in Kodagu district.  KVIC president Vinaykumar Saxena inaugurated the RE-HAB pilot project at the College of Forestry in Ponnampet. The project aims at controlling the human-elephant conflict. In the first phase, beehives were placed in the Nanacchi area on Sunday. Depending on the success of the project, it can be extended to West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Assam. On average, 500 people are attacked by the elephants in Karnataka in a year.   KVIC deputy CEP Satyanarayana Shukla said that under the RE-HAB project, both man and elephant can be saved. It will also help in maintaining a balance in nature, along with the conservation of biodiversity.  Apiculture is not for business alone. It will help in increasing the production in agriculture. Along with honey, farmers can sell bee wax to supplement their income, he added.  College of Forestry head Dr Cheppudira G Kushalappa also spoke on the occasion. The programme commenced with offering floral tribute to a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi.  KVIC president Vinaykumar also visited the apiculture, bamboo resource centre, GIS lab and forest nursery at the college.  Honey bee colonies were distributed to the beekeeping trainees trained under the Honey Mission of KVIC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kvic-launches-re-hab-pilot-project-in-kodagu-962443.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Protest group demands housing facilities for tribals in Virajpet||Demanding housing facilities for the tribal communities, members of SC/ST Hakkugala Horata Samithi staged a protest in front of the Mini Vidhana Soudha in Virajpet on Monday.  Addressing the protesters, Samithi president Mayamudi Ramesh said that tribals are still residing in line houses of the estates. Though a survey was conducted two years ago, the majority of the families were dropped out of the survey. There is a need to conduct a resurvey.  He said tribal families are still devoid of ration cards, Aadhaar cards and other suitable documents. Fifty-nine families residing at Barikadu should be supplied with potable drinking water. Streetlights should be installed in the colony at Barikadu. Cultivation chits should be distributed to 51 families residing in Terme Kadu Paisari. The compensation for those who were killed in the tiger attack should be enhanced to Rs 25 lakh each, he added.  Further, he said that Virajpet Government Hospital should be entrusted to the Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protest-group-demands-housing-facilities-for-tribals-in-virajpet-962446.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sandalwood’s SRK meets D K Shivakumar amid speculation of his wife joining Congress||Sandalwood star Shivarajkumar met Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar on Monday amid talks that the actor’s wife Geetha Shivarajkumar would join the party.  Shivarajkumar held talks with Shivakumar at the latter's Sadashivanagar residence.  Shivakumar declined to reveal the contents of their meeting. “I have the highest respect for (Shivarajkumar’s) family. That family is an asset to the state and the nation. We have a personal relationship,” Shivakumar said.  Asked about Geetha joining the party, Shivakumar did not say anything concrete. “Wait and see,” he said. “I can’t speak on her behalf.”  Geetha is the daughter of the former chief minister, the late S Bangarappa. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Shivamogga as a JD(S) candidate.  Last week, Geetha’s brother Madhu Bangarappa decided to leave the JD(S) and join the Congress. “You can consider Geetha as a part of the Congress,” Madhu had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sandalwood-s-srk-meets-d-k-shivakumar-amid-speculation-of-his-wife-joining-congress-962284.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Opposition MLCs object BSY government's move to ‘politicise’ literature||Opposition MLCs took a dig at the government for 'politicising literature' by setting aside Rs 1 crore for theatrical performances of writer SL Bhyrappa's play 'Parva'. "Why was Bhyrappa receiving state's patronage which writers' like Kuvempu did not?", opposition MLCs asked, urging the government to avoid such bias. During the discussion on the state budget at Legislative Council, Congress MLC B K Hariprasad highlighted reports of Bhyrappa's controversial remarks against Lord Ram. "Is the money set aside for Bhyrappa to research whether Ram was a historical figure or not?" he said, noting that authors like KS Bhagwan would have attracted the wrath of right-wing ideologues if they made a similar remark. Muzrai minister Kota Srinivas Poojary defended the author, saying that one word used by Bhyrappa cannot be used to target him. Meanwhile, another Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy alleged that Bhyrappa had made derogatory remarks about the mythological figure Draupadi, who is revered by many communities in the state. "Why is the government spending money on his works?" he said. JD(S) MLC KT Srikantegowda recalled that though Jnanpith winner Kuvempu's novel Malegalalli Madumagalu was adapted as a play, the state government had not offered any financial assistance to the project. "Why is the government funding a play of just SL Bhyrappa's 'Parva'?", he said, questioning whether the government would extend the similar patronage to renowned authors of the state. Why was Bhyrappa receiving the assistance that Kuvempu was not provided with, he asked, advising the government to refrain from politicising literature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-opposition-mlcs-object-bsy-governments-move-to-politicise-literature-962302.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka govt to 'soon issue an order' on 10% EWS quota||Karnataka Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday told the Legislative Assembly that the state government will soon issue an order on 10% reservation for economically-weaker sections. Bommai said the Cabinet will take a decision soon after Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri joined BJP legislators Vedavyas Kamath and V Sunil Kumar in urging the government to make sure the 10% EWS quota benefited people, especially students. “The state government has clarity on this. The Constitutional amendment brought by the Modi administration for those who don’t have any quota and are economically-backward should benefit Kannadigas also,” Bommai said. “An earlier order that was issued did not have clarity. A clear order will be issued soon,” he added. In January 2019, the Centre notified 10% reservation in government jobs and admissions into educational institutions for families from the upper caste communities whose annual income is below Rs 8 lakh. “Some 8-10 states have implemented this and this should be expedited, especially for students, in Karnataka. There's disappointment that this is getting delayed. If PM Modi’s decision isn't implemented in Karnataka, it doesn't bode well,” Kageri said, urging the government to act fast. Bommai said the government was studying decisions taken in Goa and Gujarat on the 10% EWS quota. “We have already discussed this. We will notify the communities that should come under this since there are complaints that many have been left out as per an earlier order. We will discuss with the Revenue department so that these communities are given certificates,” he said. Kamath, the Mangalore City (South) MLA, said several communities were not getting certificates under the 10% EWS quota, citing the example of the Goud Saraswat Brahmins. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar gave the example of the Vadi Vysya community in the Uttara Kannada district saying they were eligible to receive the benefit of the 10% EWS quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-govt-to-soon-issue-an-order-on-10-ews-quota-962358.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Stay away from ‘Shakuni’, G T Deve Gowda tells H D Kumaraswamy||MLA G T Devegowda, who has maintained a distance from the JD(S) activities on Monday, advised his party leader, former chief minister, H D Kumaraswamy to maintain a distance from people like 'Shakuni' of Mahabharata and 'Manthara' of Ramayana, to save the party. Devegowda also claimed that he is still in the JD(S). Speaking to reporters here, Devegowda, without taking the name of KR Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh said, “Kumaraswamy is disrespecting me, by listening to a Shakuni." Devegowda asked Kumaraswamy, “Have I involved in any anti-party activity. Did I speak against the party? Have I ever damaged the party? Kumaraswamy has been criticising me, because of the Mysuru High Command.” "Kumaraswamy has said that Devegowda will be expelled from the JD(S). But, I respect Kumaraswamy’s leadership. However, the Shakuni is misleading him. Kumaraswamy should not listen to people like 'Shakuni' and 'Manthara'. You (Kumaraswamy) served as chief minister of the state twice. Understand facts before speaking anything. Don’t copy whatever they say,” he said. Devegowda said, "Now, Kumaraswamy is going against party supporters in Mysuru Milk Union (MyMUL) election. Kumaraswamy is campaigning against JD(S) MLA K Mahadevu’s son and supporting Congress leader Venkatesha’s supporters in MyMUL."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/stay-away-from-shakuni-g-t-deve-gowda-tells-h-d-kumaraswamy-962405.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Wait and watch: Shivarajkumar on wife joining Congress||Sandalwood star Shivarajkumar called on KPCC president D K Shivakumar on Monday, amid talks that the actor’s wife Geetha Shivarajkumar would join the party. Shivarajkumar held talks with Shivakumar at the latter’s Sadashivanagar residence. Shivakumar declined to reveal the contents of the meeting. “I have the highest respect for (Shivarajkumar’s) family. That family is an asset to the state and the nation. We have a personal relationship,” Shivakumar said. Asked about Geetha joining the party, Shivakumar did not say anything concrete. “Wait and see,” he said. “I can’t speak on her behalf.” Geetha is the daughter of the former chief minister, the late S Bangarappa. She had unsuccessfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha election from Shimoga as the JD(S) candidate. Last week, Geetha’s brother Madhu Bangarappa decided to leave the JD(S) and join the Congress. “You can consider Geetha as a part of the Congress,” Madhu had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/wait-and-watch-shivarajkumar-on-wife-joining-congress-962417.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Will win bye-elections on strength of Budget: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa expressed confidence that the BJP would win the upcoming bypolls on the strength of the 2021-22 Budget, even as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah flayed it for being “anti-people and anti-development” in the Assembly on Monday. Intervening during Siddaramaiah’s speech on the Budget, Yediyurappa dared the Congress to face the BJP in the upcoming bypolls - Belgaum (Lok Sabha), Maski, Sindhagi and Basavakalyan - on the basis of the Budget.  “You are criticising the Budget, which women have welcomed across the board. On the basis of this, let’s both go to the people and face the bypolls. We will see what people decide,” Yediyurappa said.  To this, Siddaramaiah dared Yediyurappa to dissolve the Assembly and face fresh elections. “Why bypolls? If you are so confident, dissolve this Assembly. Let’s see who gets the mandate.” Initiating the debate, Siddaramaiah said that the 2021-22 Budget would push Karnataka into a debt cycle and bankruptcy without any scope for development. “This was the first time since the enactment of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, 2002, that we have seen a revenue deficit Budget. Never in Karnataka’s history have we had to borrow loans to meet revenue and committed expenditure,” he said.  “While the amount of loans taken has increased, 90% of the borrowed money is going towards committed expenditure. In such a scenario, one cannot expect the GDP to grow,” Siddaramaiah said. “Further, with the government presenting sector-wise allocation in place of department-wise, the Budget lacked transparency,” he added.  The Congress leader also hit out at the Yediyurappa administration on the borrowings. “I was accused of having borrowed too much when I was CM. In 2013-14, when I assumed office, the state’s borrowings were Rs 1.36 lakh crore. This touched Rs 2.24 lakh crore in 2017-18. Totally, in five years, we borrowed Rs 1.06 lakh crore. But the BJP government has borrowed Rs 1.4 lakh crore in just two years,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/will-win-bye-elections-on-strength-of-budget-b-s-yediyurappa-962419.html
15-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||MLCs object govt's move to 'politicise' literature||Opposition MLCs took a dig at the government for ‘politicising literature’ by setting aside Rs 1 crore for theatrical performances of writer S L Bhyrappa’s play ‘Parva’. “Why is Bhyrappa receiving state’s patronage which writers like Kuvempu did not,” opposition MLCs asked, urging the government to avoid such bias. During the discussion on the budget in the Legislative Council, Congress MLC B K Hariprasad highlighted reports of Bhyrappa’s controversial remarks against Lord Ram. “Is the money set aside for Bhyrappa to research whether Ram was a historical figure or not?” he said, noting that authors like K S Bhagwan would have attracted the wrath of right-wing ideologues if they made a similar remark. Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary defended the author, saying that one word used by Bhyrappa cannot be used to target him. Meanwhile, another Congress MLC M Narayanaswamy alleged that Bhyrappa had made derogatory remarks about the mythological figure Draupadi, who is revered by many communities in the state. “Why is the government spending money on his works?” he said. JD(S) MLC K T Srikantegowda recalled that though Jnanpith winner Kuvempu’s novel Malegalalli Madumagalu was adapted as a play, the state government had not offered any financial assistance to the project. “Why is the government funding a play of just S L Bhyrappa’s ‘Parva’?”, he said, questioning whether the government would extend the similar patronage to renowned authors of the state. Why was Bhyrappa receiving the assistance that Kuvempu was not provided with, he asked, advising the government to refrain from politicising literature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mlcs-object-govts-move-to-politicise-literature-962420.html
15-03-2021||Mysuru||16 couples enter into wedlock in mass marriage in Mysuru||As many as 16 couples entered into wedlock in a mass wedding organised under a mass marriage scheme, Karnataka Saptapadi Vivah Yojana, in Mysuru.   The programme was held at Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hill in Mysuru on Monday. The Karnataka government has decided to conduct mass marriages between March and July. Today's event was the first of its kind in the district this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/16-couples-enter-into-wedlock-in-mass-marriage-in-mysuru-962215.html
15-03-2021||National||Army jawan arrested for leaking confidential info to Pakistan agent: Officials||An army jawan was arrested for allegedly leaking confidential information to a Pakistani agent, an intelligence official said on Sunday. The 22-year-old jawan, Akash Maharia, is a resident of Sikar district of Rajasthan and is posted in Sikkim. He came in contact with a Pakistani intelligence agent through social media and shared confidential information with him, the official said.  He said that the accused was arrested Saturday night following interrogation by intelligence agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-jawan-arrested-for-leaking-confidential-info-to-pakistan-agent-officials-962068.html
15-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Did PM Modi mention 'China' anywhere at Quad meeting?||Leaders of the US, India, Australia and Japan did discuss the "challenge" posed by China during the first meeting of the Quad, and they made clear that none of them have any "illusions" about Beijing, US National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-did-pm-modi-mention-china-anywhere-at-quad-meeting-962117.html
15-03-2021||National||Modi govt to sell remaining stake in Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad airports||The government plans to sell its residual stake in already privatised Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad airports as part of the ambitious Rs 2.5 lakh crore asset monetisation pipeline identified to raise additional resources, sources said. Sale of Airport Authority of India's (AAI) remaining stake in the four airports as also 13 more airports have been identified for privatisation in 2021-22 fiscal, two people aware of deliberations at Empowered Committee of Secretaries last month said. The Ministry of Civil Aviation will obtain requisite approvals for divestment of equity stake of AAI in the respective joint ventures running Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad airports, they said adding the issue is likely to go to the Cabinet for approval in the next few days. For the 13 AAI airports identified for privatisation, the possibility of clubbing of profitable and non-profitable airports will be explored to make more attractive packages, sources said. In the first round of airports' privatisation under the Narendra Modi government, the Adani Group bagged contracts for six airports — Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Jaipur, Mangaluru, Thiruvananthapuram, and Guwahati — last year. The AAI, which works under the Ministry of Civil Aviation, owns and manages more than 100 airports across the country. While in Mumbai International Airport, Adani Group holds 74 per cent stake, the remaining 26 per cent stake is with AAI. In Delhi International Airport, GMR Group holds 54 per cent,  Airports Authority of India holds 26 per cent, while Fraport AG and Eraman Malaysia holds 10 per cent stake each. AAI along with the Government of Andhra Pradesh holds 26 per cent in Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. It holds a similar stake in Bangalore International Airport along with the Karnataka Government. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in the 2021-22 Budget speech had said that monetising operating public infrastructure assets is a very important financing option for new infrastructure construction. A “National Monetisation Pipeline” of potential brownfield infrastructure assets will be launched and an asset monetisation dashboard will also be created for tracking the progress and to provide visibility to investors, she had said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last month said the government is targeting monetising 100 assets such as oil and gas pipelines, which can draw a massive Rs 2.5 lakh crore of investment. The government is targeting Rs 1.75 lakh crore from divestment proceeds in the next fiscal year beginning April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-to-sell-remaining-stake-in-delhi-mumbai-bengaluru-hyderabad-airports-962145.html
15-03-2021||National||Covid-19 spike at near 3-month high as India logs over 26,000 new cases, 118 deaths||India on Monday recorded 26,294 Covid-19 infections, the highest daily rise since December 20, 2020, taking the case tally to 1,13,85,339, according to Union health ministry data. The death toll increased to 1,58,725 with 118 new fatalities, the data updated at 9 am showed. The country's active caseload increased to 2,19,262 and constitutes 1.85 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate dropped to 96.75 per cent from 96.82 per cent on Saturday. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,07,352, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.40 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spike-at-near-3-month-high-as-india-logs-over-26000-new-cases-118-deaths-962150.html
15-03-2021||National||NIA nabs 3 ISIS associates after raids in Delhi, Kerala and Karnataka||Three persons, allegedly running various ISIS propaganda channels on different social media platforms, were on Monday arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) after conducting searches in 11 locations in Kerala, Delhi and Bengaluru. The arrested have been identified as Mohd Ameen, Mushab Anuvar and Dr Rahees Rashid. Ameen is allegedly the leader of the group while the two others are his associates, officials said. The agency also claimed that the group of radicalised individuals under the leadership of Ameen had identified certain individuals in Kerala and Karnataka for targeted killing besides planning to undertake Hijrat or religious migration to Jammu and Kashmir for engaging in terrorist acts. According to the NIA, simultaneous searches were conducted at eight locations in Kannur, Mallapuram, Kollam and Kasargod districts of Kerala, two locations in Bengaluru and one location in Delhi. "This group have been running various ISIS propaganda channels on different social media platforms such as Telegram, Hoop and Instagram for propagating the violent jihadi ideology of ISIS and radicalising and recruiting new members to this ISIS module," an official statement said. The NIA had earlier registered a case against seven known and unknown persons under sections involving criminal conspiracy and waging war against the country as well as provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Ameen allegedly had travelled to Jammu and Kashmir immediately after his return to India from Bahrain in March 2020 and had been camping in Delhi for the last two months for establishing a connection with Kashmir-based operatives having allegiance to ISIS. During the searches, the NIA said several digital devices including laptops, mobiles, hard disks, pen drives, multiple SIM cards of different service providers and documents have been seized. Seized articles are being scrutinised and will be sent for forensic examination. Today's searches were preceded by extensive verification jointly by NIA, Delhi Police's Special Cell and ATS of Kerala Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-nabs-3-isis-associates-after-raids-in-delhi-kerala-and-karnataka-962158.html
15-03-2021||National||Nationwide strike impacts banking services of PSU banks||Banking operations including cheque clearance across the country got affected on Monday as bankers under the aegis of the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) have gone on a nationwide strike to protest against the proposed privatisation of two state-owned lenders. UFBU, an umbrella body of nine unions, had given a strike call for March 15 and 16 and claimed that about 10 lakh bank employees and officers of the banks will participate in the strike. However, branches of private-sector lenders like ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank and Axis Bank are open as they are not part of the strike. In the Union Budget presented last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. According to All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) general secretary CH Venkatachalam, services at branch level; cheque clearance; and government transactions have been affected. Besides, money markets and stock markets are also going to face problems as payments would be impacted, he said. Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI). Others are the Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nationwide-strike-impacts-banking-services-of-psu-banks-962170.html
15-03-2021||National||Don't let guard your down, Covid-19 continues to be a big threat: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the Covid-19 virus continues to be a big threat and people should follow all precautions and not let their guard down. He had last month accused the government of being grossly negligent and over confident in tackling coronavirus, saying it is not over yet. "As warned earlier, Covid-19 continues to be a big threat. Please keep the guards up -- wear masks and follow all precautions," he said on Twitter. He shared a graph showing that coronavirus cases have doubled in the last four weeks. The graph showed that weekly cases increased by 33 per cent, the sharpest surge since July last year. India recorded 26,291 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in 85 days, taking the total tally of cases to 1,13,85,339, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-let-guard-your-down-covid-19-continues-to-be-a-big-threat-rahul-gandhi-962172.html
15-03-2021||National||SC notice to govt, EC on fresh polls if mandate is NOTA||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Centre and the Election Commission on a PIL by BJP leader and lawyer, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay for nullifying the election result and hold fresh election, if maximum votes have been cast in favour of NOTA in a particular constituency. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Centre and EC on the plea for appropriate orders also to restrict the contesting candidates from taking part in the fresh election. The bench, initially, expressed its reservations saying the Right to Reject contention may give rise to constitutional problem. If voters keep rejecting candidates, Parliament or Assembly seats may continue to remain vacant. Further, a political party can influence voters not to vote. Senior advocate, Maneka Guruswamy, appearing for petitioner Upadhayay, said that multiple statutory authorities have asked and suggested that the right to reject be given to the voters.  She also maintained that the right to reject was a fundamental right. The petitioner sought a direction to the ECI to use its plenary power conferred under Article 324 to nullify the election result and hold a fresh election, if maximum votes have been polled in favour of NOTA (None of the Above) in particular constituency. In his plea, Upadhyay said political parties chose contesting candidates in a very undemocratic manner without consulting electors that is why many times people in constituency were totally discontented with candidates presented before them.  "This problem can be solved by holding a fresh election if maximum votes are polled in favour of NOTA. In such situation, the contesting candidates should be considered as rejected and not be allowed in fresh election," he said.  "Right to reject and elect new candidate will give power to the people to express their discontent. If voters are dissatisfied with background of the contesting candidate, they will opt NOTA to reject such candidate and elect a new candidate," he added. The Right to Reject was first proposed by the Law Commission in its 170th Report in 1999. It also suggested that the contesting candidates should be declared elected only if they have obtained more than 50% of the valid votes cast. Similarly, the Election Commission endorsed ‘Right to Reject’, first in 2001, and then in 2004 under T S Krishnamurthy, in its proposed electoral reforms. The ECI also proposed a legislative amendment to Rule 22 and 49-B of the Election Rules to introduce the NOTA and protect secrecy of voting, the petitioner added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-govt-ec-on-fresh-polls-if-mandate-is-nota-962181.html
15-03-2021||National||US becomes India's second biggest oil supplier, Saudi plunges to 4th place||The United States overtook Saudi Arabia as India's second-biggest oil supplier last month, as refiners boosted cheaper US crude purchases to record levels to offset OPEC+ supply cuts, data from trade sources showed. The switch in supplies, triggered by lower US crude demand, coincided with Saudi Arabia's voluntary extra 1 million bpd output cut on top of an agreement by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies (OPEC+) to maintain lower production. India's imports from the United States — the world's top producer — rose 48% to a record 545,300 barrels per day (bpd) in February from the prior month, accounting for 14% of India's overall imports last month, the data obtained by Reuters showed. In contrast, February imports from Saudi Arabia fell by 42% from the previous month to a decade-low of 445,200 bpd, the data showed. Saudi Arabia, which has consistently been one of India's top two suppliers, slipped to No. 4 for the first time since at least January 2006. India's oil import data by country for before 2006 is not available with Reuters. "US demand was weak and refineries were running at low rates so the US crude had to go somewhere and Asia is the region which has seen rapid demand recovery," said Ehsan Ul Haq, analyst with Refinitiv. "China has not been taking US oil because of trade problem so India is the obvious choice," he said. India, the world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, had repeatedly called on major oil producers to ease supply curbs to aid global economic recovery and had pointed to Saudi Arabia's voluntary cuts for contributing to a spike in global oil prices. Iraq continued to be the top oil seller to India despite a 23% decline in purchases to a five-month low of 867,500 bpd, the data showed. Iraq has reduced annual supplies of oil to several Indian refiners by up to 20% for 2021 as OPEC's second-largest producer tries to meet its obligations under the group's production deal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-becomes-indias-second-biggest-oil-supplier-saudi-plunges-to-4th-place-962186.html
15-03-2021||National||Vijayan good for his party, not the state: 'Metro Man' launches Kerala poll campaign||Launching his campaign, BJP candidate in Palakkad 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan on Monday said the party is fighting the elections on the plank of development and reasserted his claim that the NDA will form the government in Kerala after the April 6 Assembly polls. He attacked the state's ruling LDF, alleging that it was a government hit by corruption, scandals and nepotism. "The (CPI(M)-led) government was not keen on the development of the state. Its main focus was upliftment of the party," said the 88-year old technocrat, a day after his name was officially declared as the BJP's candidate for Palakkad Assembly constituency. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sreedharan said, "He is a good chief minister for his party but not for the state." Sreedharan alleged that the LDF government did nothing for the development of the state during its five-year rule. He said the CPI(M)-led government did not take any steps for the implementation of the NilamburNanjangud line to create a broad gauge rail connection from the town of Nanjangud in Karnataka to Nilambur in Kerala.  Nothing has been done to implement a railway line between Guruvayur and Thirunavaya despite getting sanction, he added. The government stopped the preliminary works of light metro projects for ensuring improved transports systems in the cities of Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram. He expressed hope that the BJP-led NDA will win the Assembly polls and a government will be formed under his leadership. Sreedharan said if elected, he would try to regain the lost glory of Palakkad district in rice production. "Once upon a time Palakkad was the largest producer of paddy, popularly called 'Nellara (the rice bowl of the state). Those days have gone by a long time back. That lost glory will be regained," Sreedharan told a news channel. He lamented that Palakkad lacks the basic facilities needed for a town. "There are no good higher education facilities in Palakkad barring Victoria College. Improved higher education facilities are required in Palakkad," said Sreedharan who made a surprise entry into politics through the BJP last month. Sitting MLA Shafi Parambil of the Congress and CPI(M)'s C P Pramod are his main rivals in the election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vijayan-good-for-his-party-not-the-state-metro-man-launches-kerala-poll-campaign-962187.html
15-03-2021||National||SC commences hearing whether Mandal verdict needs to be revisited||The Supreme Court commenced hearing on Monday on whether the landmark 1992 verdict in the Indira Sawhney case, which caps the quota at 50 per cent, requires a re-look by a larger bench. A five-judge Constitution bench, headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, gave a week's time to all the states to submit their brief note of submissions after some of them sought time. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, appearing for petitioners who opened the arguments on the question of reference to a larger bench, said there was no need to revisit the Indira Sawhney verdict. Datar argued that an 11-judge bench needed to be constituted to revisit the verdict, which dealt with several issues, including the cap of 50 per cent quota, adding that it was not required. Since its inception of the Supreme Court, an 11-judge bench has been constituted only five times to examine issues that are unique and of immense constitutional importance, he said. Datar said the question raised in the matter was only whether the 50-per-cent quota limit could be breached and not other issues dealt by the 1992 verdict. "Indira Sawhney (judgement) was delivered with so much deliberations and views that in my humble view it need not be revisited," Datar said, adding that the 50 per cent cap had been accepted since the verdict. The bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat said: "On the request of counsel for different states, we allow one week time to file their brief note of written submissions." At the outset, senior advocate Jaideep Gupta for Kerala sought adjournment on the ground that assembly elections were on in the state. The top court rejected his plea and said: "We cannot adjourn the hearing in this case because of the elections." The bench said it needed to address the issue of 102 amendments of Constitution as it affects every state. Senior advocate Shekhar Naphade, representing Tamil Nadu, said the court would have to see the special circumstances in which reservation in excess of 50 per cent had been given. Both Naphade and Gupta said reservation was a policy matter and the hearing on the issue be adjourned due to the elections. The bench said it was not deciding the factual aspects and would deal with the legal propositions. On March 8, the top court had framed five questions to be taken up by the constitution bench, including whether the 'Mandal verdict' require a re-look by a larger bench "in the light of subsequent Constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics of the society". It had issued notices to all the states on issues of "seminal importance", including whether the 102nd amendment deprives the state legislatures of its power to enact a law determining the socially and economically backward classes and conferring benefits to them under its enabling power. The 102nd Constitution inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Classes, and 342A that deals with power of the President to notify a particular caste as Socially and Educationally Backward Class and power of Parliament to change the list. The issue of interpretation of the amendment cropped up before the bench, which is hearing the pleas pertaining to the 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-commences-hearing-whether-mandal-verdict-needs-to-be-revisited-962189.html
15-03-2021||National||Statue of Unity crosses 50 lakh visitors-mark||In a major milestone, the 'Statue of Unity' at Kevadia in Gujarat's Narmada district has crossed the mark of 50 lakh visitors since its inauguration in 2018, a state government official said on Monday. The statue has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups, Gujarat's Additional Chief Secretary (Forest and Environment) Rajiv Gupta said in a tweet. The 182-metre-tall statue of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel, billed as the world's tallest and built on the Sadhu Bet islet near the Sardar Sarovar Dam in Kevadia, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on October 31, 2018. Since then, visitors from across the country and abroad have flocked the tourist spot and several other attractions that have been added there. "#StatueofUnity crosses five million visitors mark !!! Built under visionary leadership of Hon.@PMOIndiait has emerged as an international tourist destination, offering multiple attractions for all age groups. @narendramodi @tourismgoi@souindia," Gupta tweeted. To improve rail and air connectivity to Kevadia, the government recently added eight new trains from different parts of the country and a seaplane service from Ahmedabad. The flow of visitors to the tourist spot was affected after the outbreak of Covid-19 in 2020, but picked up rapidly since it was reopened for the public on October 17 last year after remaining closed for over seven months. During his address on January 18 this year after flagging off eight trains to Kevadia from across India, Prime Minister Modi said more tourists visit the Statue of Unity in Gujarat than the Statue of Liberty in the US. He had said that with increased connectivity, over a lakh people will visit Kevadia daily, as per a survey. On Patel's birth anniversary last year, Modi had also launched a seaplane service between the Statue of Unity and the Sabarmati river in Ahmedabad, further improving connectivity to the tourist attraction in Kevadia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/statue-of-unity-crosses-50-lakh-visitors-mark-962200.html
15-03-2021||National||Cop Sachin Vaze suspended over Ambani bomb threat case||Facing charges of planting gelatin stick-laden Scorpio SUV near the Mumbai home of top businessman Mukesh Ambani, Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended from the police force. The Special Branch of Mumbai Police on Monday placed him under suspension. Vaze (49) was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch of Mumbai police. In the wake of his name cropping up in the explosive-laden Scorpio case and the mysterious death of witness Mansukh Hiren, he was shifted from the Crime Branch to Citizen Facilitation Centre and then attached to a Special Branch. He was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Saturday night. On Sunday, a special court remanded him to NIA custody till 25 March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cop-sachin-vaze-suspended-over-ambani-bomb-threat-case-962201.html
15-03-2021||National||India cannot turn its eyes away from racism in UK, says External Affairs MInister||The “land of Mahatma Gandhi” cannot turn its eyes away from racism in the United Kingdom, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha on Monday, just days after New Delhi conveyed to London its strong protest over a discussion in the British Parliament on the agitation by the farmers in India. He also said that New Delhi would take up with the British government the alleged incidents of racism in the United Kingdom whenever required. Jaishankar was responding to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s MP, Ashwini Vaishnav, who expressed concern in the Rajya Sabha over the controversy that forced Rashmi Samant – originally from Udupi in Karnataka – to decide against taking over as the new president of the students union of the Oxford University even after being elected to the post. Samant had to resign and fly back home after some of her old posts on social media platforms had been cited to accuse her of being racist and transphobic. Vaishnav, however, cited the controversy resulting in the resignation of Samant as an example of racism in the UK. He pointed out that the 22-year-old was the first woman from India to be elected as the president of the Oxford University Students’ Union. Though her election should have been seen as a celebration of diversity, she was “cyberbullied” to the point that she had to resign. “Even the Hindu religious beliefs of her parents were publicly attacked by a faculty member and that also went unpunished,” said the BJP MP from Odisha. “If this is the kind of treatment that happens at the highest institute like Oxford what is the message that goes out to the world?” he wondered, raising the issue in the Rajya Sabha during the Zero Hour. “I note the sentiments of the House,” said the External Affairs Minister, adding: “I do want to say that as a land of Mahatma Gandhi, we can never ever turn our eyes away from racism wherever it is, particularly so when it is in a country where we have such a large diaspora.” He said that India had “strong ties” with the UK and New Delhi would take up such matters with the British Government “with great candour when required”.” “We will monitor these developments very, very closely. We will raise it when required and we will always champion the fight against racism and other forms of intolerance,” he told the Rajya Sabha. The issue of ‘racism’ in the UK was discussed in the upper house of Parliament of India just days after an interview by British royals Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle sparked off a row. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex alleged the prevalence of racism in the royal family of the UK. The discussion on the issue in Parliament of India was also significant as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi recently summoned the British High Commissioner in New Delhi, Alex Ellis, to the Ministry of External Affairs and served him a démarche. New Delhi conveyed to London that the discussion in the UK’s Parliament on March 8 on the protest by the farmers was a “gross interference” in the politics of India. New Delhi also stressed that the members of the British Parliament should not practise “vote-bank politics”. The discussion in the UK’s parliament saw several British MPs of the Labour Party and the Scottish National Party as well as the Liberal Democrats expressing concern over the way the Modi Government responded to the protest by the farmers. They also expressed concern over alleged harassment of journalists who reported on the agitation against the new agricultural laws of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-cannot-turn-its-eyes-away-from-racism-in-uk-says-external-affairs-minister-962203.html
15-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination priority: Centre asked to respond to plea to include people with mental illness||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre on a plea seeking to include people suffering from mental illness in the list of specified comorbidities that will help them get the Covid-19 vaccine on priority basis. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre, Central Mental Health Authority and National Expert Group of Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 and sought their responses and listed the matter for further hearing on April 30. The court was hearing a PIL which also sought to direct the authorities to frame policy to provide Covid-19 vaccination to homeless mentally ill persons. The plea has challenged exclusion of mental illness from the list of specified comorbidities for determination of eligibility of citizens in the age group of 45 to 59 years. Petitioner advocate Gaurav Kumar Bansal submitted that apart from the fact that persons with severe mental illness are not covered under the list of specified comorbidities, the Ministry of Health and Family welfare has also capped the benefit of Covid- 19 vaccination only to those persons with disabilities having high support needs. “As per the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act – 2016, persons with disabilities having high support needs are only those persons who carry disability certificate with them. "The case of the petitioner is that by way of excluding the mental illness from the list of specified comorbidities and further by way of providing benefit of Covid-19 vaccination to persons with disabilities having high support needs, respondents (authorities) have not only prohibited homeless mentally ill persons from availing the benefits of the vaccination but have also created barriers for thousands of persons having severe mental illness and having no disability certificate to get the vaccination,” the plea said. The petition said homeless persons with severe mental illness have a higher risk of contracting Covid-19 infection due to the fact that they are unable to understand what is happening with them. “It is because of the said reason that the Indian Psychiatric Society has written two times to the respondents for inclusion of mental illness in the list of specified comorbidities, but to no avail,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-priority-centre-asked-to-respond-to-plea-to-include-people-with-mental-illness-962208.html
15-03-2021||National||Batla House encounter: Delhi court reserves order on Ariz Khan's sentence||A Delhi court reserved its order on Monday on the quantum of sentence for Ariz Khan, convicted for the murder of police inspector Mohan Chand Sharma and other offences in connection with the 2008 Batla House encounter. Police sought death penalty for Khan, allegedly associated with the terror outfit Indian Mujahideen, saying it was not just any killing but a murder of a law enforcement officer who was a defender of justice. Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Yadav reserved the order for 4 pm. Additional Public Prosecutor A T Ansari, appearing for the police, said the case attracts exemplary punishment, which is capital punishment. Khan's counsel opposed the death penalty. The court had said on March 8 that it was "duly proved that Ariz Khan and his associates caused murder of police official and fired gunshot on the police official". Inspector Sharma of the police's special cell was killed during the 2008 Batla House encounter in Jamia Nagar in south Delhi. A trial court had sentenced Indian Mujahideen terrorist Shahzad Ahmed in July 2013 to life imprisonment in connection with the case. His appeal against the verdict has been pending in the high court. Ariz Khan had fled from the spot and was declared proclaimed offender. He was arrested on February 14, 2018, and faced the trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/batla-house-encounter-delhi-court-reserves-order-on-ariz-khans-sentence-962210.html
15-03-2021||National||Mayawati says no more alliances, to go alone in next Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls||Battling desertions in her party and erosion in her support base, BSP supremo Mayawati on Monday said that her party would not forge electoral alliances in future and would contest the next Assembly poll in Uttar Pradesh, which was due early next year, on its own. Speaking to reporters after paying floral tribute to BSP founder Kanshiram on the latter's 87th birth anniversary, Mayawati said that her party's experience of electoral alliances had been 'bitter'. ''While our votes are easily transferred to the alliance partners, the latter's votes are not....we have suffered from electoral alliances in the past...we have therefore decided to go it alone in the next year's UP Assembly polls,'' the BSP supremo said. She also ruled out any electoral understanding with rival political parties in the Assembly polls in West Bengal, Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. ''We are contesting alone and we expect to fare well,'' she added. Mayawati also extended her party's support to the ongoing farmers' protest against the farm laws and said that the centre must scrap them. The BSP leader also slammed the UP government for targeting Opposition leaders in the state. BSP had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in alliance with the Samajwadi Party (SP) and had managed to win ten seats in UP. It was then expected that the BSP and SP would fight the 2022 Assembly poll in UP together. SP president Akhilesh Yadav, however, had declared a few days ago that his party would not have ally with any big political outfits in the next UP assembly polls though he hinted at an alliance with smaller outfits. BSP had won 19 seats in the last Assembly polls in UP but its strength had now reduced significantly. As many as seven BSP legislators had deserted the party and joined the rival parties. BSP won no seats in last year's bypolls to seven Assembly seats in the state. It finished second on only one seat and was relegated to the third spot on all others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-says-no-more-alliances-to-go-alone-in-next-uttar-pradesh-assembly-polls-962214.html
15-03-2021||National||Rights bodies downgrading India to 'partly-free' are 'hypocrites', says S Jaishankar||“India’s status declined from Free to Partly Free due to a multi-year pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters,” the Freedom House stated in the latest report. In his sharp response to the report on terming the BJP a "Hindu nationalist party," Jaishankar told India Today, "We are the nationalist guys. We have given vaccines to 70 countries in the world. Tell me, how many vaccines have the internationalist countries given? Which one of these countries have said that while I do (vaccinate) my own people, I will do (inoculate) other people who need it as much as we do. Where are these people?” In response to the accusation of the Central government "shrinking civil liberties" he said that the reality is different, "Whatever you may say, nobody questions an election in this country. Can you say that in those countries?" he added in what seemed like a veiled attack on the hullabaloo around the 2020 US Presidential election where former president Donald Trump claimed election fraud was committed to win the polls. India scored 67 out of 100 in the latest report, “Freedom in the World 2021”, published by the organisation – four points lesser than its performance last year. It secured 34 marks out of 40 in terms of “political rights” and 33 out of 60 in “civil liberties”. Days after the Freedom House report, independent research institute based at University of Gothenburg in Sweden branded India as an “electoral autocracy” in its latest Democracy Report 2021. It stated that India, which was the largest democracy in the world, turned into an “electoral autocracy”. “A major change is that India — formerly the world’s largest democracy with 1.37 billion inhabitants — turned into an electoral autocracy,” it stated, adding, “With this, electoral and closed autocracies are home to 68 per cent of the world’s population.” It claimed that India’s decline on the Liberal Democracy Index started after Narendra Modi-led Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) emerged victorious in the 2014 parliamentary elections. “The Indian government rarely, if ever, used to exercise censorship as evidenced by its score of 3.5 out of 4 before Modi became Prime Minister. By 2020, this score is close to 1.5 meaning that censorship efforts are becoming routine and no longer even restricted to sensitive (to the government) issues,” the V-Dem (or Varieties of Democracy) Institute noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rights-bodies-downgrading-india-to-partly-free-are-hypocrites-says-s-jaishankar-962221.html
15-03-2021||National||Cut taxes on petrol, diesel, may follow suit: Centre tells states||Centre on Monday asked the state governments to reduce taxes on petroleum products, saying it was open to considering reduction of excise duties as fuel prices continued to soar across the country. “Let me say it with greater clarity. You also reduce it in states, we can also think of doing something here (at the Centre). We will have to do it together,” Minister of State for Finance Anurag Thakur told the Lok Sabha while replying to supplementaries during Question Hour in the Lok Sabha. He was responding to a question from YSRCP leader P V Midhun Reddy whether the Centre had a time frame to reduce the prices of petrol and diesel. He said both – the Centre and the state government have the right to impose excise duties and VAT respectively on petroleum products and they have done so. Thakur said that the fuel prices were on the rise as global crude prices, which were $19 per barrel in March last year, had risen to $61-62 in the last week of February this year. In response to another question, Thakur said excise duty on petrol was Rs 19.98 per litre a year ago and it is Rs 32.9 now. Similarly, on diesel, the excise duty has been raised from Rs 15.83 to Rs 31.8. “The excise duty rates have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the present fiscal position,” he said. The government had ended subsidies on petrol in 2010 and diesel in 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cut-taxes-on-petrol-diesel-may-follow-suit-centre-tells-states-962227.html
15-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against Ayurveda doctors conducting surgeries||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Union government on a plea by Indian Medical Association (IMA) against the decision allowing Ayurveda postgraduates to perform surgical procedures.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Centre, the Central Council of Indian Medicine and others, seeking their reply in the matter within four weeks. The petitioner claimed the move would cause havoc. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the plea raised over pitched concern. Ayurveda Medical Association also opposed the plea, saying this was an insult to Ayurveda doctors. The petitioner, for its part, questioned the legality and validity of the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations 2016 as amended in 2020 and notified on November 19, 2020. It claimed that the notification was manifestly arbitrary and unreasonable as it would result in serious affront and prejudice to the constitutional and fundamental rights of the citizens of this country to receive proper and effective medical care and treatment. Further, it would cause serious prejudice to the rights of millions of medical doctors across the country who have toiled hard and spent years of their life undergoing training for attaining adequate exposure, experience and qualifications for performing surgeries under the modern scientific system of medicine, the plea claimed. The petitioner organisation pointed out Parliament has specifically included “surgery” in the definition of “medicine” under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, now substituted by the 2019 Act, and specifically omitted “surgery” from the definition of “Indian Medicine”.  “Surgery” has never been a part of Indian Medicine, it maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-ayurveda-doctors-conducting-surgeries-962231.html
15-03-2021||National||Covid-19 negative report or vaccination proof must to attend any gathering in Amritsar||All those attending social gatherings in Amritsar will now have to show a Covid-19 negative report or proof that they have been vaccinated, the district administration has announced as it steps up vigilance to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira passed the order on Sunday. “The ceiling of 100 people (for indoor) and 200 people (for outdoor) on various indoor and outdoor social/religious/sports/entertainment/cultural gatherings shall be strictly enforced. “Fines shall be imposed for violation of above ceiling limit on the organisers and the persons found violating social distancing and are without face masks at such gatherings,” the order stated. “The organisers of such events shall ensure that any person attending such event should be either tested negative for coronavirus, 72 hours prior to the event, or should have been vaccinated and carries its proof,” it said. “All the sub-divisional magistrates and their police counterparts will ensure that these directions are strictly followed in their sub divisions by regularly visiting marriage palaces, restaurants, among others,” according to the order. The Amritsar deputy commissioner also directed that fines would be imposed on people roaming at crowded places without wearing masks and that they would be tested for Covid-19 on the spot. “Fines shall also be imposed on shopkeepers and customers for not wearing masks and they will also be tested for Covid-19,” the order said. Amritsar has 891 active coronavirus cases as on Sunday. Punjab is witnessing a surge in such cases. The state's infection count has reached 1,97,755, with 6,072 fatalities so far. During a review meeting on Sunday, Punjab Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan had expressed concern over the surge in cases in recent weeks and also exhorted the officials to spruce up all the necessary arrangements and remain in top gear to effectively tackle the up-swing in infections. She had appealed to the people to shun complacency and adopt Covid appropriate behaviour and help the government in tackling the pandemic. Punjab has closed all schools and Anganwadi centres to curb the spread of the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-negative-report-or-vaccination-proof-must-to-attend-any-gathering-in-amritsar-962233.html
15-03-2021||National||Bill to amend juvenile justice law introduced in Lok Sabha||A Bill to amend the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, which seeks to increase the role of district magistrates and additional district magistrates, was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Monday. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor opposed the Bill at the introduction stage but Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani rejected the points raised by him. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021 was later introduced by a voice vote. As per the Cabinet decision, in every district, the district magistrate and the additional district magistrate will get the power to monitor the functions of agencies responsible for the implementation of the Act. The district child protection unit will also function under the district magistrate. According to amendments cleared by the Cabinet last month, before becoming a member of a child welfare committee, background and educational qualification checks will be included. The amendment to the Bill intends to empower district magistrates and additional district magistrates to authorise orders of adoption, propose that appeals on the orders of adoption may be referred to the divisional commissioner, and to strengthen child welfare committees by incorporating provisions relating to educational qualifications for the members and stipulating eligibility conditions for selection of the committee. The Bill seeks to categorise offences wherein the maximum sentence is more than seven years' imprisonment but no minimum sentence or a minimum sentence of less than seven years has been provided as "serious offences" under the Juvenile Justice Act, and to remove difficulties in interpretation of the Act. "Serious offences" includes offences for which the punishment under the Indian Penal Code or any other law, for the time being, is imprisonment between three and seven years. The Bill intends to ensure that the district magistrate is suitably placed to ensure effective coordination among the stakeholders for the facilitation of necessary services for children's rehabilitation or re-integration. By further empowering district magistrates to deal with child protection and adoption processes, it aims to facilitate a coordinated and effective response of the administration to various issues pertaining to children, including adoption, the Bill said. On the child welfare committee, the bill said no person shall be appointed as a member unless they have been actively involved in health, education or welfare activities pertaining to children for at least seven years or is a practicing professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development. The Bill further proposes that the appointment of any member of the committee shall be terminated by the state government, after making an inquiry, if they fail to attend the proceedings of the committee consecutively for three months without any valid reason or if they fail to attend less than three-fourths of the sittings in a year. The Bill makes the district magistrate the grievance redressal authority for the child welfare committee, and anyone connected with a child may file a petition before the official, who shall consider and pass appropriate orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-amend-juvenile-justice-law-introduced-in-lok-sabha-962241.html
15-03-2021||National||5 states account for over 78% of new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in Covid-19 daily cases, accounting for 78.41 per cent of the new cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. A total of 26,291 new cases were registered in a day. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 16,620 (accounting for 63.21 per cent of the daily new cases). It is followed by Kerala with 1,792 while Punjab reported 1,492 new cases. "A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana," the ministry said.  Kerala has a consistently declining trend over the last month, it stated.  India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 2,19,262 comprising 1.93 per cent of the total infections. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, cumulatively account for 77 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for more than 58 per cent of the total active cases in the country. India is, meanwhile, fast approaching total vaccination coverage of 3 crore. The ministry said 2,99,08,038 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 5,13,065 sessions, as per the provisional report till Monday 7 am. These include 73,55,755  healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been administered 1st dose, 43,05,118 HCWs who have been given the 2nd dose), 73,40,423 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the 1st dose and 11,50,535 FLWs who have received the 2nd dose. Besides, 14,64,014 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 82,92,193 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years have been administered the 1st dose. As on day-58 of the vaccination drive (14th March), 1,40,880 vaccine doses were given. "Being a Sunday, most states and UTs did not schedule vaccination sessions yesterday," the ministry said. Of the total, 1,20,885 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 2,211 sessions for 1st dose and 19,995 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,10,07,352 with 17,455 recoveries were registered in a span of 24 hours. The ministry said 84.10 per cent of the new recovered cases are observed to be concentrated in 6 states. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 8,861 newly recovered cases. A total of 118 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 82.20 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (50). Punjab follows with 20 daily deaths and Kerala reported 15 deaths in a span of  24 hours. Sixteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Assam, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-states-account-for-over-78-of-new-covid-19-cases-962246.html
15-03-2021||National||Amend laws to try those above 16 years in POCSO cases: Parliamentary Panel||The government should explore the possibility of reducing the age limit of offenders considered as adults under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act from 18 years to 16 years, a Parliamentary panel has said as it felt that "minor sexual offenders may commit more serious and heinous crime if left untreated/uncounselled". The panel also wanted the government to take stringent action against police personnel and complainant filing false cases of crime against women and children and suggested that laws should be amended, if needed, to add stringent provisions to tackle the menace. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs led by senior Congress MP Anand Sharma said it was "very important to relook" at POCSO provisions because more and more juveniles are getting involved in such crimes. At present, only those who are above 16 years can be tried only if they are charged with heinous crimes such as murder or rape. The latest government figures showed that the numbers of cases registered under the POCSO Act have increased from 32,608 in 2017 to 39,827 in 2018 and 47,325 in 2019. The data showed that there has been an increase of around 18 per cent in 2019 compared to 2018. The Committee "recommends that the MHA may take up with Ministry of Women and Child Development to review the current age limit of 18 years and see if it can be reduced to 16 years for the applicability of the POCSO Act, 2012," the panel said in its report 'Atrocities Against Women and Children'. The report said the Tamil Nadu government referred to some difficulties in the implementation of the POCSO Act in some cases. "There have been instances where a girl below 18 years of age marries a boy of above 18 years with consent. But, when a complaint is made by a girl's family, the boy gets arrested under POCSO's child marriage etc. This becomes a very complex issue and these kinds of cases are in large numbers accounting for more than 40 per cent of the cases," it said. It also expressed concern over the non-registration of cases of crimes against women and children, saying it was one of the main reasons for delay and denial of justice to the victim and family. Appreciating the initiative taken by the Rajasthan Police for conducting decoy operations to check whether FIRs are being registered at police stations or not, the panel said that such decoy operations should be conducted at regular intervals throughout the country. "This will create alertness amongst ground-level police officials and will lead to the registration of more cases. The Committee also recommends developing and promoting online registration of FIR for different categories of complaints particularly, for the crimes committed against women and children," it said. Concerned over the tendency of registration of false cases and misuse of laws, the panel said appropriate penal action should be taken by fixing accountability of the police personnel who have registered false cases. "At the same time, those individuals who register false cases must not get off scot-free," it added. The Committee recommended that the MHA should advise states to take strict actions against the Police personnel and individuals who have registered false cases. The MHA should take up the matter with the Ministry of Law and Justice and if need be, laws should be amended to add stringent provisions against false cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amend-laws-to-try-those-above-16-years-in-pocso-cases-parliamentary-panel-962259.html
15-03-2021||National||ISRO to offload most activities to industry, enhance focus on advanced research||The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) intends to offload most of its space-related activities to industry and enhance focus on advanced research, its Chairman K Sivan has said, as the government opens up the sector to get private players on board. Sivan, also Secretary in the Department of Space (DoS), said the reforms initiated in the sector by the government in June last year to promote enhanced private participation in the space domain has generated enthusiasm among the industry. "Future of space activities is now changing. Otherwise (earlier), all the space activities were done by only ISRO. Now, we are giving equal opportunity to private players to also do it", he said. Sivan was addressing a webinar organised by the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES) on "Future of Aerospace & Avionics in India". He said ISRO can share its technologies with private players and is giving them opportunity to utilise its facilities. "We want to hand-hold them to bring them to our (ISRO's) level so that most of activities that ISRO is doing can be offloaded to industry and we can spend more time on advanced research to take India to the next level (in the space sector)," he said. As part of space reforms for "Unlocking the space potential of India" to enable private players to carry out end-to-end space activities, the establishment of Indian National Space Promotion and Authorisation Centre (IN-SPACe) has also been announced. An autonomous body under the DoS, IN-SPACe acts as a single window nodal agency for enabling and regulating space activities and usage of ISRO facilities by NGPEs (non- government private entities). It works out a suitable mechanism to offer sharing of technology, expertise and facilities free of cost wherever feasible or at reasonable cost basis to promote NGPEs. Sivan, however, made it clear in the interaction with students and faculty of the Dehradun-based private university last Friday that Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO is not looking at collaboration with NGPEs at this stage. ISRO can only have collaboration with partners with equal strength, like international space agencies, he argued, noting that NGPEs in the space sector are still in the growth stage. The space agency at present is enabling industry to "come up to our level". "That is a process. We are hoping that once they grow to our level, then definitely we will be able to have collaboration," he added. Union Minister Jitendra Singh, who heads DoS, has said 35 space startups and industries were in consultation with ISRO for support related to various domains of space activity such as development of satellites, launch vehicles, develop applications, and providing space based services. ISRO's commercial arm NewSpace India Limited (NSIL), incorporated two years ago, is also proactively working to improve the potential of Indian industries by way of technology transfer from ISRO in several identified areas. "This will definitely help them play an increasing role in the emerging space markets both nationally and globally. So far, we have entered into 14 such technology transfer agreements and you will see much more such transfers in the days to come", NSIL Chairman and Managing Director G Narayanan told PTI last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-to-offload-most-activities-to-industry-enhance-focus-on-advanced-research-962261.html
15-03-2021||National||Jasprit Bumrah ties knot with TV presenter Sanjana Ganesan||Indian ace bowler Jasprit Bumrah tied the knot with sports presenter Sanjana Ganesan on Monday.  The ceremony that reportedly had just around 20 guests was held in Goa.   “Love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course.” Steered by love, we have begun a new journey together. Today is one of the happiest days of our lives and we feel blessed to be able to share the news of our wedding and our joy with you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jasprit-bumrah-ties-knot-with-tv-presenter-sanjana-ganesan-962262.html
15-03-2021||National||Bill to amend Mines and Mineral Development Act introduced in Lok Sabha||Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi on Monday introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha to amend the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. The amendments proposed in the Bill are aimed at bringing mega reforms in the mines sector with resolution of legacy issues, and making a large number of mines available for auctions. It will help strengthen the auction-only regime and boost transparency in the system. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor opposed the introduction of the Bill, saying he has three objections to the Bill. The Bill fails to acknowledge the adverse impact on environment and bio-diversity, it is a threat on lives of people residing close to the mines, and also impinges on the federal structure of the states, Tharoor said. Joshi said the regulation of mines, mineral development is under the control of central government as per the Constitution. The reforms as part of the Bill include removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and introduction of an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for various statutory payments, among others. In order to boost exploration, there will be review of functioning of the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET). NMET will be made an autonomous body. Private entities will also be engaged in exploration works now. Simplification of exploration regime will also be done to facilitate seamless transition from exploration to production. The major objective of the reforms is to generate huge employment opportunities, reduce imports and increase production by bringing large mineral blocks into auction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-amend-mines-and-mineral-development-act-introduced-in-lok-sabha-962263.html
15-03-2021||National||Expect govts in Gulf to be helpful in facilitating early return of Indians to work: Jaishankar||India expects Gulf to be helpful in facilitating early return of Indians to work: Jaishankar External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday said India is fully cognizant of the employment concerns of people working abroad and expects governments in the Gulf to be helpful in facilitating the early return of those compelled to return home due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In a statement in the Lok Sabha on 'Recent Developments Pertaining to the Welfare Abroad of Indians, NRIs and PIOs', the minister said the focus of the government's efforts in the last few months has now shifted to Indians going back to their usual places of work, study and domicile. To that end, air transport bubble arrangements have been concluded with 27 countries so far. "The Government is fully cognizant of the employment concerns that our people abroad have in the context of the Covid pandemic. Especially in the Gulf, there has been tremendous economic and social disruption that has impacted them. We have softened it somewhat but real challenges are there to be addressed. Let me assure the House that we take this as a priority," he said. The government has led the way for an economic recovery at home, and similar untiring efforts are being made to help renew livelihoods of Indians abroad, the minister said. "The air travel arrangements are a necessary enabling measure. But beyond that, we have been active in urging our partner governments to look sympathetically at the employment of our citizens as they chart their own recovery pathway. The Gulf has been the focal point of our endeavours, though this is a global effort on our part," Jaishankar said. In recent months, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has engaged the leaders of Saudi Arabia, UAE, Qatar and Oman, while Jaishankar has travelled to UAE, Qatar, Bahrain and Oman to discuss the governments there the welfare of people there. "I have recently hosted the UAE Foreign Minister in India and expect to do so with that of Kuwait very soon," the minister said. "From our recent interactions, we have reason to expect that partner governments in the Gulf would be helpful in facilitating the early return of many who were compelled to go back because of the pandemic," Jaishankar added. He said the support extended from India for the stay and travel of Indian citizens was warmly acknowledged by the community and the governments alike. The provision of medical supplies and food items from India as an exceptional gesture to the Gulf during this period clearly had powerful resonance. So did the arrival of health professionals and medical staff, especially the dedicated medical team India sent to Kuwait. The minister said ambassadors and senior officials have been in regular touch with most community organisations and get their feedback on both the health situation and economic recovery. "We are aware that there are problems of compensation, re-employment and re-skilling that need solutions. And these are today the core of our agenda with our partner governments." The welfare of students studying abroad has also been of particular concern and embassies across the world have been given instructions to reach out to them, monitor their situation and assist their return, where required, Jaishankar stressed. As with workers and professionals, the focus has now shifted to their going back to universities. Some countries have been more open in this regard than others, obviously reflecting their particular Covid challenge. This, therefore, remains a high priority and our endeavour will be to encourage an early return to normalcy, he added. Under air transport bubbles, which are temporary reciprocal arrangements for commercial passenger services until the resumption of regular international flights, the Air India group alone has operated more than 9,500 flights, taking 10.9 lakh passengers abroad so far. The largest numbers have gone to the Gulf. "During the pandemic, our Prime Minister had declared that the Government would take care of both lives and livelihood. This guidance has been the basis for the activities of our diplomacy abroad," Jaishankar said. With regard to seafarers, he said the government has been working with shipping companies to ensure their well-being and where required, return to India. The challenges presented by crew change procedures were daunting but the flexibility shown by various stakeholders allowed us to overcome them. "Members would also recall the predicament of two crews who were in particular difficulty outside Chinese ports. Their situation was also eventually resolved through great perseverance. We continue to interact with many governments to devise more friendly SOPs for crew change requirements," Jaishankar noted. He said serious problems were faced by fishermen who were working out of Iran. Some Gulf nations also witnessed this, perhaps to a lesser degree. The repatriation phase is over and the re-employment one has just started, Jaishankar added. "I wish to assure this august House that in the days ahead, as our quest for normalcy progresses, as the global market place and work place resume activities, as centres of study reopen the doors, we will be there -- to encourage, facilitate, secure and support," Jaishankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expect-govts-in-gulf-to-be-helpful-in-facilitating-early-return-of-indians-to-work-jaishankar-962271.html
15-03-2021||National||Draft ecommerce policy moots conformity assessment procedures for online platforms||Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place to verify that goods and services sold on ecommerce platforms meet required standards and technical regulations, according to the draft ecommerce policy. The policy, which is under discussion, also stated that actions and things which cannot be done by the online platform entities "can also not be done" by any of its associates and related parties. Government may, from time to time, notify parties which fall in the definition of associates and related parties, it said. "Conformity assessment procedures will be put in place in order to verify that goods and services sold, on ecommerce platforms, meet required standards and technical regulations, as prescribed by sector specific regulations/rules," the draft said. These procedures are related to testing, verification and certification of goods and services, among others. It also said that a long-run endeavour will be to convert GeM (Government e-marketplace) into a marketplace where "ordinary consumers" could procure, increasing the efficiency in the Indian economy. Currently, only the government departments and agencies are allowed to procure goods and services from the GeM portal. According to the draft policy, an ecommerce operator operating in marketplace or hybrid mode will have to manage its relationship with sellers on its platform in an agnostic manner and without being partial to any of its sellers. It has talked about areas like definition of ecommerce, code of conduct, creation of conducive environment, enhancing exports, monitoring, meeting regulatory challenges of the sector, handling of data, free and informed choice of consumers, fair competition, anti-counterfeit and anti-piracy. Last week an inter-ministerial meeting chaired by officials of Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal trade (DPIIT) had discussed this draft. The draft has defined ecommerce as the business activities of sale, marketing, distribution of goods or provision of services through the Internet or other information networks and it would be equally applicable to entities with foreign and domestic investments. "An ecommerce operator shall mean any entity that is engaged in the operational activities of selling goods or providing service through the internet and other information network, including ecommerce platform operators, operators on platform and ecommerce operators selling goods or providing service via their self-built website or other web service," it added. Further, it has stated that the government will work towards streamlining of regulatory processes to ease the burden of compliance for activities related to ecommerce. The government would endeavour to bring offline sellers online and provide support for aiding computerization, digital payment enablement and on-boarding of those sellers that currently do not have such facilities. "Back-end channel integration and hyper-local models are important ways in which growth of the sector can be inclusive and will be encouraged, so as to integrate advantages of the offline retail trade with those of online sale," it said. To promote exports through the ecommerce medium, the draft has stated that steps will be taken to provide online lending, credit rating, finance, and transportation support to SMEs through private and public sector banks. The digital integration of multiple interfaces such as Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), Department of Posts (DoP), Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT) and Goods and Service Tax Network (GSTN) for facilitating ecommerce exports shall be undertaken, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/draft-ecommerce-policy-moots-conformity-assessment-procedures-for-online-platforms-962273.html
15-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes bill to declare food tech institutes as national ones||The Rajya Sabha on Monday approved a bill which declares two food technology institutes at Kundli in Haryana and Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu as national institutes. The Rajya Sabha passed The National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2019 by voice vote on Monday. The Bill declares National Institute of Food Technology Entrepreneurship and Management Kundli, and the Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur as National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management. Clarifying members' doubts about implementation of reservation policy in these institutions, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said while replying on the bill in the House that all policies of national importance would be implemented in these institutions and reservation would be applicable in these institutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-declare-food-tech-institutes-as-national-ones-962276.html
15-03-2021||National||Rs 2,000 notes not printed in last 2 years: Anurag Thakur in Lok Sabha||Rs 2,000 currency notes have not been printed in the last two years even as the quantum of India's highest denomination currency note has come down, the Lok Sabha was informed Monday. In a written reply, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said 3,362 million currency notes of Rs 2000 denomination were in circulation on March 30, 2018, constituting 3.27 per cent and 37.26 per cent of the currency in terms of volume and trade, respectively. As of February 26, 2021, 2,499 million pieces of Rs 2,000 notes were in circulation, constituting 2.01 per cent and 17.78 per cent of banknotes in terms of volume and value, respectively. "Printing of banknotes of a particular denomination is decided by the government in consultation with RBI to maintain desired denomination mix for facilitating transactional demand of the public. "During the years 2019-20 and 2020-21, no indent has been placed with the presses for printing of Rs 2000 denomination banknotes," he said. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had in 2019 stated that 3,542.991 million notes of Rs 2,000 were printed during the financial year 2016-17 (April 2016 to March 2017). However, in 2017-18, only 111.507 million notes were printed, which further reduced to 46.690 million notes in the year 2018-19. No new Rs 2,000 currency notes were printed since April 2019. The move is seen as an attempt to prevent hoarding of the high-value currency and thus, curb black money. The Rs 2,000 notes were introduced in November 2016, soon after the government withdrew Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 notes in an attempt to curb black money and fake currencies. While a new Rs 500 note was printed, Rs 1,000 currency notes were discontinued. Instead, Rs 2,000 note was introduced. Besides Rs 2000, the other currency notes in circulation are of the denomination Rs 10, Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs 100.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-2000-notes-not-printed-in-last-2-years-anurag-thakur-in-lok-sabha-962289.html
15-03-2021||National||India only G-20 country implementing Paris accord commitments, says Prakash Javadekar||India is the only country in the G-20 forum implementing the Paris accord commitments on renewable energy and afforestation, the government informed Rajya Sabha on Monday. Replying to supplementary queries during the Question Hour, Minister for Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar said there has been a net increase of 15,000 square kilometres of tree cover in the last six years. He said the pace is likely to increase as the central government has distributed Rs 48,000 crore to states last year with the direction that 80 per cent of the money be spent on afforestation. "India is the only G-20 country which is implementing the Paris commitments given through our nationally determined contributions, be it renewable energy, be it reducing (emission) intensity as well as creating more forest area. On all three commitments, we are much ahead than any other country," he told the House. Javadekar said several steps taken to increase afforestation both at central and state levels, besides green India and horticulture missions, will help give a boost to increasing the forest cover in the country. He said the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has carried out an analysis of observed monsoon rainfall variability and changes in 29 states and union territories based on 30-year (1989- 2018) data during the southwest monsoon season. Although there is inter-annual variability, he said, the total precipitation during the Indian summer monsoon has remained largely stable over the period 1901-2019 and has shown a weak decreasing trend during the recent few decades. "Five states -- Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Meghalaya, and Nagaland -- have shown significant decreasing trends in southwest monsoon rainfall during the recent 30 years period (1989-2018), as per the IMD report," he said. The annual rainfall over these five states along with the states of Arunachal Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh also shows significant decreasing trends, the minister added. "All changes cannot be linked to only climate change," he, however, said. On climate change, Javadekar said in written reply to a question that according to a report by the World Meteorological Organization (WMO), the average global temperature for 2015-2019 is currently estimated to be 1.1 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial (1850-1900). "According to the MoES, the surface air temperature over India has risen by about 0.7 °C during 1901–2018 which is accompanied with an increase in atmospheric moisture content. The sea surface temperatures in the tropical Indian Ocean have also increased by about 1 °C during 1951–2015. On an average, at present, the sea level along the Indian coast is estimated to be rising at about 1.7 mm/year," he said in his reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-only-g-20-country-implementing-paris-accord-commitments-says-prakash-javadekar-962291.html
15-03-2021||National||At this pace, it'll take years to vaccinate entire population: Parliamentary Panel wants govt to ramp up process||Concerned at the pace at which the Covid-19 vaccination is taking place, a Parliamentary Standing Committee has said that it will take many years to vaccinate the whole population if the process continues at this speed. The Standing Committee on Home Affairs also expressed concern that "a large number of people are missing the second dose" of the vaccine. In its report on the Demands for Grants of Ministry of Home Affairs tabled in Parliament on Monday, the panel said, less than 1 per cent of the Indian population has been vaccinated till now and "at this rate, it will take many years to vaccinate the whole population". "The Committee believes that it is a very serious issue as the virus is mutating and new variants of Covid-19 are being reported in different parts of the world," it said. The panel recommended that all frontline health workers and the Covid-19 warriors, including paramilitary and state police personnel receive the recommended doses of vaccine. An attempt should be made to cover maximum people as early as possible, it said. Referring specifically to Lakshadweep, the panel said the vaccination in the union territory can be done for everyone as the population is "very small" -- around 70,000. As the medical facilities are limited, it said, priority needs to be given for vaccination in Lakshadweep. On the under-utilisation of funds during 2020-2021, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla informed the panel that there were some curtailments and restrictions on the use of funds every month, as the government was keeping a watch on outgo because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Due to this, Bhalla said, there has been under-utilisation under few heads. The Committee asked the MHA to speed up the construction work that came to halt due to the Covid-19 pandemic and complete the projects within a time frame without cost overruns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/at-this-pace-itll-take-years-to-vaccinate-entire-population-parliamentary-panel-wants-govt-to-ramp-up-process-962295.html
15-03-2021||National||No proposal to bring petrol, diesel, ATF, gas under GST: FM Sitharaman||Amid record-high fuel prices, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said there is no proposal as of now to bring crude oil, petrol, diesel, jet fuel (ATF) and natural gas under the Goods and Services Tax (GST). When the GST was introduced on July 1, 2017, amalgamating over a dozen central and state levies, five commodities - crude oil, natural gas, petrol, diesel, and aviation turbine fuel (ATF) - were kept out of its purview given the revenue dependence of the central and state governments on this sector. This meant that the central government continued to levy excise duty on them while state governments charged VAT. These taxes, with excise duty, in particular, have been raised periodically. While the taxes haven't come down, a spike in global oil prices on demand recovery has pushed petrol and diesel to an all-time high, leading to demand for them come under the GST. "At present, there is no proposal to bring crude petroleum, petrol, diesel, ATF and natural gas under GST," Sitharaman said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. She said the law prescribes that the GST Council shall recommend the date on which the goods and services tax be levied on petroleum crude, high-speed diesel, motor spirit (commonly known as petrol), natural gas and ATF. "So far, the GST Council, in which the states are also represented, has not made any recommendation for inclusion of these goods under GST," she said. The Council may consider the issue of inclusion of these five petroleum products at a time it considers appropriate keeping in view all the relevant factors, including revenue implication, she added. Including oil products in GST will not just help companies set off tax that they paid on input but will also bring about uniformity in taxation on the fuels in the country. Sitharaman has in recent weeks talked of inclusion of fuel under GST as well as centre and states taking a joint call on cutting taxes to cushion consumers against the spike in retail prices. To a separate question, her junior in the finance ministry, Anurag Singh Thakur said excise duty on petrol was Rs 19.98 per litre a year back and is Rs 32.9 now. Similarly, on diesel, the excise duty has been raised from Rs 15.83 to Rs 31.8. "The excise duty rates have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the present fiscal position," Thakur, Minister of State for Finance, said giving reasons for raising the levy. On the impact of higher fuel rates on general prices, he said 'petrol for vehicle' inflation has increased from 7.38 per cent in January 2020 to 12.53 per cent in January this year. Similarly, 'diesel for vehicle' inflation has increased from 6.44 per cent in January last year to 12.79 per cent this year, he said. On fuel pricing, Thakur said the prices of petroleum products in the country are benchmarked to international product prices. "Generally, the price of petroleum products in the country are higher/lower than other countries due to a variety of factors, including prevailing tax regime and subsidy compensations by the respective Governments," he said. The government ended subsidies on petrol in 2010 and on diesel in 2014. ATF pricing was freed in 2002.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-bring-petrol-diesel-atf-gas-under-gst-fm-sitharaman-962296.html
15-03-2021||National||Marine Aids to Navigation Bill introduced in Lok Sabha||With technological changes taking place at a fast pace in marine navigation, a Bill to provide for a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services was introduced in Lok Sabha on Monday. The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021 provides for the use of the term “marine aids to navigation” instead of “lighthouse” to enable further use of modern forms of aids to navigation. The Bill, moved by Union minister Mansukh Mandaviya, also seeks to rename the existing Director General of Lighthouse and Lightships as the Director General to provide a framework for establishment, operation and management of vessel traffic services. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the Bill, the government also plans to repeal the Lighthouse Act, 1927 once the present Bill becomes a law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/marine-aids-to-navigation-bill-introduced-in-lok-sabha-962299.html
15-03-2021||National||Batla House encounter case: Ariz Khan sentenced to death||A Delhi court on Monday awarded death penalty to convict Ariz Khan alias Junaid in 2008 Batla House encounter case, in which Delhi police Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma was martyred within days after a series of bomb blasts rocked the national capital and several places across the country. Additional Sessions Judge Sandeep Yadav termed the case as the rarest of rare as Additional Public Prosecutor A T Ansari sought capital punishment for the convict on the ground that the incident shocked the conscience of society. "The abhorrent and brutal act of the convict in firing on police without any provocation shows that he is not only threat to the society but is an enemy of the state," the court said. The convict had absconded from the Batla House during the raid by the Delhi police special cell on September 19, 2008. The sleuths were acting on information that the suspected Indian Mujahideen operatives involved in the serial bomb blasts at Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmedabad and other places were holed up over there. In the shootout, two alleged terrorists were killed and one AK-47 and two pistols were recovered from the place at Jamia Nagar. Advocate M S Khan for the convict sought lenient view in the matter saying that the crime was not premeditated and the incident happened all of a sudden. It was committed without any planning or conspiracy, he said. Ariz was declared proclaimed offender in 2009 and was arrested in 2018. He was held guilty in the case on March 8. The court, which recently convicted him, also ordered him to pay a fine of Rs 11 lakh, of which Rs 10 lakh would be paid to deceased Sharma's family members, saying "monetary compensation would provide some solace and apply balm to the wounds of the family". Senior Congress leader Digvijay Singh had then termed the Batla House encounter as 'fake'. However, the Congress party had distanced itself from the remark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/batla-house-encounter-case-ariz-khan-sentenced-to-death-962303.html
15-03-2021||National||Cannot prioritise Covid-19 vaccination based on trade, profession: Centre tells Supreme Court||The Centre has told the Supreme Court that it can't prioritise vaccination on the basis of trade and profession as it was taking pro-active measures based on rational and justifiable policy for it, depending upon their vulnerability to disease, nature of work, age and co-morbid health situation. A national expert group on vaccine administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) was set up on August 7, 2020. It has prioritised healthcare and frontline workers and others, including those aged 60 years and above and those aged between 45 and 59 with 20 co-morbidities for Covid-19 vaccination. "Since January 16 till March 6, a total of 2.1 crore doses have been administered to prioritised beneficiaries over a period of 50 days," the government said, while adding the US, UK, Spain and Israel have undertaken vaccination for 3.2 crore, 76 lakh, 25.6 lakh and 55.4 lakh people respectively. Responding to a PIL by Arvind Singh against the exclusion of the legal fraternity from the priority category of the population for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said it may not be desirable to create a separate class consisting of lawyers and below 45 years of age and discriminating against those based on trade, business and profession doing their respective duties towards citizens under similar circumstances. "It may not be in larger interest of the nation that the government starts sub-classification either based upon business, profession and trade or any other ground at this juncture," an affidavit filed by the Ministry stated. Maintaining that once an epidemic takes the form of a pandemic, its management has to be done keeping the entire globe as a unit, it is not possible to take state or country-specific approach. Hence, limited export of Covid-19 vaccine was important to protect the high-risk population in all the countries of the world, breaking the chain of transmission and minimising chances of import of cases from abroad as well as neighbouring countries, it said. Meanwhile, on Monday, two vaccine manufacturers Bharat Biotech Ltd and Serum Institute of India led by senior advocates Mukul Rohatgi and Harish Salve asked the top court to transfer a pending matter to the distribution of vaccine from the Delhi High Court to the top court. The apex court fixed the matter for consideration on March 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-prioritise-covid-19-vaccination-based-on-trade-profession-centre-tells-supreme-court-962311.html
15-03-2021||National||Toolkit case: Delhi court disposes of Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk pre-arrest bail pleas||Delhi court on Monday disposed of anticipatory bail applications moved by Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk and Shubham Kar Chaudhari in the toolkit case. The court recorded that when arrest becomes unavoidable, advance notice of seven working days shall be given to the accused to avail remedies.  Toolkit case: Delhi court disposes of anticipatory bail applications moved by Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk & Shubham Kar Chaudhari The court records that when arrest becomes unavoidable, advance notice of 7 working days shall be given to the accused to avail remedies More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toolkit-case-delhi-court-disposes-of-nikita-jacob-shantanu-muluk-pre-arrest-bail-pleas-962314.html
15-03-2021||National||Nirmala Sitharaman introduces Bill in Rajya Sabha to allow 74% FDI in insurance sector||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced a Bill in Rajya Sabha that seek to amend the Insurance Act to pave the way for 74 per cent foreign direct investment (FDI) in the sector. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday had gave its nod for amendments in the Insurance Amendment Bill 2021. Finance Minister Sitharaman introduced the Bill for amendments in the Insurance Act, 1938. Currently, the permissible FDI limit in the life and general insurance stands at 49 per cent with ownership and management control with Indian. Sitharaman presenting the Union Budget for 2021-22 had said, "I propose to amend the Insurance Act, 1938 to increase the permissible FDI limit from 49 per cent to 74 per cent in insurance companies and allow foreign ownership and control with safeguards."  Under the new structure, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and specified percentage of profits being retained as a general reserve. She had also said that for investor protection, an investor charter would be introduced as a right of all financial investors across all financial products. It was in 2015 when the government hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. Increase in FDI will help improve life insurance penetration in the country. Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP is 3.6 per cent in the country, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at 0.94 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent. The government has earlier allowed 100 per cent foreign direct investment in insurance intermediaries. Intermediary services include insurance brokers, reinsurance brokers, insurance consultants, corporate agents, third party administrators, surveyors and loss assessors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nirmala-sitharaman-introduces-bill-in-rajya-sabha-to-allow-74-fdi-in-insurance-sector-962316.html
15-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Sachin Vaze suspended from police force||In your evening news brief, Sachin Vaze was suspended from police force;  wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month in February to 4.17%; External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar says India will take up with the UK when required the alleged incidents of racism in Britain and Lilly Singh sports a "I stand with farmers" mask at the red carpet of 2021 Grammy Awards.  Here is the top news of March 15, 2021: Facing charges of planting gelatin stick-laden Scorpio SUV near the Mumbai home of top businessman Mukesh Ambani, Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was suspended from the police force. The Special Branch of Mumbai Police on Monday placed him under suspension. Vaze (49) was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch of Mumbai police. The wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month in February to 4.17 per cent, as food, fuel and power prices spiked. The WPI inflation was 2.03 per cent in January and 2.26 per cent in February last year. After witnessing months of softening of prices, the food articles in February saw 1.36 per cent inflation. In January it was (-) 2.80 per cent. India will take up with the UK when required the alleged incidents of racism in Britain, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. He also described India as the land of Mahatma Gandhi and said it can never turn its eye away from racism. Responding to concerns raised by a BJP MP over racism and cyberbullying that forced Indian-origin Rashmi Samant to resign as president of the Oxford University Students Union, the minister said New Delhi has strong ties with the UK and will take up such matters with great candour when required. Indo-Canadian YouTube star and late-night talk show host Lilly Singh sported a "I stand with farmers" mask at the red carpet of 2021 Grammy Awards to reiterate her support to the ongoing farmers agitation in India. The 32-year-old social media personality took to Twitter and posted a picture of herself from the 63rd edition of the Grammy Awards. Singh wrote that since there's intense media spotlight on the red carpet, this was the perfect opportunity to show her solidarity with farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sachin-vaze-suspended-from-police-force-962324.html
15-03-2021||National||Over 383 Myanmarese have crossed over to Mizoram from the trouble-torn country: Official||At least 383 Myanmar nationals, including women and children, have so far sneaked into Mizoram seeking refuge since late February following military coup and subsequent crackdown on pro-democracy movement in the neighbouring country, a state home department official said on Monday. He said about 98 per cent of the Myanmar nationals entering Mizoram claimed that they belonged to police force and fire service. But, they don't have documentary proofs in support of the claim, the official said. Of the 383 foreign nationals, 297 have been already verified while 86 are yet to be verified or confirmed, the official said. "As per the state home department record as on Monday, 383 people from Myanmar have already entered five Mizoram districts and 86 of them are yet to be confirmed," the official told PTI on condition of anonymity. Six Mizoram districts- Champhai, Lawngtlai, Siaha, Saitual, Hnahthial and Serchhip- share a 510 km long porous international border with Myanmar's Chin state. According to the official, among the six border districts, only Saitual district has not reported any influx of refugees from the trouble-torn country after the coup. He said that many of them were accommodated by the locals as a mark of showing hospitality towards strangers, which is part of tradition of the Mizos. Though the state government and Assam Rifles were trying their best to prevent illegal influx, the Myanmar nationals, who had already entered the state due to humanitarian crisis, could not be prevented due to the porous border. The state government could not immediately push them back on humanitarian ground, he said. Speaking to PTI, Lalramnghaka, village council president of Lungkawlh village in Serchhip district, said that at least 19 Myanmarese are currently taking refuge there. While three persons were accommodated by a family in North Vanlaiphai village, 16 others are being provided foods and other reliefs by residents of Lungkawlh village by raising community fund, he said. Chief Minister Zoramthanga and Home Minister Lalchamliana had earlier said that the state government will on humanitarian ground provide relief to the Myanmar nationals, who have entered the state due to the humanitarian crisis. The Union Home Ministry on Friday cautioned four Northeastern states -- Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh -- bordering Myanmar against influx from the neighbouring country in the wake of largescale protests following a coup there, and asked them to take appropriate actions as per law. In a communication, the home ministry told the four states to guard against influx of civilians and government officials from Myanmar and take all precautions to deal with any such situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-383-myanmarese-have-crossed-over-to-mizoram-from-the-trouble-torn-country-official-962327.html
15-03-2021||National||NCB moves SC against Bombay HC order granting bail to actress Rhea Chakraborty in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau has approached the Supreme Court challenging the Bombay High Court order, granting bail to Rhea Chakraborty in cases registered against her under the NDPS Act. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian is likely to hear the matter on March 18.  The High Court granted bail in October, 2020 to Rhea after furnishing a bond of Rs one lakh. She was among the 20 people arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with the drugs angle probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Rhea had spent 28 days in custody. Rhea’s counsel had contended that the NCB lacked jurisdiction to probe the matter in view of the Supreme Court order of August 19, 2020 directing to hand over all investigations in the Sushant case to the CBI. The offences under which the accused were nabbed by the NCB were bailable and the charges under the NDPS Act Section 217A against the accused did not have supporting evidence. Rhea and her brother Showik Chakraborty and three others -- Abdel Basit Parihar, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant -- were accused of having facilitated the procurement of drugs for consumption by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-moves-sc-against-bombay-hc-order-granting-bail-to-actress-rhea-chakraborty-in-drugs-case-962332.html
15-03-2021||National||No plan to split GAIL: Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan||The government is not considering any proposal to bifurcate state-owned gas utility GAIL (India) Ltd, and the company is focused on building pipelines to connect gas sources to consumers to accelerate gas usage, Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday. GAIL is India's biggest natural gas marketing and trading firm and owns 60 per cent of the country's 26,284-km gas pipeline network, giving it a stranglehold on the market. To resolve the conflict of a transporter also being the marketer, it was proposed that GAIL's pipeline business should be hived off into a separate entity. But the proposal has been dropped for now. "There is no such proposal under consideration at present," Pradhan said in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha on bifurcation of GAIL. He said the share of natural gas in India's primary energy basket is targeted to be increased to 15 per cent by 2030 from the current 6.3 per cent. For this, the government is promoting the expansion of natural gas infrastructure -- pipelines, LNG import terminals and city gas distribution network, he said. "GAIL is executing projects related to the expansion of gas infrastructure in the country," he said. PTI had last month reported that the plan to bifurcate GAIL has been dropped to enable strength of a combined balance sheet to raise funds for the projects. The plan was to transfer the pipeline business into a subsidiary, while GAIL was to hold the core business of marketing natural gas and petrochemical production. "GAIL is majorly implementing Jagdishpur-Haldia-Bokaro-Dhamra pipeline (JHBDPL) with Barauni-Guwahati Pipeline in the state of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal, Assam and Kochi-Kootanad-Bangaluru-Mangalore Pipeline (KKBMPL) in the state of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka," Pradhan said. GAIL, he said, has taken up a company-wide cost optimisation drive to bring down the cost and improve operational efficiency as well as digitisation to enhance profitability. In the push towards a gas-based economy, the government has taken major steps including allowing fair price discovery through e-bidding platforms and gas trading exchanges. Also, finding and production of gas has been sought to be increased by the introduction of open acreage licensing policy and auction of discovered fields, he said. GAIL owns and operates a natural gas pipeline network that spans 15,673.3 kilometres, mostly in the western, southern and northern parts of the country. It is building more pipelines in the eastern region. The government has a 54.89 per cent stake in GAIL India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-plan-to-split-gail-oil-minister-dharmendra-pradhan-962342.html
15-03-2021||National||Pokhriyal rules out possibility of conducting NEET twice in 2021||Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ on Monday ruled out the possibility of conducting medical entrance exam NEET twice this year. “National Testing Agency (NTA) under the Ministry of Education conducts Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate programme in medical sciences, in consultation with Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. In 2021, the NEET (UG) will be conducted by NTA only one time,” Pokhriyal told Lok Sabha in response to a written question. He, however, did not comment whether it will be conducted twice next year. Request for conducting the National Eligibility cum entrance test (NEET) twice a year began after the Ministry of Education announced that engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains will be conducted four times a year starting 2021. NEET this year will be conducted on August 1 in 11 languages. However, the application process for the exam is yet to begin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pokhriyal-rules-out-possibility-of-conducting-neet-twice-in-2021-962351.html
15-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu set to witness intense multi-cornered contest, new players may play spoiler||Battle lines are drawn for Tamil Nadu's epic election on April 6. The state will witness an intense five-cornered contest to elect its 16th Assembly, with new players entering the field and threatening to play the spoiler in many constituencies. Besides the two major alliances led by ruling AIADMK, and principal Opposition DMK, T T V Dhinakaran's Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) and actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) have also stitched together alliances. And Tamil nationalist party, Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK), has entered the fray on its own. There are few other marginal players too – Puthiya Tamizhagam of Dr K Krishnasamy and a new outfit launched by former bureaucrat U Sagayam. While MNM projects itself as a “change agent”, the NTK wants to establish the “real rule” of Tamils in Tamil Nadu. For AMMK, the agenda is to “retrieve” its parent party, AIADMK. The combined vote share of AMMK, MNM, and NTK – all three contested on their own – in the 2019 Lok Sabha election is 12.85 per cent. AMMK scored 5.25 per cent, NTK 3.88 per cent, and MNM 3.72 per cent. The NTK, launched by actor Seeman in the aftermath of the 2009 civil war in Sri Lanka, has been making inroads in several parts of the state but has never won any seat. Though these parties are not expected to make much of an impact in many seats, they might play the spoiler in several constituencies. AMMK and MNM have fielded their leaders – Dhinakaran and Kamal Haasan – in places which they consider as strongholds – with the hope that the move would have a rippling effect in nearby constituencies.  “MNM and NTK will certainly take away some votes. MNM will get votes in urban areas like Chennai, Coimbatore, and Madurai. But I doubt whether they can make any impact in rural areas. Seeman's party will have a much lesser impact this time and he is not even a draw,” Prof Ramu Manivannan, Head of the Department of Politics and Public Administration, University of Madras, told DH. However, he feels AMMK will be able to determine the outcome in a few constituencies, especially in the Southern region where Dhinakaran might get support from his community. “Dhinakaran is fighting the enemy within. His party candidates might determine the outcome in many places. The AIADMK votes would get split with Dhinakaran taking away a chunk of it,” he added. Senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh has a different take. “It is a big mystery whose votes the three combines are going to take. Whether they will split AIADMK votes alone or eat into the DMK votes as well is the question. The outcome of this election will set new standards for measuring public opinion in Tamil Nadu,” Singh told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-set-to-witness-intense-multi-cornered-contest-new-players-may-play-spoiler-962377.html
15-03-2021||National||50% reservation ceiling can't be breached; no need to revisit Mandal Commission verdict, SC told||A five-judge Constitution bench of the Supreme Court was on Monday told that the 50% ceiling fixed for reservations can't be breached and there was no need to reconsider the nine-judge bench in Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) case. "Wherever Parliament wanted to overcome Indra Sawhney, it has already done by way of amendments. If it had to revisit 50% ceiling too, the same would have been revisited too by the Constitutional Amendment," senior advocate Arvind Datar submitted before a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan. With regards to social dynamics, the limit of 50% is an essential part of right to equality, he said, adding the ceiling has been maintained since 1991. He also pointed out Article 16(4) of the Constitution does not use the word proportionate, instead it uses "adequate representation" for socially and economically backward classes. The window for increase in reservation can only be through a Constitutional Amendment, he added. Two senior advocates Datar and Shyam Divan, arguing on behalf of appellants against Maratha reservation, took to the court to various judgements during the day-long hearing. They maintained that there was no need to make a reference for consideration of the matter to 11-judge. Divan said there was no rationality of reservation in PG medical courses. "General category faces stiff competition as 72% of seats in PG medical are reserved for different categories. In certain disciplines, there is a super specialisation. But in most other medicine courses, PG is the end of the road and there is no further super specialisation. Please do not allow reservation in that category. This should be completely on merits," he said. The bench, which decided to examine whether reservation in jobs and education could be allowed to breach the existing 50% ceiling, would continue to hear the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-reservation-ceiling-cant-be-breached-no-need-to-revisit-mandal-commission-verdict-sc-told-962383.html
15-03-2021||National||PM Modi to hold virtual summit with Finnish counterpart Marin on March 16||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual summit with his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin on Tuesday that will provide a "blueprint" for the future expansion of the bilateral partnership, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. In their discussions, the two leaders will cover the entire spectrum of bilateral relationship and will also exchange views on regional and global issues of mutual interest, it said. "The virtual summit will provide a blueprint for the future expansion and diversification of India-Finland partnership," the MEA said in a statement. It said India and Finland enjoy warm and friendly relations based on shared values of democracy, freedom and rules-based international order. "Both countries have very close cooperation in the areas of trade and investment, education, innovation, science and technology as well as research and development," it said. It said the two sides also have ongoing collaboration in the joint development of a 'Quantum Computer' using artificial intelligence to address societal challenges. Around 100 Finnish companies are actively operating in India in various sectors such as telecom, elevators, machinery and energy including Renewable Energy, according to the MEA. Around 30 Indian companies are also active in Finland mainly in the IT, auto-components and hospitality sector, the MEA said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-hold-virtual-summit-with-finnish-counterpart-marin-on-march-16-962384.html
15-03-2021||National||ED attaches assets of Sushil Kumar Shinde's daughter, son-in-law in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth over Rs 35 crore of the daughter and son-in-law of former Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde in a money laundering case linked to an alleged bank fraud. The assets are valued at Rs 35.48 crore, the agency said in a statement, belong to businessman Raj Shroff and his wife (Priti Shroff). Agency sources said Priti Shroff is the daughter of Congress leader and ex-chief minister of Maharashtra Sushil Kumar Shinde. Shinde has also served as the Union home minister. The attachment of assets has been done in connection with a money laundering probe linked to an alleged bank fraud case linked to HDIL promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan. "Rakesh Wadhawan, Sarang Wadhawan and others are being probed for siphoning off the loan to the tune of Rs 200 crore sanctioned by Yes Bank to Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd, by showing it for fictitious purpose," the ED said. Wadhawans "illegally and fraudulently" transferred one commercial property of Mack Star located in Kaledonia building, Andheri East, Mumbai to Jindal Combines Pvt. Ltd at price of Rs 9.39 Crore (having value of Rs 15.64 crore at that time) in 2014 and another commercial property to Orlando Trading Pvt Ltd at the agreement value of Rs 18 Crore (having value of Rs 19.84 crore) in 2016, it said. "However, they paid only Rs 10 crore for the second property till date. The firms are receiving rent of Rs 1.76 crore and Rs 1.39 crore per annum for these two properties respectively," it said. Both the companies, the ED said, are owned by Raj Shroff and his wife in a 50:50 partnership mode.  "Thus, Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan cheated Mack Star Marketing Pvt Ltd  by illegally selling above said properties without consent of the majority shareholder (DE Shaw Group which holds 83.36 pc shares) of Mack Star Marketing Pvt. Ltd. at a very low price causing loss to Mack Star," it said. The total value of attachment in this case now stands at Rs 69.84 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-attaches-assets-of-sushil-kumar-shindes-daughter-son-in-law-in-money-laundering-case-962391.html
15-03-2021||National||Army recruitment scam: CBI books 6 Lt Col-ranked officers and others, carries out searches||The CBI has booked six lieutenant colonel-ranked officers along with some others for alleged corruption in the recruitment of Army officers through Service Selection Board centres, officials said on Monday. The agency also carried out searches at a number of locations in connection with the case, they said. MCSNA Bhagwan of the Army Air Defence Corps, the alleged mastermind of the recruitment racket, is among those booked, they said. The CBI has acted on a complaint from Brigadier (Vigilance) V K Purohit alleging that on February 28, 2021 an input was received about alleged involvement of serving personnel in accepting bribe for clearance of review medical exam of temporarily rejected officer candidates at the Base Hospital in New Delhi. The complaint stated at Lt Col Bhagwan, currently on study leave, and Naib Subedar Kuldeep Singh are also involved in seeking gratification from potential officer candidates at SSB centres, they said. The agency has booked 23 Army personnel and civilians, including relatives of officers, for allegedly demanding bribe and facilitating bribery, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-recruitment-scam-cbi-books-6-lt-col-ranked-officers-and-others-carries-out-searches-962396.html
15-03-2021||National||Imran Ansari resigns as general secretary of People’s Conference||Influential Shia leader Imran Ansari on Monday announced his resignation as the general secretary of the People’s Conference led by former Jammu and Kashmir minister Sajad Lone. Ansari took to Twitter to announce his decision, urging Lone to accept it. "As our Party @JKPC_ is growing and lots of leaders have started joining this caravan of change I am requesting my party President @sajadlone to accept my resignation from post of General Secretary effective today," he tweeted. Ansari, who was a minister in the PDP-BJP coalition government, quit the PDP in 2018 and joined the People's Conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/imran-ansari-resigns-as-general-secretary-of-people-s-conference-962423.html
15-03-2021||National||Parliamentary panel members question legality of new rules for OTT, social media platforms||Some members of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology on Monday questioned the legality of new rules framed by the government to regulate OTT and social media platforms. Tightening the rules governing social media and streaming companies, the Centre had announced last month the Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code applicable on WhatsApp, Facebook, Twitter, Netflix, YouTube and Amazon Prime Video among others. Top officials of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology on Monday deposed before the parliamentary panel on "intermediary guidelines in the context of examination of the subject review of functioning of Central Board of Film Certification." The panel is chaired by senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor. Some members and the chairman asked a number of questions to the officials like whether these rules are in conformity with the legal framework, sources in the panel said. MPs from different parties in the panel also grilled the officials as to why the regulatory mechanism consists of only bureaucrats and not representatives of civil society, judiciary and professionals, they said. According to sources, members also asked the officials whether they had consulted stakeholders before bringing these rules. Briefing the members of the panel, government officials justified the need for such rules in changing times and also explained the rationale behind them. The new rules or guidelines require social media and streaming platforms to take down contentious content quickly, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist investigations. Beyond streaming and messaging platforms, the new rules also set code for digital publishers of news and current affairs content, requiring them to disclose their ownership and other information. Union IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had said that the guidelines for intermediaries and ethics code for digital media are designed to curb misuse of social media platforms as well as streaming services and disclose the first originator of the mischievous information and remove, within 24 hours, content depicting nudity or morphed pictures of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-members-question-legality-of-new-rules-for-ott-social-media-platforms-962428.html
15-03-2021||National||Kerala HC allows transwoman to enroll in NCC||In a landmark judgment, the Kerala High Court on Monday allowed a transwoman to enroll in the National Cadet Corps (NCC). Justice Anu Sivaraman gave the order on a plea by a transwoman, challenging a Section of the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, which excludes the transgender community from enrollment with the NCC. In its order, the court said the petitioner is entitled to enrollment in the NCC senior girls division and the denial of the request of the petitioner for such enrollment is completely unsustainable. Observing that the 'Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 2019' recognises the right of transgender persons to a life of dignity, the Court said the provisions of the NCC Act cannot prelude its operation. The court said in view of the specific provisions of the 2019 Act, a transgender person has the right to be recognised not only as a transgender, but also a right to self-perceived gender identity. "The petitioner will be entitled to participate in the selection process on the basis of her application. If she is successful, the petitioner will be enrolled in NCC Unit", the court said. In November last year, the court had observed that a person cannot be denied legitimate rights merely because he/she is a transgender. The Central government counsel had opposed the plea, submitting that the petitioner cannot be included in the enrollment process for NCC unit of the college because she is a transgender, though assigning herself the identity of a woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-hc-allows-transwoman-to-enroll-in-ncc-962432.html
15-03-2021||National||Over 32% sanctioned posts in central universities vacant: Govt||Over 32 per cent sanctioned posts in central universities across the country are lying vacant, Lok Sabha was informed Monday. The highest percentage of vacancies is in the OBC category, which is over 52 per (3949 out of 7589 posts) in central universities and almost 42 pc (539 out of 1291 posts) in the IITs. The data was shared by Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' in Lok Sabha on Monday in a written reply to a query. According to the data, of the total 7,409 sanctioned SC posts 2,847 are lying vacant across 42 central universities, three Sanskrit Central Universities, Indira Gandhi National Open University, IITs (Non-faculty), IIMs, IISERs and IISc. The vacancies in the ST category is even higher (42.9 pc). But the maximum vacancies are in the OBC category (51.6 per cent) which is 5,142 posts are lying vacant as against a sanctioned strength of 9960, as per the data. Responding to a separate query on vacancies in teaching positions in the central universities including the three Sanskrit Central Universities, Indira Gandhi National Open University, the minister stated that against a sanctioned strength 19,356, there are 6,319 vacancies. “Vacancies in positions sanctioned for OBCs at various levels are caused by dynamic processes attributed, inter-alia, to retirements, resignations, deaths, deputations, expansion and opening of new institutions. “Occurring of vacancies and filling up is a continuous process. Ministry of education and University Grants Commission (UGC) continuously monitor it with Universities,” he said. The UGC has prepared the guidelines for recruitment of faculty in universities, colleges and institutions deemed to be universities outlining the selection procedure and the time frame for recruitment which has been circulated to all universities to adhere the guidelines, he added. The minister noted that the universities have also been requested to take steps to ensure that the vacancies in the varsities as well as in the colleges affiliated are filled up at the earliest. "However, the onus of filling up the teaching posts lies on central universities which are autonomous bodies created under Acts of Parliament," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-32-sanctioned-posts-in-central-universities-vacant-govt-962436.html
15-03-2021||National||India-Bangladesh meet on river water sharing on March 16||Top officials of the water resources ministries of India and Bangladesh will meet here on Tuesday to discuss issues related to river water-sharing and flood forecast, sources said on Monday. The Indian delegation will be headed by Pankaj Kumar, secretary in the Jal Shakti Ministry. The Bangladesh side will be headed by senior secretary Kabir Bin Anwar, the sources added. The meeting takes place ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bangladesh later this month. Sources said the two sides will discuss water sharing of Manu, Muhuri, Khowai, Gumti, Dudhkumar and Dharla rivers. Discussions are likely to take place on further cooperation in the area of flood forecasting, they added. A system of transmission of flood forecasting data on major rivers like Ganga, Teesta, Brahmputra and Barak during the monsoon season from India to Bangladesh already exists. They added that discussions are also expected to take place on drawing water from Feni river for the Sabroom town in Tripura. Further, talks are also expected on a possible Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for drawing water from the Surma river. India and Bangladesh have a robust mechanism in place to address water issues at different levels. An Indo-Bangladesh Joint Rivers Commission (JRC) is functioning since 1972. It was established with a view to maintain liaison in order to ensure the most effective joint effort in maximising the benefits from common river systems. This enables meetings at the ministerial, secretary and at technical experts' level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-meet-on-river-water-sharing-on-march-16-962442.html
15-03-2021||National||Centre-AAP power tussle in Delhi set to revive over Bill on Lieutenant Governor power||The tussle between the AAP dispensation and Centre is set to revive with the home ministry on Monday introducing a Bill in Parliament that gives overarching power to the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, prompting Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to accuse the BJP of “drastically curtailing” the powers of his elected government. According to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in the context of any law to be made by the Legislative Assembly. The Bill that was introduced by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in Lok Sabha makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the lieutenant governor (LG) before any executive action in the national capital. Condemning the "BJP's unconstitutional and anti-democracy" move, Kejriwal said the Bill is contrary to the Supreme Court's Constitution Bench judgement in 2018. "After being rejected by ppl (people) of Del (Delhi), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected govt thro (through) a Bill in LS (Lok Sabha) today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move," Kejriwal said in a tweet. After being rejected by ppl of Del (8 seats in Assembly, 0 in MCD bypolls), BJP seeks to drastically curtail powers of elected govt thro a Bill in LS today. Bill is contrary to Constitution Bench judgement. We strongly condemn BJP’s unconstitutional n anti-democracy move Kejriwal also sought to know what role will his elected government play if, according to the bill, "government" means the "LG". “The Bill says- 1. For Delhi, “Govt” will mean LG Then what will elected govt do? … 2. All files will go to LG This is against 4.7.18 Constitution Bench judgement which said that files will not be sent to LG, elected govt will take all decisions and send copy of decision to LG,” he tweeted. His deputy Manish Sisodia alleged that the Bill will stall Delhi’s progress by giving undue powers to the lieutenant governor. The Bill also stated the Legislative Assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of the day-to-day administration of the national capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions. "Any of the rule made in contravention of this proviso, before the commencement of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, shall be void," it said. "When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly, it shall be presented to the Lieutenant Governor and the Lieutenant Governor shall declare either that he assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the president..." it said. In June 2018, Kejriwal and his Cabinet ministers had staged a sit-in at the Lieutenant Governor’s office as a power tussle between the then lieutenant governor and the AAP government had intensified. The Supreme Court had in July 2018 ruled that the Lieutenant Governor cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. Since the 2018 judgement, there have been no major flashpoints between the Arvind Kejriwal government and the BJP-led central government. However, the Centre's move to introduce the bill in Lok Sabha on Monday is likely to revive the power tussle between the two sides. In a statement issued by the Delhi government, Kejriwal alleged that that the BJP is trying to govern Delhi by gaining entry through the backdoor after losing the assembly elections and the recently held MCD bypolls. While Sisodia alleged that if the Bill is passed, only the Lieutenant Governor will be running the Delhi government, adding that the Bill will render elections and decisions of an elected government for its people as "meaningless". Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said, "All the decisions taken by the Delhi government for the growth of the city have seen an intrusion by the L-G. Files regarding the progress of Mohalla Clinics, CCTVs installation, free electricity, water and schools have collected dust in the LG's office, owing to lack of support from his office," he said. He also said, "Article 3a of 239AA of the Indian Constitution states that subject to the provisions of the constitution, the legislative assembly shall have the power to make laws for the whole or any part of the national capital territory with respect to any of the matters enumerated in the state of list or in the concurrent list in so far as any such matter is applicable to union territories except matters with respect to entries 1,2, and 18 of the state list and entries 44, 65 and 66 of that list in so far as they relate to the said entries 1, 2, and 18." However, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta claimed that despite the NCT of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, about 75 per cent of administrative powers will rest with Delhi's elected government and advised the ruling AAP to not ensue any power struggle. "Even as the Bill is introduced in the Lok Sabha, 75 per cent of administrative power will remain with the local government and it would be better that instead of starting any new power struggle, the Arvind Kejriwal dispensation concentrates on giving good governance and developing Delhi," Gupta said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-aap-power-tussle-in-delhi-set-to-revive-over-bill-on-lieutenant-governor-power-962452.html
15-03-2021||National||Census 2021 work may begin this year||Fieldwork related to housing conditions and amenities for Census 2021, delayed due to the coronavirus pandemic, is likely to start this year with the government sharing with a parliamentary panel a broad five-year item-wise distribution of activities related to the decennial exercise. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs, headed by Congress MP Anand Sharma, in its report on the Demands for Grants for the ministry, said as per the broad item-wise and year-wise distribution of activities for the census, the conduct of pre-test for census and National Population Register (NPR) to test-check the mobile app and CMMS portal has been done during 2020-21. The fieldwork for the first phase of census 2021 will be carried out during 2021-22 even though timelines are yet to be finalised, the government told the panel, as per the report. During this phase, data on housing conditions, household amenities and assets possessed by the households will be collected. This phase of the census work was supposed to be carried out from April 2020 to September 2020 but it could not be done due to the pandemic. As per the revised schedule, fieldwork for the population enumeration phase of the census will be carried out in 2022-23 even though no timelines has been fixed yet. The population enumeration was supposed to be carried out from February 9 to 28, 2021 with a revision round from March 1 to 5, 2021. This crucial part of the census was also could not be carried due to the pandemic. During 2022-23, census work on demography, religion, SC and ST population, language, literacy and education, economic activity, migration and fertility will also be carried out. In 2023-24, results of the provisional census data, primary census abstracts (PCA) providing village-level data on important indicators will be released. In 2024-25, census tables (more than 250 data tables), dissemination of census data customised visualisation tool will be released, besides carrying out other census-related activities. The committee, during its meeting, sought to know from the Ministry of Home Affairs about the reasons for the drastic decrease in allocation from Rs.4,568.00 crore in Budget Estimate (BE) 2020-21 to Rs 3,768.28 crore in BE 2021-22. The MHA replied that the funds under BE 2020-21 were kept for various activities of the ensuing decennial census 2021 to be conducted in two phases. The first phase from house listing and housing census from April 2020 to September 2020 and the second phase namely population enumeration from February 9 to 28, 2021 with a revision round from March 1 to 5, 2021. The National Population Register (NPR) was also to be updated along with the first phase of the census. The Union Cabinet has approved Rs 8,754.23 crore for the conduct of the census and Rs 3,941.35 crore for updating of the NPR. The funds kept would be incurred towards various census preparatory activities like training to 30 lakh field functionaries, the printing of census and NPR material, assistance to States in terms of Technical Manpower. However, due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the first phase of census, update of the NPR and other related field activities have been postponed and accordingly, the allocation for 2020-21 was reduced to Rs 755.00 crore at Revised Estimate (RE) stage, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/census-2021-work-may-begin-this-year-962467.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Important to stop BJP from winning to save democracy: Sitaram Yechury||What is the significance of these elections? What impact will these elections have? The entire world is now recognising that Indian Parliamentary democracy is being reduced into an "electoral autocracy". Using victories in elections is a way of legitimising the disruption of democracy by the BJP. So stopping the BJP from winning elections is an important element in the overall battle in defending secular democracy in India. That is the importance of these elections. In all these states, the BJP should not be allowed to form the government. Apart from all other reasons, the question of saving democracy is of paramount importance. Our objective to ensure the defeat of the BJP in all these Assembly elections. You have already mentioned that saving democracy is one of the main themes of these elections? What are the other major issues? People's livelihood issues, the misery that has been heaped on the people by the BJP government in the past one year, the handling of Covid-19 pandemic, lockdown, economic recession, the loot of national assets, large-scale privatisation, curtailment of liberty, abrogation of labour laws, farmers' protest and price rise are among the main issues. There are authoritarian attacks on democratic rights and civil liberties. There is a 76% increase in UAPA cases. It is a whole package of the destruction of the existing Constitutional democracy. The economic recession began much before Covid-19. The BJP’s whole effort is to convert the secular democratic country into their version of a rabidly intolerant, theocratic, fascistic Hindutva Rashtra. In the process, people's daily life is becoming more and more miserable. So the immediate issues are people's livelihood issues. These elections are very crucial for the Left as well as the CPI(M). The lone state where the Left is in power, Kerala, is going to polls. What are the prospects of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala? Are you confident of the Left returning to power bucking the trend of change in government every five years? We are poised to buck the four-decade-long trend. One of the biggest indicators is the LDF sweeping the local body polls in December last year. That reflects the people's mood, appreciation or the positive assessment of the work done by the LDF during the course of the last five years. Apart from the Covid-19 pandemic, the last five years also saw the state, unfortunately, witnessing a number of natural disasters. On all these occasions, the state government's prompt response and the role it played earned a lot of support from the people. People feel that this is a government that is working in the interests of the people. Another factor is in comparison to what the Opposition is doing. The Congress is in disarray. The Congress, which says it is taking an anti-BJP plank, is playing in tandem with the BJP on the Sabarimala temple issue and gold smuggling case among others. They are actually going with the BJP while claiming to be anti-BJP. All these factors put together, LDF is confident of retaining power. But the CPI(M) are embroiled in controversies and allegations, including the gold smuggling case, Sprinkler, Life Mission case etc, in the past one year. How do you respond? This is the constant theme, a trademark of the BJP. Anywhere, in any state where elections are due and where the incumbent government has to be discredited, they are using central agencies like the CBI, ED etc and that is what we are seeing now. So this game of the BJP also suffers from a total lack of credibility. As far as the gold smuggling case is concerned, everybody knows that the entire issue of smuggling is under the Centre. Why is it that after the BJP came to power that such gold smuggling cases are happening and why in Thiruvananthapuram? Where is the lapse? These are the questions people are asking. So, the BJP wants to use it as a pretext to target the LDF. So you are confident that people will not fall for such allegations? Absolutely. People are seeing this all over the country how the CBI and the ED are being used to target political opponents, to organise defections coupled with money power. Now there is a new 'trishul' -- the CBI, ED and money power. They use all these to intimidate the Opposition. In Kerala, we have witnessed several protests by the cadre against the candidates chosen by the CPI(M). These are unprecedented in a cadre party like CPI(M). Does it mean CPI(M) is weakening organisationally? It is natural that there is resentment when changes are made. We dropped some important ministers and leaders because fielding them is against the core principle of not giving more than two terms to a person. This is the principle the whole country is aware of. One example is my case itself where I did not get a third term in Rajya Sabha. We are a party that has certain values and principles which we seek to implement. Second, this is that we should also understand the reality of India. Seventy per cent of India's population is below 40 years and if you want to be a people's party, that generation must be re-elected in the government. You will find the age composition of the CPI(M) to be the lowest among all the major parties. We are accepting that reality. So changes will happen and when it happens, there will be some resentment, some disquiet. As far as people who are not contesting now, there is no discontentment among them. This is not a big organisational problem. It is not just the cadre but the general public are also surprised at the omission of leaders like Finance Minister Thomas Isaac etc. So what prompted the CPI(M) to take such a decision? The general public has a certain appreciation of the work done by them. So they expect that they will be continuing. The point is, in our party, there is no lack of talent or capability. One must also understand this kind of process is also important for the democratic process so that vested interests don't develop. No other parties follow this principle. Some other parties in Kerala are also now implementing such practices like dropping leaders who contest frequently. What is your take? The Left presence in Kerala has impacted the character of the other political parties. The character of a party in Kerala will be very different from its character elsewhere in the country. The culture of politics in Kerala has put all of them on a different, better footing. You have said that Congress in Kerala is working in tandem with the BJP. At the same time, CPI(M) has electoral understanding in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Assam. Does this create confusion among voters that you work with Congress outside but is fighting them in Kerala? Not at all. This is not the first time that this sort of thing is happening. In the last over 30 years, we have been fighting Congress in Bengal, Tripura and Kerala among other states. Look at 2004, 61 Left candidates were elected to the Lok Sabha out of which 57 defeated the Congress nominees. But then we supported the Manmohan Singh government. What is the interest for the country and the people? Today's interest is to not allow the BJP to win. What is the best way not to allow the BJP to win? That we will be different in different states. In Tamil Nadu, we are going with the DMK. In West Bengal, the Left Front is spearheading the fight along with other parties. In Assam, the Congress-AIDUF is the main plank in which other parties have joined. In Kerala, the LDF is the main coalition to defeat the BJP. Congress is acting in tandem with the BJP in Kerala. That is something they have to answer. In Bengal, there is an allegation that the Left is weakening the fight against the BJP and actually helping them by opposing the Trinamool Congress. It is said that the Left is creating trouble for Opposition unity. How do you respond? It is completely wrong. Why did the BJP gain in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections? The main reason was that the votes against the Trinamool went entirely to the saffron party. In 2019, Congress and the Left were fighting separately. Last time, the voters who are by and large secular did not have a secular option that can defeat the Trinamool and so voted for the BJP. With the Congress and Indian Secular Front entering into an electoral understanding with the Left, this combine is now emerging as a credible alternative to muster in the anti-incumbency votes of the Trinamool, which is by and large secular vote. So if the Congress, Trinamool Congress and others get together in the name of fighting the BJP, it is the surest recipe for the BJP to win. Because all the discontent against the Trinamool will then go to BJP. So are we helping the BJP or defeating them? This argument is based on the premise that politics is based on arithmetic. Are you saying it will be a three-cornered contest in West Bengal? Yes, it will be a three-cornered fight to the disadvantage of the BJP. How sure are you about the Left improving its prospects in Bengal? We will improve. It also could be a hung assembly. In case of a hung assembly, I am for sure you cannot rule out the possibility of the Trinamool Congress joining hands with the BJP given its track record in the past. It has gone with the BJP on a number of occasions, including after Godhra communal violence and the present Chief Minister becoming a Cabinet Minister in A B Vajpayee government. Given that track record, we don’t know what will happen. So, this whole thing of fighting the BJP that the Trinamool is doing, in the context of a hung assembly, how that will happen, given their track record? I won’t rule that out. In case of a hung assembly, will the Left and the Congress support Trinamool Congress? Is that an option? If the Trinamool Congress wanted to control the elements that were attacking the Left and Congress cadres, it would have done in the past. The Trinamool is much more comfortable with the BJP. They have been, in the past. They are the ones who brought the BJP into Bengal, in the alliance. They served under the BJP Prime Ministers. So, are you saying that you are confident of your electoral prospects in Bengal compared to the 2016 and 2019 polls? Yes, definitely. As we head for another set of elections, the imprint of Congress is reducing nationally. How important are these elections for Congress? It is very important. See Kerala now. A very senior leader like PC Chacko quitting and all these rampant things like infighting and groupism etc. For Congress, in order to regain its pan-Indian image, it has to perform very well in these elections. That is important for it. But how well it will do it or not is their internal matter, that they will have to decide. But it is definitely an important election for them. Post May 2, what are you expecting, politically? A better India. Because of the results of BJP losing, and therefore, a better India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/important-to-stop-bjp-from-winning-to-save-democracy-sitaram-yechury-962085.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu Assembly Polls: Key candidates and battlegrounds||Tamil Nadu is set to go to polls on April 6 in a single phase, with campaigning by major political players already in full swing in the state. Here are the key battleground constituencies to watch out for in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: Thousand Lights DMK leader Dr Ezhilan, who was M Karunanidhi's physician and a vehement opponent of NEET, is being fielded from Thousand Lights, which was represented by M K Stalin four times. Ezhilan's father, economist M Naganathan, is the brain behind DMK's colour television promise that sealed the election in the party's favour in 2006. The constituency is considered a DMK stronghold due to the presence of a large Muslim population. The Congress has fielded Mayura S Jayakumar, who was its youth wing chief in the state. Coimbatore South BJP Women's Wing chief Vanathi Srinivasan is being pitted against Kamal Haasan in the constituency. Srinivasan was an active member of ABVP whilst she was a student in Coimbatore and is a lawyer by training. She is one of the longest serving members of the BJP in Tamil Nadu and has been a member since 1993. She contested in the 2016 Assembly election, but lost to AIADMK’s Amman K. Arjunan.  Aravakuruchi Aravakurichi is currently represented by V Senthil Balaji, who won the seat in the by-election held in 2019 by a huge margin. Balaji, who was Transport Minister in J Jayalalithaa government, joined the DMK in 2018 after being disqualified as a legislator for owing allegiance to T T V Dhinakaran.  He will take on DMK's R Elango and Mohammed Hanif Saheel of MNM, and P S N Thangavel of AMMK. Key candidates in the upcoming elections: M K Stalin is seeking re-election from Kolathur, a constituency he represents since 2011. DMK president M K Stalin is the son of former chief minister late M Karunanidhi. Stalin started his political career early and won for the first time from Thousand Light constituency in Chennai in 1989. After which, he transitioned to become the Mayor of Chennai and later on the Deputy Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu under his father M Karunanidhi. Stalin is currently the Leader of the Opposition and if the DMK-Congress alliance gains the majority vote in this elections, he will become the Chief Minister for the first time. AIADMK's Aadhi Rajaram, who lost to Stalin in 2001 in Thousand Lights, will take him on this time, in a different constituency. Palamiswami is the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and took over as the CM after the death of enigmatic AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa. He is the joint coordinator of the party with O Panneerselvam. Palaniswami will be seeking re-election from the Edappadi constituency in Salem district after polling over 85.5 per cent of the votes in the previous Assembly election. In 1998, he also voted as the Lok Sabha member from the constituency. The constituency is an AIADMK stronghold and the chief minister is expecting a landslide victory. He is being challenged by 37-year-old T Sampath Kumar. The DMK feels a local man will give a tough fight to the CM. Udhayanidhi Stalin, an actor-producer, is a third-generation politician from the DMK's first family, following the footsteps of his grandfather, former DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi, and father M K Stalin. He will be contesting from Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni, a constituency in the heart of Chennai and one that has favoured DMK in the past. Udhayanidhi's grandfather and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi represented Chepauk, it was renamed as Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni in 2011 after delimitation, thrice from 1996 to 2011 before he moved to Tiruvarur, his native constituency in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. This Assembly election would be Udhayanidhi’s electoral debut. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-key-candidates-and-battlegrounds-962174.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Actor Debashree Roy quits TMC ahead of West Bengal polls||Noted actor and two-time TMC MLA Debashree Roy on Monday quit the party after being denied a ticket for the upcoming assembly elections. The Raidighi legislator, in a letter to TMC state chief Subrata Bakshi, said she will no longer be associated with the party. "Although, I don't hold any post in the party, but I felt it is necessary to write this letter as I wanted to inform the leadership that I don't want to be associated with the TMC anymore," she said. When asked about her future plans, Roy said she will concentrate on acting but is open to joining any other party if there is a "concrete proposal". Roy was scheduled to join the BJP in 2019 but her plans got scuttled after TMC turncoat and former Kolkata mayor Sovan Chatterjee and his friend Baisakhi Bandopadhyay opposed her induction into the saffron camp. Incidentally, Chatterjee resigned from the BJP on Sunday after he was denied a poll ticket.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/actor-debashree-roy-quits-tmc-ahead-of-west-bengal-polls-962225.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Biggest star in West Bengal is Mamata Banerjee herself: Yashwant Sinha||Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha, who recently left the BJP to join TMC, spoke in detail about the big decision. Talking about Mamata Banerjee and her campaign in Nandigram, Sinha said, "Despite the falsehood spread by BJP, and other adversaries she is campaigning with her foot in a plaster, while hurt." He added that this is something bound to "evoke sympathy of the people and is an added incentive to support Mamata". Sinha further said that it is important for TMC to win the upcoming West Bengal elections as "it will give a nationwide message of assurance". When discussing the minority vote-base in the upcoming election, the former BJP leader said that minorities have always voted "wisely" and that Mamata and TMC have their appeal across all sections, including minorities. "The biggest star in West Bengal is Mamata Banerjee herself. There is no other star who can come anywhere near her," he added. The West Bengal Assembly elections are to be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/biggest-star-in-west-bengal-is-mamata-banerjee-herself-yashwant-sinha-962226.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Congress following Jinnah's footsteps, will destroy India, says Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Instead of following Mahatma Gandhi, the Congress was following in "Jinnah's footsteps", Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Monday, asserting that it would "destroy" the country. Addressing a rally in Naharkatia in poll-bound Assam's Dibrugarh district, the senior BJP leader said that Congress has failed to carry out any developmental work in the Northeastern states since Independence. "Congress is not following in Mahatma Gandhi's footsteps. Congress and Rahul Gandhi are following in Jinnah's footsteps. And Jinnah's steps will destroy Assam and India," Chouhan said, referring to the opposition party's alliance with AIUDF in Assam, ISF in West Bengal and IUML in Kerala. "Congress has allied with Badruddin Ajmal, who has filled Assam with infiltration... He has a perfume business, but is spreading poison in the society... If 'naagraj' and 'saapraj' ally, then Assam cannot be developed," Chouhan alleged. He said that Congress should feel ashamed for joining hands with AIUDF, claiming that even former chief minister Tarun Gogoi did not ally with that party. "Congress has allied with Muslim League in Kerala and ISF in West Bengal. Congress is doing divide and rule politics," he claimed. The BJP leader alleged that Rahul Gandhi is "dividing India" into north and south, while doing the same politics in Assam, creating differences between different tribes and communities. "Congress-ruled Assam for 55 years, but what has it given? Assam, which was not defeated by the Mughals due to the heroism of Lachit Borphukan (Ahom general), Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi gave only infiltration, violence, terrorism, agitation, hunger and unemployment," Chouhan alleged. The Congress has always used illegal immigrants as their vote bank, while Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Assam CM Sarbananda Sonowal took initiatives to curb infiltration into the state, Chouhan alleged. The Congress will "become history" under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, he claimed. "The Congress only knows drama and theatrics. Rahul swam in the sea in Kerala, while Priyanka plucked tea leaves in Assam. She didn't even know that it was off-season! Was there any film shooting going on?" he asked. Chouhan also targetted Rahul Gandhi over his promise of setting up a fisheries ministry, saying that it is already in place. "His tube light lit a little late. This party which is so directionless, how will they work for the development of Assam?" Sonowal was also present at the public meeting. Chouhan was in Naharkatia, which is going to the polls in the first phase on March 27, to campaign for first-time BJP candidate Taranga Gogoi, who will have a triangular contest with Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) president Lurinjyoti Gogoi and Congress' former minister Pranatee Phukan. Sitting AGP MLA Naren Sonowal, part of the BJP-led NDA, is also in a "friendly contest" against the BJP candidate. Appealing to the people to vote for the BJP, Chouhan listed out a series of schemes rolled by the governments of his party at the Centre and the state. "Did Congress do as much work in 55 years as Sarbananda Sonowal did in just five years?" he asked, adding that the BJP government will solve the perennial flood problem of the state by "shifting floodwaters to lakes and ponds".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-following-jinnahs-footsteps-will-destroy-india-says-shivraj-singh-chouhan-962238.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Bill to define role, powers of Lieutenant Governor of Delhi introduced in Lok Sabha||With the objective of giving a proper "interpretation" of a Supreme Court ruling, the government on Monday introduced a Bill in Lok Sabha that seeks to define certain role and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. According to proposed amendments, Section 21 of the Act -- dealing with restrictions on laws passed by legislative assembly with respect to certain matters -- is sought to be revised to clarify that the expression 'government' referred to in any law to be made by the legislative assembly shall mean the 'Lieutenant Governor'. A sub-section shall be inserted to this effect in Section 21. In section 24 of the principal Act -- which requires a Bill passed by the Delhi legislative assembly to be presented to the L-G who may assent, withhold or reserve it for consideration of the President -- an additional clause will be inserted to cover any of the matters that fall outside the purview of the powers conferred on the legislative assembly. In Section 33 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1) after the words "conduct of its business", the words "which shall not be inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in House of People" shall be inserted. Also, in the proviso, for the words "Provided that", the following shall be substituted, "Provided that the Legislative Assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its Committees to consider the matters of day-to-day administration of the Capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions, and any of the rule made in contravention of this proviso, before the commencement of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, shall be void". In section 44 of the principal Act dealing with powers to makes rules for conduct of business, in sub-section (2) -- which states that as otherwise provided in this Act, all executive action of the Lieutenant Governor whether taken on the advice of his Ministers or otherwise shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the Lieutenant Governor -- the following proviso shall be inserted, namely "Provided that before taking any executive action in pursuance of the decision of the Council of Ministers or a Minister, to exercise powers of Government, State Government, Appropriate Government, Lieutenant Governor, Administrator or Chief Commissioner, as the case may be, under any law in force in the Capital, the opinion of Lieutenant Governor in term of proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution shall be obtained on all such matters as may be specified, by a general or special order, by Lieutenant Governor". According to the statement of objects and reasons of the Bill, the original Bill was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the legislative assembly and a Council of Ministers for Delhi and for matters connected therewith. "The section 44 of the act deals with conduct of business and there is no structural mechanism provided in the act for effective time bound implementation of said section. Further, there is no clarity as to what proposal or matters are required to be submitted to the L-G before issuing order thereon," it said. It said that to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court which had ruled that the city government need not obtain the Lieutenant Governor's "concurrence" of every issue of day-to-day governance, the Bill has been brought. The government said it wanted to clarify the expression "Government", which in the context of legislations to be passed by the Delhi assembly, shall mean the L-G of Delhi, consistent with the status of Delhi as a Union Territory to address the ambiguities in the interpretation of the legislative provisions. It further seeks to ensure that the L-G is necessarily granted an opportunity to exercise the power entrusted to him under proviso to clause (4) of article 239AA of the Constitution, in select category of cases and also to make rules in matters which incidentally encroach upon matters falling outside the preview of the assembly. "The said Bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the LG, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Hon'ble Supreme Court," the statement of objects said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bill-to-define-role-powers-of-lieutenant-governor-of-delhi-introduced-in-lok-sabha-962266.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's attack on Rahul Gandhi boomerangs to Kerala chief K Surendran||Kerala BJP state president K Surendran, who is contesting from two Assembly constituencies in the Kerala Assembly elections, is facing the question that the BJP earlier raised against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi - "Which constituency will you quit if you win both?" In the 2019 Lok Sabha election when Rahul decided to contest from Wayanad in Kerala apart from his then constituency Amethi in Uttar Pradesh, the BJP tried to embarrass Rahul by asking which seat he would quit if he wins both. The saffron party widely used this attack during the campaign. On Sunday soon after BJP national leaders announced Surendran's candidature at Manjeshwaram in Kasaragod and Konni in Pathanamthitta, Surendran started facing the same question. But his responses were evasive. Surendran said that he was contesting from Manjeshwaram as he lost the seat just by 89 votes in the 2016 Assembly election, which was allegedly due to malpractice by his competing camps. Surendran had even initiated a legal battle against the election alleging many bogus votes. But the winner in the constituency P B Abdul Razak of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), a coalition partner of Congress-led UDF, who later passed away. However, in the subsequent bypolls BJP fielded Raveesh Thantri Kuntar instead of Surendran. Though he also brought in more votes than that secured by Surendran, IUML's M C Kamaruddin won with a comfortable lead of 7,900 votes as the votes gained by the CPI(M) candidate was much lower. Surendran opted for Konni as his second constituency as it is close to Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and it was the epicentre of the protests against entry of women in the 10-50 age group to the temple. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the BJP witnessed a surge at Konni. The constituency was considered a Congress stronghold till 2016 as Adoor Prakash, who is now a Lok Sabha MP, had been representing the seat for two decades since 1996. While BJP candidate D Ashok Kumar secured only 16,713 votes in 2016, in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, which happened soon after the Sabarimala issue, K Surendran who contested from Pathanamthitta Lok Sabha seat secured 46,506 votes in the Konni Assembly segment, which was very close to Congress and CPI(M) candidates. Even as Surendran contested in Konni in the 2019 Assembly bypolls subsequent to Adoor Prakash being elected to the Lok Sabha, Surendran secured only 39,786 votes and came third while CPI(M)'s K U Jenish Kumar won. Infights in the Congress was said to be the reason why CPI(M) candidate P Mohanraj won. Surendran is hopeful that the Sabarimala women entry issue would still help him gain votes at Konni. Meanwhile, if Surendran fails to perform well in both the constituencies this time, it could be a major political setback to him as already a section of top leaders of BJP Kerala unit were not in good terms with him, especially following his elevation to party state president post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-attack-on-rahul-gandhi-boomerangs-to-kerala-chief-k-surendran-962277.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Suvendu Adhikari seeks rejection of Mamata Banerjee's nomination for 'suppressing' information on criminal cases||BJP leader and candidate from the Nandigram Assembly seat against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Suvendu Adhikari on Monday sought the rejection of the nomination of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo for not declaring that there were six criminal cases against her in her nomination papers. “Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the TMC candidate from Nandigram has not mentioned in her affidavit that there were six criminal cases against her which are currently under trial. Five of them are lodged in Assam and one is a case by the CBI,” said Adhikari. Speaking to reporters Adhikari also said that he appealed to the Election Commission to cancel Mamata’s nomination. “I am hopeful that the Election Commission (EC) will take the required action. I will wait for their decision, It must be as per law,” said Adhikari. According to sources in the office of the State’s Chief Electoral Officer, Adhikari did not elaborate in his complaint what offenses were allegedly committed by the Chief Minister. “We are looking into the matter,” said a senior EC official. The Supreme Court in a crucial ruling in March 2018 stated that a returning officer for an election can reject the nomination papers of a candidate on the grounds of suppressing information such as regarding the candidate’s assets and criminal background. It also stated voters have a fundamental right to know about their candidates and leaving columns blank in nomination papers amounts to a violation of their right.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suvendu-adhikari-seeks-rejection-of-mamata-banerjees-nomination-for-suppressing-information-on-criminal-cases-962292.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Kamal Haasan files nomination from Coimbatore South||Seeking to make his maiden electoral foray from this Western Tamil Nadu city, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Monday filed his papers from Coimbatore South constituency for the April 6 Assembly polls, where he will be taking on the BJP and Congress. Though Hassan floated his MNM in February 2018, he had not contested in any elections but fielded candidates for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Tamil Nadu, where the party got over 3.75 per cent votes. Hassan, the chief ministerial candidate of his MNM-led three party alliance, filed his nomination before the returning officer in Central Zone office this afteroon. The constituency is represented by AIADMK's Amman K Arjunanan in the outgoing Assembly and the ruling party MLA has shifted to Coimbatore North to accommodate alliance partner BJP's Vanathi Srinivasan. Haasan will face Srinivasan, National President of BJP's Mahila Morcha (Women's Wing) and Congress' Mayura S Jayakumar in the hustings. The actor-politician, who has been critical of both the DMK and AIADMK, is fighting on the plank of corruption and good governance. He later told reporters that though there were 234 constituencies in Tamil Nadu, he chose Coimbatore to contest the elections since it was close to his heart. Besides, some vested interests were trying to foment communal trouble in the city, he claimed, adding, his party wanted to thwart such attempts.  When asked if an 'outsider tag' will affect his chances, Haasan said there was no such thing against him and that it could be a creation of some media or those linked to certain political parties. Asked about his priority for the constituency, he said there were many projects which remained unfulfilled like roads, drinking water supply and also the Airport expansion. "I want to make Coimbatore a model city not only at the Indian level but at the international level," Haasan added. "Politics is not my profession like others. Politics is my duty, with honesty," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kamal-haasan-files-nomination-from-coimbatore-south-962300.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Twitter announces initiatives to tackle Assembly polls-related misinformation||Ahead of assembly elections, Twitter on Monday announced a slew of initiatives in a bid to protect public conversation and tackle poll-related misinformation. Announcing the multilingual initiatives, the microblogging platform pledged its commitment to "facilitating meaningful political debate, driving civic participation during elections", in real-time. "With the #AssemblyElections2021 taking place in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Puducherry, Twitter announced a series of initiatives focussed on encouraging informed and healthy conversations between candidates, political parties, citizens, media, and society," it said in a statement. The measures include an information search prompt with the Election Commission of India (@ECISVEEP) and State Election Commissions to provide reliable information around the elections, a custom emoji to encourage participation, a series of pre-bunks and debunks to tackle election-related misinformation, and a youth discussion series titled #DemocracyAdda aimed at voter literacy and civic participation among young Indians for the upcoming elections. These will be activated across six languages including English, Hindi, Tamil, Bengali, Assamese and Malayalam, in order to cater to audiences across India. Additionally, to put a focus on women in Indian politics, the service would be bringing back #HerPoliticalJourney, a video series where women political leaders share their personal stories with leading women news journalists. It is pertinent to mention here that voting for five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal hosting eight phases over a month. Counting of votes in the four states and one union territory will take place on May 2. Payal Kamat, Manager Public Policy and Government, Twitter India, said that public conversation is critical during elections, and "Twitter is where this unfolds". "With digital penetration accelerating in India, more people now have access to credible, authoritative and timely information - crucial tools for exercising their civic rights. By leveraging the power of the open Internet, we are encouraging people across India to be a part of the #AssemblyElections2021 conversation," Kamat said. Kamat thanked the Election Commission of India, the State Election Commissions for their support, and hoped that the platform's efforts would "contribute to healthy and vibrant civic dialogue". Elaborating on the initiatives, Twitter said the information search prompt would make it easy to find credible and authoritative information about candidate lists, voting dates, polling booths, and EVM voter registration, among other election-related topics. The custom emoji is aimed at stimulating participation in election-related discussions. Featuring an inked finger to represent a citizen who has exercised their right to vote, the emoji is available till May 10, 2021. "Twitter is staying ahead of potentially misleading information about how and where to vote by publishing a series of pre-bunk prompts across languages including English, Hindi, Tamil and Bengali based on content by the national and State Election Commissions and civil society partners such as Youth Ki Awaz, Association of Democratic Reforms," the statement said. The prompts will appear on people's home timelines and in search, including information about how to register to vote, and details on EVMs and VVPATs. The prompts would also serve the public with relevant voting information about booths, postal ballots, Covid-19 restrictions and accessibility, among other topics. "Additionally, the service will focus on de-bunking critical issues as they arise with a curated Twitter Moment. These Moments are created based on high standards of accuracy, impartiality and fairness and are designed to feature compelling, original, and diverse content," Twitter informed. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India as per data cited by the government, recently. Twitter had recently drawn flak over inflammatory tweets and hashtags around farmers' protests, with the microblogging service initially refusing to comply with orders to take down about 1,500 such posts and accounts. Twitter complied after the government showed the rule book that contained penal provisions. Amid growing concerns over rampant abuse of social media platforms and spread of fake news, the government, last month, announced new regulations for digital platforms, requiring them to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/twitter-announces-initiatives-to-tackle-assembly-polls-related-misinformation-962326.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||'Rollback Finance Minister' Yashwant Sinha, neither tired nor retired||More than three decades ago, or, to be more precise, in December 1989, when V P Singh was about to be sworn in as the Prime Minister, he offered Yashwant Sinha, then a Janata Dal general secretary, to join his government. Yashwant was, however, offended on being offered the Minister of State (MoS) rank to a ‘senior’ leader like him. He point-blank refused to join the V P Singh’s regime, although V P could not understand his ‘seniority’ as Yashwant barely a year back had become a member of the Rajya Sabha for the first time (as Janata Party MP in 1988) after quitting as IAS officer in 1984. The same Yashwant Sinha, now 83, who earlier served as Union Finance Minister and External Affairs Minister, is now ready to play second fiddle to a much junior Mamata Banerjee who, on Monday, appointed him as TMC vice-president. Yashwant, who snapped all the ties with the BJP and took retirement from active politics at a function in Patna in 2018, is known to ‘reverse’ his own decisions. “I will not accept any post in any party or the government, come what may,” Sinha had vociferously averred in 2018 while hanging his boots. But the man who earned the sobriquet of ‘Rollback Finance Minister’ (during Vajpayee regime) for his rollback on any or every hike, has ‘rolled back’ his own decision to retire from politics. “The attack on Mamata Ji made me decide that I should work with her...,” said Yashwant at the TMC Bhawan in Bengal, while clarifying why he has ‘rolled back’ his decision to quit active politics. Born in Patna in November 1937, Yashwant completed his Master’s in Political Science before cracking the prestigious UPSC examination and becoming an IAS officer in 1960. He served as a bureaucrat for 24 years, including his short stint as an aide to former Bihar Chief Minister Karpoori Thakur in the 70s before joining the hurly-burly of Indian politics. A hardcore Socialists, he became a Rajya Sabha member as a Janata Party candidate in 1988 before joining the Janata Dal in 1989 and eventually Chandrashekhar’s Samajwadi Janata Party (SJP) in 1990. Chandrashekhar rewarded Yashwant for his loyalty in November 1990 when he made him his Finance Minister in the short-lived Union Government (1990-91). Adept at swimming against the tide, Yashwant soon joined the BJP and contested as a BJP candidate during the 1995 Bihar Assembly polls from Ranchi (then in undivided Bihar). He was made Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Yashwant, however, quit from the post in 1996 after his name figured in the Hawala case (along with L K Advani). After his name was cleared, he contested the Lok Sabha election from Hazaribagh in 1998. This time, he was made Union Finance Minister where he continued till 2002 before he was shifted to External Affairs after the UTI scam, where lakhs of people lost their crores, rocked the nation. Post-2004, Yashwant became politically irrelevant and remained mostly in oblivion... Often remaining in news either for slamming Narendra Modi or crossing over the fence for greener pastures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rollback-finance-minister-yashwant-sinha-neither-tired-nor-retired-962329.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||More Kerala women voters than men, but only 9% of Assembly election candidates are female||Even as women outnumber men by 8.27 lakh in Kerala electoral roll, the total number of women candidates among the 420 odd candidates fielded by three major fronts to the 140 seats in Kerala Assembly is only 38, which comes to just nine per cent. Kerala Mahila Congress president Lathika Subash tonsuring of her head in protest against the denial of seat to her as well as many women by the Congress for the Assembly election has triggered discussions on the inadequate representation of women in all mainstream political parties. Subash also decided to contest as an independent candidate at Ettumanoor in Kottayam district, despite Congress leaders trying to pursue her not to make such moves. Congress had allotted the Ettumanoor seat to coalition partner Kerala Congress (Joseph) and the party's candidate Prince Lukose has also started campaigning. Sources point out that of the among about 2,000 odd MLAs in Kerala over the years, the number of women was only around 90. The state only had eight women ministers so far and there were no women chief ministers. Even as legendry Communist leader K R Gowri was once projected as a chief ministerial candidate, it was allegedly scuttled after the elections. This time the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF is comparatively having a higher women representation of 15, while BJP-led NDA and the Congress-led UDF have only ten so far.   Cutting across party lines, women leaders are flaying the lack of representation of women. Kerala health and social justice minister K K Shailaja told a section of media that preferably there should be up to 50 per cent women representation in Assembly elections. CPI leader and National Federation of Indian Women general secretary Annie Raja also slammed the lack of representation of women among the candidates of all parties. Sobhana George, a former Congress MLA who later joined the CPI(M), alleged that she had to quit the Congress owing to the neglect by the male-dominated leadership and at one stage she was even about to take extreme steps in life owing to the neglect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/more-kerala-women-voters-than-men-but-only-9-of-assembly-election-candidates-are-female-962336.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata's injured leg kicks off political spat in West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee's injured leg Monday kicked off a spat between her and Amit Shah, with the wheelchair-bound TMC boss asserting she will fight as long as her "heart beats and vocal cord functions" and the home minister reminding her of the "pain" of the mothers of BJP workers "slain by your goons". The two leaders crossed swords as they went stumping in West Bengal. Shah told an election rally that while the TMC cried conspiracy over the Nandigram incident, the Election Commission had concluded it was not "hamla" (attack) but "haadsa" (accident). "Wait for a few days, my leg will get better. I will see whether your legs get to move freely on Bengal's soil," Banerjee told an election rally in Jhalda, ostensibly trying to get a leg up on the BJP. "I will continue to fight against the BJP as long as my heart beats and vocal cord functions," the West Bengal leader, true to her persona of a street fighter politician, asserted. She said "no conspiracy or injury" can deter her from taking forward her fight against the BJP, which is making a determined bid to dislodge her from power after two successive terms in office. Shah made light of the injury Banerjee suffered during the alleged attack blamed on the BJP by the state's ruling party. "Mamata ji has hurt her leg. But it's difficult to reach a conclusion about how it happened. The investigation is on. The TMC claims it was a conspiracy but the Election Commission says it was not 'hamla' but a 'hadsa'. I wish her a speedy recovery. Didi, you are hurt, you are in pain. It would have been better had you felt the pain the mothers of 130 BJP workers who were killed by TMC goons went through," he told a public meeting in Ranibandh in Bankura district.  Banerjee suffered injuries on her left leg, hips, arm, chest, neck and shoulder as she fell down, apparently during a crowd surge when she was holding a rally after filing her nomination for the Nandigram seat. TMC leaders claimed it was the result of a conspiracy by the BJP to "take her life". "On March 10, I sustained injuries on my body. Maybe, due to good fortune, I was saved. Some may have thought I will not be able to go out at all with my broken leg, but (for me) people's wellbeing is far more important than my own pain," Banerjee, who had Sunday likened herself to a "wounded tiger" that gets more dangerous, asserted. Is she out on a limb in arguably the toughest election of her political career or will the voters give her the much- needed leg-up, only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamatas-injured-leg-kicks-off-political-spat-in-west-bengal-962381.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||Edappadi Palaniswami, M K Stalin, Kamal Haasan file nomination papers for Tamil Nadu Assembly elections||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, Opposition Leader M K Stalin, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan, and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) General Secretary T T V Dhinakaran are some of the prominent faces who filed their nomination papers to contest the April 6 Assembly polls. Palaniswami filed his nomination papers from Edappadi, from where he is contesting for the seventh time, Stalin submitted the election documents in Kolathur, his Assembly constituency since 2011. Dhinakaran, who is R K Nagar MLA, filed his nomination from Kovilpatti in Thoothukudi district, while Kamal Haasan is contesting from Coimbatore (South) constituency. Stalin held a roadshow after filing his nomination papers, while Palaniswami walked more than 100 meters to reach the designation office to submit the papers. A number of ministers, including C Ve Shanmugham, P Thangamani, Sellur K Raju, R B Udhayakumar, O S Manian, and K P Anbazhagan, also filed their nomination papers on Monday. According to an affidavit filed by Palaniswami, the value of movable assets owned by him witnessed a slump from Rs 3.14 crore in 2016 to Rs 2.01 crore in 2021. The value of immovable assets stood at Rs 4.68 crore in 2021 against Rs 4.66 crore in 2016. However, the movable assets owned by deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who filed nomination papers on Friday, increased manifold from Rs 55 lakh in 2016 to Rs 5.19 crore in 2021. Also, the immovable assets which stood at Rs 98 lakh in 2016 increased to Rs 2.64 crore in 2021. His liability increased to 2.72 crore in 2021 from Rs 25 lakh in 2016. Stalin disclosed that his movable properties are worth Rs 4.94 crore, and immovable properties worth Rs 1.17 crore. He is poorer than his son Udhayanidhi who has disclosed assets worth Rs 28.82 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/edappadi-palaniswami-m-k-stalin-kamal-haasan-file-nomination-papers-for-tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-962431.html
15-03-2021||National Politics||AIMIM announces candidates for Tamil Nadu polls||The Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM on Monday announced candidates for the three seats it is contesting in the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. The party named T S Vakeel Ahmed (Vaniyambadi), B M Aminullah Ahmed (Krishnagiri) and M Mujib ur Rahman (Sankarapuram) as its candidates, AIMIM said on Twitter. AIMIM candidates for Tamil Nadu Assembly Elections 2021. The AIMIM has tied up with TTV Dhinakaran's AMMK for the Tamil Nadu elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aimim-announces-candidates-for-tamil-nadu-polls-962437.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Sukhbir Badal to contest Punjab Assembly polls from Jalalabad||Seeking to galvanise support for his party ahead of the next year’s Assembly polls in Punjab, Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday said he will contest the elections from Jalalabad. The Jalalabad Assembly segment in Fazilka was earlier represented by Sukhbir Badal but after his election to the Lok Sabha from Ferozepur in 2019, he quit the seat which was wrested by the ruling Congress in the bypolls later that year. Addressing a rally, “Punjab Mangda Jawab” (Punjab seeks answers), in Jalalabad, Badal hit out at the Congress, alleging that it "looted" the state and reminded people the development works that were undertaken in the state when Parkash Singh Badal was the chief minister. “People of Jalalabad, whom do you want to contest from here, raise your hands and tell,” he asked the gathering. On being told that they wanted him to contest the next year's assembly polls from the seat, Sukhbir said, “I am announcing the name of the first candidate of SAD--from Jalalabad, it will be Sukhbir Singh Badal.” He told the gathering that they will have to fight this battle while he will be fighting “the battle of Punjab”. Earlier in his address, he said, “Poor, farmers, traders and other sections were given facilities during the SAD government as the SAD is the Punjab's party and knows their pain and sufferings." "The Congress party is not a party of Punjabis. It gets orders from the high command in Delhi. AAP is also not a Punjabi party as Arvind Kejriwal gives orders from Delhi. But we (SAD) have to live and die here," Badal said. He announced that if the SAD comes to power, it will halve the power tariffs for domestic consumers and "scrap" farm laws besides announcing the MSP vegetables, fruits and milk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sukhbir-badal-to-contest-punjab-assembly-polls-from-jalalabad-962071.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Cong-AIUDF alliance forged to grab power: Rajnath Singh||Attacking the Congress for forging an alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday alleged that the opposition grouping is only interested in grabbing power by dividing people on religious lines. Terrorism and insurgency have declined in the state leading to the speeding up of the government's development activities, the senior BJP leader said while addressing rallies in Biswanath, Gohpur and Dergaon assembly seats where election will be held in the first phase on March 27. The BJP is the only party that has given due respect and recognition to the icons of Assam at the national level, he claimed. "What has happened to the Congress? When Tarun Gogoi was chief minister for 15 years, he never allied with the AIUDF. But today, they are with the AIUDF. Why? Is it only because of winning elections and grabbing power?" Singh said at Dergaon. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a Grand Alliance consisting of the AIUDF and six other parties to fight the election for the 126 -member assembly against the BJP-led NDA. He also attacked the opposition party accusing it of dividing the country and the state in the name of religion. "The BJP does not do the politics of religion. We are into the politics of humanity for humans," he said. The saffron party leader said that alliances should be forged with an intention to serve the country, not just to form governments. The BJP is contesting this election in an alliance with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and the United People's Party Liberal (UPPL), which are part of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) -- the regional arm of the NDA. Earlier in Biswanath, Singh said that peace has returned to the state with the members of a number of insurgent groups laying down arms in the last five years. "When I knew that I would come to Biswanath, the 2014 massacre of Adivasis here came to my mind... But now, that situation is not there. There cannot be better news than hearing about the prevailing peace in the region," he added. NDFB(S) militants killed at least 81 people, including 76 Adivasis, in Sonitpur, Kokrajhar, Baksa and Chirang districts in December 2014. Biswanath district was created carving out a part of Sonitpur district. After Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed charge in May 2014, the central government resolved to end all forms of terror and insurgency activities, said Singh, who was the Union home minister at the time of the killings. "So many groups have laid down arms in these years... The Assam condition has improved a lot compared to the earlier days. Now, only development and rapid progress are happening," the senior BJP leader said. On the problem of illegal immigration from Bangladesh, Singh said that the BJP-led government has sealed the land border barring a small portion and installed an electronic surveillance system along the riverine border. Whatever minimum portion is left unfenced, it will be sealed once the BJP government returns to power in Assam, he said. Singh informed the gathering that the BJP government in Tripura is also working in the direction to stop infiltration from the neighbouring country. "When there will be a BJP government in West Bengal along with Tripura and Assam, no one will dare to cross our borders illegally. When the results of the Assembly elections will be declared on May 2, you will see the BJP forming government in West Bengal and Assam," he added. Paying respect to the soldiers who sacrificed their lives on the borders, the defence minister said that the BJP is fully committed to internal security and protection of international borders. Without naming Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Singh said: "A congress leader recently came here and visited tea gardens. She was seen plucking tea leaves. What was the need for this tokenism? I feel there should be concrete work on the ground." He appealed to people to ask Congress leaders when they come to seek votes what development their party had made when it was in power in the state. "The development that the Congress did not carry out in all the years took place only during the five years of the BJP government under the leadership of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal," Singh said. Nobody could level a single charge of corruption against either Sonowal or any of his ministers, he claimed. At the rally in Gohpur, the senior BJP leader claimed that the people of the state were neglected by politicians in Delhi before Prime Minister Narendra Modis government was formed in 2014. Modi ensured that one Union minister would visit Assam and the Northeastern states every month to listen to the problems of this region, he added. Only the BJP has given due respect and recognition to the icons of the state at the national level, he said. "The people of the North East are courageous and they can take risks. Assam has given birth to a hero like Ahom general Lachit Borphukan. For the country, he even killed his own uncle," the Defence Minister said. In the Battle of Saraighat in 1671, Ahom general Lachit Borphukan defeated the Mughal force led by Raja Ramsingh-I. The National Defence Academy has the best cadet award in Lachit Borphukan's name, while a Coast Guard ship was named after Kanaklata, who sacrificed her life fighting for the independence of the country, Singh said. The Bharat Ratna award was also conferred on music legend Dr Bhupen Hazarika by the Modi government, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cong-aiudf-alliance-forged-to-grab-power-rajnath-singh-962118.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Five of family burnt to death in Bihar||Five members of a family, including four minors, were charred to death when a fire broke out in their house in Bihar's Kishanganj on Monday, officials said. All the five were asleep when the fire erupted in their residence in Salam colony at around 3 am, sub-divisional magistrate Shahnawaz Ahmad Niyazi said. "Noor Alam and his two daughters Tauhfa, Babli and sons Rahmat and Shahid were burnt to death when the fire broke out at their house. His wife with burn injuries has been admitted to a hospital," the SDM said. On receiving information, fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the blaze was doused, he said. Sub-divisional police officer Anwar Javed Ansari said an investigation has been initiated, and the reason behind the fire incident could not be ascertained. Bodies were sent to the Sadar hospital for post mortem, he said. "We are investigating the matter. The exact reason behind the incident could be known once the probe is completed," the SDPO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-of-family-burnt-to-death-in-bihar-962169.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||JNU sedition case: Court directs Delhi Police to give copies of charge sheet to Kanhaiya Kumar||A court here on Monday directed the Delhi Police to give copies of charge sheet to former Jawaharlal Nehru University Students' Union (JNUSU) president Kanhaiya Kumar and 9 others in a 2016 sedition case. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (CMM) Pankaj Sharma put up the matter for April 7 to scrutinise documents in the case and also granted bail to seven accused who were not arrested in the case earlier. The seven accused include Aquib, Mujeeb, Umar Gul, Rayees Rasool, Basharat Ali, Khalid Basheer who were not arrested before filing of charge sheet. They moved bail applications after which the court granted them bail on a personal bond of Rs 25,000 and a surety of a like amount. Kumar, Umar Khalid (who is already in custody in Delhi riots case), Anirban and seven others were present in court in pursuance to summons issued by the court after taking cognisance of the charge sheet. Kumar and others, including former JNU students Umar Khalid and Anirban Bhattacharya, were accused of raising anti-India slogans. The other seven accused charge sheeted in the case are Kashmiri students Aquib Hussain, Mujeeb Hussain, Muneeb Hussain, Umar Gul, Rayeea Rassol, Bashir Bhat and Basharat, some of them were then studying in JNU, Aligarh Muslim University and Jamia Millia Islamia. The accused have been charged with offences under sections 124A (sedition), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), 143 (punishment for being a member of an unlawful assembly), 149 (being a member of an unlawful assembly), 147 (punishment for rioting) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). A case was registered on February 11, 2016 under sections 124A and 120B of the IPC against unidentified people at the Vasant Kunj (north) Police Station, following complaints from Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Maheish Girri and the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-sedition-case-court-directs-delhi-police-to-give-copies-of-charge-sheet-to-kanhaiya-kumar-962194.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Top Jaish-e-Mohammed commander Sajad Afghani killed in Kashmir’s Shopian||In a major blow to militancy, a top commander of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed outfit, Sajad Afghani, was killed by security forces in a three-day-long gunfight in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Monday. Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, while confirming the killing of Wilayat Lone alias Sajad Afghani congratulated police and security forces for the successful operation. “He (Afghani) was instrumental in recruiting militants in south Kashmir, especially in Shopian. It’s a big success to security forces and I congratulate them for this operation,” he told reporters. On Sunday, a local Lashkar-e-Taiba militant identified as Jahangir Ahmad was also killed in an encounter. A US-made M4- rifle and 36 armour-piercing rounds were recovered from his possession. The gunbattle had erupted on Friday evening after the army and J&K police launched a search operation in Rawalpora village of Shopian following specific inputs about the presence of Afghani and other militants in the area. Due to darkness, the operation was suspended during nights, a police official said. However, the cordon remained intact for two nights. Three houses were also damaged in the encounter while several protesters, who pelted stones at security forces were injured in the retaliatory action by the police. Reports stated a 22-year-old youth identified as Arif Wagay, who suffered an injury in his left eye due to pellets was shifted to SMHS hospital in Srinagar on Sunday. As a precautionary measure, internet services have been snapped in the Shopian district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/top-jaish-e-mohammed-commander-sajad-afghani-killed-in-kashmir-s-shopian-962198.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti revamps PDP structure, names new office bearers, PAC members||Peoples Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti on Monday revamped the party's organisational structure and named new office bearers as well as members of the political affairs committee. She nominated senior leader Abdul Rehman Veeri as the party vice president whereas G N Lone Hanjura, Surinder Choudhary, Amreek Singh Reen and Arshid Malik have been nominated as the party general secretaries, a PDP spokesman said. Mehbooba also constituted a 14-member political affairs committee (PAC) of the party. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister herself heads the new PAC, which also has Veeri, Hanjura, Muhammad Sarjat Madni, Mehboob Beg, Naeem Akhtar, Surinder Choudhary, Yashpal Sharma, Master Tassaduq Hussain, Sofi Abdul Gaffar, Nizam ud Din Bhat, Firdous Ahmad Tak, Muhammad Khursheed Alam and Advocate Muhammad Yusuf Bhat as members. She nominated Abdul Hameed Kosheen, Rajinder Manhas and Ashok Jogi as the party state secretaries, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-revamps-pdp-structure-names-new-office-bearers-pac-members-962280.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||CBI interrogates TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee's relatives in coal scam case||The CBI on Monday questioned relatives of Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee in connection with its investigation into the multi-crore coal pilferage case. The central agency had on Friday issued a notice to Ankush Arora, husband of Menaka Gambhir who is the sister-in-law of Banerjee, for questioning in the illegal coal mining case. The agency also asked Gambhir's father-in-law Pawan Arora to join the investigation. "Both have appeared before the anti-corruption branch officers at CBI's Nizam Palace office here for interrogation," a source in the agency said. A CBI team had on February 23 visited the residence of Banerjee and examined his wife Rujira in connection with the case. The agency also examined Rujira's sister on the previous day on the same matter. Abhishek is West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's nephew. "When Gambhir was interrogated by the CBI, she had told the sleuths that her husband and father-in-law were in the knowledge of some bank transactions. She claimed that she was not aware of anything," the agency source said. Earlier, searches were conducted at the residences and offices of people who are "considered close to Anup Majee alias Lala" -- the main accused in the coal scam. Majee is believed to be involved in the illegal coal mining in the Asansol-Raniganj belt of Eastern Coalfields Ltd and has been evading arrest. The CBI has also issued a look- out notice against him. The investigating agency on November 28 last year carried out a massive search operation in a number of locations in four states -- West Bengal, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh - after registering a case against Majee. The CBI is keeping a close watch on businessmen who have a close connection with Majee, the agency source said. The Enforcement Directorate, another central agency, is also probing the money laundering aspect of the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-interrogates-tmc-mp-abhishek-banerjees-relatives-in-coal-scam-case-962286.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Satyendar Jain asserts Delhi Covid-19 situation under control despite surge||Amid a spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said the pandemic situation in the national capital is "under control" as long as the positivity rate is below one per cent. Interacting with reporters in Delhi, the minister 407 cases were reported on Sunday, and the positivity rate was 0.60 per cent, which is much below the one per cent-mark. "The health bulletin for Monday will be issued soon, and today, about 350 cases have been recorded. So, we are alert, but as long as the positivity rate is below one per cent, the situation is well under control," he said. The situation in Maharashtra and a few other states, where high positivity rates are being recorded, is different, Jain asserted. "In Maharashtra, 16,620 cases were recorded (on Sunday) with a positivity rate of 16.46 per cent, in Kerala, the figures were 1,792 with 3.54 per cent positivity rate. In Punjab, it was 1,492 cases with 4.81 per cent, and in Gujarat, it was 810 cases with 1.78 per cent positivity rate. But in Delhi, it was 407 cases with 0.60 per cent positivity rate," he added. On Sunday, Delhi's daily new case tally crossed the 400-mark for the fourth consecutive day. On Saturday, the city had recorded 419 new Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.56 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. On Friday, 431 new cases were recorded, the highest single-day spike in over two months, while the count on Thursday was 409. Jain on Friday had said the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were "not alarming", and asserted that the positivity rate was still below one per cent. "We are fully prepared and on a full vigil," he had then said, and added that over 70,000-80,000 tests were being conducted per day. The city's Covid-19 death toll on Sunday climbed to 10,941, with four more fatalities being recorded in a 24-hour period, as per the bulletin issued by the Delhi Health Department. With 407 new Covid-19 cases, Delhi infection tally on Sunday rose to 6,43,696||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/satyendar-jain-asserts-delhi-covid-19-situation-under-control-despite-surge-962309.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||8 months after the Rajasthan crisis, Gehlot government admits phones were tapped: Report||Months after a political upheaval in Rajasthan threatened to take down the Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in the state, the state government admitted that phones were tapped. Telephone interception has been done by the Rajasthan Police under the above provision and only after obtaining permission from the competent officer.” The telephone numbers that were intercepted have not been specified. In July last year, the Congress-led Rajasthan government was close to a collapse after Sachin Pilot and 18 other MLAs were given notices by the party after they failed to attend key Congress meetings and failed to respond to meetings. Pilot was stripped of his posts as Rajasthan's Deputy Chief Minister and the party’s state unit president for revolting against CM Ashok Gehlot. The rebel MLAs whose purported phone conversations were circulated while they were staying in a resort in Jaisalmer indicated that a plot was on to topple the government. The Special Operation Group (SOG) had sent out notices after a phone conversation reportedly discussing the fall of the Gehlot government surfaced. The notice alleged horse-trading ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. The Congress faced backlash, especially from the BJP who demanded a CBI probe over the illegal tapping of phones to target the rebels. The Gelot government repeatedly defended its stance and clarified no phones were tapped. “The information was spread to mislead people. Neither the government can tap phone numbers nor it should do,” Gehlot had said on the incident. BJP president Satish Poonia had alleged then that the state government did not follow the legal procedure for phone tapping and has been doing it illegally. Quelling rumours, the state police in a statement said, “No unit of the Rajasthan Police did phone tapping of any MLA or MP, neither in the past nor in present.” The state police said the allegations are "imaginary and false". “The Rajasthan Police always acts to prevent criminal activities and illegal taping is a criminal act,” the statement said. In October last year, two journalists were booked by Jaipur police for allegedly putting out fake news in August that illegal phone tapping of Congress MLAs and ministers, who were staying in a hotel in Jaisalmer at that time, was being done from a hotel in Mansarover in Jaipur. During the crisis in July, the Rajasthan Congress shifted the MLAs of the Ashok Gehlot camp, who were confined to a hotel in Jaipur, to Jaisalmer fearing horse-trading ahead of the Assembly session in August. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/8-months-after-the-rajasthan-crisis-gehlot-government-admits-phones-were-tapped-report-962325.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Police nab lingerie thief after two youths were caught on tape||In a bizarre incident, two youths were caught stealing women's undergarments from a house in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut town on tape. The police later nabbed one of the thieves and have launched a search to nab the other one. According to the police sources here, the residents of Sadar Bazar area in the town, lodged a complaint with the cops on Sunday that two scooter-borne youths had stolen women's undergarments, which were hanging from a drying rack. The police were also provided with the footage from a CCTV camera in which the youths were seen stealing the undergarments, sources said. The residents suspected that the undergarments might have been stolen for the purpose of performing an 'exorcism' and demanded immediate arrests of the thieves. Acting swiftly, the cops managed to nab one of the alleged thieves, who was a resident of Sotiganj in the town, on Monday. ''We are searching for the other one,'' said a police official in Meerut. Police said that they were trying to ascertain as to why these youths had stolen the women's undergarments and whether they had done so in other areas also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-police-nab-lingerie-thief-after-two-youths-were-caught-on-tape-962388.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Punjab class 10, 12 board exams postponed by a month||The Punjab School Education Board on Monday announced the postponement of the final exams of classes 10 and 12 by about a month in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in the state. The exams of class 10 will now start from May 4 instead of April 9, the date which was earlier scheduled, according to a statement issued by the PSEB. The exams of 12th standard will start from April 20. Earlier, the exams were to begin from March 22. The exams of classes 10 and 12 will end on May 24, it further said. According to Janak Raj, PSEB Controller (exams), the three-hour exams of classes 10 and 12 will start at 10 am and 2 pm, respectively. Raj also said there are around 6.40 lakh students of classes 10 and 12 of PSEB in the state. Punjab has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases in the recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-punjab-class-10-12-board-exams-postponed-by-a-month-962392.html
15-03-2021||North and Central||Central team to monitor Kumbh public health arrangements||The Centre on Monday deployed a team of top health officials at Haridwar to review medical care and public health arrangements for the Kumbh Mela beginning April 1. “A high-level central team led by |Dr. S. K. Singh, Director, National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) with Dr. S. K. Jain Additional Director, and Dr Meera Dhuria, Deputy Director both from NCDC as other team members has been deployed to Haridwar to review medical care and public health arrangements for Kumbh Mela, 2021 from 01st April 2021,” a health ministry statement said. Among others, the team will focus on the status of implementation of the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for the Kumbh Mela issued by the Health Ministry in the context of implementing preventive measures to contain the spread of Covid-19 during the Kumbh Mela. “This team will also review the implementation of its field level recommendations given to the State during its last visit, a month back,” it said. Recently, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat had waived off the requirement to produce a Covid-19 negative test report to enter the Kumbh Mela site. He said since lakhs of people were expected to attend the month-long Kumbh Mela, it would be practically impossible to check RT-PCR negative report of every person attending the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/central-team-to-monitor-kumbh-public-health-arrangements-962397.html
15-03-2021||South||Kamal Haasan's car 'attacked' during Tamil Nadu poll campaign in Kancheepuram, says MNM leader||Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan's car was allegedly attacked by a young man late Sunday when the actor-politician was proceeding towards a hotel here after campaigning for the April 6 Assembly polls, a party leader said. Haasan was not injured in the incident though his vehicle's windscreen was damaged. MNM leader and retired IPS officer A G Mourya tweeted that his party chief's car windscreen was damaged and the man who "attempted to attack" Haasan was handed over to the police. Mourya said the party would not be scared by such elements. His tweet was retweeted by the official Twitter handle of Makkal Needhi Maiam. Local television channels aired visuals of a young man, said to be the assailant, being taken away by police personnel for allegedly attacking Haasan's car. Police officials could not be reached immediately for a comment. The youth, reportedly drunk, was allegedly assaulted by some MNM cadres and members of the public. He was later taken to a hospital by the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasans-car-attacked-during-tamil-nadu-poll-campaign-in-kancheepuram-says-mnm-leader-962064.html
15-03-2021||South||Dhinakaran's party and DMDK ink pact to face Tamil Nadu polls jointly||The ruling AIADMK's rival Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam on Sunday concluded a seat-sharing arrangement with actor-turned-politician Vijayakanth-led DMDK and alloted it 60 Assembly constituencies for the April 6 Assembly polls. Under the agreement, DMDK, which walked out of the ruling party-led alliance recently would contest from city segments like Villivakkam, Egmore (Reserved) and Sozhinganallur besides constituencies in several parts of Tamil Nadu. The DMDK, which demanded at least 23 seats from AIADMK snapped ties with it days ago after the ruling party declined to part with it. Candidates previously announced by AMMK for segments now earmarked for DMDK would be withdrawn, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam top leader TTV Dhinakaran said. In a statement, he said that the nominees who have been withdrawn would be given opportunities in future. The decision to allot seats to DMDK was taken considering victory in mind, he said. He urged party workers to slog to establish "Amma's true welfare government," in Tamil Nadu. The AMMK had already allotted six seats to the Social Democratic Party of India and three segments to Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dhinakarans-party-and-dmdk-ink-pact-to-face-tamil-nadu-polls-jointly-962066.html
15-03-2021||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan files his nomination from Dharmadam constituency||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who is contesting the Apr 6 assembly polls from the Dharmadam constituency in Kannur district, filed his nomination papers on Monday. Vijayan, who submitted two sets of papers, arrived at the Kannur Collectorate at around 11 AM following Covid-19 protocols. The 76-year-old marxist leader, wearing a face shield, mask and gloves, was accompanied by party leaders including CPI(M)'s Kannur district secretary M V Jayarajan. In a tweet, Vijayan said, "Submitted my nomination as Dharmadam's LDF candidate. Development and welfare projects implemented over the last 5 years need to be strengthened further. We will stand with the people to ensure a prosperous Kerala. People wholeheartedly say #LDFforSure and we are confident." The ruling CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), is hoping to break the jinx of rival fronts coming to power alternately this time. This is the second time Vijayan is trying his luck from Dharmadam, a picturesque constituency spread over Kannur and Thalassery taluks in the district. The only Politburo member of the CPI(M) to be contesting, this is Vijayan's sixth election to the state Assembly. Earlier, he had represented Kuthuparamba in Kannur thrice in the House--1970, 1977 and 1991 and in 1996 he was elected from Payyannur. In 2016, he won from Dharmadam and is trying his luck again from the constituency. Vijayan was the Power Minister in the E K Nayanar cabinet from 1996 to 1998 and was appointed CPI(M) state secretary following the death of incumbent Chadayan Govindan. In the 2016 assembly polls, the LDF rode to power with a massive majority of 91 seats in the 140-member Assembly and Vijayan was appointed the Chief Minister. The BJP has fielded C K Padmanabhan, a former state president, the Congress-led UDF had allotted the seat to its ally Forward Bloc. However, G Devarajan, Forward Bloc chief in Kerala, who was to contest, said the party has decided to hand the seat, back to the Congress reportedly following directions from the central leadership. The UDF has not yet announced a new candidate. "The Dharmadamseat was allotted to us, but we have decided to return the seat to the Congress", Devarajan told media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-files-his-nomination-from-dharmadam-constituency-962177.html
15-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: After tonsure protest, Lathika Subhash to take 'decisive decision'||Former Mahila Congress president in Kerala Lathika Subhash, who resigned from the post and tonsured her head hurt over the denial of election ticket, on Monday said she would take a "decisive decision" about her political future this evening. Her statement comes amidst widespread speculation that she would contest as an independent candidate from Ettumanoor, her hometown, in the April 6 Assembly polls. "I will take a decisive decision about my future plan this evening. I am discussing it with my supporters and well-wishers. I cannot say anything about it right now," Subhash told PTI. Sources close to her said the woman leader was likely to resign from her primary membership in the Congress party to contest from Ettumanoor constituency, the seat from where she had been keen to contest on the party ticket in the upcoming elections. She had already said she would not join any other political party. However, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Monday made it clear that there was no possibility of any discussions with Subhash at this juncture. Though she deserved a seat, the public protest should have been avoided, the senior party leader reiterated. In an embarrassment to the Congress in Kerala, Lathika Subhash, on Sunday resigned from the post and tonsured her head shortly after the candidate list for the April 6 Assembly polls was released in New Delhi.  The 56-year-old senior leader also shaved her head sitting in front of the Congress office here as a mark of protest. Subhash, who met reporters at the party headquarters Indira Bhavan here, soon after the KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran announced the party list in New Delhi, said it was short of women candidates. Of the list of 86 candidates released by Congress, only 10 are women. A weeping Subhash told reporters that she had tonsured her head as a symbol of protest for all the women in the party who have been toiling hard for the success of other candidates, have been sidelined and ignored by the leadership for years. She also said she did not want to continue in a position that could not earn her even a deserved election ticket. However, Mullappally Ramachandran rejected the charges that she had been sidelined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-after-tonsure-protest-lathika-subhash-to-take-decisive-decision-962183.html
15-03-2021||South||DMK President MK Stalin files nomination from Kolathur||DMK President MK Stalin filed his nomination from Kolathur assembly constituency in Chennai. He is contesting from Kolathur for the third time.   The DMK chief has been representing the constituency since 2011 and is seeking another term, even as his party is keen to capture power from the ruling AIADMK which has been in the ruling saddle for the last ten years. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-president-mk-stalin-files-nomination-from-kolathur-962193.html
15-03-2021||South||AIADMK names two candidates for April 6 Kerala Assembly polls||The AIADMK on Monday announced fielding two women candidates to the Kerala Assembly elections from as many seats for the April 6 eletions in that state. Elections will be held for 140 seats in Kerala where the ruling CPI(M), led by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, is seeking a successive term by bucking the trend of a regime change once in five years while opposition Congress-led UDF and BJP are seeking to dethrone the LDF. B Naseema will fight from Mannarcad while RM Dhanalakshmi is the party's pick for Devikulam constituency, according to the list released by top AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam, Coordinator and K Palaniswami, the joint coordinator.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-names-two-candidates-for-april-6-kerala-assembly-polls-962207.html
15-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami files nomination from Edappadi||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister and AIADMK Joint Coordinator K Palaniswami on Monday filed nomination from his native Edappadi in this district for the April 6 Assembly polls. Palaniswami has won from Edappadi four times (1989, 1991, 2011 and 2016) and the region is among the strongholds of the ruling party.  The chief minister, who walked a short distance to reach the local Taluk office, submitted his required papers. Palaniswami is later slated to address poll rallies in different parts of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswami-files-nomination-from-edappadi-962218.html
15-03-2021||South||Meat delivery platform Meatigo expands to Chennai||Online meat delivery platform Meatigo has expanded its footprint to Chennai, bringing a range of products from fresh raw meat to ready-to-cook delicacies to the consumer's doorstep. The Gurgaon-based platform offers a range of products from Japanese, Korean to Swiss flavours with the option to consumers to schedule deliveries a week in advance. It offers over 150 products including fresh raw meat (chicken, mutton, pork), seafood, exotic meats, delicatessen, alongside delicious ready-to-cook offerings such as momos, burger patties, kebabs as well as International and Indian ready to cook marinades. “There is a huge unmet demand for hygienic and fresh, meat, seafood, and meat-based products. We would also like to introduce our famous momo’s to Chennaites,” Siddhant Wangdi, founder of Meatigo told DH. He said Meatigo operated on an end-to-end supply chain model that includedprocuring 100% antibiotic and hormone-free meats through trusted farms and supply partners, meticulous preparation methods and a scientific approach in the way the meat is cut, packed, stored, and delivered. “We have our own delivery team which delivers an on-demand order in 120 minutes to the customers’ doorstep,” Wangdi said. Currently, the meat delivery platform is present in Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Bangalore, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderabad, Chandigarh. “All the products are inspected by an in-house team of experienced food technologists for freshness, hygiene, and sourcing parameters and are antibiotic-residue and hormone-free,” Wangdi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meat-delivery-platform-meatigo-expands-to-chennai-962331.html
15-03-2021||South||Congress, BJP face off in bypolls to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha seat||The results of the bypoll to the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency being held along with assembly polls on April will impact the position of the two parties in Parliament, but both Congress and BJP are not willing to take any chances as they fight it out to win the election. Bye-elections to Kanyakumari, formerly known as Nagercoil, is being held due to the death of incumbent H Vasanthakumar, an entrepreneur who founded the popular multi-brand appliance showroom Vasanth and Co, in August 2020. The constituency is considered as one of the very few strongholds of the BJP in Tamil Nadu – the party won the seat in 2014 without the support of DMK or AIADMK. BJP has fielded its most popular face in the constituency – former Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan who won in 1999 and 2014 – while the Congress has fielded Vijay Vasanth, son of late Vasanthakumar. The BJP has attached much importance to the bye-election with Union Home Minister Amit Shah campaigning for Radhakrishnan in the last week of February. For BJP, a victory in Kanyakumari will not just enthuse its cadre as the party makes an aggressive push in Tamil Nadu but allows it to go to the town saying the anti-Modi wave that swept through the state in 2019 elections has dissipated. Though Radhakrishnan lost the 2019 poll by a huge margin of 2,59,933 votes, the party has renominated him due to his “popularity” in the district. “We feel the 2019 elections were polarised by the Opposition parties. We now want to win this bye-election to send across the message that people in Tamil Nadu will accept the BJP. We also feel much water has flown down the bridge since 2019,” a BJP leader said. In its bid to retain the seat, the Congress fielded Vijay Vasanth as it felt the “sympathy” for Vasanthakumar, who was quite popular in the region, will help win the people's confidence. The party was under pressure from Christian Nadars to field someone from their community – Ruby R Manoharan's name was suggested – but it went ahead by nominating Vijay Vasanth. While Congress pins its hopes on Christian Nadars, the BJP's main vote bank is Hindu Nadars – both parties polarise the votes capitalising on the long-standing rivalry between the two communities to win elections in this constituency. Radhakrishnan hopes the “development works” that he did during 2014-2019 would come handy for him, while Vasanth Kumar is solely depending on his father's name. As many as 15,67,627 persons are eligible to vote in Kanyakumari bypolls. Since 1952, the Congress has won the seat 11 times, the BJP twice, the Tamil Maanila Congress twice and the CPI(M) and the DMK once each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-bjp-face-off-in-bypolls-to-kanyakumari-lok-sabha-seat-962355.html
15-03-2021||South||BJP candidate in Kerala refuses to contest elections||In an embarrassment to the BJP, an engineer from the tribal community in Kerala announced by the BJP as a candidate for Mananthavady in Wayanad for the Kerala Assembly polls has declined the offer. C Manikandan alias Manikuttan, hailing from Mananthavady said in a social media post that though the BJP national leadership considered him as a candidate for the Manathavady constituency, he was declining the offer with due thanks for considering him. It was with much stress that the BJP national leadership announced on Sunday that Manikuttan, who is the first engineer from the tribal community, will be BJP's candidates at Mananthavady, which is reserved for Scheduled Tribe community members.  Manikuttan, who is now working as a teaching assistant at Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, told a section of media that even as some BJP leaders had contacted him a couple of weeks back enquiring about his desire to contest in the polls, he clarified that he was not interested in party politics. Manikuttan hails from the Paniya tribe community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-candidate-in-kerala-refuses-to-contest-elections-962424.html
15-03-2021||South||Veteran Kathakali maestro Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair passes away at 105||Veteran Kathakali exponent Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair, whose portrayal of Lord Krishna and Kuchela on stage enthralled the audience, passes away at his residence near here early on Monday. He was 105. A Padma Shree awardee, Chemancheri passes away at his residence at Cheliya in Koyilandi, family sources said. Condoling the death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said his passion towards Indian culture and spirituality was legendary and he made exceptional efforts to groom upcoming talent in classical dances. "Saddened by the demise of Kathakali maestro, Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair. His passion towards Indian culture and spirituality was legendary. He made exceptional efforts to groom upcoming talent in our classical dances. My thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Saddened by the demise of Kathakali maestro, Guru Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair. His passion towards Indian culture and spirituality was legendary. He made exceptional efforts to groom upcoming talent in our classical dances. My thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti. Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and various ministers condoled the demise of the maestro. "My heartfelt condolence on the demise of Padma Shri Natyacharya GuruChemancheri Kunjiraman Nair, Kerala's senior-most exponent of Kathakali & Bharatanatyam and mentor of hundreds of dance & Kathakali artistes," Khan tweeted. Khan also said Guru Chemancheri, who has worked with masters of Indian Dance like Uday Shankar and Balabhai, "lived a saintly life devoted to the performance &revival of traditional art forms". "May his soul attain Mukti," Khan tweeted. Vijayan said Guru Chemancheri was an artist who excelled in Kathakali with his talent and commitment. "Guru was an artist who had dedicated his life for the promotion of Kathakali and to train the younger generation. No other artiste has worked so hard to make children enjoy Kathakali. His disciples are now teaching the new generation." "Kerala was amazed to see his performance on the stage even after crossing the age of 100," Vijayan said in a condolence message. The maestro was laid to rest with full state honours later this evening. His portrayal of Lord Krishna and Kuchela on stage always left the audience spellbound and his last notable public performance was at the age of 100. Chemancheri Kunhiraman Nair's tryst with Kathakali, the ancient dance drama of Kerala, began at the age of 14, when he left home to join a Kathakali troupe run by Guru Karunakaran Menon. After years of practice and hard work, he founded Bharatiya Natyakalalayam in 1945, which was the first school of dance in north Kerala and later went on to establish several other dance schools, including the Cheliya Kathakali Vidyalayam in his native village, about 30 km from here. The institution conducts courses on different aspects of Kathakali and has a full-fledged Kathakali troupe. Several awards and recognitions came his way over the years including that of the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi and Kerala Kalamandalam. Born to Chadayankandy Chathukutty Nair and Kinattinkara Kunhamnakutty Amma on June 16, 1916, Kunhiraman Nair had his debut performance at Keezhpayur Kuniyil Paradevatha temple in 1930.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/veteran-kathakali-maestro-chemancheri-kunhiraman-nair-passes-away-at-105-962434.html
15-03-2021||State||The Lead: Rights of forests and right to forest||In this episode of The Lead, former Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force, Karnataka, Brij Kishore Singh talks about the conservation of forests and how one legislation is the acceleration the depletion of forest area.  Ahmed Shariff: Forests are our saviours. It is ingrained in our traditions to honour these green abodes and do so we have some legislations too, one such is the Scheduled Tribes and Other Forest Dwellers Recognition of Forest Rights Act (2006) and Rules of 2008. Now, there some issues dealing with this legislation. To talk more about that we are joined by the Retired Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Head of Forest Force, Karnataka, Brij Kishore Singh, who has written a book, forest rights act accelerated deforestation, detailing the issues about this legislation. Hi sir and welcome to DH Radio. Brij Kishore Singh: Hi. Ahmed: What made you write this book? Brij Kishore Singh: When I went out in different states on the duties assigned by the Wildlife Institute of India, Global Tiger Forum, National Conservation Authority and all the institutes of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, I came across the Act being misused left, right and centre. To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-lead-rights-of-forests-and-right-to-forest-962185.html
15-03-2021||State||'Uttar Pradesh user created SP's fake Facebook account'||Police have discovered that a Facebook user from Uttar Pradesh created a fake Facebook account in the name of Davangere Superintendent of police Hanumantaraya and had requested the contacts of a police officer to transfer money to his bank account. Speaking to media persons, here on Monday, he said Superintendent of Police Hanumantaraya said "my Facebook account was hacked and some miscreants created fake Facebook account in my name on March 14. Besides, the online fraudster had sent friend request messages to my contacts. He had even requested to send Rs 9,000 to his account. Some of them who are already my friends on Facebook and phoned to know the reason for sending friend request again. My wife came to know about it and informed me immediately. I took immediate steps to delete the fake Facebook account and alerted all my friends and contacts through my Twitter account, WhatsApp groups & media. We will conduct an awareness programme on cybercrime shortly. " He said with the help of cybercrime experts, it had been discovered that a man from Uttar Pradesh committed the crime and the investigation is still on in this regard. Online fraudsters are following various innovative methods to cheat people. He advised the public not to share their personal details including email address, mobile number, bank details, debit card number etc to unknown callers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttar-pradesh-user-created-sps-fake-facebook-account-962410.html
15-03-2021||State||‘Increase allocation to Kannada Development Authority’||‘Increase allocation to Kannada’ Congress MLC U B Venkatesh urged the state government to increase allocation to Kannada Development Authority from Rs 2 crore to Rs 100 crore. Border Development Authority has given Rs 5 crore, Maratha Development Authority (MDA) received Rs 50 crore in the state budget, he said, demanding the state government to sanction at least double of what was sanctioned to MDA. “We are not objecting to the decision to sanction Rs 50 crore to MDA,” he added.  RSS conspiracy to end quota: Hariprasad Alleging that the movements by various communities in Karnataka seeking reservation were motivated by the RSS, Congress leader B K Hariprasad said that the organisation was conspiring to end reservation in the country. “RSS leaders cannot go to people and say that they want to end reservation. That is why, they are encouraging well-off castes to press for reservation,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/increase-allocation-to-kannada-development-authority-962418.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CAG raps Karnataka govt over pending road works||A large number of road works have remained incomplete for years despite the state government investing a “substantial” amount of money, according to the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), which rapped the government for not furnishing reasons for the non-completion of these works. These projects are worth Rs 2,341.53 crore and a majority of them are road works.  The CAG report on Finance Accounts tabled in the ongoing legislature session shows that 1,778 works worth Rs 2,164.53 crore were approved between 2015 and 2019 and were pending for nearly five years, while a total of 38 works worth Rs 177 crore and sanctioned between 2010-14 were pending for more than five years. “A scrutiny of information furnished by different Public Works/Irrigation Department has revealed that a large number of works in which substantial amount was spent are remaining incomplete,” the report said. Among the pending works, around 70% of them were road works followed by irrigation projects and bridges. Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, who heads the Public Works Department, cited several factors for the delay. “For bridges and culverts, the delay is primarily due to lack of working season due to rainfall. If rainfall is more in the pre-monsoon season, all these works cannot be taken up,” he told DH. When it comes to roads, contractor delays and litigation in courts are the major reasons for the pendency. In some cases, a shortage of funds is also causing delays, Karjol added. A senior official in the PWD said extra works assigned in the middle of the year — for which no allocations are made in the budget — also contributed to the pendency. “If new projects are approved in the middle of the year, funds are generally diverted from other projects. This is also among the reasons for projects to be kept pending for years,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cag-raps-karnataka-govt-over-pending-road-works-962056.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Panchamasalis withdraw protest after Karnataka CM BSY assures reservation report||The Panchamasali lingayats on Monday called off their protest after an assurance by Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa to look into their reservation demand within six months. The community, led by seer Jayamrutyunjaya Swamy, has been protesting for close to a month at Freedom Park, demanding that they be included under 2A reservation category. Before arriving at Freedom Park, the seer had taken up a 'Padayatra' from Kudalasangama to Bengaluru. The seer called off the protest after Yediyurappa assured in Karnataka Legislative Assembly that the report on the reservation demand would be ready within six months. The government has handed over the job to Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission. Apart from the Commission's report, a committee led by a retired High Court judge, is also looking at the reservation demands of various communities. This report too, would be ready in six months, Yediyurappa stated on the floor of the House. Speaking to DH, the seer said he had withdrawn the protest after the CM's assurance. "We will give the government six months' time as sought by them. If they fail to meet our demands, we will start a massive protest again," he said. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Basangouda Patil Yatnal, who has been at the forefront of the Panchamasali stir, asked the government to recall the committee. "When the Backward Classes Commission, which is a quasi-judicial body, is already looking into it, what is the need for another committee?" he sought to know. He, however, thanked the CM for assuring to take a decision on their reservation demand within six months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/panchamasalis-withdraw-protest-after-karnataka-cm-bsy-assures-reservation-report-962274.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will contest next Assembly election: Siddaramaiah clears the air around his political future||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday announced that he would contest the next Assembly election, drawing curtains on speculation over his political future. “I will contest the next election. I won’t run away,” Siddaramaiah said in the Legislative Assembly during his speech on the Budget, which took a brief political detour. “Let there be no doubt on this. I hope I’ve clarified this to the people of the state.”  Siddaramaiah said this after Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri nudged him to spell out what he had in mind.  The BJP was quick to point out that Siddaramaiah’s announcement was not only aimed at the people of the state, but also those within the Congress. Ostensibly, they meant Karnataka Pradesh Congress President (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar.  It is no secret that Siddaramaiah is nursing his ambition to become chief minister for a second term, which could come in the way of Shivakumar’s shot at the top post if the Congress is to win the next Assembly elections scheduled in 2023.  Siddaramaiah had said that the 2018 Assembly election would be his last. However, there is pressure on him from his loyalists within the party to contest the next election. “It is not for (Siddaramaiah) to decide,” former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar said during this exchange.  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, in a banter, said Siddaramaiah had conveyed the message to the right people within his party by announcing his intention to contest the next election. Minutes after Siddaramaiah said that, Shivakumar walked into the Assembly. “See, I was right,” Bommai quipped.  When Revenue Minister R Ashoka asked Siddaramaiah which constituency he would contest from, the Congress leader jokingly said Padmanabhanagar, which is Ashoka’s turf. He later said, “I'm now representing Badami. I will continue there.”  Earlier, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Siddaramaiah’s dream of coming to power would remain unfulfilled. “Your dream is impossible. Also, you are criticising the Budget, which women have welcomed across the board. On the basis of this Budget, let’s both go to the people in the upcoming bypolls. We will see what people decide,” Yediyurappa said. To this, Siddaramaiah dared Yediyurappa to dissolve the Assembly and face fresh elections. “Why bypolls? If you are so confident, dissolve this Assembly. Let's see who gets the mandate,” he said.  Siddaramaiah was the first chief minister in four decades to complete the full five-year term. In the 2018 polls, he contested from two seats - Chamundeshwari and Badami. He lost Chamundeshwari badly, while winning Badami in what was a close call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-contest-next-assembly-election-siddaramaiah-clears-the-air-around-his-political-future-962278.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to scale up Covid-19 vaccination as cases surge||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday asked officials to scale up vaccination in seven districts that are seeing a surge in Covid-19 cases and directed strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols as experts warned of a second wave of infections. With cases climbing steadily for the past few days, including in Bengaluru, the state government also decided to keep Covid Care Centres (CCCs) on stand by and hold talks with private hospitals for sharing of beds for treating patients. The developments came after Yediyurappa held a high-level meeting on Monday with experts of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee and other stakeholders on the Covid-19 situation in the state. Following an hour-long discussion, Yediyurappa said that the government will decide on further action on Wednesday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a video conference meeting with all the chief ministers to assess the Covid-19 scenario in various states. “Experts have made various recommendations which will be discussed with the central government during the meeting with the PM on Wednesday. Until then, I appeal to people to abide by Covid rules and avoid going to mass gatherings,” Yediyurappa said. Pointing at the rising caseload, experts who briefed the CM said this could be the sign of a second wave. “Experts asked us to keep CCCs on stand-by besides holding talks with private hospitals for sharing of beds. In the last 14 days, the positivity rate in seven districts has gone up considerably. Luckily, the mortality rate is under control,” Yediyurappa explained. Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, Tumakuru, Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Kalaburagi and Bidar have reported high positivity rate in the last fortnight. Directing officials to scale up vaccination in all the seven districts, Yediyurappa said so far "only 58% of the frontline staff had been vaccinated". "Our target shall be 3 lakh vaccinations per day as we have sufficient infrastructure to inoculate about 100 persons per day,” he added. The CM appealed to the public to cooperate in containing the spread of the virus, failing which another round of lockdown restrictions will have to be imposed. "Everyone must strictly comply with the Covid rules — wearing a mask and maintaining social distance — and avoid taking part in large gatherings of more than 500 people. Today, about 80% of people are not wearing masks,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-scale-up-covid-19-vaccination-as-cases-surge-962341.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Day not far off when Congress will come back to power in Karnataka, says Siddaramaiah||The day was not far off when the Congress would occupy the treasury benches in the Karnataka Assembly, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said as he asserted that the party would come back to power after the next assembly polls in 2023. The former Chief Minister targeted the ruling BJP on various fronts, especially over its handling of the state's finances. Speaking during the discussion on the budget, he questioned whether anyone could call it a good one, prompting Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to intervene and ask "what would you have done if you were in my position?" To this, Siddaramaiah retorted that if he were given the opportunity, he would have said what has to be done. "...You give up the seat for me, I will say (what should have been done). "People will certainly give us (the position) next time... they will change (the party in power). The day is not far off when we will come and occupy your seat We will come back (to power)," he asserted. The LoP also said that looking at the way the government was functioning, people would not sit quiet during the next assembly election. Replying to Siddaramaiah, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai tried to justify the presentation of the deficit budget by stating that it was unprecedented due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He pointed out that when Siddaramaiah was Chief Minister in the past, revenue surplus had dwindled despite there being no pandemic or economic slowdown and said the people, looking at their performance, had made them sit in the opposition. "How can you come back when your performance is so dismal? it is impossible," Bommai added. Siddaramaiah said probably never in the history of Karnataka had such an 'anti-development' budget been presented. A revenue deficit budget had never been presented since 2004-05 till date in the state after the passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, he said. "This is for the first time that a deficit budget has been presented," he said. Noting that Karnataka would have borrow a loan to set right the revenue deficit, Siddaramaiah, who has held the finance portfolio in the past, said the loan is usually taken for asset creation. He also expressed deep concern over raising committed expenditure and urged the government to take corrective measures immediately. Targeting the government for its 'inability' to get the state's share of funds and grants from the centre, he asked, "why did you fail to take it or ask the PM for it? Despite having 25 BJP MPs from Karnataka, the Finance Minister also represents the state...are you scared? I fail to understand. It is our right."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/day-not-far-off-when-congress-will-come-back-to-power-in-karnataka-says-siddaramaiah-962361.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shiv Sena raising Karnataka border issue to divert attention, says Udasi||Shiv Sena is trying to rake up the border issue with Karnataka to divert the attention of the people of Maharashtra to cover up the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government's failure in administration, Karnataka BJP MP Shivakumar Udasi alleged in the Lok Sabha on Monday. “Shiv Sena has failed miserably to maintain law and order situation in Maharashtra. To divert the people's attention, Shiv Sena is raking up the border issue,” he said in Lok Sabha. The Belagavi issue was settled long back as the Mahajan report was final in that matter. By raising the border issue, Shiv Sena is trying to create tensions among people residing in the border villages, Udasi said. Udasi was countering Sena MP Arvind Sawant, who during Zero Hour alleged that Shiv Sena leaders were attacked by pro-Kannada activists in Belagavi. Sawant alleged that Marathi-speaking people in Karwar and Belagavi were under threat from pro-Kannada activists. The remarks evoked a strong response from BJP MPs from Karnataka, who got up from their seats and started protesting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shiv-sena-raising-karnataka-border-issue-to-divert-attention-says-udasi-962402.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Offline classes unlikely to reopen for primary students amid Covid-19 surge in Karnataka||It now seems unlikely that the government will reopen offline classes for primary grades this academic year, considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state. As per the earlier announcement by the department of public instruction (DPI), Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar was supposed to have a meeting with the state technical advisory committee over Covid-19 on February 24 and 25, to discuss reopening of primary grades. But the meeting has still not been conducted. According to sources from DPI, the technical advisory committee has not responded to the communication by the commissioner for public instruction, seeking permission to reopen offline classes for grades 1 to 5, at least under Vidyagama. "Now, looking at the number of cases being reported every day, we don't think it is feasible to reopen classes for grades 1 to 5, considering the safety of children," said a senior official from the department. The parents are also not in a mood to send their wards to school at this juncture. Speaking to DH, Sameeksha, the mother of a class 4 child, said, "The school is already conducting the assessments and the academic year has almost come to an end. Sending children to schools at this point is both risky and unnecessary." When it comes to government schools, the parents are not willing to send the children to school, following the unavailability of mid-day meals or milk there. Currently, offline classes are being conducted for grades 6 to 12 across the state. But in Bengaluru Urban and districts bordering Kerala, the schools are functioning only for grade 8 and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/offline-classes-unlikely-to-reopen-for-primary-students-amid-covid-19-surge-in-karnataka-962411.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Only 29.91% rural households in Karnataka have piped water supply||Just 29.91 per cent of rural households in Karnataka have piped drinking water connection against the national average of 36.83 per cent, Union Ministry of Jal Shakti said in Parliament on Monday. As per the rural households piped drinking water connection data provided by the ministry, of the total 91.19 lakh rural households only 27.27 lakh (29.91 per cent) houses have piped drinking water supply in Karnataka. Among the 19.19 crore rural households in the country, a total of 7.06 crore ( 36.83 per cent) households have piped water connections. As per Jal Shakti Ministry, Karnataka is in the 19th position among all states and union territories in India in providing drinking water supply to individual households while Goa and Telangana are in the top with 100 per cent coverage followed by Andaman and Nicobar at 98.29 per cent. In Karnataka, at 56.98 per cent, the Mandya district stood first in providing piped water to households with 2.20 lakh houses having water connection against a total of 3.87 lakh households. It is followed by Dakshina Kannada with 52.57 per cent coverage (1.52 lakh households got water connection against total 2.89 households). Dharwad and Koppal are other two districts that have 45.53 per cent and 43.07 per cent coverage, respectively. Uttara Kannada is the worst among all districts in the state with just 8.86 per cent coverage as it provided water supply to 23,721 houses against a total of 2.67 lakh houses in the district. Yadgir is another district with poor performance as just 34,194 houses have water connection against total od 2.22 lakh houses followed by Hassan with just 15.95 per cent coverage as against of the total 4.19 lakh households only 66,859 houses have piped water connection. Interestingly, Bengaluru Rural district has just 19.28 per cent coverage (of the total 1.77 lakh households only 34,245 houses water connection) and Bengaluru Urban district 20.51 per cent coverage with water provided to only 61,263 houses of the 2.98 lakh households. Chikkaballapur, Vijayapur, Bidar, Kalaburagi are other districts, which have poor progress in providing water connection to houses. Even districts including Davangere, Kolar, Chikkaballapur and Tumakuru, Chitradurga and Dhrward have made poor progress in utilising funds under centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission aimed at providing water connection to rural households. Dakshina Kannada, Gadag, Ballari, Hassan and Haveri have made progress in providing piped water supply to rural households utilising funds under the Jal Jeevan Mission. The Jal Shakti Ministry launched Jal Jeevan Mission in August 2019 to provide 55 litres of potable water per person per day to every rural household in the country by 2024.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/only-2991-rural-households-in-karnataka-have-piped-water-supply-962413.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Mysore Race Club: HC asks state to furnish Cabinet note, records||The High Court on Monday directed the state government to submit Cabinet notes and other relevant documents in connection with the extension of lease of land in Mysuru in favour of Mysore Race Club. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing the PIL challenging the extension of lease of almost 140 acres of land to the Club. Going through the statement of objections, the bench said that the stand taken by the government was shocking. The court observed that valuable government property cannot be squandered. The government said the decision was prerogative and taken in the interest of boosting sporting activities and also considering that Mysuru is a tourist destination. The court asked the government on what basis the statement has been made that terms and conditions, including annual lease, are yet to be fixed. The order dated January 17, 2020, extending the lease, mentioned that the rent recoverable is equivalent to 2% of the club’s income. The bench pointed out that the state will have to justify the statement in the light of the law laid down by the Apex Court in the Akhila Bharatiya Upabhogta Congress case. The Supreme Court held that a state government cannot allow its property without putting the same in a public auction. The court directed the government to produce documents, including the cabinet note and decision. The petition is filed by city-based advocate Umapathi S. The petitioner stated that 139.39 acres of land in survey number 4 and 74 in Kurubarahalli village of Mysuru city was leased out in favour of Mysore Race Club in 1970. The lease was renewed from time to time and eventually expired in 2016. The petitioner alleged that the state suffered loss by way of lower rent on the government land. The petitioner claimed that the grant of land was without any public interest and benefited only a few rich and influential persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mysore-race-club-hc-asks-state-to-furnish-cabinet-note-records-962415.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HC asks Karnataka govt to furnish guidelines on infra at anganwadis||The High Court on Monday directed the government to place on record guidelines, if any, on the infrastructure at anganwadis centres in the state. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka asked the government to file an affidavit in response to the inputs provided by various district legal services authorities. The 2011 petition was moved by an applicant, pointing out that as a result of Covid-19 and subsequent lockdown, there is every possibility that the number of malnourished children has gone up. The applicant who moved the petition said that the integrated child development services (ICDS) scheme also could not be implemented as anganwadis were closed during lockdown. The applicant had cited a recent Supreme Court order in January 2021 in which the states and union territories (UTs) were asked to take a decision to open the anganwadi centres. The Supreme Court had also directed the states to ensure that nutritional standards as provided under the National Food Security Act, 2013, are fulfilled. In the previous hearing, the court had observed that the scope of the petition is not confined only to malnourished children, but is applicable to malnutrition among pregnant women and lactating mothers also. The court had asked the government to ensure compliance with the directions issued by the Apex Court. The district legal cell authorities had submitted that they had visited some of the anganwadis and reports on the condition of the centres were submitted. The court had asked the government to file a response to the reports.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hc-asks-karnataka-govt-to-furnish-guidelines-on-infra-at-anganwadis-962416.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision on 10% EWS quota soon, says Bommai||Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday told the Legislative Assembly that the state government will soon issue an order on the 10% reservation for economically-weaker sections.  Bommai said that the Cabinet will make a decision soon after Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri joined BJP legislators Vedavyas Kamath and V Sunil Kumar in urging the government to make sure the 10% EWS quota benefited people, especially students.  “The state government has clarity on this. The Constitutional amendment brought by the Modi administration for those who don’t have any quota and are economically-backwards should benefit Kannadigas also,” Bommai said. “An earlier order that was issued did not have clarity. A clear order will be issued soon,” he added.  In January 2019, the Centre notified 10% reservation in government jobs and admissions into educational institutions for families from the upper caste communities whose annual income is below Rs 8 lakh.  “Some 8-10 states have implemented this and this should be expedited, especially for students, in Karnataka. There’s a disappointment that this is getting delayed. If PM Modi’s decision isn’t implemented in Karnataka, it doesn’t bode well,” Kageri said, urging the government to act fast.  Bommai said that the government was studying decisions taken in Goa and Gujarat on the 10% EWS quota. “We have already discussed this. We will notify the communities that should come under this since there are complaints that many have been left out as per an earlier order. We will discuss with the Revenue department so that these communities are given certificates,” he said.  Kamath, the Mangalore City (South) MLA, said several communities were not getting certificates under the 10% EWS quota, citing the example of the Goud Saraswat Brahmins. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar gave the example of the Vadi Vysya community in the Uttara Kannada district saying they were eligible to receive the benefit of the 10% EWS quota.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-on-10-ews-quota-soon-says-bommai-962421.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||For inmates of old age homes, vaccine jab remains a dream||Not many inmates of the eldercare or old age homes in the city have received the Covid-19 vaccine as most of them are bedridden or suffer from dementia. Several old age homes across the city told DH that none of their elderly residents, who are at high risk of contracting the virus, have gotten vaccinated. Arranging an ambulance for every trip to the hospital is unviable, they say. This was a common problem with branches of Navachaitanya old age home in Horamavu and Mysuru Road and Sri Chaithanya old age home in JP Nagar. Navachaithanya Home director said while they're ready to pay private facilities for the jab, but they are not allowed to come home and vaccinate. Cheshire Homes in Old Airport Road and Whitefield were not keen on getting jabs to their inmates at private facilities as they had to spend Rs 250 per person. Add to it, they were unable to secure slots in government facilities. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bushan while responding to state minister BC Patil's vaccination at home in March first week, had said that this was not allowed in the protocol. Sreedhar V, trustee member of Santhvana Seva old age home, RR Nagar, told DH, "We have 47 residents aged between 60 and 96 years. Of which, 65% are women. We are waiting for someone from the government to make sure our residents get vaccinated. Due to financial reasons, we cannot take our residents to private hospitals and get vaccinated. At least, we need donors to come forward and support our residents with the Rs 250 they need for the vaccination." "We have bedridden patients. We can get them vaccinated only if a camp is arranged here. We can't take them to a hospital," he added. The Kengeri-based Medicos Help, an assisted living home for the elderly, houses 15 residents all aged above 80, the oldest being 94 years old. Medicos Help co-founder Manoj Sreedharan, said, "We only house terminally ill patients to whom we provide palliative care. They cannot be moved as they're bedridden. But the government is vaccinating only those who can visit a hospital. I don't know when our turn will come. Taking each of them in an ambulance is difficult. Most of their children live abroad or in other states." There are 50 senior citizens in the Mysuru Road branch of Navachaitanya old age home and 90 elderly in the Horamavu branch. Manjula Shubhashri, director of the home, told DH, "We haven't been getting any vaccination slot. We've enquired at many health facilities. We cannot take them far as they're bedridden. We are ready to pay for the vaccination. But we're not getting any healthcare provider who will come here and vaccinate. Their family members don't take responsibility."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/for-inmates-of-old-age-homes-vaccine-jab-remains-a-dream-962433.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CM Yediyurappa tells affected districts to step up vaccination drive||Going by the recommendations of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee, the state government has decided to scale up the vaccination drive in all the districts that have reported a high positivity rate especially the Bengaluru Urban. Holding the review of the Covid-19 scenario in the affected districts, CM Yediyurappa directed the district administration to scale up the vaccination to counter the possible surge of the second wave across Karnataka. Directing the officials from Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to strictly enforce the Covid rules, Yediyurappa said, "The experts have advised us to take up vaccination in every apartment complex and we will examine it. Further, they have also advised us to go by the voters' list to identify the senior citizens and vaccinate them in both the urban and rural areas.  I have specifically asked the officials to scale up vaccinate in slums and rural pockets of the city." Acknowledging non-compliance of Covid rules in large gatherings, Yediyurappa said, "Be it marriage, cultural, religious or political event, the gathering shall not have more than 500 people. In case of violation, strict action will be initiated against the organisers. There have been complaints that public and private carriers are carrying more than the allowed number of passengers. Directions have been issued to regulate such carriers and ensure they comply with social distancing rule." Considering that most of the positive cases have a history of travel either to Kerala and Maharashtra, CM said, "All the border districts and those with high positivity rate have been told to keep an eye on the returnees from these states and direct them to serve mandatory home quarantine rules."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cm-yediyurappa-tells-affected-districts-to-step-up-vaccination-drive-962445.html
15-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 900-plus Covid-19 cases for third day straight||Karnataka logged 932 fresh Covid-19 cases and seven related fatalities on Monday as the total number of infections crossed 9.61 lakh-mark while the toll reached 12,397. This is the third consecutive day the state has reported 900-plus cases. The day also saw 429 patients getting discharged taking the total recoveries to 9,39,928. Of the 8,860 active cases, 125 are in ICUs across the state. Bengaluru Urban accounted for five deaths, the other two were reported from Bidar and Mysuru. The state capital continued to top the list of fresh cases, with 550 infections in the last 24 hours. Dakshina Kannada recorded 65 fresh infections followed by Mysuru 46, Kalaburagi 43 and Tumakuru 40. A total of 1,98,52,955 samples have been tested so far, out of which 62,358 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-900-plus-covid-19-cases-for-third-day-straight-962448.html
15-03-2021||West||Indian Navy reaches out to fisherfolk community||As part of 'Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav' launched by the Government of India, various fishermen community interaction programmes were initiated simultaneously by the Indian Navy along the West coast of India.  The activity coordinated by Western Naval Command saw several teams comprising personnel from Indian Navy, Coast Guard, Coastal Security Police and representatives of the State Fisheries Department visited more than 50 fishing villages along the coasts of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, and Karnataka on 12 March, the day of commencement of the Mahotsav.   The opportunity was utilised to strengthen the bond between coastal security agencies and fishermen who operate in the same environment.  As part of this interaction, various activities like lectures on aspects of safety, coastal security, the vital role of fishermen in supporting security agencies, and demonstrations on the use of Life Saving and portable Fire Fighting Equipment at sea were conducted.  Naval teams from Karnataka Naval Area visited coastal villages of Karwar taluka which included Tadadi, Honavar, Kumta, Majali, Baithkol, Mudaga, Belekeri and Ankola.  The Goa Naval Area teams carried out interaction programmes with the fishermen community at Chapora and Chicolna villages.  The teams from Gujarat Naval Area visited various coastal villages that included Subhash Nagar, Miyani, Navi Bandar, Madhavpur, Kuchudi, Odadar, Beyt Dwarka, Dwarka, Okha and Aarambada. Similarly, the naval teams belonging to Maharashtra  Naval Area visited over 30 fishing villages all across the state. The event saw enthusiastic participation from the fishing community and naval teams were warmly received at every village they visited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navy-reaches-out-to-fisherfolk-community-962116.html
15-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: 1,134 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 5 more deaths||With the addition of 1,134 new cases of coronavirus, the infection count in the Thane district of Maharashtra has reached 2,76,586, an official said on Monday. Besides these new cases reported on Sunday, the virus also claimed the lives of five more persons, raising the death toll in the district to 6,337, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the district is 2.29 per cent, he said. So far, 2,60,931 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 94.34 per cent. As of now, there are 9,318 active Covid-19 cases in Thane, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 46,709 and the death toll at 1,207, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-1134-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-5-more-deaths-962168.html
15-03-2021||West||Week-long lockdown begins in Nagpur, top cop visits main roads||A week-long lockdown with strict curbs came into force in Nagpur on Monday to contain the rise in Covid-19 cases and officials warned of stern action against those violating the protocols here in Maharashtra. Nagpur Commissioner of Police Amitesh Kumar visited some of the main roads in the morning and reviewed the implementation of the lockdown, which will remain in force till March 21. According to the district administration, unnecessary movement of people will not be allowed on the streets. Kumar said there are 99 checkpoints across Nagpur and eight on the city's border. Besides, 99 mobile patrolling vehicles, two companies of the State Reserve Police Force (SRPF), six platoons of the RCP (riot control police) and 500 Home Guards were deployed for proper implementation of the lockdown, he said. The official said during the lockdown, only one person would be allowed to travel on a two-wheeler and two persons in a four-wheeler. However, two persons will be permitted on a two-wheeler only if they have to go to a hospital or for vaccination, he said. Residents of Nagpur were being allowed to travel to other cities as per guidelines laid down by the district administration. Passenger and goods vehicles going out or passing through Nagpur were allowed to move via the Outer Ring Road, according to police. In view of the curbs, the Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court will hear matters through video-conferencing from Monday till March 21. Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut on Thursday announced the week-long "strict lockdown" in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases here. On Sunday, the district reported 2,252 new cases of Covid-19 and 12 deaths to the disease. The Covid-19 tally in the district stood at 1,70,502, as per official data||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/week-long-lockdown-begins-in-nagpur-top-cop-visits-main-roads-962211.html
15-03-2021||West||Victorian-era carriages back in Mumbai! Now in electric avatar||The Victorias are back in Mumbai, the 'Urbs Prima in Indis'. Albeit, in a new avatar. These are not the traditional horse-driven carriages but would run on batteries. Right from Bombay during the British Raj to Independence to the 21st century hustling-bustling Mumbai, these ornate silver carriages have seen the city growing and expanding. But because of a ban order of the Bombay High Court, the Victorias had to phase out. Now, these electric-driven Victorias would run on places like Gateway of India, Marine Drive, Flora Fountain, Kala Ghoda, Nariman Point and Girgaum Chowpatty. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, state Tourism and Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray and Transport Minister Anil Parab unveiled the first set of Victorias in Mumbai. Initially, a dozen Victorias would be rolled out – each having a seating capacity of six persons and the driver. Tourists can either opt for the shorter route priced at Rs 500 or the longer route at Rs 750, for booking an entire six-seater tonga. Services will be operational from 4 pm to 2 am. “Victorias are part of Mumbai’s heritage,” said veteran writer and Mumbai expert Ajit Joshi. As a matter of fact, several Bollywood films had depicted these horse-drawn carriages including Victoria No. 203 and its remake. The older Victoria No. 203 features Saira Banu and Navin Nischol in ‘dekha maine dekha’. And of course, the super-hit Dev Anand-starrer Guru Dutt-produced CID has a famous song – “Aye dil hai mushkil jeena yahan, zara hat ke zara bach ke, yeh hai Bombay meri jaan…”  – sung by Mohammed Rafi and Geeta Dutt – which captures the essence of Mumbai life. The Amitabh Bachchan-starrer Amar Akbar Anthony has shown a horse carriage ride on Juhu beach with the Big B paired opposite the late Parveen Babi.  There are also recent examples of Saif Ali Khan and Rani Mukherjee in the title song of Hum Tum riding the horse carriage moves from Horniman Circle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/victorian-era-carriages-back-in-mumbai-now-in-electric-avatar-962229.html
15-03-2021||West||FIR against Bollywood actor for Covid-19 norms violation||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Monday said it has filed a police case against a Bollywood actor for allegedly violating Covid-19 guidelines. The civic body in a release said despite being infected by the coronavirus, the actor moved out in public places and took part in shootings. As there is a chance of spread of the coronavirus infection among others, the BMC has filed the FIR against the actor, the release said without naming the actor. "No Compromise On City's Safety! BMC has filed an FIR against a Bollywood actor for non-compliance to Covid19 guidelines on testing positive. The rules apply to all alike and we urge citizens to follow all guidelines and help the city beat the virus," the civic body tweeted along with a copy of the FIR. No Compromise On City’s Safety! BMC has filed an FIR against a Bollywood actor for non-compliance to COVID19 guidelines on testing positive. The BMC in its release said on a complaint of the K- West ward's health officials, the police registered a case against the actor under IPC Sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and other relevant provisions. The actor has been quarantined, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-against-bollywood-actor-for-covid-19-norms-violation-962235.html
15-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze's arrest by NIA is an 'insult' of Maharashtra Police: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the arrest of Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze by the NIA over the recovery of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence was an "insult" of the Maharashtra Police, and alleged that it was being done deliberately. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said it is surprising that when the investigative capabilities and bravery of the Maharashtra Police are being acknowledged around the world, the NIA should investigate this case. If Vaze was guilty in the case, the Mumbai police and the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) were capable of taking action against him, it said. But, the central probe agency (NIA) did not want that to happen, the Marathi publication said. It alleged that since Vaze had arrested journalist Arnab Goswami in the Anvay Naik suicide case, he was on the "hit-list of the BJP and the Centre". Goswami and two others were arrested on November 4, 2020 by Raigad police in connection with the suicide of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018. They were granted bail by the Supreme Court a few days later. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Vaze on Saturday in connection with its probe into the recovery of a Scorpio containing 20 gelatin sticks near Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze, credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', is also facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the Scorpio. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5. The Marathi daily said it is surprising that when the investigative capabilities and bravery of the state police were being acknowledged across the globe, the NIA should investigate the case of the recovery of 20 gelatin sticks. "Vaze's arrest by the NIA was an insult of the state police and was being done deliberately. Those expressing happiness over this are hurting the state's autonomy," the editorial alleged. It expressed hope that the truth will come out soon. The editorial also said the state government had handed over the probe into the recovery of the explosives- laden vehicle and the death of Mansukh Hiran to the ATS. But, the central government deputed the NIA in the explosives case. There was no hurry to do so, it opined. It is still a "mystery" how explosives reached Pulwama (in Jammu and Kashmir) and claimed the lives of 40 jawans (in 2019), the editorial said. "In the Kashmir Valley, explosives are found every day. Does the NIA go there to conduct a probe into it?" the Sena asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vazes-arrest-by-nia-is-an-insult-of-maharashtra-police-shiv-sena-962264.html
15-03-2021||West||Congress MLA evicted from Gujarat Assembly for wearing T-shirt||The Gujarat legislative assembly speaker on Monday evicted a Congress legislator from the House for wearing a T-shirt following a heated exchange of words. Although there is said to be no rule regarding uniform of a Member of Legislative Assembly (MLA), the speaker, while ordering Congress leader to get out of the House, claimed that "there is a protocol that everyone in the House has to follow." Speaker Rajendra Trivedi ordered the eviction of Congress MLA Vimal Chudasama from the House for wearing a T-shirt. Amidst the strong opposition from Congress and the MLA himself. Chudasama protested saying that there is no such law that mandates legislators to wear any particular kind of dress. The MLA from Somnath assembly seat, Chudasama said that "I sought votes wearing a T-shirt. This T-shirt is a certificate that my voters have given to me. Your decision amounts to disrespecting of my voters”. Trivedi shot back amid the noise, "You can come after changing your dress....I don't need your certificate... you can't enter the House in any way you want, in any dress you want, this is not a playground or you are out roaming. There is a protocol of a uniform, this is not done. Get him out of this House," ordered Trivedi while the protest from Chudasama's party rose. Following the order, the sergeants of the House escorted the MLA out of the House. Soon after this, minister of state for home Pradeepsinh Jadeja moved a proposal to expel Chudasama for three days on the ground of "arguing with the speaker." However, chief minister Vijay Rupani withdrew the proposal and requested the Congress leaders to ask Chudasama follow the dress code.   Rupani also cited another incident when Trivedi objected to minister Jayesh Radadiya's outfit. The CM said that Radadiya also used to come in T-shirt but after being pointed out, he changed and started wearing kurta in the House. It was also pointed out during the argument that in the past too Trivedi had warned Chudasama from coming in T-shirt. On Tuesday, Trivedi is likely to pass an order on this issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/congress-mla-evicted-from-gujarat-assembly-for-wearing-t-shirt-962307.html
15-03-2021||West||Former MLA and wrestler Sambhaji Pawar dies in Sangli||Former MLA and wrestler Sambhaji Pawar died after a prolonged illness in Sangli, his kin said on Monday. Pawar was 80 and died late Sunday night, a family member said. Known as 'bijli malla' in the wrestling arena, Pawar, who was MLA four times, was former state Janata Dal president, and had defeated heavyweight Vishnudada Patil in 1986. He won an Assembly poll in 2009 on a BJP ticket. Pawar is survived by his wife and two sons. The last rites were performed in Sangli, family members added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-mla-and-wrestler-sambhaji-pawar-dies-in-sangli-962344.html
15-03-2021||West||Lockdown not option, but strict restrictions are: Rajesh Tope||Rattled by the rising Covid-19 cases when business activities are gathering steam after a year, the Maharashtra government today indicated it may opt for “strict restrictions” rather than a total lockdown. The Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Maharashtra has once again emerged as the worst coronavirus hotspot of India. Speaking to reporters here, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said that while the cases of Covid-19 cases are rising, the deaths are very low. “Lockdown may not be an option but strict actions are,” Tope said, adding that the best option for the public is to support the government. “Nearly 85 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic and hence have been advised home treatment,” he said, pointing out that the government is working on the three-Ts initiative of Tracking, Testing and Treatment. “The testing facilities are being ramped up,” he said. Tope pointed out that strong regulations have been imposed for marriage gatherings and social events. “The vaccination has been accelerated in the state. There is no shortage of vaccines in the state but efforts are being made to increase the number of vaccinations in private and government hospitals,” he said and appealed to all citizens above the age of 60 to complete vaccinations as soon as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-not-option-but-strict-restrictions-are-rajesh-tope-962345.html
15-03-2021||West||Marathi-speaking people in Belgaum under threat, alleges Shiv Sena MP, BJP counters||Karnataka BJP MP Shivakumar Udasi alleged in the Lok Sabha that the Shiv Sena is trying to rake up border issues to divert the attention of the people of Maharashtra in order to cover up the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government's failure in administration in the state. Belgaum issue was settled long back as Mahajan report was final in that matter. By raising the border issue, Shiv Sena is trying to create tensions among people residing in border villages, Udasi said. Udasi was countering Sena MP Arvind Sawant, who during the Zero Hour alleged that Shiv Sena leaders were attacked by pro-Kannada activists in Belgaum. Sawant alleged that Marathi-speaking people in Karwar and Belagavi region were under threat from pro-Kannada activists.   Sawant's remarks evoked a strong response from BJP MPs from Karnataka who got up from their seats and started protesting. Countering Sawant, Udasi said the Shiv Sena compromised its Hindutva ideology for the sake of power and now its MPs raising the issue to distract the attention of Maharashtra people from his party's misrule in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/marathi-speaking-people-in-belgaum-under-threat-alleges-shiv-sena-mp-bjp-counters-962347.html
15-03-2021||West||Mumbai cops get gangster Ravi Pujari's remand in 2017 threat case||A Mumbai court on Monday remanded gangster Ravi Pujari in police custody till March 20 in a case of threatening a property consultant in suburban Kandivali in 2017. Pujari was sent to judicial custody by an MCOCA court at the end of his police remand in the 2016 case, but police said they needed his custodial interrogation in connection with the 2017 Kandivali case. The police, after seeking required permissions, later produced him before another judge and sought his custody for 20 days in the 2017 case. The prosecution said the Kandivali property consultant had approached police claiming to have received threat calls from Pujari for taking up the redevelopment project of a housing society in suburban Dindoshi. However, Pujari's lawyer DS Manerkar said his client cannot be remanded for 20 days as the police had already been questioning him since February 22. The special court then remanded Pujari in police custody in the 2017 case till Saturday. Pujari was extradited to India from Senegal in west Africa in February last year after being on the run for several years, and was lodged in a jail in Bengaluru. According to Mumbai police, Pujari, who hails from Udupi in Karnataka, ran an extortion racket from abroad, targeting businessmen and film personalities among others. He has 49 cases lodged against his name in various Mumbai police stations, officials had earlier said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-cops-get-gangster-ravi-pujaris-remand-in-2017-threat-case-962349.html
15-03-2021||West||Sharad Pawar-Uddhav Thackeray meet triggers speculation over Cabinet reshuffle||Amid renewed attacks by the Opposition BJP and negative social media campaign in wake of Scorpio planting case and death of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) in Maharashtra seems to be shaken as it took a guarded stance on Monday by holding back-to-back review meetings. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at Varsha, the latter's official residence at Malabar Hill.  Thereafter, Pawar took a review meeting with top NCP leaders in which Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state NCP president and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh were present. Later, Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) president Nana Patole also met Thackeray at Varsha. These developments triggered speculations of a reshuffle in council-of-ministers and a major shakeup in the police force. Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh has also come under the attack of the BJP, with the Opposition party questioning the reinstatement of Vaze and posting in CIU of Crime Branch-CID in June last year. The Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, however, denied that there was any move of a reshuffle in the MVA government. The NCP also denied that there was any move to replace Deshmukh, who along with Thackeray, is in the firing line of the Opposition rank and files. “We have not heard of any reshuffle as of now… Deshmukh will remain the Home Minister…The question of change does not arise,” said Patil. As far as the role of Vaze is concerned, he said that two agencies – NIA and state ATS — are probing the case and if anyone is at fault, he or she would have to pay. "We will not be commenting on the investigations," he said. Deshmukh, however, refused to comment. “Pawar 'saheb' takes a review meeting every month. In these meetings he analyses the performance of ministers, takes stock of the political situation and looks at the organizational work and issues,” said Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik. “There is no talk of a reshuffle,” said Patole. “As far as the police reshuffle is concerned, it happens in April-May every year,” he added. Asked about the impending reshuffle in ministry and police force, Shiv Sena leader and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab said he was unaware and would "cross-check" with the leaders. In fact, during the Budget Session, the new Speaker could not be elected – the post is vacant as Patole resigned to take over as state Congress chief. The Congress party is very unhappy over it – and the BJP too has been targeting MVA on this issue. There is one vacancy in the Cabinet as Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Rathod had to resign in the wake of the death of social media star Pooja Chavan. During the recently-concluded Budget Session, the BJP had an upper hand with Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil and senior leader Sudhir Mungantiwar cornering the MVA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-uddhav-thackeray-meet-triggers-speculation-over-cabinet-reshuffle-962362.html
15-03-2021||West||Maharashtra govt imposes fresh restrictions to curb spread of Covid-19||In a massive clampdown, the Maharashtra government on Monday night asked all offices in the state to compulsorily run with only 50 per cent attendance except for health and essential services. In case of violation, the offices would be shut till the time Covid-19 pandemic stays notified as a “disaster” by the Central government. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government also advised and asked to encourage work-from-home. The fresh set of Lockdown/Unlock orders were issued by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. The directives will remain in force till March 31, 2021. Besides, it asked cinema halls, hotels, restaurants to compulsorily follow the 50 per cent occupancy rule and all protocols/SOPs to combat the Covid-19 surge.  In case of violation, they would attract stringent penalties and closure till the time Covid-19 pandemic is notified as a “disaster” by the Centre. Except for marriages with 50 persons in attendance, the government has banned social, cultural, political and religious gatherings for the time being – and in case of violations, the property will remain shut till the Central government notifies it as a “disaster”. In case of last rites, only 20 persons would be allowed. Similarly, in case of shopping malls if protocols/SOPs are not found to be followed these will remain closed till Covid-19 pandemic remains notified as “disaster”. Last week, Thackeray indicated strict measures if people do not cooperate in the war against the virus. “These are stringent sets of measures aimed to bring in discipline and ensure that we adhere to the new normal,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra. The government also decided to ensure that boards be put up in “doors or conspicuous location” for 14 days indicating the presence of Covid-19 positive patients. Compulsory quarantine stamps would be put on the positive patients. Besides, there would be “no entry” in public places and wearing of masks, sanitation norms and social distancing have to be followed. Speaking to reporters here, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said that while the cases of Covid-19 cases are rising, the deaths are very low. “Lockdown may not be an option but strict actions are,” Tope said, adding that the best option for the public is to support the government. “Nearly 85 per cent of the cases are asymptomatic and hence have been advised home treatment,” he said, pointing out that the government is working on the three-Ts initiative of Tracking, Testing and Treatment. “The testing facilities are being ramped up,” he said. Tope pointed out that strong regulations have been imposed for marriage gatherings and social events. “The vaccination has been accelerated in the state. There is no shortage of vaccines in the state but efforts are being made to increase the number of vaccinations in private and government hospitals,” he said and appealed to all citizens above the age of 60 to complete vaccinations as soon as possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-imposes-fresh-restrictions-to-curb-spread-of-covid-19-962382.html
15-03-2021||West||Terming arrest illegal, Sachin Vaze files habeas corpus petition||Controversial police officer Sachin Vaze – who has been booked in the sensational case involving the suspicious parking of a gelatin stick-laden Scorpio near Mukesh Ambani's house – filed a habeas corpus petition in the Bombay High Court on Monday.  The petition was filed through his brother Sudharm Vaze, who claimed that the Assistant Police Inspector was being made a scapegoat by certain political powers. “The haste with which he was arrested showed that the central agency acted with malafide intentions,” it stated. The petition was filed Sunny Punamiya, sought a direction to the NIA to produce Vaze before the High Court and to prove that due procedure was followed during the arrest. The petition is yet to be listed for hearing. In a related development, Vaze (49) was suspended by the Special Branch of the Mumbai Police, where he was transferred last week from the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID. Vaze was also taken to the Sir J J Hospital in Mumbai for a medical check-up. In the petition, Vaze claimed that he was not provided with a copy of the FIR and neither was he explained the reasons for arrest nor was his family informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/terming-arrest-illegal-sachin-vaze-files-habeas-corpus-petition-962398.html
