16-03-2021||Comment||A jobs-for-locals ‘epidemic’||There seems to be a sudden epidemic of sorts among states to legislate jobs for locals. Most recently, the Jharkhand cabinet approved a policy to reserve 75% of jobs in the state’s private sector for local residents. These are all jobs that pay less than Rs 30,000 a month. While this is not official yet, it is likely to be announced during the ongoing budget session of Jharkhand legislature. This comes barely a fortnight after Haryana passed a similar law. The Haryana threshold is for jobs that pay up to Rs 50,000 a month. Andhra Pradesh passed such a law in 2019. Other states, including Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Gujarat have all either announced or are in the process of implementing policies to reserve jobs for locals. In Tamil Nadu, which is among the five states headed for Assembly polls, the DMK has promised in its election manifesto that if it is voted to power, it would implement a policy to reserve 75% of jobs for Tamils. The Haryana legislation, too, is the fulfillment of a poll promise of one member of the ruling coalition. What explains this epidemic? Firstly, it comes from a populist impulse, such as announcing freebies. But that does not mean it does not have popular support. Indeed, a national survey done by the Centre for Study of Developing Societies and Lokniti in 2017 revealed that nearly two-thirds of the youth support the idea of job reservations for locals. Somehow, this idea has broad appeal. The second reason could be the weakness in the employment situation. Just after last year’s lockdown, the unemployment rate had shot up to more than 30% in April, with 122 million people losing their jobs. The hardest hit were migrant workers who were employed in construction, restaurants, malls, courier services, etc., in the cities. Most of these are in the informal sector, i.e., jobs that do not provide health or retirement benefits. By July, the unemployment rate had dropped below 10% as per CMIE data. The September and December quarterly results of corporate India showed booming profitability, which is one of the reasons why the stock market is greatly enthused. Foreign direct investment flow has been handsome, and next year’s outlook is for a GDP growth of at least 11%. Why then is the employment situation not cheerful? That’s because labour market fortunes are typically a lagging indicator of the health of the economy. It recovers the last. Just as the stock market is a leading indicator, i.e., it becomes bullish much before the actual economy starts recovering, the labour market pick up is seen much after other signals, such as industrial production, capacity utilisation, consumer spending and exports have improved substantially. In this sphere, there is also an additional spectre of jobless growth. As per reports from the World Bank, nearly 70% of India’s manufacturing jobs are in danger of becoming obsolete or redundant due to automation. So, improvement in job prospects may take much longer than the speed of the economic revival. A third reason for the appeal of jobs for locals, is inherent xenophobia. This is not unique to India or Indian states but is universal. It was spectacularly manifest in the Brexit vote, when Britons thought that foreigners were taking away local jobs, and hence voted to secede from the European Union. The actual facts were much less damaging. If anything, the so-called foreign workers contribute to the local economy through their productivity, and by paying both consumption and income taxes. In America too, the anti-immigrant sentiment was exploited during the recent presidential election campaign. Of course, the US remains the most friendly and accepting of immigrants among all developed economies. Indeed, 17.4% of the US labour force is made up of foreign-born workers. Every campaign for a sons-of-the-soil policy, for job reservation, whips up this anti “outsider” sentiment. In the case of Haryana, one of the reasons given for justifying reservations was the proliferation of slums, presumably attributed to “outsiders” shifting to the state for work. Despite the rhetoric and populist impulse, it is worth examining why this idea is ultimately infructuous or irrelevant. Firstly, it goes against the Constitution. In fact, it violates several fundamental rights, such as freedom to move anywhere, the right not to be discriminated on the basis of place of birth, the right to be treated equally before laws, and the right to pursue one’s livelihood. These are enshrined in Articles 14, 15, 16 and 19 of the Constitution. Surely if the Haryana law is challenged in court, it will be declared unconstitutional. As such the topic of reservations is one of India’s deep fault lines, but that is more applicable to social identity, not place of domicile. Secondly, the actual data on inter-state migration shows that it is relatively low in India. While the country may have an estimated 456 million migrants, most of them are intra-state, not inter-state. As per the 2011 census, India had only 54.3 million inter-state migrants. They often bring skills, motivation, energy which may be in short supply or lacking locally. For instance, harvesting of crops like wheat, rice or sugarcane is largely done by landless workers who are migrants. Construction labour, too, has a big migrants-component. A third aspect to highlight, is that free movement of labour partly compensates for the uneven economic progress of different states. Inter-state divergence within India is a puzzling anomaly. One would have expected poorer states to grow more rapidly than richer states, leading to some kind of convergence. The migration pattern is in some ways an equilibrium market outcome that partially smooths out labour market rigidities. It also partially addresses the mismatch arising out of differences in ageing demographics of India. That is why we see migration from high fertility states to lower fertility states. States like Kerala have instituted enlightened policies of training migrant workers in the local language (Malayalam) and also offering good education for their children. In the medium to long term, there is no option but for a big national focus on education, skilling, training and enhancement of human capital, which can get us out of this scarcity mindset of rationing jobs for locals. Clearly, this is not the appropriate domain for being “vocal for local.” (The writer is an economist and Senior Fellow, Takshashila Institution)\ (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-jobs-for-locals-epidemic-962481.html
16-03-2021||First Edit||A global mission is called for||The UN Food Waste Index Report 2021, released last week, has drawn attention to the high wastage of food that happens everywhere in the world, even as millions of families go hungry every day in many parts of it. It has said that around 931 million tonnes of food were wasted in 2019, 61% per cent of which came from households and the rest from food service and retail. About 17% of the total global food production may be wasted, and in pictorial representation its weight “equals that of 23 million fully loaded 40-tonne trucks, bumper-to-bumper, enough to circle the Earth seven times,” according to the report. In India, the household food waste estimate is 50 kg per capita per year, which is less than in countries like the US and China. But this may not be because of more efficient use of food, but because the overall availability is less.  The wastage of food is substantial in every country, but some studies have shown that it is more serious in developing countries. The UN FAO had estimated that one-third of all produced food may be getting wasted. The world produces twice the amount of food that is needed, but large numbers of people are deprived of it due to wastage and other reasons. Food gets wasted at the farm, when it moves to the market and is processed, stored and shifted to shops, and finally in the kitchen. Many fruits and vegetables perish soon after harvesting. There is a need to improve production and storage practices, transport infrastructure, cold chain systems and processing techniques. Modern technologies and better packaging methods are needed. But even in countries where these facilities are available, wastage is high. So, the most important requirement is to improve popular awareness of the need to ensure that food is not wasted in any form, at any stage. China has launched a clean plate campaign against wastage of food.  It is estimated that food worth at least Rs 1 lakh crore is wasted in India, and this does not include wastage of cooked food. A part of that should be enough to feed the large numbers of hungry people in the country, which is ranked 94 out of 107 countries in the Global Hunger Index. Food is wasted massively at weddings and on other occasions. The Delhi government had, in pre-Covid times, thought of restricting the number of guests at weddings to reduce wastage of food. The UN report says that reducing food waste would also cut greenhouse gas emissions and slow the destruction of nature through land conversion and pollution. Avoiding food wastage should therefore become a national mission. It will have very positive environmental, social and economic impacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-global-mission-is-called-for-962482.html
16-03-2021||In Perspective||Vaccine hesitancy a continuing problem||Thousands of cattle, mainly of magnificent Kankrej and Gir breeds, in a little-known village in the Abdasa taluka of Kutch, stood in front of us as we had geared up to immunise them against Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) in 2013. Before we could start, a young man appeared claiming to be the sarpanch of the village. He approached us and said, vaccine “nathi karau, tame loko chaliya jao” (vaccination is not needed, you all can return). No animal could be vaccinated in that village. I was about to learn that vaccine hesitancy was complex and context-specific varying across time, space and vaccines.   Five years later, 1800 km east of Kanha, a farmer in a flood-prone village at the fringe of Kaziranga National Park, politely asked me not to vaccinate his livestock and rather leave his farm saying, “aapuni forest departmentpa aahisha, muk aapunar help nalage, aapunar vaccine dator nahoi” (you have come from the forest department, I don’t need your help. Your vaccine may be outdated). Trust-deficit had blocked vaccine uptake but this was a solitary case as other accepted mass vaccinations of livestock. The three isolated cases are from three states with distinct cultural and demographic profiles. Misinformation and trust-deficit due to inadequate communication had created the situation for vaccine hesitancy. The picture for human vaccinations is not much different either because the forces for accepting or rejecting vaccine for humans work at the same subconscious level. On March 16, 1995, India had administered the first oral polio drops to eradicate it from India. Two decades later India was declared a poliomyelitis-free country. March 16 is a milestone for the journey that India began with its Expanded Programme of Immunization (EPI) in 1978. The EPI was renamed Universal Immunization Programme in 1985 to annually immunize 60 million women and infants. India celebrates March 16 as National Vaccination Day to raise awareness on immunization.    Long ago, the smallpox vaccine, with advantages over variolation practised in India, arrived in 1802. Yet, it took 175 long years for India to combat smallpox. The colonial powers had to frame the Compulsory Vaccination Act in 1892 to ensure high coverage of smallpox. Resistance from some sections based on the pretext of vaccine coming from cows wasn’t very helpful. Writing in the British Medical Journal (1910), Andrew Buchanan of Indian Medical Service mentions of an ‘anti-vaccination party’ and reiterates that “the greater the success of the anti-vaccination campaign, the greater will be the necessity for early vaccination of India.” Natural calamity and disasters carry immense learning values. As Covid-19 struck India at the beginning of 2020, the first few months were lost in the confusion and rhetoric. Later it dawned on humanity that the virus was not going to vanish only by lockdowns, masks, sanitizers and distancing. Talks of vaccine soon became the fulcrum of public and political discourses. During previous pandemics, India had seen the threat of the ‘anti-vaccine party’. However, around Covid-19 pandemic, social media and popular press left little scope for the unscientific groups to spread misinformation. People – irrespective of age, sex, colour, and ethnicity – waited for vaccines to be made, tested and launched. Finally, it happened. Covid-19 seem to have united the world. A National Statistical Organization report substantiates that only 60% of the children under five years are fully immunised across the country. This finding exposes a wide gap in the claims made by the Government of India’s Health Management Information System portal data claiming 87% coverage for children under five across the country during the same year (2017). The issue of vaccination hesitancy needs to be acknowledged, addressed, and discussed. In the villages around Kanha Tiger Reserve, The Corbett Foundation, an agency involved in wildlife conservation, has adopted rural tools of communication, like household visits, panchayat meetings, Mohalla meetings,  munadi (passing information beating drums on village streets), and wall paintings to spread information on disease symptoms and vaccine availability. These efforts have paid dividends and now villages like Bakiguda are ambassadors for vaccination uptake. A collaborative, multisectoral and transdisciplinary approach of One Health based on the interconnectedness of people, animals, plants and their shared environment would be able to address the complexity of health. Vaccination that works by stimulating an immune response is one of the most cost-effective ways for preventing the spread of infectious diseases. India has increased its capability to manufacture vaccines. The much-hyped vaccine diplomacy by Beijing, Moscow and New Delhi in the face of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic is a result of many decades of complex and systematic methodological rigour. Will vaccine hesitancy overpower vaccine diplomacy in India in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic? (The writer is a Conservation Medicine professional trained at the University of Edinburgh and serves as the Deputy Director and Veterinary Advisor to The Corbett Foundation. He can be contacted at naveen.vet@gmail.com)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/vaccine-hesitancy-a-continuing-problem-962480.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MyMul poll: HDK’s syndicate loses to G T Devegowda syndicate||The syndicate of former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy lost to the syndicate of his own party MLA G T Devegowda in the election to Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers’ Societies Union ((MyMul) here, on Tuesday. Kumaraswamy went to the extent of opposing P M Prasanna, son of his own party MLA K Mahadev in Periyapatna taluk. However, Prasanna won. The election was held for 15 directors, with 29 candidate in the fray. All 1,052 voters in Mysuru and Hunsur sub-divisions, cast their votes. While the syndicate of Devegowda swept all eight seats of Hunsur sub-division, the syndicate of Kumaraswamy managed to win three seats in Mysuru sub-division. The new directors of Devegowda syndicate are: B N Sadananda, C Omprakash, B Neelambike Mahesh Kurahatti and Leela (Nagaraj) in Mysuru sub-division and K S Kumar, A T Somasekhar, K Eregowda, Jagadish (Basappa), P M Prasanna, H D Rajendra, Dakshayani and A Shivagami of Hunsur sub-division. The directors of Kumaraswamy syndicate are: R Cheluvaraju, K G Mahesh and K Umashankar. The term of the new directors is five years. It has to be noted that Devegowda, representing Chamundeshwari segment, has been maintaining a distance from both the JD(S) and Kumaraswamy, since the formation of JD(S)-Congress coalition government, even though he was minister for Higher Education in the cabinet. On the contrary, KR Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh is projected as the trusted lieutenant of Kumaraswamy. Devegowda has been describing Mahesh as the party high-command of Mysuru. Even as Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, also a strongman from Mysuru, kept away from the election of MyMul, stating that it will be taken care of by local leaders, Kumaraswamy took the election personally and chipped in, in favour of Mahesh. He even camped in Mysuru and other taluks of the district, for several days, to garner support for the candidates favoured by Mahesh. Devegowda is a cooperative since over four decades and was president of Karnataka State Co-Operative Federation. His wife K Lalitha is president of Karnataka State Co-Operative Credit Societies Federation, while his son G D Harish Gowda is president of Mysuru District Central Co-Operative Bank and vice-president of Apex Bank. Devegowda strived to garner the support of cooperatives in all three parties, the JD(S), the BJP and the Congress. Congress MLAs H P Manjunath and Anil Chikkamaadu supported him. Besides, Siddaramaiah indirectly supported Devegowda, due to his recent opposition to Kumaraswamy. Devegowda went to the extent of fielding Mahesh’s supporters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mymul-poll-hdk-s-syndicate-loses-to-g-t-devegowda-syndicate-962784.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Follow Covid norms strictly to prevent spike in cases: dist admin||The gradual increase in the number of Covid-19 positive cases has sent alarm signals among the people, most of them, who were believing that the worst phase was over. Most of the people on the streets of Mysuru are without masks, forgetting social distancing norms. This includes roadside vendors, traders and those attending public functions and government programmes. Mysuru is seeing a gradual increase in Covid positive cases since a week with 56 cases detected on March 9. The number of cases reported in the following days were 22, 50, 30, 47, 31, 15 and on March 16, 58 new cases were reported. The total number of Covid cases is 54,549, as on Tuesdsay. The district administration has ramped up Covid testing. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri and District Health Officer Dr Amarnath have instructed the officials concerned to increase the number of tests, from 3,000 to 5,000 per day. Meanwhile, the vaccination drive has been increased and Anganwadi workers and health personnel are told to bring 10 people, who are above 60 years, for administering vaccination, per day. Once Covid positive cases declined to single digit, the people of Mysuru district neglected Covid norms, forgetting to wear masks and to maintain social distancing in public places. With film theatres reopening, normalcy returned to almost 100%. Moreover, with the commencement of the vaccination drive, people almost lost the fear of Covid. The recent spike in Covid cases and lockdown implemented in a few states, due to the possible second wave of Covid, has sent alarm bells ringing. Karnataka has been registering 900 plus cases since a few days. The chief minister and the officials have been holding meetings and urging the people to follow the guidelines, to prevent one more lockdown. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said, “Covid infection is under control in Mysuru district. The vaccination drive will be intensified, along with RT-PCR tests. The Panchamaharathotsava at Nanjangud on March 26, will be conducted as per Covid guidelines. The people should follow the guidelines and cooperate with the officials.” According to District Health Officer Dr Amarnath, Covid testing has been increased as per the directions from the deputy commissioner. “Besides, restriction on the number of people attending meetings and functions, is implemented, as per government guidelines. I urge the people to volunteer for RT-PCR tests, if they have any symptoms of fever, cough and cold,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/follow-covid-norms-strictly-to-prevent-spike-in-cases-dist-admin-962785.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Achieve target in vaccination drive, says Hassan DC||Deputy Commissioner R Girish directed the taluk officials of Hassan to intensify the Covid-19 vaccination drive and achieve the target. In a video interaction with the officials on Tuesday, the DC asked Gram Panchayat, Revenue and Health department officials to get the Covid vaccine administered. He said, "Only those who produce Covid negative report from Maharashtra, Kerala and other states be allowed into the district. With Covid cases rising, Asha and Anganwadi workers and members of various associations should create awareness on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing." He suggested distribution of pamphlet, display of posters by roadsides, village fairs and at crowded places asking the people above 60 years, and those above 45 years with health problems, to get vaccinated for Covid. The officials should ensure that the number of people attending weddings, entertainment places and other functions are as per government guidelines, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/achieve-target-in-vaccination-drive-says-hassan-dc-962786.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Man booked for dumping garbage on ring road, arrested||For the first time in Mysuru, a person has been arrested and subject to court proceedings, for dumping garbage in a public place on Monday. Udayagiri police station personnel in the city, arrested Venkatesh, 46, a resident of Naguvanahalli in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district. He was caught red-handed, at Vidyashankara Layout on Ring Road, when he was unloading solid waste from his tractor, at the junction near the Banyan Tree. Cases have been filed against him, under Sections 268 and 270 of Indian Penal Code. He was later released on station bail. He will have to face court proceedings. The court can sentence him to imprisonment or impose a fine, or both. The police and Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials said, “Stringent action would be initiated against those dumping waste and littering public places. Nobody should dump garbage by the road side or other public place.” Earlier, the police personnel used to hand over such violators to the MCC officials, who would impose a fine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/man-booked-for-dumping-garbage-on-ring-road-arrested-962787.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vairamudi jatra to be a simple affair this year||With the rise in Covid cases, the district administration has decided to celebrate the Vairamudi festival in a simple manner, at Cheluvanarayanaswamy temple, at Melkote, Mandya district. The festival will be held on March 14, and the procession idol would be adorned with a diamond-studded crown and taken on a procession. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, on Monday. The religious rituals as part of the festival is scheduled to begin from March 19 and will be held up to March 31. As lakhs of people from the state and other states are expected to visit the temple during the Vairamudi Jatra festival, the decision was taken as a precautionary measure to prevent any spread of Covid second wave. As per the guidelines issued by the government on March 12, it has become inevitable to celebrate the festival in a simple manner, Aswathi said. It may be mentioned that the festival last year was also cancelled due to Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vairamudi-jatra-to-be-a-simple-affair-this-year-962788.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Opposition demands HC judge probe into mine blasts||Opposition leaders in the Legislative Council on Tuesday demanded that the government constitute a committee headed by a High Court judge to inquire into the recent incidents of mining blasts. A CID investigation, as proposed by the government at this point, will not yield any result, Leader of the Opposition in the Council S R Patil said during a discussion on illegal mining and recent incidents of blasts in mines in Chikkaballapur and Shivamogga. He alleged that there were massive irregularities on the part of government officials on the pretext of raids on mines.  Quoting from a Deccan Herald report published following the mine blast in Chikkaballapur, Congress leader M Narayanaswamy pointed out that the locals were pointing fingers at the district in-charge minister for abetting illegal mining. He said that there was rampant illegal mining in various districts in the state and demanded that the government call a meeting with district in-charge ministers immediately. Conditional licences Meanwhile, responding to concerns raised by the opposition leaders, Minister for Mines and Geology Murugesh Nirani said that there were more than a thousand mining units operating without licences across the state. “If they have to secure licences, it will take them a minimum of three months. If we shut the mines, then none of the government’s road works can be taken up until the monsoon. Hence, we are considering giving them conditional licences with a 60-day window,” he said.  To this, JD(S) member Srikante Gowda asked the government to grant conditional licences only to those who had government contracts and not to anyone else.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/opposition-demands-hc-judge-probe-into-mine-blasts-962776.html
16-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Eshwar Khandre seeks court-monitored SIT probe in Jarkiholi CD case||KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre on Tuesday demanded that the government constitute a High Court chief justice-monitored SIT probe into the sleaze CD episode. Speaking in the Assembly, the Bhalki MLA said that people had no trust in the government-appointed SIT. The chief justice-monitored SIT probe is essential for an honest investigation into the case, Khandre said. Only such an investigation can redeem the trust and faith people have in elected representatives and rid the government of its 'immoral' tag, he said. Speaking on the Budget, he said that the government had failed to provide relief to flood victims in the Kalyana Karnataka region, as compensation for damaged houses was still pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/eshwar-khandre-seeks-court-monitored-sit-probe-in-jarkiholi-cd-case-962777.html
16-03-2021||National||PM Modi to meet CMs on Wednesday as Covid-19 cases surge||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet all chief ministers on Wednesday amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in several states, forcing them to impose restrictions on movement of people to check further spread of the virus. India reported 26,291 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest single-day spike in 85 days even as Nagpur imposed a week-long lockdown to check the surge in cases, while Latur and Ahmedabad ordered night curfew to contain the spread of the virus. Modi is scheduled to meet chief ministers of all states through video conferencing at 12:30 pm to discuss the Covid-19 situation and seek feedback on the vaccination drive. As of Monday evening, India had administered more than 3.17 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine since the immunisation drive began on January 16. “A total 18,63,623 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Monday, the 59th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Of these, 15,98,136 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 2,65,487 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report,” an official statement said. According to the Health Ministry, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in daily cases of Covid-19, accounting for 78.41% of the new cases. Of the 26,291 new cases registered till Monday morning, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 16,620 (accounting for 63.21% of the daily new cases), followed by Kerala with 1,792 new cases and Punjab 1,492 new cases. As fresh cases continued to rise in Punjab, the state education department has postponed Class 10 and Class 12 examinations that were scheduled to begin from April 9 and March 22 respectively. “Now, Class 10 board exams will be held between May 4 and May 24 and Class 12 exams will be held between April 20 and May 24,” an official said. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has reached 2,19,262 comprising 1.93% of the total infections. Modi had last met chief ministers on January 11 ahead of the roll out of the vaccination drive in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-to-meet-cms-on-wednesday-as-covid-19-cases-surge-962474.html
16-03-2021||National||India, Bangladesh likely to sign three MoUs during PM Modi's visit||India and Bangladesh are likely to sign three MoUs during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Dhaka next week to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence and the birth centenary of its founder ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. "It’s a historic event for Bangladesh as five heads of state and government never (without any summit) visited here within a time span of 10 days," Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen told a media briefing here ahead of the 10-day celebrations starting on March 17. Prime Minister Modi and heads of state and government from Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and the Maldives will be among the distinguished foreign guests to join the celebrations under separate schedules, he said. "This is a very unusual time (due to Covid-19)… but heads of state and government of our neighbouring countries are coming here to show their tribute to our Father of the Nation," Momen said. During his trip, Prime Minister Modi will hold talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and visit three places outside Dhaka. The two sides are expected to sign three MoUs, Momen said. "These (MoUs) are not final yet," he said. Foreign Secretary Masud bin Momen said the MoUs were likely to be signed in the field of disaster management and cooperation between some institutions of both the countries. "We are still working on every MoUs. We will get the final scenario regarding the MoUs within one or two days," he said. According to the schedule, all the foreign leaders would visit the National Memorial in Savar to pay homage to the independence martyrs, Bangabandhu Museum at Dhanmondi 32 to pay tribute to Bangladesh’s founding father, watch special military parades and join State banquets. Prime Minister Modi is also set to visit Bangabandhu shrine at his village home in Tungipara and two Hindu temples outside Dhaka - one in Gopalganj and the other in southwestern Satkhira. The temples are places of worship, particularly of the Hindu Matua community. A large number of the Matua community members reside in West Bengal. Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih will be the first top foreign dignitary to arrive here on a three-day visit on March 17. He will be followed by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa who will arrive here on a two-day tour on March 19. Nepalese President Bidya Devi Bhandari will be in Dhaka on a two-day tour from March 22 while Bhutan’s premier Lotay Tshering will visit Dhaka from March 24 to 25. Prime Minister Modi will arrive here on March 26 and return home the next day. Momen said Chinese President Xi Jinping, French President Emmanuel Macron, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Canadian Premier Justin Trudeau and some high-level leaders of different countries and international organizations would send video messages on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-likely-to-sign-three-mous-during-pm-modis-visit-962485.html
16-03-2021||National||Working in UNSC to get 'balanced outcome' for 'complex' Myanmar situation: Foreign Secretary||India is in conversation with all concerned in Myanmar in trying to facilitate and address the situation, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said on Monday. In an address at Ananta Aspen Centre, Shringla said the situation in Myanmar was "complex" and that India is working in the UN Security Council in a constructive manner to facilitate "balanced outcomes" that could assist in resolving the situation. Myanmar has been witnessing street protests since the military seized control of the country in a coup on February 1 after detaining Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi and other leaders of her National League for Democracy (NLD). He said the gains made by Myanmar over the last decades on the path towards democracy should not be undermined and that India has always been steadfast in its support to the process of democratic transition in the country for it to emerge as a stable democratic federal union. "We have had good links with all concerned in Myanmar to work with all sides which we are doing. We are in open conversation with all concerned in trying to facilitate and address the situation to the best of our ability," he said. "But we as a democracy and a neighbour of Myanmar have a slightly different take from those who might be looking at it from elsewhere. We are certainly conscious to do it in a manner that is keeping in mind the sensitivities concerned, keeping in mind the requirements," Shringla said. The foreign secretary also said imposition of sanctions against Myanmar could impact on food security or availability of goods as well as trigger inflation. "What is important is that we need to work in a constructive manner to ensure that we ultimately meet our objective of restoring democracy but at the same time we need to ensure that we do it without in any way impacting the well-being and welfare of the people of Myanmar," he said. "In other words, we cannot adopt tactics that would be seen reasonable if you are far away and if you are not from the region. For example, imposition of sanctions -- that can impact on food security or or availability of goods," he said. The foreign secretary said what happens in Myanmar does impact on India one way or the other. "We are the immediate neighbour of Myanmar. We share a 1700-km border. There are strong community linkages between people who live on our side and those who live across the border," he said. "We as a strong democracy have been very very proactive in assisting and facilitating the process of Myanmar's democratic transition and so obviously the recent developments have been somewhat of a setback and somewhat of concern for us," he said. The foreign secretary said India has undertaken several humanitarian projects that are important for the people of Myanmar. "We intend to continue with those but at the same time we are happy to play our role in facilitating a resolution of the issue as it unfolds as the situation becomes clearer, working with all concerned," he said. Shringla also expressed the hope that violence is avoided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/working-in-unsc-to-get-balanced-outcome-for-complex-myanmar-situation-foreign-secretary-962495.html
16-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Over 39K people vaccinated in Delhi; 107-year-old man gets his first shot||Over 39,000 beneficiaries received anti-Covid-19 vaccine shots in the national capital on Monday, including 21,622 senior citizens, as per official data. In the age bracket, 45-59 years, 3,429 beneficiaries received the jabs, a senior official said. On Wednesday 30,940 people had received shots. The number had fallen to 29,441 on Thursday. On Friday, the count rose again to 30,575, as per the official data shared by the health department. On Saturday, 39,853 beneficiaries were given shots. On Monday, 39,742 people were vaccinated, as per official data. Three cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were recorded, officials said. Kewal Krishan, who was just five years old during the deadly Spanish Flu of 1918, and later became part of the drafting committee of the Constituent Assembly of India, also received his first shot of anti-Covid-19 vaccine at a private facility in Delhi on Monday. Earlier in the day, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said he received his first shot of the vaccine against Covid-19, and appealed to others to also get the jab to combat the coronavirus pandemic. The mayor said well-known film and TV actor Dalip Tahil also accompanied him to the Hindu Rao Hospital and got vaccinated. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 (53 per cent) health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers have been vaccinated in Delhi. Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital. As per official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including an Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card. On Monday, second doses were given to 10,052 people, officials said, adding, 2,996 frontline workers and 1,643 healthcare workers also got their first shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-over-39k-people-vaccinated-in-delhi-107-year-old-man-gets-his-first-shot-962498.html
16-03-2021||National||Nearly 146 tonnes Covid-related bio-medical waste generated daily in country: Govt||Nearly 146 tonnes of bio-medical waste is generated per day in the country due to diagnostic activities and treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Ministry of Environment informed Parliament on Monday. Responding to a query in the Upper House of Parliament, Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo said that as per the figures from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), approximately 146 Tons per day of incremental BMW is generated in the country due to diagnostic activities, treatment and quarantine of Covid-19 patients. He said that as per the CPCB, approximately 616 Tons per day of Bio-Medical Waste (BMW) was generated in the country during 2019. Responding to a query on actions being taken for disposal of the waste, the minister said that for ensuring safe disposal of biomedical waste including Covid-19 waste, the CPCB has brought out dedicated guidelines for handling, treatment and disposal of waste generated during treatment, diagnostics and quarantine of Covid-19 patients. "As per the provisions of Bio-Medical Waste Management (BMWM) Rules, 2016, State Government(s)/UT Administration(s) are required to ensure that adequate infrastructure exists in their jurisdiction for treatment and disposal of BMW. "Accordingly, state pollution control boards and pollution control committees (SPCBs/ PCCs) have authorized 202 Common Bio-medical Waste Treatment and Disposal Facilities (CBWTFs) to collect and dispose of the BMW, including Covid-19 waste. Further, there are about 18,178 captive disposal facilities installed by individual HCFs for pre-treatment and/ or final treatment of the BMW,” he told the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-146-tonnes-covid-related-bio-medical-waste-generated-daily-in-country-govt-962504.html
16-03-2021||National||Policemen, firemen among over 400 Myanmar nationals seek shelter in India||More than 400 people from Myanmar, many of them policemen, have crossed into neighbouring India since late February, an Indian police officer said on Monday, as Myanmar security forces seek to crush pro-democracy demonstrators after last month's coup. The policemen said that they had fled because they feared persecution after refusing to obey the military junta's orders to shoot protesters. "About 116 crossed on Friday," the police officer in the Indian state of Mizoram told Reuters, declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue. They included policemen and firemen, some of whom carried only clothes stuffed into white plastic sacks as they crossed the border. India's federal government has ordered local authorities to stop the influx but the mountain terrain is porous and hard to patrol. There are also close ethnic and cultural ties between the people on the two sides of the remote border. Around 140 people have died so far and thousands detained in Myanmar since the Feb. 1 military coup. Protesters continue to take to the streets in defiance of the authorities, who have used rubber bullets, tear gas and live ammunition to stop them. On Monday security forces shot dead six people taking part in pro-democracy demonstrations, media and witnesses said. Myanmar's junta says it is exercising great restraint in handling what it describes as demonstrations by "riotous protesters" whom it accuses of attacking police and harming national security and stability. 'I SUPPORT THE CDM' One of the largest groups of recent arrivals in India - numbering around 100 - are housed in a village in Mizoram's Champhai district, a short drive on rough mountain roads from the Tiau river that marks the border between the two countries. A handful of them sat in a sunlit room on Monday, smoking hand-rolled cigarettes and hunched over their phones. One watched Facebook videos of protesters clashing with Myanmar security forces. Among those sheltering in the village, which local community leaders asked not to name, was a fire department official from Myanmar's Chin state who gave his name only as Khaw. The official said his superiors had asked him on Feb. 18 to hose down and disperse anti-coup demonstrators. Khaw, 34, said he had refused the order and stopped going to work, along with 20 other firemen. "I support the CDM," he said, referring to the civil disobedience movement against Myanmar's junta. "I didn't want to be under the control of the military," he said, speaking through an interpreter, adding that 16 other Myanmar firemen had also sought shelter in the Indian village. Reuters was not in a position to verify his account. A spokesman for the junta could not be reached for comment. Last week, some Myanmar police who fled to India told Reuters they had been ordered to directly shoot at protesters. But Khaw's account is among the first from emergency service officials fleeing Myanmar after disobeying orders. Khaw said he did not carry any Myanmar ID in case he was caught by the country's security forces, but he showed Reuters recent photos of himself in a fireman's uniform. After joining the civil disobedience movement, Khaw said he hid in a forested area of Chin state with around 30 others. On March 3, Myanmar security forces discovered their hideout, forcing him to flee the country, leaving behind his wife and four children. Asked about his family's safety, Khaw said: "That's my biggest fear."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/policemen-firemen-among-over-400-myanmar-nationals-seek-shelter-in-india-962505.html
16-03-2021||National||With over 24,000 new Covid-19 cases, India's tally crosses 1.14 crore||India recorded 24,492 new Covid-19 cases, registering more than 20,000 cases for the sixth day in a row, taking the infection tally past 1.14 crore, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The total cases in the country rose to 1,14,09,831, while the death toll increased to 1,58,856, with 131 fresh fatalities, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed.  Registering a spike in cases for the sixth day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,23,432, which now comprises 1.96 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 96.65 per cent, it said. As many as 26,624 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 20. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,27,543, while the case fatality rate dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),  22,82,80,763 samples have been tested up to March 15, with 8,73,350 samples tested on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-over-24000-new-covid-19-cases-indias-tally-crosses-114-crore-962556.html
16-03-2021||National||Over 30 lakh vaccinated against Covid-19 on March 15, highest so far||More than 30 lakh people were inoculated against Covid-19 on March 15, the highest in a day so far, taking the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country to 3,29,47,432, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Tuesday. The vaccination of beneficiaries aged over 60 has touched 1 crore within 15 days, the ministry said. Of the total 30,39,394 doses given in a span of 24 hours on March 15, 26,27,099 beneficiaries have been administered the 1st dose and 4,12,295 individuals have been given the 2nd dose, according to the data compiled at 7 am. Of the cumulative 3,29,47,432 doses which have been administered till now, 2,70,79,484 beneficiaries received the 1st dose and 58,67,948 individuals have taken the 2nd dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-30-lakh-vaccinated-against-covid-19-on-march-15-highest-so-far-962580.html
16-03-2021||National||Rahul Gandhi accuses Modi govt of privatising profit, nationalising loss; supports bank strike||Taking a dig at the government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday alleged that selling public sector banks to "cronies" will compromise the country's financial security. He also accused the government of "privatising profit" and "nationalising loss". "Government of India (GOI) is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India's financial security," Gandhi tweeted. The Congress leader also expressed solidarity with the protesting bank employees, who are on a two-day strike against alleged privatisation of public sector banks. "I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees," he said on Twitter. GOI is privatising profit & nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India’s financial security. The bank strike, led by nine unions of public sector banks (PSBs) in the country, continued for day-two on Tuesday. Customers will be inconvenienced to get services such as cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittance services. Government transactions related to treasury as well as business transactions will also be impacted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahul-gandhi-accuses-modi-govt-of-privatising-profit-nationalising-loss-supports-bank-strike-962592.html
16-03-2021||National||India, Bangladesh likely to sign three MoUs during PM Modi's visit||India and Bangladesh are likely to sign three MoUs during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Dhaka next week to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence and the birth centenary of its founder ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Prime Minister Modi and heads of state and government from Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and the Maldives will be among the distinguished foreign guests to join the celebrations under separate schedules. "It’s a historic event for Bangladesh as five heads of state and government never (without any summit) visited here within a time span of 10 days," Foreign Minister AK Abdul Momen told a media briefing here ahead of the 10-day celebrations starting on March 17. "This is a very unusual time (due to Covid-19)… but heads of state and government of our neighbouring countries are coming here to show their tribute to our Father of the Nation," Momen said. During his trip, Prime Minister Modi will hold talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and visit three places outside Dhaka. The two sides are expected to sign three MoUs, Momen said. "These (MoUs) are not final yet," he said. Foreign Secretary Masud bin Momen said the MoUs were likely to be signed in the field of disaster management and cooperation between some institutions of the two countries. "We are still working on every MoUs. We will get the final scenario regarding the MoUs within one or two days," he said. According to the schedule, all the foreign leaders would visit the National Memorial in Savar to pay homage to the independence martyrs, Bangabandhu Museum at Dhanmondi 32 to pay tribute to Bangladesh’s founding father, watch special military parades and join State banquets. Prime Minister Modi is also set to visit the Bangabandhu shrine at his village home in Tungipara and two Hindu temples outside Dhaka - one in Gopalganj and the other in southwestern Satkhira. The temples are places of worship, particularly of the Hindu Matua community. A large number of the Matua community members reside in West Bengal. Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih will be the first top foreign dignitary to arrive here on a three-day visit on March 17. He will be followed by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa who will arrive here on a two-day tour on March 19. Nepalese President Bidya Devi Bhandari will be in Dhaka on a two-day tour from March 22 while Bhutan’s premier Lotay Tshering will visit Dhaka from March 24 to 25. Prime Minister Modi will arrive here on March 26 and return home the next day. Momen said Chinese President Xi Jinping, French President Emmanuel Macron, Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Canadian Premier Justin Trudeau and some high-level leaders of different countries and international organisations would send video messages on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-likely-to-sign-three-mous-during-pm-modis-visit-962600.html
16-03-2021||National||Indian Railways will never be privatised: Piyush Goyal in Lok Sabha||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said that Indian Railways will never be privatised instead the government will encourage private investment in the national transporter for its efficient functioning. "Indian Railways will never be privatised. It is a property of every Indian and will remain so,” the Minister said while replying to a discussion on Demands for Grants for Railways in the Lok Sabha. Dismissing apprehensions of many members whether the government is going to privatise the railways, the Minister said the country can progress towards high growth and create more employment opportunities only when the public and private sectors work together. While seeking states help to faster acquisition of land for the railway projects, the Minister said the central government has hiked investment in railways to Rs 2.15 lakh crore in 2021-22 fiscal, from Rs 1.5 lakh crore in 2019-20 fiscal. Goyal said there has been no death of any passenger in rail accidents in the past two years and the railways has been putting enormous focus on passenger safety. The Lok Sabha later passed the Demands for Grants for Railways for 2021-22. The Minister also mentioned poor acquisition of land in Maharashtra for the Mumbai-Ahmedabad bullet train project. He said till today 95% land has been acquired in Gujarat and land has also been acquired in Daman and Diu. However, in Maharashtra only 24% land was acquired. “If we can acquire land in Maharashtra, then we can implement the project at a faster pace," Goyal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-will-never-be-privatised-piyush-goyal-in-lok-sabha-962602.html
16-03-2021||National||Maharashtra needs emergency permission to give everyone Covid-19 vaccines, says Anand Mahindra||Mahindra group chairman Ananda Mahindra has called for 'emergency permission' to vaccinate every 'willing' person in Maharashtra to curb its recent surge of Covid-19 cases. "Over half the new daily cases are in Maharashtra. The state is the nerve-centre of the country’s economic activity & more lockdowns will be debilitating. Maharashtra needs emergency permission to vaccinate EVERY willing person. No shortage of vaccines," he tweeted.  He also said that if "we don’t speed up the vaccination rate we will suffer second, third and fourth waves," in reply to a Twitter user who raised concerns about the spread of Covid-19 in the state. Of late, Maharashtra has re-emerged as a hotspot of Covid-19 cases in India, reporting as many as 16,620 new cases on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-needs-emergency-permission-to-give-everyone-covid-19-vaccines-says-anand-mahindra-962606.html
16-03-2021||National||Myanmar soldiers and police flee to India with tales of violence and fear||Shaking and clutching his T-shirt, Myanmar soldier Kyaw recalled the violence he said he was told to use on people in his own community -- orders that triggered his escape to India. Kyaw, whose name has been changed to protect his identity, was among 40 Myanmar nationals -- mostly police officers -- whom AFP met as they hid in an undisclosed location in the northeastern state of Mizoram. At least 180 people have been killed in Myanmar since the February 1 coup, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners monitoring group, as the junta has cracked down on relentless democracy rallies across the country. The violence has seen more than 300 Myanmar nationals -- many of them police officers and their families, as well as two military personnel -- enter Mizoram, a local helping with the border crossings told AFP on Monday. Kyaw, a 24-year-old rifleman who said he had served in the military for around four years, is a member of the Chin, a mainly Christian minority in Myanmar. He told AFP he had been ordered to inflict lethal violence among the Chin and inform on them. "The military was giving orders to kill innocent people, who are like my own mother and father," he told AFP. "Why should I kill my own people." He said it took him four days to get to Mizoram on a motorcycle and on foot. After calling home when he reached India, the father-of-two said he found out that his family house had been searched and his father arrested. Another rifleman AFP spoke to said he also feared for his family's safety. "My friends shot at protesters and I was told to shoot as well... But I cannot kill my people. So, I ran away at night," the 21-year-old said. Others can take up to 10 days on foot to reach the remote and mountainous state along Myanmar's western border, including via a river, paddy fields, and sleeping in forests. Those who make it are picked up by sympathetic locals, who help them get to relatives' homes or stay with others willing to shelter them from authorities. But eight Myanmar citizens have been "pushed back", according to a statement last week by Assam Rifles, a national paramilitary force operating in the region. Those AFP met said they had fled without their families because the journey was so difficult. They arrived with just the clothes on their backs and what they could carry, and relied on locals who brought them food, blankets and cash. One of them clutched a Burmese-language bible as they sat huddled together on mattresses and mats laid out on the floor of a partially constructed building. Twenty-four-year-old policewoman Chewa, whose name has also been changed, broke down in tears as she shared her story. She said the soldiers were being given orders to shoot protesters, with police assigned to give extra security. "Even though we are the police, we are still citizens like the people. I didn't want to listen to those kinds of orders, and I did not dare to shoot," she said. Chewa said she did not witness any police officers shooting civilians, but saw protest leaders in a small town in the remote highlands of Chin state being arrested. Chewa said she joined the civil disobedience movement, involving tens of thousands of government workers across Myanmar. "I want democracy back," she said, her voice choking with emotion. "I want the international community to help our country... I am one of the lower-level (officers) so I don't have any power to do much so I joined the (movement) -- that's as much as I can do." She said she feared for the welfare of her family, as she was the sole breadwinner. Kyaw, Chewa and another police officer showed AFP their military or police ID cards to prove their identities. AFP could not independently verify their specific claims. As the group sat in silence, sunlight streaming through open windows, they held their right hands up in a three-fingered salute, a gesture inspired by the "Hunger Games" films and used by protesters. "I don't want to go back yet to Myanmar," Kyaw said, still shaking. "I am a soldier, so I am not safe there if I go back."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/myanmar-soldiers-and-police-flee-to-india-with-tales-of-violence-and-fear-962612.html
16-03-2021||National||Morning walk, gym, fish market: Kamal Haasan begins campaign in Coimbatore South||Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan launched his election campaign early on Tuesday by going around the Coimbatore South Constituency, where he is contesting the Assembly polls next month, and interacted with voters. Haasan began the day by meeting citizens along the Racecourse road, a posh locality in the city, and engaged with morning walkers and joggers, party sources said. The 66-year-old actor then visited a gymnasium in Ramanathapuram, set up by late film producer Sandow MMA Chinnappa Thevar and demonstrated his prowess in Silambattam, traditional martial art of Tamil Nadu with a long cane. Later, he interacted with the public at a roadside tea shop, to understand their problems and garner support.  In a bid to reach out to people of various communities, the MNM founder also visited a fish market in the Ukkadam area and discussed local issues with the people. Meanwhile, members of the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers Association submitted a memorandum to Haasan seeking among other things establishment of a gold jewellery park.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/morning-walk-gym-fish-market-kamal-haasan-begins-campaign-in-coimbatore-south-962619.html
16-03-2021||National||Illegal coal mining case: CBI searches at five locations in West Bengal||The CBI on Tuesday carried out searches at five locations in poll-bound West Bengal in connection with the illegal coal mining case involving alleged kingpin Anup Manjhi, officials said.  The searches are being conducted at five locations of Manjhi's alleged associate Amit Agrawal, a businessman, in Durgapur, Asansol and Bankura, they said. Eight phase polling for assembly elections in West Bengal is scheduled to begin from March 27. With 294 seats at stake, the BJP is leading a vigorous campaign to oust the ruling TMC which had secured consecutive wins in 2011 and 2016 under its leader Mamata Banerjee. The CBI has already questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Abhishek Banerjee, Lok Sabha Member of Parliament from Diamond Harbour constituency and nephew of CM Mamata Banerjee who wields considerable influence in the party and has been leading the Trinamool Congress' counter-attack.  The agency had also questioned Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law in connection with the case, they said.  The multi-crore coal pilferage scam is related to the ECL mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, Anup Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee. Dhar, the then Kunustoria area general manager, is now posted in Pandaveswar, while Rai is general manager for the Kajor area. It is alleged that Manjhi is involved in illegal mining and theft of coal from leasehold mines of ECL in the Kunustoria and Kajora areas, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/illegal-coal-mining-case-cbi-searches-at-five-locations-in-west-bengal-962627.html
16-03-2021||National||Privatisation of PSU banks will compromise financial security: Congress MP in Lok Sabha||Congress MP Ravneet Singh on Tuesday said privatisation of public sector banks will compromise financial security as private sector banks will extend credit to large businesses and not think about the poor. He said 10 lakh employees of 9 public banks are on a strike to protest privatisation and asked the Centre to start dialogue with the employee unions. Speaking in the Lok Sabha, Singh said former prime minister Indira Gandhi had nationalised banks to connect poor with banking services. It is the PSU banks which saved the financial sector during the 2008 global financial crisis, he added. “Financial security of banks will be compromised if banks are privatised. It's not about 10 lakh striking employees, it's about people of the country,” Singh added. Nine bank unions have called for a two-day nationwide strike beginning March 16 to protest against the government's budget announcement to privatise public sector lenders. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Union Budget speech for 2021-22 said the government will privatise two more public sector banks going forward. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake in the lender to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/privatisation-of-psu-banks-will-compromise-financial-security-congress-mp-in-lok-sabha-962628.html
16-03-2021||National||India hands over training aids to Sri Lankan Navy for capacity building||India's envoy in Sri Lanka has underlined the importance of close cooperation between the navies of the two countries as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement, as he handed over training aids worth 22 million LKR (about Rs 81,00,000) to the island nation's Navy for capacity building. High Commissioner Gopal Baglay, during a visit to the Northern and Eastern Provinces, formally handed over the training aids to the Commander Eastern Naval Area of the Sri Lanka Navy at a ceremony held on Sunday at the prestigious Naval and Maritime Academy (NMA) Trincomalee. Pursuing the commitment of the Indian Navy in assisting the regional navies in capacity building, during his visit in December 2019, Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh had committed to providing a number of training items to the Sri Lankan Navy, the Indian High Commission in Colombo said in a statement. With a focus on supporting specialisation courses being conducted at NMA, Sri Lanka Navy model of indigenously developed Varunastra heavy-weight torpedo, working model of Light Weight Torpedo, Underwater Telephone, Gas Turbine cut Model, a model of HMS Trincomalee and Bathythermograph were delivered in Sri Lanka in 2020 and were operationalised with joint efforts of Indian Navy, Sri Lankan Navy and the OEMs from India. While formally handing over the training aids, the High Commissioner reiterated the importance of close cooperation between the two navies as an essential part of the overall bilateral engagement. He also handed over Kindle e-book readers and books to the library of the Naval and Maritime Academy. The Indian Navy and the Sri Lankan Navy have always maintained a functional relationship and several training facilities of the Indian Navy are availed by the Sri Lankan Navy, the High Commission said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-hands-over-training-aids-to-sri-lankan-navy-for-capacity-building-962629.html
16-03-2021||National||Government always makes efforts to revive PSUs that can be revived: Prakash Javadekar in Lok Sabha||Union Minister for Heavy Industries and Public Enterprises Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday said the government always makes efforts to revive public sector undertakings that can be revived. During the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Javadekar said the effort always is to utilise full capacity of PSUs. "There is always an effort to ensure that those units which can be revived are revived," he asserted. The minister further said the government has approved the revival, merger, or restructuring of some public sector undertakings (PSUs). "Some of them are Brahmaputra Valley Fertilizer Corporation Ltd, Hindustan Steelwork Construction Ltd, Richardson & Cruddas Ltd, NEPA Ltd, Hooghly Printing Company Ltd, Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd, Mahanagar Telecom Nigam Ltd (MTNL) and Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL)," he said. Replying to a question, Javadekar said BSNL and MTNL are strategic assets. "And in strategic sector, there will be government presence and there will be private companies also," he said. He also clarified that the government is not privatising Life Insurance Corporation of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-always-makes-efforts-to-revive-psus-that-can-be-revived-prakash-javadekar-in-lok-sabha-962640.html
16-03-2021||National||Covid-19 influenced 84% of ultra-wealthy Indians to reassess succession planning: Survey||The pandemic has influenced 84 per cent of ultra-wealthy Indians, more than the global average, to reassess their attitudes to succession planning, according to a survey. The survey was based on responses from more than 600 private bankers, wealth advisors and family offices representing a combined wealth of more than $3.3 trillion. According to the Knight Frank Attitudes Survey 2021, India is among the top four countries where ultra-wealthy Indians have reassessed their attitudes to succession planning in light of Covid-19 pandemic. As many as 90 per cent of ultra-high-net-worth individuals (UHNWIs) in Canada redefined succession planning during the pandemic, while in Turkey the figure stands at 85 per cent and South Africa (80 per cent). Globally, around 60 per cent of UHNWIs have reassessed their succession planning during the pandemic. According to the survey, 30 per cent of ultra-wealthy Indians placed 'transferring of wealth to the next generation' in the top three worries, while 16 per cent respondents see it as an exciting opportunity. In the global context, 28 per cent of UHNWIs positioned this in the top three worries while 23 per cent of respondents saw it as opportunity in 2021. "The hard-hit global pandemic has disproportionately affected the older generations for growing wealth, making them reassess their succession planning attitudes," said Shishir Baijal, Chairman & Managing Director, Knight Frank India. The younger generation can lead their wealth to new heights as they come equipped with a different thinking process and tech-savvy background, Baijal said. In the survey, 89 per cent of Indian UHNWIs said new investments opportunities opening up in the post-Covid world will largely excite them for wealth creation. Around 61 per cent respondents expect that technology disruption will also play a vital role, while 23 per cent of ultra-wealthy Indians expect an improvement in domestic government policy will help them grow wealth. "Despite being a challenging year for the Indian economy and some sectors, Indian UHNWIs are more optimistic about the country’s economic growth and expect their wealth to increase in the year 2021. With its various economic reforms and policy amends, India has attracted global investors, which resulted in a positive outlook for the economy," Baijal noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-influenced-84-of-ultra-wealthy-indians-to-reassess-succession-planning-survey-962643.html
16-03-2021||National||Establishment not required for a single spice: Centre rules out separate Turmeric Board||The Centre on Tuesday ruled out setting up a separate Turmeric Board saying such an establishment was not required for a single spice, rejecting a key demand of turmeric growing states such as Telangana. “A board already exists for 50 spices. The government feels that a separate board for a single spice is not required at the moment,” Minister of State for Agriculture Parshottam Rupala told the Lok Sabha during Question Hour. He said the government has taken several initiatives for the welfare of turmeric farmers, such as increasing the curcumin content in turmeric by promoting new varieties of the spice. Rupala said the Divisional Office of the Spices Board in Nizamabad has been upgraded to a Regional Office cum Extension Centre, which has started functioning in February last year. Congress leader N Uttam Kumar Reddy claimed that BJP leaders Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar and Ram Madhav had promised setting up of a Turmeric Board while campaigning for elections in Telangana. Rupala dismissed Reddy’s arguments as insistence on a certain nomenclature for political purposes at a time when the Spices Board was already carrying out several initiatives to promote research and development, post-harvest operations, marketing and export in the region. BJP member B N Bache Gowda said if the government planned to set up a Turmeric Board, it should be for the entire country and not just Telangana. Turmeric farmers had filed nominations to contest the 2019 Lok Sabha elections against Prime Minister Narendra Modi from Varanasi to highlight their demand for a separate turmeric board and minimum support price for the spice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/establishment-not-required-for-a-single-spice-centre-rules-out-separate-turmeric-board-962647.html
16-03-2021||National||Centre to infuse Rs 20,000 cr in Development Finance Institution to boost infrastructure funding||The Centre on Tuesday approved setting up of a Development Finance Institution to pump in funds into infrastructure projects, Finance Minister Nirmala Sithraman said. The Union Cabinet, at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, also proposed to grant Rs 20,000 crore as equity support to the Development Finance Institution (DFI) which is expected to raise Rs 3 lakh crore through markets over the next few years. The Finance Minister will introduce a Bill in the ongoing session of Parliament to establish the DFI, which was announced in the Union Budget presented last month. Sitharaman said initially the new institution would be state-owned and the government would gradually reduce its stake to 26 per cent. The DFI would seek to raise funds from global pension and insurance sectors for investment in new projects, carrying certain tax benefits, she added. The DFI will start with a clean slate and the board will take a decision on merger or acquisition of other entities such as the India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited, Debasish Panda, Secretary, Department of Financial Services, told reporters. The institution will have a professional board, led by a person of eminence with enough heft and stature to meet the requirements of the new century. “The chairman will have a longer tenure and a higher age limit and will be given “market-driven” emoluments. Sitharaman referred to institutions such as the IDBI that were established to fund infrastructure projects but gradually changed their nature of business. The institution will have tax benefits for a 10-year long period and the government would amend the Indian Stamp Act, she said adding that the government will also give certain securities. The DFI will fund projects identified by the national infrastructure pipeline which has listed 7,000 items and the board will decide which of them would be funded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-infuse-rs-20000-cr-in-development-finance-institution-to-boost-infrastructure-funding-962653.html
16-03-2021||National||Why did Mumbai police hold press conference over TRP scam? Bombay HC asks||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday asked what had prompted the Mumbai police to hold a press conference last year over the alleged Television Rating Points (TRP) scam. "Does the police have an obligation to interact with the press? Why did the commissioner (of police) have to speak to the press?" a bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale asked. The court was hearing pleas filed by ARG Outlier Media Pvt Ltd, the company that owns Republic TV channels, and by journalist Arnab Goswami, seeking, among other reliefs, that the Mumbai police's probe into the TRP scam be transferred to the CBI or any other independent agency. The bench was responding to the arguments made by the ARG Outlier Media's counsel, senior advocate Ashok Mundargi. Mundargi told the high court that the police had malafide intentions behind holding the press conference in October last year. He also said there was no evidence against Republic TV and its Editor-in-Chief Arnab Goswami, but the police were trying to name them as accused "by hook or by crook". "The police were feeding the press that a particular scam took place. This points out that there was not sufficient material to say whatever was being said," Mundargi argued. He also said the police had arrested some employees of the ARG Outlier Media and named them as accused persons in their remand applications. However, in the charge sheet, the police had named the channel and ARG Outlier Media's employees merely as suspects, he said. Mundargi also said that Sachin Waze, who had been handling the probe into the alleged scam, and who is now suspended over his alleged involvement in another case, was a controversial officer. "The investigation has taken a peculiar angle. In the charge sheet they are suspects, they are arrested and then they are shown as wanted accused," Mundargi said. "The officer (Waze) is also very controversial. This is the chain of events," he said. The HC will continue hearing the final arguments in the case on Wednesday. The Maharashtra government's statement made earlier this month to refrain from taking any coercive action against Goswami and the ARG Outlier Media's employees will continue till then. The ARG Outlier Media and Goswami approached the HC last year filing a bunch of petitions seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam. They alleged that the whole case was malafide and they had been targeted for Republic TV's reportage in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and the Palghar lynching case last year. The Mumbai police in January this year filed two affidavits in the TRP case through Commissioner of Police Param Bir Singh and ACP Shashank Sandbhor of the crime branch, saying they had not targeted the Republic TV or its employees. The police said their probe into the case was not a result of any political vendetta and there was evidence to show that Goswami had connived with senior officials of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to rig the TRP of Republic TV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-did-mumbai-police-hold-press-conference-over-trp-scam-bombay-hc-asks-962654.html
16-03-2021||National||New Delhi is world's most polluted capital for third straight year: IQAir study||New Delhi was the world's most polluted capital for the third straight year in 2020, according to IQAir, a Swiss group that measures air quality levels based on the concentration of lung-damaging airborne particles known as PM2.5. India was home to 35 of the world's 50 most polluted cities, according to IQAir's 2020 World Air Quality Report, which gathered data for 106 countries. The findings were based on the country's annual average of particulate matter PM2.5, airborne particles with less than 2.5 microns in diameter. Prolonged exposure to PM2.5 can lead to deadly diseases, including cancer and cardiac problems. In 2020, New Delhi's average annual concentration of PM2.5 in a cubic meter of air was 84.1, the study said, more than double the level of Beijing, which averaged 37.5 during the year, making it the 14th most polluted city in the world. Air pollution caused an estimated 54,000 premature deaths in New Delhi in 2020, according to a recent study by Greenpeace Southeast Asia Analysis and IQAir. Despite an 11 per cent reduction in the annual average of PM2.5 levels due to nationwide coronavirus lockdown curbs imposed last year, India emerged as the world's third most polluted country after Bangladesh and Pakistan. "Air pollution in India is still dangerously high," the report said. In 2020, South Asia endured some of the world's worst air quality on record, it said. Last year, Delhi's 20 million residents, who breathed some of the cleanest air on record in summer months due to the lockdown curbs, battled toxic air in winter, following a sharp increase in farm fire incidents in the neighbouring state of Punjab. As the burning of crop stubble peaked, Delhi's PM2.5 levels averaged 144 micrograms per cubic metre in November and 157 micrograms per cubic metre in December, exceeding the World Health Organisation's annual exposure guideline by more than 14 times, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-delhi-is-worlds-most-polluted-capital-for-third-straight-year-iqair-study-962655.html
16-03-2021||National||31 civilians, 39 security men killed in cross-border firing in J&K since Article 370 abrogation||As many as 31 civilians and 39 security personnel were killed in cross-border firing and ceasefire violations in Jammu and Kashmir since the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5, 2019, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said incidents of ceasefire violations and cross border firing by Pakistan along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir have been reported since decades and immediate and effective retaliation is undertaken by security forces in such cases. "31 civilians were killed and 39 security force personnel were martyred in such incidents from August 5, 2019, to February 28, 2021," he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy said the central government has sanctioned construction of 14,460 bunkers (1,431 community bunkers and 13,029 individual bunkers) to provide protection to the people living in areas close to the IB and LoC and to safeguard human lives in the event of cross-border firing. Out of these, 7,856 bunkers have already been constructed in the border areas of Jammu and Kashmir, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/31-civilians-39-security-men-killed-in-cross-border-firing-in-jk-since-article-370-abrogation-962657.html
16-03-2021||National||No proposal under consideration to declare Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka as UT: Govt tells LS||The Centre on Tuesday informed Lok Sabha that there is no proposal under consideration before the government to declare the areas dominated by Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka bordering Maharashtra as a Union Territory. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said demands and representations have been received from time to time from various individuals and organisations to declare these border areas as a Union Territory. "However, no such proposal is under consideration," he said in a written reply. As per census 2011, the Marathi-speaking population in border sub-districts of Maharashtra-Karnataka is 55,98,325. The census showed a presence of Marathi-speaking people in Dudhani, Ichalkaranji, Kagal, Kamalnagar, Maindargi, Nippani, Sadalgi and Sankeshwar, the minister said. Separately, the Shiv Sena, on Tuesday, in an editorial its mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ said Belagavi should be declared as a union territory, alleging that atrocities on Marathi-speaking people by pro-Kannada outfits continued in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-under-consideration-to-declare-marathi-speaking-areas-in-karnataka-as-ut-govt-tells-ls-962664.html
16-03-2021||National||Rajnath Singh slams Mamata over law & order, says BJP will play 'khela' of peace and development||Slamming the Mamata Banerjee government over alleged slide in the law and order situation, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday the "khela" (game) that will be played in West Bengal after the BJP's victory in the assembly election will be that of development and peace. He asserted the BJP will form its government in the state winning more than 200 of the 294 seats. Joining the campaign blitzkrieg that the BJP has launched, with several top party leaders holding meetings and rallies regularly to snatch Bengal from the TMC, Singh, who was once considered a friend of Mamata Banerjee in the saffron camp, asked what the two-time chief minister has done for the people of the state except for bringing disaster to them. Questioning what the Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee means by "khela hobe" (the game will happen), Singh told a public meeting here in West Midnapore district that "the game of development and peace will be played in Bengal". He said "asol parivartan" (true change) will usher in on May 2, the day of the counting of votes for the eight-phase assembly elections that commence on March 27. "The BJP will form a government in Bengal with more than 200 seats," he asserted. The BJP had won 18 of the 42 seats in West Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, emerging as the main challenger to the ruling TMC in the assembly polls. In a reference to the insider-outsider debate that the TMC has started while branding the BJP a party of outsiders, he said the saffron party is the present-day avatar of Jana Sangh, which the son of the soil Syama Prasad Mookerjee had founded. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not been able to maintain law and order in West Bengal, he said, "Go to Uttar Pradesh or any other state where BJP is in power, there is peace." He said the Narendra Modi government has allocated Rs 25,000 crore in the Union Budget for development of the highways in West Bengal. "The roads being built in the state are from funds released by the Modi government and not Mamata Banerjee," he asserted. Singh said Rajiv Gandhi, as the prime minister, had lamented that out of every rupee sent for welfare works, only 16 paisa reached the people. But the Modi government has ensured that every paisa released by the Centre reaches people on the ground for which PM Jan-Dhan Yojana has been launched so the money could be directly credited to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. Claiming that the Mamata Banerjee government has not implemented the Centre's welfare programmes for the poor and backward sections, he said, "It is your duty as the chief minister of the state to reach the welfare schemes of the central government to the people." Claiming that the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana has not been implemented by the TMC government, Singh assured that every family in the state will have a house by the beginning of 2022, if the BJP comes to power in Bengal. He said while farmers in the rest of the country have got funds in their accounts under the PM Kisan Samman Yojana, those in West Bengal have not benefited since the Mamata Banerjee government has not sent the list of potential beneficiaries. He assured that the beneficiaries will be given the money with arrears once the BJP comes to power. Singh said once a BJP government is formed, no one will be able to extort money from people or indulge in violence. He assured the people of West Bengal that every political worker, whether from the Left, the TMC the Congress, or the general public, will be safe under a BJP dispensation. "Mamata didi had given the slogan of 'Ma, Mati, Manush' (mother, land, people), but now neither Ma is safe nor the manush or the mati of Bengal are secure," he said. He said recently the chief minister suffered a "little injury" and she blamed the BJP for that. Investigating agencies, however, maintained she got injured because of the lacunae in her security arrangement and not by BJP workers, he said. "BJP workers can never raise their hand on anyone," he asserted, adding party activists found indulging in any such activity will be shown the door. Claiming that anywhere between 150 and 200 BJP workers have been killed in political violence during the TMC rule, Singh asked "can Mamata didi bring them back to life for their mothers".  Alleging that 1,500 to 2,000 BJP workers in the state are missing, he said the chief minister does not say a word about that. "The BJP does not do politics for forming government but for the development of the country," he asserted, and added the party, if voted to power, will transform West Bengal from a "police state to public state". Singh said the Modi government brought Jammu and Kashmir on par with any other part of the country by abrogating Article 370 of the Constitution. With the conduct of panchayat elections in Jammu and Kashmir, people there have realised for the first time what a democratic system means, he said. "India has become a powerful country under the Modi government," he asserted. The Defence Minister said earlier no one could talk to China looking in the eye but Prime Minister Narendra Modi changed the narrative with sheer courage. "Our soldiers have given appropriate response and the situation changed," he said, referring to the military disengagement in Ladakh after a tense stand-off between Indian and the Chinese armies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajnath-singh-slams-mamata-over-law-order-says-bjp-will-play-khela-of-peace-and-development-962665.html
16-03-2021||National||PM Modi's Principal Advisor P K Sinha resigns||P K Sinha, the Principal Advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned, sources said on Tuesday. Sinha, a retired IAS officer of 1977 batch, was appointed as Principal Advisor to the Prime Minister in September 2019, after a brief stint as an officer on special duty (OSD). Sinha was made OSD to the Prime Minister in August 2019, after he had served four years as Cabinet Secretary. According to the order of his appointment, his tenure as Principal Advisor was co-terminus with the term of Prime Minister Modi or until the further announcement, whichever earlier. Sinha had also served as Secretary in the Ministry of Power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-principal-advisor-p-k-sinha-resigns-962667.html
16-03-2021||National||ED arrests brother of TMC leader Vinay Mishra over coal and cattle smuggling scam||Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested brother of TMC leader Vinay Mishra in connection with coal and cattle smuggling scam, ED official told ANI. More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-arrests-brother-of-tmc-leader-vinay-mishra-over-coal-and-cattle-smuggling-scam-962671.html
16-03-2021||National||Govt denied permission to February Sikh 'Jatha' to visit Pakistan due to Covid, threat to safety||The government denied permission to a Sikh 'Jatha' to visit Nankana Sahib in February this year in view of increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Pakistan and threat to the safety and security of a large number of Indian citizens, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said on Tuesday. Reddy said in Lok Sabha that under the 1974 'Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines' between India and Pakistan, there are four occasions every year on which visit of Sikh 'Jathas' to Pakistan are held -- Baisakhi, Martyrdom's Day of Guru Arjan Dev Ji, Barsi of Maharaja Ranjit Singh Ji and birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji. The minister said the proposed jatha to Nankana Sahib in Pakistan on February 18 was not covered under the 1974 bilateral protocol. Further, as per information available, no such 'Jatha' had gone to Pakistan in the past on such occasion. "Keeping in view the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Pakistan, threat to the safety and security of the large number of Indian citizens during the visit and the ongoing suspension of cross-border traffic due to Covid-19 pandemic, permission was not accorded to the said 'jatha'," he said replying to a written question. Reddy said on the occasion of the 551th birth anniversary of Sri Guru Nanak Dev Ji, a 'Jatha' of Sikh pilgrims visited Nankana Sahib from November 28, 2020 to December 1, 2020 under the 1974 'Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines' between India and Pakistan. However, due to Covid-19 pandemic related restrictions, the number of pilgrims was restricted, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-denied-permission-to-february-sikh-jatha-to-visit-pakistan-due-to-covid-threat-to-safety-962678.html
16-03-2021||National||SC to hear plea by Zakia Jafri against clean chit to Modi in 2002 riots case on April 13||A bench presided over by Justice A M Khanwilkar deferred the matter once against on a request by the counsel. It, however, fixed the matter for consideration on April 13. "It is made clear that no request for further adjournment will be sought by either side on that day," the bench, also comprising Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Krishna Murari, said in its order. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the petitioner submitted that the counsel were busy in Maratha reservation matter before the Constitution bench. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the SIT, contended that the matter should be heard. The court, however, by consent posted the matter for hearing on April 13. The matter has earlier been adjourned for a number of times. 80-year-old, Zakia filed the petition against the Gujarat High Court's order of October 2017, that upheld clean chit given to Modi and others by the Supreme Court-appointed Special Investigation Team. The petitioner, whose husband Congress MP Ehsan Jafri was burnt to death in their house Gulberg society, contended Modi, and 59 others, including bureaucrats and police officers, should be made accused for being a part of criminal conspiracy for the 2002 riots. She had approached the high court in 2014 after the trial court rejected the objection application by her against the clean chit given by the SIT headed by former CBI director R K Raghavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-by-zakia-jafri-against-clean-chit-to-modi-in-2002-riots-case-on-april-13-962682.html
16-03-2021||National||FM Sitharaman accuses UPA of nationalising corruption, privatising taxpayers' money for one family||Hitting out at Rahul Gandhi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday accused the Congress-led UPA regime of nationalising corruption and privatising taxpayers' money for the benefit of "one family". GOI is privatising profit & nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India’s financial security. Responding to a question in this regard during a press conference, Sitharaman said Gandhi has "probably outsourced" his comments to a "hardcore communist". "I would want him to engage in serious discussions, rather than throw these kinds of two liners every now and then," she said. The minister further took on the former Congress President saying the UPA government also nationalised corruption. "His daadi (Indira Gandhi) would have probably nationalised the banks, but nationalising of loss in the banks was during UPA time. And I would want to add one more -- nationalising corruption is what they did. "So nationalising corruption and privatising taxpayers' money for the betterment of one family is all that Rahul Gandhi will have to take as a reply for that tweet...," she said. The senior BJP leader advised Gandhi that he should do some more intense homework before speaking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fm-sitharaman-accuses-upa-of-nationalising-corruption-privatising-taxpayers-money-for-one-family-962685.html
16-03-2021||National||Inflation remains low in last 7 years: Govt||The government on Tuesday informed Parliament that inflation has remained low in the last seven years - except for a spike in some items - and the government is taking steps to bring it further down. Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur, during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, said food items in the consumer price index (CPI) are showing a month-on-month decline. Commodities such as cereals, meat and fish, egg, vegetables and pulses have declined during January-February. "Overall, inflation has remained low in the last seven years. But in some items, there was a rise in prices due to supply constraints because of Covid-19 and a rise in demand," he said, responding to a supplementary query. In 2013-14, there was double-digit inflation. In comparison to that, now inflation is less. However, the government is making efforts to bring it further down, he added. Thakur said the government took measures to reduce the import of oilseeds and pulses by boosting production, giving a higher minimum support price to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inflation-remains-low-in-last-7-years-govt-962688.html
16-03-2021||National||SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal tests positive for Covid-19||Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal tested positive for Covid-19.  "My health is fine & as per protocol, I have isolated myself," Sukhbir Singh Badal said in a tweet. He further urged those who came in contact with him during the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested for Covid-19. I would like to inform everyone that I have tested Covid positive. My health is fine & as per protocol I have isolated myself. I request those who came in contact with me during the last few days to isolate themselves & get tested for Covid - 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sad-chief-sukhbir-singh-badal-tests-positive-for-covid-19-962691.html
16-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Rs 20,000 crore to boost infrastructure||In your evening news brief, Union Cabinet approves Bill to set up a Development Finance Institution to generate funds for investment in the infrastructure sector; DMK chief M K Stalin vows to unravel the 'mystery' behind the death of former CM J Jayalalithaa and New Delhi was the world's most polluted capital for the third straight year in 2020. Here is the top news of March 16, 2021:  The Union Cabinet on Tuesday approved a Bill to set up a Development Finance Institution (DFI) to generate funds for investment in the infrastructure sector. The proposed legislation will give effect to the Budget announcement made by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on February 1. The government has proposed Rs 20,000 crore to capitalise the institution. The proposed DFI will have 50 per cent non-official directors, Sitharaman added. DMK chief M K Stalin has said that if the party comes to power in the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, then he will ensure that the 'mystery' behind the death of former CM J Jayalalithaa will be unravelled. Stalin, while releasing the manifesto of the DMK on Saturday, said that he would take proper steps to expedite the submission of the Arumughasamy Committee report formed to probe the circumstances leading to the death of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016. New Delhi was the world's most polluted capital for the third straight year in 2020, according to IQAir, a Swiss group that measures air quality levels based on the concentration of lung-damaging airborne particles known as PM2.5. India was home to 35 of the world's 50 most polluted cities, according to IQAir's 2020 World Air Quality Report, which gathered data for 106 countries. The findings were based on the country's annual average of particulate matter PM2.5, airborne particles with less than 2.5 microns in diameter. Prolonged exposure to PM2.5 can lead to deadly diseases, including cancer and cardiac problems. (With inputs from DHNS and agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-rs-20000-crore-to-boost-infrastructure-962703.html
16-03-2021||National||Bypolls to two Lok Sabha and 14 assembly seats on April 17: EC||Bypolls to two Lok Sabha seats -- one each in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh -- and 14 assembly constituencies across 11 states will be held on April 17, the Election Commission announced on Tuesday. The Election Commission also announced bypolls to 14 assembly seats -- three in Rajasthan, two in Karnataka and one each in Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Mizoram, Nagaland, Odisha, Telangana and Uttarakhand. The fifth phase of the West Bengal assembly election will also take place on the same day. The votes will be counted on May 2, the same day as the results for elections in four states, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and West Bengal, and the union territory of Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bypolls-to-two-lok-sabha-and-14-assembly-seats-on-april-17-ec-962706.html
16-03-2021||National||Parliament passes Bill to raise upper limit for abortions to 24 weeks in special cases||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed a Bill to raise the upper limit for permitting abortions from the present 20 weeks to 24 weeks for "special categories of women" including rape survivors, victims of incest, minors and the differently-abled. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to amend the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 was passed by voice vote. The Bill was passed by Lok Sabha about a year ago. A demand to send the Bill to a select committee of Rajya Sabha was defeated by voice vote, along with some other amendments proposed by members. "The Bill as amended is passed," Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the amendments in the Bill have been made after studying global practices and wide consultation within the country. "Under the leadership of the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, we will not frame any law which harms women. This is to preserve and protect dignity of women," he said. The minister said the suggestions and objections made to the Bill by some members were symbolic in nature and aligned with their party ideology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-raise-upper-limit-for-abortions-to-24-weeks-in-special-cases-962708.html
16-03-2021||National||Night curfew in Bhopal, Indore from March 17 as Covid-19 surges||In view of a surge in coronavirus cases in Madhya Pradesh, the state government announced night curfew in Bhopal and Indore city areas from Wednesday, an official said. Besides, shops will remain closed after 10 pm in eight other cities, he said. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan after reviewing the Covid-19 situation at a meeting with senior officials on Tuesday. The time during which curfew will be in force in the two main cities of the state and how long the order will continue was not announced immediately. Shops will be closed after 10 pm in Jabalpur, Gwalior, Ujjain, Ratlam, Chhindwara, Burhanpur, Betul and Khargone, the official said. On Holi, no public programs will be allowed, but the festival can be celebrated by individuals. Thermal screening and one-week isolation for those arriving from neighbouring Maharashtra will continue. Madhya Pradesh on Monday reported 797 fresh coronavirus infections, taking the tally of cases to 2,69,391. The death toll reached 3,890 with three more deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/night-curfew-in-bhopal-indore-from-march-17-as-covid-19-surges-962711.html
16-03-2021||National||Mamata govt has not done anything for farmers, Adivasis: Nadda at poll rally||Alleging that the Mamata Banerjee dispensation has not done anything for the welfare of farmers and Adivasis in West Bengal, BJP president J P Nadda on Tuesday claimed that after practising politics of appeasement for years, the TMC supremo has started reciting Sanskrit slokas to assert her Hindu identity. She left several Hindu OBC castes such as Mahishya and Teli out of the reserved category because of her "politics of appeasement", and the BJP, if voted to power, will take steps to include them, Nadda said while addressing a rally at Kotulpur in Bankura district. Banerjee had won elections in the name of 'Ma, Mati, Manush' (Mother, Land and People), Nadda said and alleged that during the last decade, her party has engaged in "torturing women, killing BJP workers, dictatorship, extortion and politics of appeasement". "I am told that Mamata Banerjee is now doing Chandi Path. But in the last 10 years, you have been engaged in minority appeasement. You have stopped Saraswati Puja in the state and immersion of idols of goddess Durga," he said. Banerjee did Chandi Path (recitation of hymns) at Nandigram, from where she is contesting, at a public meeting on March 9. "During the stone laying ceremony of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, you stopped people from offering puja in the state," the BJP president said. Referring to the court verdict in the Batla House encounter case, Nadda said that the TMC supremo had claimed in 2008 that it was fake and would quit politics if proved wrong. Nadda asked, "What will she say now?" A Delhi court Monday awarded death penalty to convict Ariz Khan for the murder of decorated Delhi Police Inspector Mohan Chand Sharma in connection with the sensational Batla House encounter case of 2008.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-govt-has-not-done-anything-for-farmers-adivasis-nadda-at-poll-rally-962714.html
16-03-2021||National||Congress slams Modi govt for Covid-19 vaccine exports as infections soar||Congress on Tuesday hit out at Prime Minister Modi's government for exporting nearly twice the number of coronavirus vaccine doses than immunisations conducted at home, despite a surge in infections. India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, has gifted or sold 59 million locally produced doses compared with 33 million doses given to its own people since its inoculation campaign began in mid-January. While some rich countries such as the United States are being accused of vaccine nationalism, India is being lauded globally for sending shots to 71 countries, mainly the AstraZeneca vaccine as well as some of Bharat Biotech's homegrown product. Many Indians, however, now want the government to make vaccines available to more of its own people instead of only the elderly and those above 45 suffering from health conditions. "The priority of the Modi government is not the state but foreign nations," Congress said on Twitter, using the tag #IndiaNeedsMoreVaccines and accusing the premier of focusing on "PR over people". "The pace of vaccination in states is slow due to the centralisation in vaccine distribution," it said. Balance being struck Health Minister Harsh Vardhan told Parliament that vaccines were not being exported at the "expense of the people of India" and that a balance was being struck. India's immunisation drive has picked up significantly since Modi expanded it this month. Still, Bangladesh is vaccinating more people relative to its population using India-made shots. India plans to vaccinate 300 million of its 1.35 billion people by August. It reported 24,492 new coronavirus cases on Tuesday, the sixth straight day of more than 20,000 infections. Total cases have now risen to 11.41 million, the highest after the United States and Brazil. Deaths increased by 131 to 158,856 in the past 24 hours, data from the health ministry showed. The government has blamed crowding and a general reluctance to wear masks for the spike, ruling out mutations of the virus as a factor, unlike in the West. India's worst-affected state, Maharashtra, has ordered cinemas, hotels and restaurants to limit guests to half of capacity until the end of the month. Weddings and other social events will also have limited attendance. Maharashtra has also locked down some districts. Another western state, Gujarat, has decided not to allow fans into the world's biggest cricket stadium hosting international matches between India and England, after seeing a spurt in cases. The initial matches were attended by tens of thousands of people sitting or standing shoulder to shoulder, with few wearing masks, leading to widespread criticism on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-slams-modi-govt-for-covid-19-vaccine-exports-as-infections-soar-962716.html
16-03-2021||National||Not all banks will be privatised, PSUs will have presence in financial sector, says Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday said all public sector banks will not be privatised as bank unions went on a two-day strike against the government’s plans of privatisation. “Not all of them are going to be privatised,” Sitharaman said. She added that the government has already made it clear that it would continue to have a presence in the financial sector. The finance minister said the Centre will ensure that even the privatised banks continue to function seamlessly. “After the privatisation, we will also have to ensure that the staff or the personnel who are there, their every interest will be protected,” the minister said. Sitharaman slammed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi resorting to “two-liners” instead of engaging in a serious discussion. “Rahul Gandhi has probably outsourced his comments to very hardcore communists who would give you solid two-liners. But these two-liners do not help the situation. I would want him to engage in serious discussion,” Sitharaman said. She hit out at Congress, accusing the party of “nationalising corruption and privatising public money” during the 10-year UPA rule. Nine bank unions had given a call for a two-day strike opposing the government's policy to privatise lenders. The strike ended on Tuesday. “GOI is privatising profit and nationalising loss. Selling PSBs to Modicronies gravely compromises India’s financial security. I stand in solidarity with the striking bank employees,” Rahul Gandhi had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-all-banks-will-be-privatised-psus-will-have-presence-in-financial-sector-says-sitharaman-962724.html
16-03-2021||National||Not at expense of Indians: Harsh Vardhan on Covid-19 vaccine export as Centre faces heat||A total of 5.94 crore doses of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccine has been exported to 72 countries till March 15 but it is in no way being sent at the expense of the people of India, Health Minister Harvardhan informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Replying to supplementary questions during Question Hour, he said so far around 3 crore people have been administered the Covid-19 vaccine and on Monday alone a total of 30.39 lakh people in the country took the jabs. "So far the government has provided 5.94 crore vaccine doses to 72 countries till yesterday. This has been done as the government considers that the whole world is our family," he told the house. "The vaccine provided to Indians is also being sent to foreign countries, but it is in no way being sent at the expense of people of India," the minister also said. "We also consider that the benefits of science should reach globally. The technology could be local, but the entire humanity should benefit from it," he said. A government committee and experts are looking at this at the highest level and are maintaining a reasonably sensible balance in this regard, he added. The minister said the rates of the vaccine have also been kept at a minimum of Rs 250 in private hospitals, of which Rs 100 is given to the hospital, and it is free at government hospitals. "The pricing strategy of the vaccine has kept with a cap of Rs 150 on the vaccine and the government is working with complete seriousness on the issue," he said. Replying to another supplementary, the minister said that the Health Ministry, especially the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), keeps in touch with all the latest developments happening anywhere in the country and also outside the country. Whatever decisions are taken by the ministry and whatever guidelines are issued, these are made only after considering all the valid and relevant aspects of the particular subject, he said. Earlier, in a written reply in Rajya Sabha, he said, "As on March 15, 2021, a total of 5.86 crore doses of 'Made in India' Covid-19 vaccines have been provided to 71 countries as grant by Govt. of India, as well as commercial sales by manufacturers and as part of international agreements of manufacturers with COVAX facility which has more than 190 member countries." External supplies are being undertaken with due regard to domestic production, he said. "Priority is accorded to the utilisation of doses within the country and ensuring adequate availability for the national vaccination programme," he said. On whether the government is considering to provide Covid-19 vaccines to all citizens free of cost, Vardhan said the vaccine is being given free of cost at government Covid-19 vaccination centres while at private facilities, it is available at a ceiling cost of Rs 250 per dose per person.  In response to a question on whether the process of vaccination is going at a very slow pace, Vardhan said, "The current rate of Covid-19 vaccination is satisfactory and is being further increased through an increase in a number of Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) in both government and private health facilities."  The NEGVAC has prioritised healthcare workers, frontline workers, persons aged 60 years and above, and those aged between 45 and 59 years with 20 identified comorbidities for Covid-19 vaccination. The Covid-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being expanded to include beneficiary groups as prioritised by NEGVAC.  In view of the dynamic nature of the Covid-19 pandemic and inclusion of new priority groups, no time frame at present can be indicated for completion of vaccination, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-at-expense-of-indians-harsh-vardhan-on-covid-19-vaccine-export-as-centre-faces-heat-962746.html
16-03-2021||National||3 new Covid-19 variants reported in India: Govt||Three new variants of Covid-19, from the UK variant, South Africa and Brazil, have been reported so far in India, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. As on March 4, 2021, a total 242 samples have tested positive for different variants in India, Choubey said in a written reply to a Rajya Sabha query regarding the total number of people who have been infected with the new strains. On whether the people who have been infected once could get re-infected by the new virus strain,Choubey said as per World Health Organization, in the three countries where the pandemic is being driven by the variant mutants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, the South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to reinfect persons who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2. Recognising that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, Government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimise the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India, he said. A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory has been established to perform genomic sequencing of the samples from positive travellers and 5 per cent of the positive test samples from the community. Such international travellers who test positive are kept in special isolation ward, till such time they test negative. The contacts of such cases are also kept under institutional quarantine, till such time they test negative. "No case of re-infection by mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus has been reported from India so far," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-new-covid-19-variants-reported-in-india-govt-962747.html
16-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed a Bill that seeks to provide for regulation and maintenance of standards of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals. The National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2020, was passed by Rajya Sabha through a voice vote. Replying to a debate on the bill, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that of the 110 recommendations made by a parliamentary committee on it, the government accepted 102 while six recommendations were accepted with slight modifications. Only two recommendations were not accepted. The bill provides for regulation and maintenance of standards of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals, assessment of institutions, maintenance of a central register and state register and creation of a system to improve research and development and adoption of latest scientific advancement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-national-commission-for-allied-and-healthcare-professions-bill-962752.html
16-03-2021||National||Delhi HC issues directions to use A-4 size paper for filing petitions||The Delhi High Court Tuesday directed the use of A-4 sheets for filing petitions from April 1 instead of the larger legal size paper before it as well in district courts here. The decision was taken in view of a November 2020 order passed by the Chief Justice directing the registry to treat as representation a PIL seeking use of smaller A-4 sheets for filing petitions instead of the larger legal size paper to prevent wastage and save trees. An administrative order issued by the high court on Tuesday said that Chief Justice D N Patel, on the recommendation of the ‘Rules Committee under Section 123 of CPC which also look into Delhi High Court (Original Side) Rules, 2018 and ancillary matters’ is pleased to issue the Practice Directions, which shall come into effect from April 1. “A4 size paper be used uniformly in all jurisdictions for all kind of pleadings contained in petitions, affidavits, applications or other documents etc, and all memorandum of appeals, orders and judgments in the High Court as well as in all District Courts of Delhi,” the order said. “A4 size paper (29.7 cm X 21 cm) having not less than 75 GSM with font – Times New Roman, font size 14, in 1.5 line spacing (for quotations and indents – font size 12 in single line spacing), with margin of 4 cm on left & right and 2 cm on top & bottom,” it said, adding that the printing/ typing shall be on one side of the paper till further directions in the matter. On November 5, 2020, a bench headed by the Chief Justice had appreciated the issue raised in the petition and had said that it would be taken up by the high court's rule making committee and an administrative decision would be taken. It had directed the registry to treat the plea, by advocate Namrata Mukim, as a representation and to place it before the committee and had disposed of the petition. The petition had said that only one side of legal size paper was being used at present, with double space printing and an inner margin of about four centimeters on the top and left side, for filing writs in the high court. It had contended that this system of filing was leading to wastage of paper and suggested use of the smaller A-4 size paper with printing on both sides, one and half line spacing and four centimeter margin on left and right sides and 2 centimeter margin on top and bottom, to save paper. The plea had said this form of filing has been adopted by the Supreme Court by way of an order dated March 5, 2020 and it was cost efficient, pocket friendly and environment friendly. In the high court, the courts dealing with suits and other matters falling in the original jurisdiction were using A-4 size paper, but those dealing with writ petitions were still using legal size paper, the petition had said and contended that this makes the legal system non-uniform. It had also contended that the use of one side of legal size paper was a "colonial era practice" which need not be followed any longer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-issues-directions-to-use-a-4-size-paper-for-filing-petitions-962754.html
16-03-2021||National||India third-most polluted country in world, next only to Bangladesh, Pakistan: report||India was ranked the third-worst country and Delhi the worst capital in the world in terms of the annual average PM 2.5 concentration (microgram per cubic metre) in 2020, as per a report by IQAir which measured the small particles of based on data reported by ground-level monitoring stations in 98 countries. The annual World Air Quality Report, prepared with support from Greenpeace, UN Environment Programme and other agencies, took into the consideration the sudden drop in the PM 2.5 levels in 2020 caused by Covid-19. It also corrected weather anomalies like the wildfires in Sao Paulo, Los Angeles and Melbourne, before grading the air quality of the countries and their capitals. India with 51 microgram of PM 2.5 came next only to Bangladesh (77.1) and Pakistan (59). In fact, India's pollution levels have come down compared to 2019 data (58.1), but similar drop was seen in other countries as well. Within the country, the study of annual average of the small particulate matters in six major cities showed that Chennai was the least polluted with 27.5 micrograms per cubic metre. Bengaluru with 27.5 micrograms stood fifth in the list where Delhi was on top, followed by Kolkata and Mumbai. The report further noted countries in South Asia need more real-time monitoring to enable more people to respond and protect their health given the severity of the pollution. The report said there was an overall improvement in several cities in the country. "All cities whose pollution levels increased in 2020, still show an overall downward trend from 2018 and earlier," it said, but noted that air pollution in the country was "still dangerously high". With 22 of the top 30 polluted cities in the world located in India, the country fares the worst, the report said and flagged transportation, biomass burning, industry and construction among the major contributors for air pollution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-third-most-polluted-country-in-world-next-only-to-bangladesh-pakistan-report-962766.html
16-03-2021||National||India, Finland announce digital and sustainability partnerships||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Finnish counterpart Sanna Marin on Tuesday announced a digital partnership in information and communications technology, future mobile technologies and digital education at a virtual summit. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the two leaders also announced a sustainability partnership involving renewable and clean energy, circular economy and sustainable mobility. In the summit, Modi and Marin reaffirmed their strong commitment to multilateralism, a rules based international order and to work towards sustainable development goals and combating climate change, it said. The two prime ministers also exchanged views on the coronavirus pandemic including on vaccine solidarity and emphasied the unprecedented global efforts in speeding up the development and scaling up of manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccine. The two sides also announced a high-level dialogue between the education ministries of both the countries to expand cooperation in the area. "Both sides noted the growing importance of Africa and referred to their efforts to enhance cooperation in Africa," said Neeta Bhushan, Joint Secretary, Central Europe division in the MEA. She said the virtual summit will help in carrying forward the momentum of the multi-faceted bilateral ties. "The two leaders expressed satisfaction and confidence that the areas of cooperation under India-Finland partnership will continue to deepen and gain further strength," she said at a media briefing. In his opening remarks, Modi said India has taken care of needs of the world along with its domestic struggle during the pandemic and that more than 58 million made in India coronavirus vaccine doses reached about 70 countries in the recent weeks. Modi also said that both India and Finland believed in a rules-based, transparent, humanitarian and democratic global order and the two countries have strong cooperation in areas like technology, innovation, clean energy, environment and education. The prime minister also urged Finland to join the International Solar Alliance and the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Both the organisations took shape following India's initiative. "These international institutions will benefit from Finland's ability and expertise," he said. The Finnish prime minister said there was scope for further intensification of bilateral ties in areas of education, technology and trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-finland-announce-digital-and-sustainability-partnerships-962769.html
16-03-2021||National||Chhota Rajan gets 10 years in jail in 2013 firing case||A special MCOCA court in Mumbai on Tuesday sentenced gangster Chhota Rajan to 10 years in jail for a firing incident in suburban Malad in 2013. A bookie-turned-builder Ajay Gosalia was shot at and injured when he was coming out of a local mall. Special Judge AT Wankhede convicted Rajan and five others under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC as well as MCOCA provisions. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat said 50-60 witnesses were examined, including Gosalia and an accused who turned approver. Rajan, an accused in at least 70 cases in Maharashtra, is currently lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi after deportation from Indonesia in October, 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhota-rajan-gets-10-years-in-jail-in-2013-firing-case-962779.html
16-03-2021||National||Rs 1.9 lakh crore worth Jal Jeevan Mission projects under way: Gajendra Singh Shekhawat||Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Tuesday said that a total of Rs 1.91 lakh crore worth of projects under the centrally-sponsored Jal Jeevan Mission is being implemented in different parts of the country. Replying to a discussion on the working of the Jal Shakti Ministry in Rajya Sabha, Shekhawat said the Centre was in touch with the states for effective implementation of the projects, and he lashed out at the Congress for "smiling at the plight of people" facing acute water crisis during its regime. Jal Jeevan Mission, a Rs 3.6-lakh crore flagship programme of the Narendra Modi government, aims to provide tap water connections to all rural households by 2024. The mission was launched in August 2019. Terming the scenario challenging, Shekhawat said a Jal Shakti Ministry campaign would be launched on March 22 in 700 districts. Attacking Opposition members for raising questions over the intent of the government, Shekhawat pointed out that more than 3.77 crore households were provided tap water connections under the mission. "Modi hai to mumkin hai (If Modi is there, anything is possible)," he added. Tapped water connection rose by 20 per cent in the entire country after Jal Jeevan Mission launched, but in West Bengal, it was only three per cent, Shekhawat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-19-lakh-crore-worth-jal-jeevan-mission-projects-under-way-gajendra-singh-shekhawat-962780.html
16-03-2021||National||Vadodara Yard remodelled to enhance connectivity||In a bid to facilitate the direct movement of trains and to reduce the detention time of trains, the Mumbai-headquartered Western Railway has remodelled the Vadodara Yard. It has also commissioned a Centralised Electronic Interlocking system. The project was termed as one of the “supercritical projects” of the Indian Railways since the yard lies on the extremely busy Delhi-Mumbai route. Western Railway General Manager Ashok Kansal has congratulated Shri Amit Gupta, Divisional Railway Manager of Vadodara Division, and his entire team for this unique achievement. According to a press release issued by Sumit Thakur, Chief Public Relations Officer of Western Railway, the remodelled Vadodara Yard will help in segregating rail traffic of Ahmedabad and Ratlam sides. On March 13, the non-interlocking work was successfully completed and Vadodara Yard electronic interlocking was commissioned. During the remodelling work, three signalled loop lines in the Uttar Pradesh direction were provided, which would help in train regulation and preference. Along with this, goods bypass lines 1 and 2 were made for passenger trains, which will be utilised to run passenger trains if required.  The line capacity in the earlier super-congested Vadodara area has now been increased with 8 Permanent Speed Restrictions also being removed. The merger of C and D cabins into Centralised Electronic Interlocking will reduce the operation time and will save manpower.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vadodara-yard-remodelled-to-enhance-connectivity-962793.html
16-03-2021||National||Two-day bank strike ends; unions warn of intensifying stir if govt goes ahead with privatisation of PSBs||The two-day nationwide strike by the public sector bank (PSB) unions ended on Tuesday, with disruption in services like cash withdrawals, deposits, cheque clearances, remittances and loan approvals hitting customers. Business transactions as well as government treasury operations were also impacted. The United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), consisting of nine bank unions -- AIBEA, AIBOC, NCBE, AIBOA, BEFI, INBEF, INBOC, NOBW and NOBO -- had given the strike call to protest against the government's decision to privatise two more public sector lenders. "Strike was a full success, employees and officers stood with us. The way they participated and raised slogans, it shows their disapproval of the government decision very clearly. "We got support from all trade unions, some farmer organisations, lot of political parties have supported us," AIBEA General Secretary C H Venkatachalam told PTI. In a statement, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) congratulated the participating employees and officers across the country for protesting "against the BJP government's moves to privatise public sector banks". "Around 10 lakh bank employees and officers participated in the strike called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), paralysing the entire banking sector. "The joint platform of central trade unions and almost all independent industrial federations in the country extended full support to the strike. Tens of thousands of workers participated in the demonstrations across the country, in support of the strike," CITU said. Venkatachalam said the bank unions will again engage with the government on the issue and try to convince it that the proposed move is not in favour of the economy or the general public. He said if the Centre feels that there are problems in the running of the public sector lenders, the bank unions will try to address those concerns. Before going for the strike, conciliation meetings were held with the Additional Chief Labour Commissioner on 4th, 9th and 10th March. The UFBU offered to reconsider the strike provided the government reconsidered its decision, he said. "Again we will tell them, whatever are the grievances against the running of the public sector banks, we are ready to talk and we will address the concern and then there is no need for privatisation. "But still if you are not convinced...then more strikes will happen. If they are not ready to listen to us and go ahead with their decision on the back of their strength in the Parliament, then there will be more strikes in the future," Venkatachalam warned. Bank unions claimed as many as 10 lakh staffers took part in the two-day pan-India strike. Normal banking services were greatly affected because of the strike, the All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA) said. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Union Budget speech for 2021-22 said the government will privatise two more public sector banks going forward. The government has already privatised IDBI Bank by selling its majority stake to LIC in 2019, and has merged 14 public sector banks in the last four years. Bank unions said the PSBs are earning operating profits and there is no need for privatisation. As on March 2020, these banks earned a total profit of Rs 1,74,000 crore. However, since the banks provided Rs 2,00,000 crore for bad loans, there was a net loss of Rs 26,000 crore, they said. "Hence if bad loans are recovered from the private corporate companies, banks will be earning much more. Private sector is responsible for the huge bad loans. In fact they should be punished for this crime. But the government is rewarding them by handing over the banks to the private sector," AIBEA said. Seeking co-operation and support of the people in their 'struggle to save the PSBs', the bank unions said if the government proceeds with its decision to privatise the lenders, they will be left with no option than to further intensify their agitation with more prolonged strikes. CITU urged the bank employees to intensify the struggle to save public sector banks from being sold off to corporates, both Indian and foreign. "CITU and the joint trade union platform have already extended their support to the country wide strike of the general insurance employees on 17th March and that of the LIC of India employees on 18th March, against privatisation. "CITU members will actively participate in solidarity actions on these days," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-day-bank-strike-ends-unions-warn-of-intensifying-stir-if-govt-goes-ahead-with-privatisation-of-psbs-962794.html
16-03-2021||National||Pakistan intruder shot dead by BSF along IB in J&K's Samba||A Pakistani intruder was gunned down by the BSF along the International Border in Jammu and Kashmir's Samba district on Tuesday, the third such incident since November last year, a spokesperson for the border guarding force said. The incident happened in the Border Outpost area of Malluchak in Ramgarh sector, the Border Security Force (BSF) spokesperson said. "At about 3.55 pm, BSF troops observed suspicious movement of an intruder aggressively moving towards wild growth (sarkanda) while approaching fence from the side of Pakistani Village Lehri Kalan and crossing the IB into the Indian territory between Border Post No 12/5 and 12/6. "The intruder attempted to negotiate and exploit the Basantar river gap. BSF troops tracked and challenged him but the intruder tried to escape into Pakistani territory after which he was fired upon," the spokesperson said in a statement here. He said the body of the intruder was recovered upon search of area and handed over to Ramgarh police station. "The Basantar river has been a traditional route of exploitation for infiltration and Lehri Kalan has been old launching pad of militants. This is the third killing of Pakistani intruder in recent times," the spokesperson said. Officials said the deceased was in possession of Rs 200 in Pakistani currency and his physical appearance suggested that he was not mentally fit. His body is likely to be handed over to Pakistani rangers at a flag meeting after post-mortem, they said. He was the second Pakistani intruder killed by the BSF in Samba sector in the past 37 days and third since November 23 last year. A Pakistani infiltrator was killed in border outpost Chak Faquira in Samba on February 8, while another intruder was killed in the same area on November 23 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-intruder-shot-dead-by-bsf-along-ib-in-jks-samba-962799.html
16-03-2021||National||M A Ganapathy appointed NSG chief, Kuldiep Singh to head CRPF||Senior IPS officers M A Ganapathy and Kuldiep Singh were on Tuesday appointed Director General of National Security Guard and the Central Reserve Police Force, respectively, according to a Personnel Ministry order. Ganapathy, a 1986 batch Indian Police Service (IPS) officer of the Uttarakhand cadre, is currently Director General, Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS). He has been appointed the Director General, National Security Guard (NSG), from the date of joining the post and up to February 29, 2024, i.e. date of his superannuation, it said. Singh, a 1986 batch IPS officer of the West Bengal cadre, is presently the Special DG, CRPF. He has been appointed DG, CRPF up to September 30, 2022, i.e. date of his superannuation, the order said. Singh will replace A P Maheshwari, who is due to superannuate on February 28, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-a-ganapathy-appointed-nsg-chief-kuldiep-singh-to-head-crpf-962801.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||Those close to party have quit; we will never betray Congress, says Kapil Sibal||Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal says the group of 23 leaders, who wrote to Congress President Sonia Gandhi in August last year demanding sweeping reforms in the party, will never betray Congress. In an interview with Anand Mishra and Sagar Kulkarni, Sibal reminds the Congress that those close to the party have quit, but he and his colleagues remain staunch Congressmen. Why does Kapil Sibal get angry? When was I angry? What did I say that you felt was a display of anger? Tendulkar had written a play on anger. But I do not recall any example about me being angry. Are you okay with the manner in which the party is functioning? I think if you look at any movement, any party, any progress of any movement, any institution, any nation, you can never be happy. Because institutions must evolve, nations must evolve. New challenges come in the way. So, it is not a question of my being unhappy or happy with something. Happiness means status quo. Nobody wants a status quo in life, even in a family there is no such thing as a status quo. We have to move forward. I am not unhappy with anybody. Nor am I unhappy with the party. I just want that as a party, Congress should gain the same kind of prominence it had in the past because it is capable of it. It has individuals that can achieve that and the context of the government which is at the helm of affairs in India, a government that has almost destroyed our Constitutional edifice, it is one party that can actually challenge the government. It is the only other national party which has a footprint all over the country. Is Congress tottering and pulling its allies behind? We saw it in Bihar polls. This is a matter of perspective. If you look at the Congress party only in the context of what happened yesterday, it is true that we are not in the position where we were back when Mrs Gandhi was in power or Mr Narasihma Rao was in power or 2004 or even 2009 when we were in power. Yes, since those days, there has been a situation where we have not performed all that well. But it is a question of evolution. There comes a time in the history of a political party, history of the nation. There are ups and downs. That doesn’t mean there is an element of permanence in that. You mentioned the status quo? Have things moved on since December 19 last year when Congress President Sonia Gandhi met a group of letter writers? I did not mention the status quo in the context of the Congress party. All I said was, nobody wants a status quo because things change and evolve. As far as what has happened between December and now .. some things have happened, somethings have not happened. But I am sure that the Congress party will emerge stronger in the years to come. As far as we are concerned, we are those Congressmen who have never, will never, betray the party. We stand for the party, we stand for a strong Congress, and I do believe that nobody should have any doubts about that. Yes, there are some things that have happened. There has been an announcement that there will be an election for the post of the President. On the Congress platform, it was also stated that there would also be elections to the CWC – as and when they happen, I do not know. So, that is the movement forward. But, Congress will do many more things to rejuvenate itself. Do you see an alternative leadership emerging in Congress? I think it is not fair for me to comment on these issues at this moment for the reason that I do not know what is going to happen in the future, who is going to stand as a candidate for the office of the president of the party, what will be a consensus that will evolve. Will there be multiple candidates who would stand, or one person who would stand or more than one. This is something I cannot predict at this point in time. It is not fair for me to comment. But, I don’t think, as I said to you, can afford not to elect a leader. And Congress party has announced that they will have elections in June. How do you see Congress prospects in this round of election? What is the future for Congress? Do regional parties appear to have an upper hand in this round? That is not true. It depends on which state is going to elections. Congress has won in several states in the recent past also. Historically, we have not had a presence in West Bengal for a long period of time. We have not had a presence in Tamil Nadu for a long period of time. In Kerala, we are the only alternative even now. I don’t think you are right when you say Congress is losing. Yes, it is true that Congress has lost the ground. But, don’t write an epitaph of a party, which perhaps in the history of the world, through the national movement will be remembered as something that tells you about the strength of Indian democracy and the ability of the Congress and the people to rise. I am sure that will happen again. You are right, however, in some of the states in the southern part of the country where we had great presence, we are no longer too relevant a factor, like in Andhra and in Telangana. What are the four major problems Congress faces right now? It has been seven years since you lost the Lok Sabha elections. If you start asking me questions like this in the midst of an election, I don’t think that would be proper. Today, it is our duty to strengthen the party, for it to win or to get the maximum number of seats wherever it is contesting. I don’t think we should be talking about problems at this stage. All we should be talking about is how to win the next election rather than problems in the Congress party. It would be unfair for me to answer such questions. We have said what we had to say in the recent past. We do not want to reiterate any of that. It is our duty today as Congressmen – whether as star campaigners or whether we have lost our lustre – we should stand together to support the Congress party. None of the G-23 have been drafted for campaign in West Bengal? It is for the party to decide. BJP has drafted senior leaders They do a lot of things Congress should not do as far as BJP is concerned. There are a lot of things historically that we have not done. Display of massive resources, buying of people, open defections through all kinds of machinations that the BJP does is not something that Congress should do. But, whatever the space we have in West Bengal, we should certainly try and win as many seats as possible. But it is for the party to decide who they think will be in a position to persuade the people of West Bengal. How do you see BJP performing in these states? I am no psephologist. But I think in West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee will retain power. I think we are going to give them a big fight in Assam. You may see some surprise verdict also. In Kerala, every five year the government changes, so we hope for that. In Tamil Nadu, I think the DMK would win hands down and the Congress has never had a substantial presence in Tamil Nadu for several years. In Puducherry, has Congress moved to the BJP lock, stock and barrel? That is the result of the muscle and money power the BJP has. They have toppled elected governments by those means, which are clearly unconstitutional. Which is why Congress is the only party that can fight them in the near future. Does it worry you that in Madhya Pradesh you won but lost power? In Gujarat, where you fared well, you are again in disarray? What is wrong? I think you seek answers from Congress people, but you should seek answers from the BJP. I don’t think since Independence, we have had a political party that has dismantled all constitutional structures. That has imposed upon our country a de-facto emergency. That has bought over mainstream media big time. That brooks no opposition and uses investigating agencies to silence people. That has taken channels of communication. That is perhaps the richest party in the world today which uses money power like never before. But you can attribute all this to the dismantling of our democratic structures more than to the weaknesses of the Congress. How do you fight a system that mouths principles of democracy but destroys it from within. Members of our elected government have been bought by sheer money power. A section of the Congress believes that some of your utterances in Jammu actually helps these same forces that you are so worried about That is completely untenable what you are stating. In Jammu, if you look at any of our speeches, it was only to say that we must strengthen the party. It is false propaganda to say that any of us were directly or indirectly wanting to help the BJP. Some uncharitable remarks were made against one of my colleagues. He is the one who said – when asked whether he would join the BJP – only when black snow will fall in Kashmir. So, I think that is a bit unfair. I can only say this, many people who have been exceptionally close to the party in recent times, have resigned from the party, while those of us who are perceived, unfortunately in a manner in which we should not be perceived, remain staunch Congressmen. Where do you see hope for Congress to revive? It will reemerge. People will turn against this dispensation and the Congress will be the Centre of gravity which will attract those people. We are the only one who have a national footprint. We therefore must support Congress in every possible way to regain its prime position in politics of this country. Do you see such things happening? Yes, I do. Are you hopeful? I am exceptionally hopeful. Not just hopeful, I am convinced. Do you think there is a lack of clarity on ideology in the Congress party? There was this A K Antony committee report, then the ‘Janeudhari Brahmin’ episode and now this tie-up with ISF in West Bengal? I don’t think this is the time to deal with those issues. Nor is it the time to talk about the various manifestations of desh bhakti. Whether you should put a national flag after every one kilometre. Or whether to do this kind of bhoomi pujan or that kind of bhoomi pujan. I don't think democratic institutions are strengthened. What we need is transparency, accountability, honesty, a sense of sacrifice, a feeling that we are a nation and every citizen is central to the forward march of the nation, there should be no discrimination, that institutions should play their role as constitutionally envisaged. We should think of the nation, rather than talk about issues that are going to do no good as far as the people of India are concerned. Do you think the farmers' protests will have a political impact? Discontent with the BJP is widespread and the impact of that will be seen in the 2024 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/those-close-to-party-have-quit-we-will-never-betray-congress-says-kapil-sibal-962526.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||Meet Udhayanidhi Stalin, who eyes DMK's son rise in Chepauk in Tamil Nadu Assembly polls||Udhayanidhi's grandfather and late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi represented Chepauk, it was renamed as Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni in 2011 after delimitation, thrice from 1996 to 2011 before he moved to Tiruvarur, his native constituency in the fertile Cauvery Delta region. Udhayanidhi is now set to test the electoral waters from DMK-stronghold Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni. Udhayanidhi earlier was the managing director of the party’s mouthpiece Murasoli and on July 4, 2019, he took over from his father as the secretary of DMK’s Youth Wing. The 2019 Lok Sabha elections were a platform where he could set himself up for a political career and he made full use of it. He campaigned for the Congress-DMK coalition across the state and the DMK won 38 out of 39 Lok Sabha seats in May 2019. This success helped him cement his position in the party and he rose up the ranks fairly quickly much like his father.  Udhayanidhi’s candidature this election was doubtful for some time amid accusations from rival parties including the BJP and the AIADMK that the DMK-Congress alliance was indulging in dynastic politics. "First Stalin and now Udhayanidhi... two years ago Stalin said none from his family will enter politics. But he has forgotten all that, he is misleading people. Stalin and those belonging to Karunanidhi's family are doing dynasty politics today," CM Palaniswami lashed out. According to his nomination filing, Udhayanidhi has moveable assets worth over Rs 21 crore, while his wife Krithika has moveable assets worth Rs 1.15, crore. His children meanwhile are listed to have assets worth Rs 24.95 lakh. Udhayanidhi has listed Rs 6.54 crore under immovable assets and there are no immovable assets declared for his wife and children. In total, his family owns assets worth Rs 29.07 crore.  Tamil Nadu is not new to cinema stars entering and making it big in politics, from AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa to M Karunanidhi and Vijayakanth, the state has had five chief ministers linked to the industry including three actors. Actors Khushbu, Stalin and Kamal Haasan are also contesting this time. Rajinikanth who has been giving his fans signals of joining politics finally made an announcement in December 2020 that he would start a party to contest the polls, but decided otherwise two weeks later. Tamil Nadu is set to go to polls on April 6 in a single phase, with campaigning by major political players is already in full swing in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/meet-udhayanidhi-stalin-who-eyes-dmks-son-rise-in-chepauk-in-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-962594.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||Swapan Dasgupta resigns from Rajya Sabha to fight Bengal polls||Rajya Sabha nominated MP Swapan Dasgupta sent in his resignation from the Upper House after a row erupted over the BJP announcing his candidature for the West Bengal Assembly elections. "I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days," 65-year-old Dasgupta tweeted.   I have resigned from the Rajya Sabha today to commit myself totally to the fight for a better Bengal. I hope to file my nomination as BJP candidate for the Tarakeshwar Assembly seat in the next few days. Sources said Dasgupta, a journalist who was nominated to the Rajya Sabha in April 2016, has sent in his resignation requesting Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu to take note of his letter with effect from Wednesday. BJP on Sunday announced that Dasgupta will contest from Tarakeswar Assembly seat in Hooghly district.  His candidature ran into a controversy after Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra pointed out that he should be disqualified as he has not joined the BJP within six months of his nomination into the Rajya Sabha. According to the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, a nominated member of a House shall be disqualified for being a member of the House if he joins any party after the expiry of six months from the date on which he takes his seat. Citing this provision, Moitra on Monday said that Dasgupta should be disqualified for "joining BJP" after the expiry of six months, if he files nomination as a BJP candidate. As the news of Dasgupta's resignation flashed, Moitra tweeted, "Thank you, Sir. We wish you well for the upcoming West Bengal polls." Congress Rajya Sabha Chief Whip Jairam Ramesh also had earlier sought clarification from Naidu about Dasgupta contesting in polls, saying he has neither resigned before contesting election nor has he joined any party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/swapan-dasgupta-resigns-from-rajya-sabha-to-fight-bengal-polls-962596.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||Makkal Needhi Maiam an alternative to AIADMK, DMK, says Kamal Haasan||With the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections fast approaching, Kamal Haasan-founded Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) is ramping up its campaigns with the aim of defeating traditional Dravidian parties AIADMK and DMK. Kamal Haasan has in many instances mentioned that his centrist party wants to be an alternative to these parties that have for long, exchanged power from term to term ruling the southern state. "I’ve challenged formulas and I’ve won. It wasn’t easy. These changes in politics have to happen in the rural areas, but you and your big names are contesting in cities. There was a suggestion that I contest from Mylapore, but I decided against it because it may be linked to my caste. I don't consider caste for a candidate. I chose Coimbatore because it has been a playground of religious disharmony. And some of the top corrupt minister' area - including the chief minister's - is in that region. Also, the BJP is contesting there," he said, adding that as of now his prospects for the Coimbatore South constituency are good and from what he hears from the ground, it will be better. When asked which party he would support to form a government in case of a hung Assembly, he said that if he had to choose from two evils, he will push for another election, adding that if Edappadi Palaniswami and Stalin were the only choices, he need not have entered politics in the first place. In a bid to offer his party as the top alternative against the Dravidian parties, Haasan said that contestants from his party have no criminal background, have done social service and the manifesto comes from their qualities, not their money. He also said that his contestants including him are different because they are affluent but not affluent enough to run the party. In addition, Haasan also said, "I charge a bomb (for acting) and that helps. I am investing all that. That's not enough but it's an investment in people. It's a return gratuity for what I've received all these years."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/makkal-needhi-maiam-an-alternative-to-aiadmk-dmk-says-kamal-haasan-962620.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||War of words erupts in Lok Sabha over rise in sedition cases||Sedition cases registered across India almost doubled from 47 in 2014 to 93 in 2019, with few reaching the conviction stage, the government told the Lok Sabha, prompting the Opposition to allege misuse of the provision. Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy, responding to a supplementary question during the Question Hour, told the Lok Sabha that 47 cases of sedition were registered in 2014, 30 in 2015, 35 in 2016, 51 in 2017, 70 in 2018 and 93 in 2019. The minister said there was no direct involvement of the Centre in the registration of sedition cases as the matter was within the ambit of the state government. Congress member A Revanth Reddy sought details about the cases registered against climate activist Disha Ravi and against farmers involved in the violence in the national capital on Republic Day. Congress member Manish Tewari pointed towards the low conviction rate of sedition cases and accused the government of misusing the provision to curb free speech. “In 2014, out of 47 cases registered, there was one conviction. In 2015, out of 30 cases registered, there was zero conviction. In 2016, out of 35 cases registered, there was one conviction. In 2017, out of 51 cases registered, there is one conviction. In 2018, out of 70 cases registered, there are two convictions. In 2019, out of 93 cases registered, there is one conviction,” Tewari said. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy hit back and accused the Congress of “misusing” powers to imprison leaders such as Jayaprakash Narayan and L K Advani under the Maintenance of Internal Security Act and misusing TADA, the anti-terrorism law, in the 1980s. “Congress has no right to lecture us about misuse of laws… Congress has no right to speak about democracy,” the minister said. The minister said no charge sheet has been filed yet in the Disha Ravi case which was still under investigation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/war-of-words-erupts-in-lok-sabha-over-rise-in-sedition-cases-962663.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||BJP, TMC lock horns over legacy of Nandigram land agitation||Fourteen years after being pitchforked into West Bengal's political history following the death of 14 people in police firing in 2007, Nandigram is now witnessing a battle over the legacy of the land agitation which catapulted the Trinamool Congress (TMC) to power in 2011 Assembly elections. This time the key adversaries are Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the TMC candidate and her former protege Suvendu Adhikari, the BJP candidate in Nandigram. The heat of the battle could be felt at a local TMC rally in the Sreepur area of Nandigram on Monday where party leader Abu Taher slammed Adhikari for claiming that he was the key leader of the agitation. He further alleged that Adhikari was afraid to tell the people of Nandigram that he ushered in development in the constituency as the voters would call his bluff. “If he (Adhikari) tries to take credit for the development of Nandigram, people will drive him away,” said Taher. A day before hundreds of TMC workers blocked Adhikari’s convoy on the Sonachura-Bhangabera road while he was on his way to pay homage to the “martyrs” of the land agitation at a memorial in Nandigram. Calling Adhikari “Mir Jafar” the TMC workers said that he had no right to pay homage to the “martyrs” as he lost his credibility. An enraged Adhikari later dubbed the chief minister as the “real traitor of Nandigram” alleging that she gave promotions to police officers who were made to testify about the police firing.’ Fourteen people died in Nandigram on March 14, 2007, in police firing during the land agitation. Adhikari had repeatedly said that he was “confident” of defeating Mamata. About 40 km from Sreepur, Daiyan Khan sat in the yard of his small house. He was not happy with Adhikari switching to the BJP ahead of the elections. “I find it unacceptable the way Suvendu joined the BJP ahead of the elections. He betrayed the people of Nandigram,” Khan told DH. He lost his younger son in the 2007 police firing. One of his neighbours, who spoke under condition of anonymity said that those who took part in the land agitation in Nandigram never thought about who belonged to which religion, but the BJP was resorting to “divisive politics” and is tarnishing the legacy of the agitation. Mamata and Adhikari are also waging a battle against each other on the “outsider versus son of the soil” issue. Adhikari dubbed his former leader as an “outsider to Nandigram” who only bothers about the people there when the elections approach. He claimed himself to be the “bhoomiputra” (son of the soil) of Nandigram. Without taking his name Mamata retaliated saying “those who came from Gujarat are now insiders and I am an outsider!” “Suvendu is not even from Nandigram. He is from Contai. How can he be the son of the soil,” Taher told DH. At several places in Nandigram there are BJP’s banners stating “Nandigram wants the bhoomiputra of Medinipur, not an outsider” indicating on which lines the battle is being fought. Nandigram will go to polls in the second phase on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-tmc-lock-horns-over-legacy-of-nandigram-land-agitation-962680.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||9 seats in 2016 Assam Assembly polls reported more NOTA votes than victory margins||At least nine constituencies in the 2016 Assembly election reported more NOTA (None of the Above) votes than the victory margins. This was revealed in an analysis of voting patterns carried out by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The organisation released the findings on Tuesday, weeks before Assam is set to go for Assembly elections. The NOTA option was offered by the Election Commission of India in 2013 and it was introduced in Assam for the first time in 2016. The report said out of 1,69,19,364 votes polled in Assam Assembly polls in 2016, 1,89,085 (1.12%) were polled for NOTA. Praneswar Basumatary of Congress was defeated by Padma Hazarika of BJP in Sootea in North Assam by 1,818 votes while 1,941 voters pressed the NOTA button. In Karimganj North in South Assam, Mission Ranjan Das of BJP lost to Kamalakshya Purkayastha of Congress by a margin of 468 votes but it reported 674 voters choosing none of the candidates. In Borkhola, Kishor Nath of BJP defeated Independent candidate Misbahul Islam by 1,621 votes. However, a total of 1,579 voters exercised their NOTA power. Binod Goala of AGP lost to Roselina Tirkey in Sarupathar constituency by 2,927 votes, which was 285 votes less than the NOTA votes. In Sibasagar, Congress veteran Pranab Kumar Gogoi defeated Surabhi Rajkonwar of BJP by 542 votes. The constituency witnessed 893 NOTA votes. Independent candidate, Sujan Das lost to Thaneswar Basumatary of Bodoland People's Front, an ally of BJP in 2016 in Chapaguri constituency in Bodoland Territorial Area Districts by 1,481 votes, while 2,058 voters pressed the NOTA button. Kushal Dowari of BJP defeated Sushanta Buragohain of Congress in Thowra by 1,226 votes, against 1,876 NOTA votes polled in the constituency. Former minister in Tarun Gogoi's government, Chandan Kumar Sarkar was defeated in Abhayapuri South by Ananta Kumar Malo by 191 votes. The constituency recorded 1,113 NOTA votes. In Doom Dooma in eastern Assam's Tinsukia district, Dilip Moran of BJP lost to Durga Bhumij of Congress by 782 votes. A total of 3,317 voters exercised their NOTA power in the constituency. Assembly elections in Assam will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/9-seats-in-2016-assam-assembly-polls-reported-more-nota-votes-than-victory-margins-962734.html
16-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata Banerjee accuses Amit Shah of plotting to harass TMC leaders||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on Union Minister Amit Shah, accusing him of conspiring against the Trinamool Congress (TMC). She also sought to know whether Shah was running the Election Commission. Addressing two back-to-back rallies in Bankura district, Mamata said that Shah was getting frustrated over the poor turnout at his rallies and was hatching conspiracies to harass TMC leaders with Central agencies. “Amit Shah is getting increasingly frustrated over poor turnout at his rallies and instead of running the country, he is camping in Kolkata and hatching conspiracies to harass TMC leaders. What do they (BJP) want? Do they want to murder me? Do they think that by killing me they will win the elections? If so they are making a big mistake,” said Mamata. She further alleged that Shah was plotting whom to get arrested and against who to use the CBI and the ED. Mamata also said that warrants were being issued against those who were involved in the land agitation in Nandigram. “Is he (Shah) running the Election Commission (EC)? We want the election to be free and fair but will never accept Amit Shah’s intervention in EC’s work. Who is Amit Shah to guide the EC? He is interfering in the day to day work of the EC,” said Mamata. “What happened to EC’s independence? My director security was removed by them (EC) under Amit Shah’s instruction,” said Mamata. She said that the CBI has even sent a notice to Bengal’s Home Secretary adding that if needed she will sit on a dharna in front of the EC’s office even with her broken leg. She further alleged that the BJP Government at the Centre was selling PSUs and public sector banks and urged the people to unite against them. Referring to the renaming of a stadium after Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mamata said that if given a chance the BJP will even rename the country. At another rally in the district, the TMC supremo slammed Shah for garlanding a statue mistakenly thinking that it was of tribal icon Birsa Munda’s. She further alleged that the bust of Bengal Renaissance icon Ishwar Chandra Vidyasagar was vandalised in Kolkata in 2019 in presence of Shah.  “I have written to the Prime Minister to arrange free Covid-19 vaccines for everyone in Bengal and said that the State Government was ready to bear the cost. But received no reply from him,” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-banerjee-accuses-amit-shah-of-plotting-to-harass-tmc-leaders-962739.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Covid-19 situation well under control till positivity rate stays below 1%: Satyendar Jain||Amid a spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the city, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Monday said that till the positivity rate is being recorded below per cent, the coronavirus pandemic situation in the national capital is “well under control”. Interacting with reporters, he also appealed to “all Delhiites to maintain social distancing and celebrate a dry Holi this year”. On Sunday, 407 cases were reported and the positivity rate was 0.60 per cent, which is much below the one per cent-mark, he said. “We are alert but as long as the positivity rate is below 1 per cent, the situation is well under control,” he said. Delhi on Monday recorded 368 new Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.59 per cent, according to data shared by the health department later in the evening. He reiterated that the situation in Maharashtra and a few other states were different, where high positivity rates were being recorded. “In Maharashtra, 16,620 cases were recorded (on Sunday) with a positivity rate of 16.46 per cent, in Kerala, the figures were 1,792 with 3.54 per cent positivity rate. In Punjab, it was 1,492 with 4.81 per cent, in Gujarat 810 cases with 1.78 per cent positivity rate, while in Delhi, it was 407 cases with 0.60 per cent positivity rate,” Jain said. On Sunday, the daily fresh cases tally had crossed the 400-mark for the fourth consecutive day. Delhi on Saturday recorded 419 Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.56 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. On Friday, 431 cases were recorded, the highest single-day spike in over two months, while the count on Thursday was 409. Jain on Friday had said the figures of over 400 per day suddenly were "not alarming", and asserted that the positivity rate was still below one per cent. He had also said, “We are fully prepared and on a full vigil” adding that over 70,000-80,000 tests were being conducted a day. The death toll on Monday climbed to 10,944 with three more fatalities being reported in the national capital, as per the bulletin. Delhi's Friday infection tally of 431, was the highest single-day rise in over two months. Asked if the sudden increase in the number of cases was due to the influx of patients from states reporting a higher positivity rate, Jain said “Delhi is the capital of India and therefore attracts a lot of people from various states. There are a lot of cases that fall in that category as well.” “But still, I will maintain that there is no need to worry and that the Delhi government is completely aware and careful. Wear a mask, be safe and keep others safe,” he added. The new coronavirus cases recorded on Monday, took the infection tally to 6,44,064, the bulletin said. The number of active cases of the disease in the city rose to 2,321 from 2,262 on Sunday, while the positivity rate stood at 0.59 per cent. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". Jain said, “Coronavirus is a recurring infection. It is not going to completely vanish. People have to be careful. The one thing that we have learnt in the past one year is that if we wear a mask, safety can be ensured.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-situation-well-under-control-till-positivity-rate-stays-below-1-satyendar-jain-962494.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh BJP lawmaker lends support to kin of gangster Vikas Dubey||BJP was left red-faced after one of its legislators came out in support of the family of gangster Vikas Dubey, who, with his goons, had killed eight cops before being gunned down in an 'encounter' in July last year, and accused the police of 'harassing' Dubey's family. Saffron party MLC Umesh Dwivedi, who is also the national president of an outfit espousing the 'Brahmin' community, in a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, alleged that the police had been 'threatening' the family members of the slain gangster to implicate them in false cases and 'extorting' money from them. ''The family members are being harassed by the cops....false cases are being slapped on them,'' Dwivedi said in his letter and demanded that the cases be withdrawn forthwith. A letter by the wife of the slain gangster's brother was also sent to the Chief Minister by Dwivedi in which she said that her family had nothing to do with the killing of the police personnel at Bikru village in Kanpur district by Vikas Dubey and his goons last year yet her husband was sent to jail after being implicated in false cases. Vikas Dubey was gunned down in a controversial encounter near Kanpur town while he was being brought to Lucknow from Ujjain, where he was arrested. The police had claimed that Vikas snatched the pistol of a cop and tried to escape after the vehicle carrying him overturned. He fired, when asked to surrender, and was killed when the cops fired in 'self-defence'. The encounter had acquired casteist overtones after leaders of several 'Brahmin' outfits accused the state government of 'targetting' the community.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-bjp-lawmaker-lends-support-to-kin-of-gangster-vikas-dubey-962636.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||Women police stations to be set up in 42 more Madhya Pradesh districts||All districts in Madhya Pradesh will now have women police stations, with the state government on Tuesday deciding to establish such stations in 42 remaining districts to check crime against women. At present, women police stations are there in 10 out of the total 52 districts in the state. "To curb crime against women, and to ensure registration of the crime and proper investigation into such cases, the Madhya Pradesh government has decided to set up women police stations in the remaining 42 districts of the state also," Home Minister Narottam Mishra told reporters. The decision was taken during the state cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in the Vidhan Sabha premises, he said. Informing about other decisions of the cabinet, Mishra said the state government has also decided to launch the 'Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojna' for five years from 2020-21 to 2024-25. The scheme aimed at focused and sustainable development of the fisheries sector was launched last year by the central government under the 'Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan'. "Under the scheme, the government will spend Rs 481.66 crore for an integrated development and management of the fisheries sector," Mishra said. The state cabinet also decided to restart providing milk to children aged between 3 and 6 years thrice a week under the Midday Meal Scheme, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-police-stations-to-be-set-up-in-42-more-madhya-pradesh-districts-962637.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||AAP to protest against Bill on Lieutenant Governor powers on March 17||Delhi ministers and AAP MPs, MLAs and councillors will stage a protest at Jantar Mantar on Wednesday against the Centre's bill that gives overarching power to the Lieutenant Governor. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is likely to lead the protest as the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) plans to mount a strong opposition to the central government move. "All Delhi cabinet ministers, MLAs, Aam Aadmi Party MPs and councillors will participate in the protest," Development Minister Gopal Rai told PTI. The bill that was introduced by the central government in Lok Sabha on Monday is "unconstitutional", he said. Kejriwal has accused the BJP of "drastically curtailing" the powers of the elected government through this bill. According to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in context of any law to be made by the legislative assembly. The bill that was introduced by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy in Lok Sabha makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) before any executive action in the national capital. On Monday, Deputy Chief Manish Sisodia had alleged that the bill would stall Delhi's progress by giving undue powers to the L-G.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aap-to-protest-against-bill-on-lieutenant-governor-powers-on-march-17-962641.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||Nine SAD MLAs from Punjab booked for trying to confront Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar outside Assembly||The Chandigarh Police has booked nine Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) legislators from Punjab for their alleged attempt to gherao and confront Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar outside the assembly here last week, officials said on Tuesday. Sharanjit Singh Dhillon and Bikram Singh Majithia are among the SAD legislators named in the FIR. The Chandigarh Police registered a case against the SAD MLAs under relevant IPC sections including 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) and 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), according to a copy of the FIR. The SAD legislators had confronted Khattar outside the assembly hall on March 10 and had demanded that a resolution be passed in the state assembly against the Centre's three new farm laws. Thereafter, the Haryana assembly secretariat had decided to lodge an FIR against the group of Punjab MLAs for allegedly misbehaving with Khattar. Haryana Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta on Monday had condemned the incident and had informed the House that a group of SAD MLAs from Punjab allegedly tried to gherao and attack the Haryana chief minister outside the assembly hall last week when he was interacting with the media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nine-sad-mlas-from-punjab-booked-for-trying-to-confront-haryana-cm-manohar-lal-khattar-outside-assembly-962651.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh CM's reign begs the question: Shiv-raj or jungle raj?||In India’s political discourses, “jungle raj” doesn’t conjure up image of Madhya Pradesh; the egregious phase has more often been used for the rampant lawlessness in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. But the Supreme Court was anguished enough to use the phrase on March 14 for Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, as the two judges --- justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah,-- discovered to their shock that  the state’s police  failed to arrest an accused in the two-year-old murder of Congress leader Devendra Chourasiya. The accused, Govind Singh, the husband of BSP MLA Rambai Prajapati, is absconding despite the arrest warrant being issued against him. What the judges found even more galling was that the additional sessions judge (ASJ) of Damoh district, who ordered the arrest in February his year, was compelled to write to the apex court seeking safety for his life, alleging that the district Superintendent of Police had threatened him to implicate in false cases.   “This is jungle raj”, observed the Justices while ordering the MP Director General of Police Vivek Johri to immediately ensure the arrest of Govind Singh.  “If you cannot make the arrest, admit that you have failed to conduct the administration as per the Constitution,” Justice Shah said.  The police’s failure to nab Singh is a sordid reflection of survival politics that has dogged the state since the Congress had come to power in the 2018 Assembly Election with a fractured mandate.   Govind Singh was named prime accused by the son of Devendra Chourasiya, who was murdered in February 2019. But the then Kamal Nath government dillydallied on his arrest as his MLA wife Rambai’s support was considered crucial to cobble together a majority. The Kamal Nath government fell nonetheless, paving way for the BJP to return with rebel Jyotiraditya Sindia’s support.  Unlike his predecessor, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan didn’t need outside support as the BJP already had enough MLAs to feel safe. The ruling party added a dozen more MLAs to its tally in the by-elections for 22 seats in the November last year, further fortifying its stability.  Yet, the Shivraj Singh government risked public opprobrium and court’s wrath to brazenly protect an absconding murder-accused in the hope that his wife’s support might be needed in future.  As the BJP is set to celebrate the first anniversary of its snatching of power from the Congress on March 22, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan doesn’t seem confident on the seat. Unlike his previous terms, when he had ruled with moral authority, having led the party to victory in successive elections since 2008, Shivraj Singh is no longer as sure-footed as in the past. His style of functioning has remarkably changed, so also his language. He hadn't previously uttered phrases such as “I will bury you 10-feet deep" that he used recently while warning land mafias. This is just one example of many such foul utterances.   In the first 13 years of uninterrupted rule since 2005, Shivraj was regarded as a moderate and polite leader, as inheritor of Atal Behari Vajpayee’s political legacy in the party.  However, in his fourth term, Shivraj reminds one of UP CM Yogi Aditya Nath more than Atal Behari Vajpayee. The change in his disposition struck first time a month after he assumed office. The Covid-19 pandemic had begun to spread in the state. In April, a sizeable number of Tablighia members had fled from their congregation in Hazrat Nizammuddin to their respective homes in Madhya Pradesh. Without any empirical basis, the chief minister blamed the Jamaat as a super spreader of the pandemic. His remark deepened hatred in the Hindu community towards Muslims at large and, in many places in the Malwa region, led to attacks on the minority community members. Several Muslim youth were interned under the NSA on the charge of attacking medical teams. On the other hand, saffron activists were allowed to undertake religious functions such as Kalash Yatra in public in utter disdain to the protocol imposed by the district administrations. The BJP exploited the aroused religious fervour amid the pandemic to channelise with its election campaign for the 22 by-elections that had been necessitated due to resignations of Jyotiraditya Scindia supporters who had switched to the ruling party.    The BJP’s spectacular victory in the by-elections further emboldened the BJP and the Hindutva forces alike to veer the Shivraj Singh government towards more aggressive posturing. A month after the by-elections, hooligans owing allegiance to the Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) took out bicycle rallies in the Malwa region in the name of collecting donations for Ram temple in Ayodhya.  The saffron hoodlums specifically targeted Muslim areas in Mandsaur, Indore and Ujjain and vandalised homes and Mosques. The government acted swiftly—not to arrest the culprits but the victims .Several Muslim houses were razed to ground on the district administration’s order. The chief minister announced a harsh law to deal with ‘stone pelters” from the Muslim community, holding them squarely responsible for the communal flare-ups in the Malwa region in December last year. To keep the momentum against the Muslims a law to deal with so –called Love Jihad was announced. It was finally passed by the state assembly in March with provision of jail term up to 10 years for the guilty. In January, a stand-up comedian Munavvar Faruqui was jailed on the complaint of  a BJP MLA’s son on the suspicion that the artiste might crack some jokes to insult the Hindu gods and goddesses. It took 45 days and the Supreme Court’s intervention to grant bail to Faruqui for the crime he had not committed. The apex court severely censured the state government for its bias in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-cms-reign-begs-the-question-shiv-raj-or-jungle-raj-962692.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||5.31 lakh police posts vacant in India, maximum in Uttar Pradesh, says government||There were over five lakh vacancies in police departments across states and Union territories in the country, with the maximum posts lying vacant in Uttar Pradesh, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. As per data compiled by the Bureau of Police Research & Development (BPR&D), the sanctioned strength of police was 26,23,225 while the actual strength was 20,91,488 and 5,31,737 vacancies were there as on January 1, 2020, Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kisha Reddy informed the Lok Sabha. Reddy tabled these figures in response to a query by DMK MP T R Paarivendhar, who had sought to know details of police posts lying vacant across the country. While presenting the data, Reddy in his written response stated that "police" is a state subject and it is primarily the responsibility of the state governments to fill up the vacancies in the police force in the states. "The Centre also issues advisories to the states for filling up these vacancies in the states and to bring in the requisite reforms in the police administration to meet the expectations of the people," he added. Uttar Pradesh had the maximum 1,11,865 posts lying vacant in the state police against a sanctioned strength of 4,15,315 while its actual strength was 3,03,450, according to the BPR&D data. West Bengal had 55,294 police posts lying vacant followed by Bihar (47,099), Madhya Pradesh (31,488), Telangana (29,492), Maharashtra (28,550), Gujarat (27,349), it showed. Delhi had 9,767 vacant police posts, as per the data. Nagaland was the only state in the country to have an actual strength more than the sanctioned strength. It had 28,113 police personnel against a sanctioned strength of 26,738, the data showed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/531-lakh-police-posts-vacant-in-india-maximum-in-uttar-pradesh-says-government-962717.html
16-03-2021||North and Central||No proposal to increase funds given under PM-Kisan: Tomar||The government has no proposal to increase the funds allocated under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-Kisan) scheme, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Tuesday.       PM-Kissan is a central Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme under which financial assistance of Rs 6,000 per annum is provided to all landholding farmer families across the country, subject to certain exclusion criteria. The amount is transferred in three instalments of Rs 2,000 each, directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiary farmers identified by state and union territory governments.       "No sir, there is no proposal to increase the funds allocated under the PM-Kisan scheme," Tomar said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. He said currently Rs 6,000 per annum is given to landholding farmers. And the payment is made on the basis of the Aadhaar-seeded data of beneficiaries, except for Assam, Meghalaya, Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, which have been given exemption in this regard up to March 31, 2021. Under the PM-Kisan scheme, the funds are not allocated and sanctioned state-wise, he said. In Rajasthan, around 70,82,035 farmer families have been given the benefit of the scheme so far covering various instalments. An amount of Rs 7,632.695 crore has been spent under the scheme in the state, he said.  The number of beneficiaries in the Ganganagar district of Rajasthan covered under the scheme is 1,45,799, while the number of beneficiaries in Dausa district stands at 1,71,661, he added.       Responding to another query on the recovery of funds from ineligible farmers under the PM-Kisan scheme in Maharashtra, the minister said the central government has recovered around Rs 78.37 crore as on March 11 this year. Further, he said PM-Kisan is a continuous and ongoing scheme, and as and when the corrected and error-free data of the eligible beneficiaries are received from states, the requisite amount is transferred to the account of beneficiaries through DBT.       The beneficiaries, whose names are uploaded on the PM-Kisan portal by the states in a particular four-month period/trimester, shall be entitled to receive the benefit for that trimester and for further instalments pertaining to the subsequent trimesters, he added. Responding to a query if the government plans to include fishermen under the PM-Kisan scheme, Minister of State for Fisheries Pratap Chandra Sarangi said already fishermen are supported under Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampadan Yojana (PMMSY) with the highest ever investment of Rs 20,050 crore. Under PMMSY, livelihood support of Rs 4,500 (including beneficiary's contribution of Rs 1,500 and Rs 3,000 as central and state government share) is provided during the fish ban and lean period for socio-economically backward traditional fishermen families of both marine and inland, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-proposal-to-increase-funds-given-under-pm-kisan-tomar-962720.html
16-03-2021||Panorama||Strong family, strong society||The institution of the family is an important component of society. The way we shape our family will be reflected in our society. The lessons of pluralism, inclusiveness, brotherhood, togetherness, unity and tolerance can stem from our families if they are properly guided by our religious scriptures, faith, and beliefs. Thus the future of our country will depend on this. According to Marco Rubio, “The most important institution in society is the family. If the family breaks down, society breaks down.” According to Goswami sushilji Maharaj, National president Bhartiya serva Dharma Sansad (parliament of all religion), “It has been our tradition for long to respect our elders and tender love and affection towards children. This respect and love was not based on caste or religion, but on the culture of our villages and traditions. Building a strong family and a strong society is the need of hour. The family is the basic structural and functional unit of a flourishing society. David R Mace, a pioneer in the field of marriage, rightly said.” Nothing in the world could make human life happier than the increase in number of strong families.  One to two lakh years back, when God created Adam and Eve as the first couple on earth, the first brick of civilization was laid with the formation of a family, with a husband and wife. From them, twain sprouted the countless families and the whole humanity. During the lockdown period, every one of us experienced the importance of family life. All major religions and their scriptures have the same teachings. In the Hindu religion, family-centric life has been given important significance. In the manuscripts, it is mentioned that women are under the protection of father, husband, and children during their childhood, adolescent age, and old age respectively. Before getting married, couples often complete Christian premarital counselling. This helps the couple understand and plan for a marriage that will glorify God. According to Quran “your wives are garments to you and you are garments to them.” Acharya Viveka Muniji, spiritual Guru of the Jain community said every individual wants that his family should lead a happy and prosperous life.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/strong-family-strong-society-962477.html
16-03-2021||Panorama||The lure of libraries||My tryst with libraries began when I was probably five years old, and my parents weary with two young children wanted to find a way of keeping us occupied while they got some well-earned rest. The Lajpat Bhavan library in South Delhi of the 60s was my treasure trove of delight because we could walk to it. I found a new world and rejoiced in magazines like the Children’s World, Junior Statesman, the fairy tales and my all-time favourite – the children’s version of Little Women. My younger brother and I were hooked. Soon we had finished most books in our local library and then started our weekly Saturday ritual. In his second hand Vespa scooter, my father would take us to the Children’s library at the Bahadur Shah Zafar Marg next to the Doll’s museum. We would rush to devour the amazing collection of books and often had to be dragged out at 5 pm when the library shut and we were still in the middle of an engrossing story. Then of course were the mobile government libraries in Delhi. Buses with loads of books with a driver and a librarian would come to each area one day of the week and stay there for a few hours till people returned and borrowed books. What a brilliant idea it was. The bureaucrat who thought of this fantastic initiative should be given a medal. For many years, till I was 10 years old, this was my staple source of Enid Blytons, Nancy Drew, William, Biggles, the classics and of course the Austens. All this for a paltry one rupee library card that had to be renewed once a year. How can I forget the train libraries? Again what an ingenious idea of a book loving Railway bureaucrat! As soon as we got into the GT express or the Tamil Nadu or KK express (as it was then called), for the long 48 hour journey, the first thing was to check out the tiny library in one of the compartments and borrow four books to be read on the top berth of the train, oblivious to everyone and anything else. Thank you, Indian Railways of the 70s! Studying in Kendriya Vidyalaya, the school library was full of interesting books by Hindi authors. My love for Hindi literature started because of a gentle librarian with whom we would earnestly discuss the works of Subhadra Kumari Chauhan or Suryakanth Tripathi Nirala or an article from Paraag, a magazine for young people. From then, looking for quaint libraries in every city has become a passion. I chanced upon Eloor and was delighted to become their member with my five-year-old daughter. Summer holidays in Chennai were spent in the British library, the Connemara public library (the best stocked of them all) or in a fabulous library called Ramonas in Nungambakkam. The institute of World Culture library in Basavangudi has been another haunt and so was the branch of City Central library next door to my office. I probably married my husband because his family owned a circulating library called Serene which was much loved by the residents of Jayanagar of the 80s. On a sabbatical in the UK, I was delighted to live in a flat that was a 10-minute walk from the Manchester City library with its 1850s architecture and a great selection of books on science and art read between cups of hot chocolate from the library café. I feel there is something reassuring and safe about libraries. The thrill of discovery, looking for that elusive book, climbing the footstool to reach the top shelf to find a hidden gem and the sensory pleasure of the smell and touch of books are all part of the library experience. Children’s libraries with reading areas, in particular, lead to voyages of adventure to rich imaginary lands for every child, regardless of gender, income, disability, caste or religion. It is hence such a wonderful initiative that in Karnataka, the Government started 5622 new rural children’s libraries this year, some of them with books in Braille. Once again the brilliant brainchild of a book-loving bureaucrat!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-lure-of-libraries-962478.html
16-03-2021||Panorama||NDA government is the UPA on steroids, says P Sainath||Farmers have been demanding APMC reforms for 30 years, but the Modi government’s farm laws – central laws on a state subject, rammed through without consultations with either the states or even Parliament -- are not reforms to help farmers but at enabling a corporate takeover of the agrarian economy, veteran journalist and Magsaysay awardee P Sainath tells DH’s Anitha Pailoor. Farmers have been in the news for a few months now. They were so for a while even in 2016, when the government said it would help double farmers’ income by 2022… The first thing I recall is that they declared that they would double farmers’ incomes by 2022 without once clarifying whether they meant a doubling of nominal income or real income. If it’s nominal income, everybody’s incomes would double by 2022. If it’s real income, that is a very huge task. And it’s very clear that as of now if there is any difference, the difference in real income actually suggests to me a marginal fall, not even stagnation. I think that the claim of doubling farmers’ income was particularly cruel, considering what the incomes of farmers are and what the farmers are actually going through. For instance, one of the criticisms of the protesters is that all these people protesting at the borders of Delhi are rich farmers from Haryana and Punjab. The average total monthly income of a farm household in Punjab, including income from all sources, is Rs 18,059 for a household of 5.24 persons. The average per capita monthly income of the Punjab farmer is Rs 3,450. That is lower than the lowest pay in the organised sector. You call this a ‘civilisational crisis.’ What do you mean? What started as an agricultural crisis became an agrarian crisis. When we talk about agriculture, we’re talking about cultivators, farmers and farm labourers. When you’re talking about the agrarian crisis, there are millions of livelihoods -- of people who are not cultivators but whose occupations are dependent on agriculture. When agriculture entered a crisis, weavers started committing suicide. The first market of the traditional weaver is the farmer and the farm labourer. That is the interdependency of the agrarian sector. Once this begins to happen, the distress is widespread. What we used to call the agrarian crisis has gone far beyond the agrarian. It became a societal crisis, as section after section of society was affected. I would then say that in the last few years, you could call it a civilisational crisis because the largest body of small farmers in the world is struggling for survival. It’s more than an economic or political crisis. What we call the agrarian crisis is also a profoundly moral crisis, demanding that we take positions on where we stand. The UPA government had to deal with a similar situation in 2009 when Bt Brinjal was cleared for commercial cultivation by a committee. Then it was handled differently... The crisis in the agrarian sectors has been on since we embraced a particular path of development, which begins with the United Progressive Alliance (UPA). Hundreds of thousands of farmers who committed suicide did so when the UPA was in power. However, the difference that the last six years has made is that in economics, the NDA is the UPA-on-steroids. But let’s take the case of Bt Brinjal. The states were consulted. Jairam Ramesh (then Union environment minister) sought the opinion of the states and all the states and union territories gave an opinion. Overwhelmingly, they said, don’t touch Bt Brinjal. When that kind of response came in, the UPA said, “No, we are not going ahead with this.” They withdrew from that. There is continuity between the two governments (in economic policies) but the political response of the State [is different]. The [farm] laws are unconstitutional because agriculture is listed as a state subject. No state was consulted before these laws were declared. Let alone the state governments being consulted, Parliament was not consulted. The only people who knew what was coming in those laws were the corporate world. There is a general perception that the concerns are mostly about minimum support price (MSP) and the APMC system. Farmers have been demanding APMC reforms for 30 years. It’s not that someone is coming with up reform and the farmers are resisting it. The question is, reforms for whom -- for the farming community or for the corporations? What you have done is rammed through reforms for the corporations. Now, let me look at it one more way. Government schools are very flawed, very terrible. Why don’t we shut them down? [We don’t] because for tens of millions of children, it is the only chance of having anything approaching education. For millions of Indian children, the government school is the only place in the world they get one decent meal a day for five days. The APMC is the government school of the agrarian sector. That’s why you don’t call for its shutting down. We have seen many rural sector boards like the Handicrafts Board and the Handloom Board being dissolved during the pandemic. Is there still hope for rural livelihoods? There is no hope with these policies. There are many things that can happen. We should know how serious the move of shutting down these Boards is. The point was to improve the Boards. The point was to improve in a direction that serves the purpose of the handlooms and handicrafts sectors. And one of the things very few know is that handicrafts and handlooms are the second biggest employers in India, after agriculture. Handicrafts and handlooms employ millions of more people than the IT sector employs. Despite that, we’re just destroying it. We are creating a way for a corporate takeover of everything. There is no hope with these policies. And you will be foolish to rest your hopes on a government that pursues this. Is there hope outside of that? Oh yes, there is.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/nda-government-is-the-upa-on-steroids-says-p-sainath-962538.html
16-03-2021||Right in the Middle||*Terms and conditions apply||Those who inherit a house as a legacy from parents miss wonderful experiences that are garnered by those who live in rented houses. The latter could boast of myriad milieux as each house in each location is a world in itself.  What follows is regarding a benefit that has accrued to our son, Nishith and our daughter, Vismaya who migrated to different parts of Bengaluru. Living in a traditional locale like Mysuru, my wife and I asked them whether leaving the previous accommodations was brusque, business-like and mechanical in Bengaluru. Though they are the products of the new age, they have not wriggled out completely of the old world sentiments. For example, Vismaya recalls how the previous owner, the octogenarian uncle, never interfered after the initial instruction against driving nails into walls, except to hang a calendar here and a mirror there. She says with no strain of complaint in her voice, “Uncle could have got some gadgets fixed; the antediluvian geyser, for instance, which functioned in fits and starts”. But she has all the appreciation for him who built a house in Indiranagar back in the ‘60s with his meagre salary! The owner of her new dwelling is even more magnanimous. He lives far away from Bengaluru and has asked her to get the fixtures repaired and the money spent will be adjusted in the rent; further, he has said not to bother to get the apartment painted at the time of leaving. Nishith has a different take on his previous owner. For example, the moment he gave two months’ notice as demanded by the contract, the uncle (owner) started examining all the fixtures. He looked at the ceiling fan and a spindle had to be replaced. When he hinted that the fan needed recoiling, Nishith promptly recoiled at the proposition and said, “I have never meddled with the fan and it had struck work even before I came here and I’m leaving it as I found it”. Nishith was actually voicing a tenant’s terms and conditions, though not stated in the document in so many words. Then the uncle’s probing eyes halted on the electric switches, before moving on to toilet flushes and the calling bell. They were all resuscitated and given a new lease of life. The entire interior was painted. This face-lift given to the apartment lifted the gloom on the faces of both uncle and auntie who kept repeating, “Don’t forget us; keep coming (bartayiri), as you are just a few streets away from here”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/terms-and-conditions-apply-962476.html
16-03-2021||Second Edit||A chance for India to shape Afghan future||A little over a year after it signed an agreement with the Taliban providing for withdrawal of its troops from Afghanistan by May this year, the US has proposed a new draft plan for Afghan peace. The new plan envisages an interim government that will govern Afghanistan till elections. It will include the Taliban. The plan proposes guiding principles for a new Afghan Constitution. It lays out two parallel processes; one, a UN-facilitated effort to forge a regional consensus on Afghan peace, and the other, talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Turkey to put in place a 90-day period of reduced violence. The Biden plan has several positives. The 2019 US-Taliban agreement was preoccupied with finding a way out of Afghanistan for US troops. While it got the Taliban to hold its fire against American troops, getting the Taliban to announce a ceasefire against Afghan forces was not a priority. As a result, the Taliban has continued military operations and is expanding control over Afghan territory, even as it engaged in talks with the government. Talks were thus meaningless, an exercise that enabled the Taliban to mark time at the table while American troops exited. In contrast, the Biden plan foregrounds a ceasefire between Afghan forces and the Taliban. US troops will remain in Afghanistan even as the two talk about the future of the country. In effect, the US will continue to hold Kabul’s hand through the crucial transition phase. Importantly, the plan draws in important stakeholders to build peace in Afghanistan; the UN-mediated regional conference includes India, a country that has contributed to building human security in Afghanistan. There are issues of concern. The plan opens the door for the Taliban into the Afghan power structure. Unlike Ashraf Ghani, Abdullah Abdullah and other politicians who contested elections to enter government, the Taliban is being given a free pass to enter the government. This legitimises the group and its use of violence to access power. President Ghani can be expected to reject this. The plan expands Pakistan’s influence in Afghan peace. It will also allow Pakistan and Turkey, which are strategic partners, to work together to marginalise India’s role. But for participating in a meeting in Moscow as a mere observer, India had for the most part been kept out of talks on Afghanistan’s future so far. The Biden plan changes that. It brings India from the sidelines to a seat at the high table. This is an opportunity for New Delhi to help shape Afghanistan’s future. It must use this chance wisely.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/a-chance-for-india-to-shape-afghan-future-962483.html
16-03-2021||South||AIADMK's poll manifesto 'Xerox' of DMK manifesto: Stalin||Dubbing AIADMK's poll manifesto as a 'xerox' of the one released by his party, DMK president M K Stalin on Monday claimed that the ruling dispensation was on its way out after the April 6 assembly election. Stalin, who addressed an election rally at Tiruvarur, the native place of his father M Karunanidhi, on an emotional note, recalled the Dravidian stalwart's spectacular victory in the 1989 elections and said the coming polls would see the return of the DMK after a decade. "The ten years of corrupt rule of the AIADMK will end. A month ago, I had said the DMK will win 200 seats. The trends are completely in favour of the DMK now. We will win all the 234 seats," he said to huge applause from the crowd. Recalling the 1989 election in which the DMK posted a significant victory, Stalin said the election saw 'Kalaignar' (as Karunanidhi is addressed) become the chief minister. "I have come to you as the son of Kalaignar, as the chief ministerial candidate, seeking a decisive mandate for the DMK combine. Will you make us win, paving the way for the victory celebrations in Tiruvarur?" he asked. The crowd responded by saying that they have the conviction that DMK would win all the seats, to which Stalin said the whole of Tamil Nadu wants the DMK to return to power. "The AIADMK will be washed out," he said. Ridiculing AIADMK for allegedly lifting the announcements from the DMKs election manifesto, the DMK chief, who earlier in the day filed his nomination from the city's Kolathur constituency, said "they (AIADMK) were waiting to see what Stalin is announcing. He claimed that AIADMKs promise of waiving education loans of students, the incentive for women, increase in pensions for beneficiaries and writing off crop loans of farmers were all announced by him, the only difference being that the amounts were enhanced. "What we announced were all the DMKs programmes and it was Kalaignar who had waived off Rs 7,000 crore of crop loans for the benefit of farmers, he said. "It will not be a wonder if the AIADMK promises aircraft. They will say anything, as they are not going to return to power," he said. As promised in the DMK's manifesto, the party would seek an early report from the enquiry commission probing the death of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmks-poll-manifesto-xerox-of-dmk-manifesto-stalin-962502.html
16-03-2021||South||DH Toon | Parties in Tamil Nadu announce freebies for people in manifesto||Battle lines are drawn for Tamil Nadu's epic election on April 6. The state will witness an intense five-cornered contest to elect its 16th Assembly, with new players entering the field and threatening to play the spoiler in many constituencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-toon-parties-in-tamil-nadu-announce-freebies-for-people-in-manifesto-962531.html
16-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CID issues notice to former chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu in land pooling probe||The Andhra Pradesh CID police on Tuesday served a notice on former Chief Minister N Chandrababu Naidu in the 'Amaravati land scam,' which the Telugu Desam Party called the "most frivolous FIR" filed by a ruling YSRC MLA. The FIR was filed under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and also the SCs and STs (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. CID investigating officer Lakshmi Narayana Rao asked Chandrababu to appear in person at the CID regional office in Vijayawada on March 23 "to examine you (A-1) in the above crime, to ascertain facts which are within your exclusive knowledge." The FIR was registered by CID on March 12, based on a complaint filed by YSRC MLA Alla Ramakrishna Reddy on February 24, over a month after the High Court struck down a case pertaining to "insider trading" in the Amaravati land scam, naming Chandrababu Naidu and former minister P Narayana as "known\suspected\unknown accused." The issue pertains to pooling of land for the development of the state's new capital city Amaravati back in the year 2015. The timing of the complaint and FIR raised eyebrows as it came after a lapse of six years and a related matter was struck down by the High Court. Referring to the MLAs complaint, the FIR said, "some of the formers (farmers) of his constituency represented him that some influenced persons of the then government have cheated them by taking away their lands illegally, fraudulently by keeping innocent peasants under confusion and fear of insecurity about their lands. This set of middle man who were the part of the conspiracy by making false representation that the government was going to take away their assigned lands without giving any compensation (sic)." On that, the complainant verified the GOs issued by the government and found that several irregularities were committed by the respondents and caused irreparable loss to the SC and ST community and weaker sections and got wrongful gains and requested to take necessary legal actions, the FIR said. A team of CID officials went to Chandrababu's Jubilee Hills residence in Hyderabad, where he was now staying, and served the notice. As per Section 41 CrPC, any police officer "may without an order from a magistrate and without a warrant, arrest any person who has been concerned in any cognizable offence, or against whom a reasonable complaint has been made, or credible information has been received, or a reasonable suspicion exists, of his having been so concerned." Reacting to the CID notice, TDP state president K Atchannaidu said it was nothing but 'vendetta.' In a statement, Atchannaidu alleged that Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddys family had occupied over 700 acres of assigned land in his family estate in Kadapa district for 30 years and claimed to have returned 300 acres after it was exposed. "Did not your father, late Chief Minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, amend the Assigned Land (Prohibition of Transfer) Act in 2007. Has he not enabled taking away the poor peoples lands and handing them over to persons of choice?" Atchannaidu questioned. The former minister pointed out that lands in the Amaravati region were not taken for any personal gains but the farmers had voluntarily given them up for building the state capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cid-issues-notice-to-former-chief-minister-n-chandrababu-naidu-in-land-pooling-probe-962567.html
16-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Movable assets of Panneerselvam, Dhinakaran go up||Tamil Nadu Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam has declared total assets valued at Rs 61.19 lakh, up from the Rs 33.20 lakh in 2016, according to his election affidavit submitted as part of the nomination for the April 6 Assembly polls in the state. Panneerselvam, AIADMK coordinator, is seeking a third term from Bodinayakkanur in Theni district. All of the assets were movable and he had no immovable assets in his name, which was the case in 2016 as well, Panneerselvam said.  The assets included three four-wheelers and he declared his source of income as salary earned as deputy CM and from his wife's agricultural income. His liabilities were Rs 65,55,411 he owed to his wife. His wife's immovable assets were valued at Rs 4.57 crore while the immovable property was Rs 2.63 crore, he stated in his affidavit. Similarly, the assets of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) leader TTV Dhinakaran also went up, from Rs 16.73 lakh in 2017 to Rs 19.18 lakh in 2021. The AMMK leader had fought and won the December 2017 Radhakrishnan Nagar bypoll here as an independent, upsetting the ruling AIADMK which had earlier expelled him along with his aunt and late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's confidante VK Sasikala. Dhinakaran has shifted to Kovilpatti in Tuticorin district this time, taking on ruling AIADMK Minister and local strongman Kadmabur Raju. According to Dhinakaran's poll affidavit, the value of his immovable assets remained at Rs 57.44 lakh which he had declared in 2017. His dues included Rs 28 lakh to the central government on account of imposition of penalty under FERA and liabilities in dispute included Rs 34.46 crore from AY 1989-96 pending before the IT Appellate Tribunal here. His liabilities were Rs 14.25 lakh. The movable and immovable assets of his wife were Rs 7.66 crore and Rs 2.43 crore, respectively while her liabilities stood at Rs 5.82 crore, Dhinakaran stated in the affidavit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-movable-assets-of-panneerselvam-dhinakaran-go-up-962609.html
16-03-2021||South||M K Stalin vows to unravel mystery of Jayalalithaa's death after he comes to power||Stalin, while releasing the manifesto of the DMK on Saturday, said that he would take proper steps to expedite the submission of the Arumughasamy Committee report formed to probe the circumstances leading to the death of Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa in 2016.  Her (Jayalalithaa’s) health deteriorated during her second term. "They were tight-lipped about her health condition. If he (EPS) sticks to his allegation, he could have taken action against me. I am ready to face the case. Are you ready?” Stalin said during his election campaign in Tiruvarur, the report said. (With inputs from PT)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/m-k-stalin-vows-to-unravel-mystery-of-jayalalithaas-death-after-he-comes-to-power-962645.html
16-03-2021||South||BJP not consulted: C T Ravi on AIADMK's promise to get CAA revoked||After the AIADMK vowed to push the Centre to revoke Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) in its election manifesto, BJP leader C T Ravi has distanced the saffron party from it, saying it is the Dravidian party's stand and not the NDA's.  The controversial law, which sparked nationwide protests, was backed by the AIADMK in Rajya Sabha with the party's OP Raveendranath voting for the Bill.  The AIADMK on Sunday announced a slew of populist schemes that included a free washing machine, 2GB mobile internet data for students, and even a reduction in fuel prices.  The AIADMK has maintained that they will protect the "interests of the minorities" and insist the Union Government on reconsidering the law, which aims to provide citizenship to non-Muslims of Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Bangladesh. Earlier, the Dravidian party had raised the issue of securing citizenship for Sri Lankan Tamils. The BJP claims that many Tamils were protected from the neighbouring island-country. "In the past, we have given citizenship to Sri Lankan Tamils. Many people have also been given refuge in rehabilitation camps in India and several other Sri Lankan Tamils have also gone back to their country and got resettled," Ravi said.  He also said that a separate proposal from the Tamils can be put forth to address the issue further. "If there is some major issue that emerges regarding Sri Lankan Tamils they can put forth a specific demand for that. But to say that giving citizenship through CAA is wrong is not acceptable,” he added. Chief Minister K Palaniswami, speaking after releasing the manifesto, said, "We have announced that we will insist that the Centre revoke the CAA. The AIADMK is the only party that protects the interest of minorities." With opinion polls predicting Tamil Nadu will swerve towards the DMK in the upcoming Assembly polls, the incumbent CM is going all-out to secure another term in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-not-consulted-c-t-ravi-on-aiadmks-promise-to-get-caa-revoked-962668.html
16-03-2021||South||Extend date for filing of nominations: Sarathkumar to ECI||There was an unusual request from actor Sarathkumar, who heads the All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi (AISMK), to the Election Commission of India – extend the date for filing of nomination. And the reason he cited is the ongoing strike by employees of public sector banks. In a statement, Sarathkumar, whose party is contesting in 37 Assembly constituencies as part of the alliance led by Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) of actor Kamal Haasan, said the last date for filing of nomination papers to contest the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections should be extended. He said candidates are struggling to open new bank accounts due to the strike, and hence the ECI should look into the issue. “The ECI gave six days for filing nomination and only four days are left to complete the process. Candidates are finding it difficult to open new bank accounts due to the strike by employees. The employees' demands are genuine,” Sarathkumar said. The actor-politician said it was imperative for the ECI to ensure a level playing field for all candidates to enable people from all walks of life to participate in the democratic exercise. “The ECI and Tamil Nadu CEO should keep this in mind and extend the date for filing of nominations,” Sarathkumar said. The last date for filing for nomination is March 19.  AISMK, which lost the only seat it contested in 2016 elections in an alliance with the AIADMK, was allotted 40 seats this time by MNM. However, Sarathkumar returned three seats to MNM on Monday and will now contest in only 37 seats. The MNM's allotting of 40 constituencies each to the AISMK and the Indhiya Jananayaga Katchi led to criticism and trolling on social media.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/extend-date-for-filing-of-nominations-sarathkumar-to-eci-962690.html
16-03-2021||South||Congress veteran P C Chacko joins NCP ahead of Kerala Assembly elections||Senior leader P C Chacko, who quit Congress last week, joined the NCP in the presence of party supremo Sharad Pawar, describing the transition as a “homecoming”. Chacko said the country needed a strong opposition and he did not see much of an effort to that point in the Congress. Before joining the NCP, Chacko met CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury and announced that he would campaign for the Left Democratic Front in the Kerala assembly elections. NCP is part of the LDF in Kerala. Addressing the media, Pawar said there was a need for a third front in the country that has not been shaped yet. “We have been talking to different parties. Sitaram Yechury has also stated the need for it today,” Pawar said. Pawar said Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had called him and said that the CPI(M) was happy with Chacko joining the NCP. “Today, the need is the unity of the opposition. A united opposition should emerge as an alternative to the BJP. I don't see that initiative in the party which I was a member of earlier,” Chacko said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-veteran-p-c-chacko-joins-ncp-ahead-of-kerala-assembly-elections-962696.html
16-03-2021||South||Apollo conducts back-to-back MitraClip procedures in Chennai||Apollo Hospitals Group on Tuesday said it has successfully completed four back-to-back MitraClip procedures on the same day. It surpasses Japan's record of performing MitraClip procedures on three patients in a day. The four back-to-back MitraClip procedures were performed at Apollo Hospitals, Chennai, by Dr Sai Satish, Senior Interventional Cardiologist and the minimally-invasive method used in the therapy allows repair of a leaking mitral valve without open-heart surgery, and is a lifesaver for patients at high surgical risk. All four patients, the oldest of whom was 87 years old, went home walking within three days and are currently doing well, the hospital said. “With the MitraClip, we are able to treat patients with severe mitral regurgitation who are at prohibitive surgical risk and offer them a second lease of life. To date, over 100,000 patients in more than 50 countries have undergone the MitraClip procedure,” Apollo Hospitals Chairman Dr Prathap C Reddy said. MitraClip is a revolutionary device that was introduced in the country just three years ago and provides a non-surgical alternative to treat patients with mitral valve leaks (mitral regurgitation), which can lead to cardiac failure. “With the support of an experienced team working seamlessly in tandem, we were able to successfully complete the four back-to-back MitraClip procedures like clockwork. This success has boosted the confidence of the entire team at Apollo Hospitals,” Dr Sai Satish, who conducted the surgeries, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/apollo-conducts-back-to-back-mitraclip-procedures-in-chennai-962701.html
16-03-2021||South||Make assurances you can fulfill: Palaniswami's swipe at DMK's poll promises||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Tuesday took a swipe at the DMK over poll promises, saying a party should give only those assurances that could be implemented. Recalling then DMK chief, the late M Karunanidhi's 2006 poll promise of providing two acres of land free of cost to all landless farmers in the state, Palaniswami asked if the party fulfilled its assurance. "Did they give. No. (DMK president MK) Stalin is desperate to get people's votes by fooling and confusing them," he said at an election rally at Aranthangi in this district. He said Stalin's wish would not be fulfilled, implying people won't vote for him. In an apparent dig at the DMK over the 500 assurances made in its poll manifesto for the April 6 elections, the AIADMK joint coordinator said "it is ok if promises that can be implemented are made." "If unimplementable assurances are made, they can never be fulfilled," he said. He recalled late chief minister J Jayalalithaa had during the 2011 elections promised to provide free mixer, grinder and table fan, if voted to power, and "implemented" it. The DMK's manifesto was also 'misleading' as Stalin has promised waiver of farm loans, Palaniswami said and pointed out his government has already waived Rs 12,110 crore obtained from cooperative banks and even the receipts have been provided to the persons concerned. "DMK's manifesto is one that fools people," he added. The AIADMK's manifesto, which among other populist measures promises free washing machines and solar stoves, was aimed at all-round benefit, he said.  Questioning Stalin's assertion of redressing people's grievances within the first 100 days of assuming office if voted to power, Palaniswami wondered what was the DMK leader doing as deputy chief minister and minister earlier. Ridiculing DMK ally Congress, he alleged that the party 'pleaded' with its alliance leader for seats and got 25 of them. "A century-old Congress party that got 63 seats (in 2011), 41 (in 2016), now has 25," he said. However, the AIAMDMK has forged a mega alliance, Palaniswami said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/make-assurances-you-can-fulfill-palaniswamis-swipe-at-dmks-poll-promises-962723.html
16-03-2021||South||Why BJP thinks Puducherry Assembly elections are important||In the outgoing Puducherry Assembly, the BJP has no elected members. And the party does not have much base in the tiny Union Territory that has long been a bastion of the Congress. But, the BJP is now the cynosure of all eyes as Puducherry goes to polls on April 6 – it has emerged as the second-largest partner of the alliance led by All India N R Congress (AINRC) of N Rangasamy, pushing the AIADMK, which has four MLAs, to the third position. In fact, the BJP wanted to lead the alliance and install its Chief Minister – it poached one minister, two popular legislators and a few senior leaders from the Congress, ensuring the fall of the V Narayanasamy government. But the BJP had to be content with playing the second fiddle to Rangasamy, albeit for now, as he played the hardball. The party is just banking on the Congress rebels, and the anti-incumbency against the previous government to win seats – Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah have already campaigned in the UT. In the 2016 Assembly polls, many BJP candidates forfeited their deposit amounts and some of the defeated candidates entered the Assembly as nominated members. Though it is contesting in just nine of the 30 seats at stake, the BJP, however, is pinning its hopes on three nominated members who are appointed to the House by the Centre. In fact, it was the support of the three nominated members – all BJP leaders – that helped the Opposition rock the Congress boat just a few days before election dates were announced. The BJP's strategy is clear – to join the Rangasamy Cabinet if it is a clear mandate or try and form its own government in case the polls throw up a hung Assembly. It possesses a clear advantage since it has three “readily-available” MLAs. Anyways, the BJP could be the biggest gainer if the Congress-DMK alliance loses. For it would be part of a government in Puducherry, geographically close to Tamil Nadu that still remains a Waterloo for the saffron party. This would also be a major leap for the BJP, which is trying hard to expand its footprint in southern India. Such a development would allow the BJP to counter the narrative that it cannot win seats or be part of governments in the Tamil land. The BJP believes Puducherry is the springboard for it to make inroads into Tamil Nadu, the last fort that remains to be breached. However, politics in Puducherry is distinctly different from that of Tamil Nadu – it is not based on personalities and the DMK and AIADMK have not been able to extend their sway beyond a point. All that matters here is candidates because of the size of the constituencies, which have a maximum of around 40,000 voters. “The BJP feels it has a real chance this election in Puducherry and it wants to send a clear message to the electorate in Tamil Nadu that having the BJP in power would hugely benefit people. For this, the compact and tiny UT of Puducherry is expected to be the laboratory sample,” senior journalist R Bhagwan Singh told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-bjp-thinks-puducherry-assembly-elections-are-important-962741.html
16-03-2021||South||Amaravati land case: AP-CID makes TDP chief Naidu accused No 1; asks him to appear for questioning||The Andhra Pradesh Crime Investigation Department has served notices to former chief minister Nara Chandrababu Naidu to probe his involvement in the alleged Amaravati land scam. CID officials visited Naidu's residence in Hyderabad on Tuesday, and served him a notice asking him to appear before the investigating officer in AP CID's Vijayawada office on March 23. The notice giving a further one week's time stated that Naidu is liable for arrest under Section 41 A of CrPC, for failure to attend/comply with the terms of the notice. A similar notice was served to P Narayana, the municipal administration and urban development minister in Naidu's cabinet. The move creating a political furore in the state comes two days after TDP's drubbing in the municipal polls. The Jaganmohan Reddy government has been maintaining that Naidu's family, benamis and other TDP leaders have benefited enormously from surreptitious land deals executed before the December 2014 declaration of Amaravati in Guntur district as the new capital region of Andhra Pradesh. Charging that land parcels were accumulated from the uninformed poor by the TDP men with privy official information, YSRCP leaders have popularised the alleged transactions as “insider trading.” However, one such “insider trading” case was struck down by the AP High Court in January. The notices to Naidu now are based on a FIR registered by the CID following the complaint of YSRCP MLA Alla Rama Krishna Reddy. The complaint stated that SC, ST assigned lands were procured deceitfully by those close to the then TDP government. In his February 24 complaint, the Mangalagiri MLA said that the “middlemen part of the conspiracy made his constituency farmers believe that government would take away their lands without providing compensation.”(sic) Verification of government orders issued then showed that irregularities were committed for wrongful gains, causing “irreparable loss to the SC, ST sections”, Alla said, asking for necessary legal action. The cops said that the FIR was registered on March 12, based on a preliminary inquiry report submitted by a CID-DSP the same day. The FIR stating Naidu, Narayana and other officials as “known/ suspected/unknown accused” was booked under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989, AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act 1977 and various sections of the IPC dealing with offences like criminal conspiracy, public servant disobeying laws with the intent to save offenders. TDP leaders have termed the case as frivolous and the notices “a continuation of the political witch hunt by Jagan.” Naidu is said to be exploring legal options to deal with the notices. Amaravati Capital Lands Controversy In 2015, about 33,000 acres of agricultural land was pooled by the Naidu government from the farmers of 29 villages in Amaravati for the construction of “a world-class, mega capital,” in partnership with Singapore. Soon after becoming the CM in 2019, Reddy stalled the capital works and constituted a cabinet sub-committee to probe the land grab charges. The Finance minister Buggana Rajendranth-headed committee's report in December 2019, highlighted “various procedural, legal and financial irregularities and fraudulent transactions concerned with various projects, including the issues related to land in the CRDA region”. CRDA refers to the AP Capital Region Development Authority, which Naidu had instituted to administer Amaravati works. Based on the report, the Reddy government has, in February 2020, formed a special investigation team under a DIG-level IPS officer to probe the land-related etc. irregularities that allegedly took place during Naidu’s 2014 to 2019 rule. The YSRCP government had earlier said that it would ask for a CBI or Lokayukta probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amaravati-land-case-ap-cid-makes-tdp-chief-naidu-accused-no-1-asks-him-to-appear-for-questioning-962783.html
16-03-2021||South||TTD submits Karnataka choultries project documents for judicial preview||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams officials said that the tender papers of the Rs 200 crore Karnataka choultries development project were submitted for the judicial preview commission's clearance. The move is to ensure transparency in the tender process and examine the suggestions, objections from the public made through the TTD website, before granting permission. While the expense of Rs 200 crore would be funded by the Karnataka government, the project would be executed by the TTD. The Karnataka government has already deposited Rs 100 crore for the TTD to commence work. The complex, on completion, would have 252 ordinary rooms, 32 suit rooms, 12 dormitories, a Kalyana Mandapam and a dining hall, spread over the 7 acres and 5 cents of land given on lease to Karnataka. The project documents are available on https://judicialpreview.ap.gov.in/ and www.tirumala.org. The public is invited to present their objections, if any, before 5 pm of 23 March on the TTD website or by email to the Guntur based Judicial Preview Commission Judge-jpp@ap.gov.in, officials said. Located close to the Lord Venkateshwara temple, the Karnataka choultries is a landmark on the hill. But the choultry buildings were allegedly not maintained properly for some time. A plan to build a new complex has been stuck for many years because of legal hurdles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ttd-submits-karnataka-choultries-project-documents-for-judicial-preview-962791.html
16-03-2021||South||BJP has put up Indian democracy for sale, claims Kerala CM||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday alleged the BJP has put up Indian democracy for sale, while the Congress has reduced itself to goods that are up for sale. Hitting out at both the parties, Vijayan said in many states, people had elected the Congress to power, but they "sold themselves to the BJP." "When BJP has put up Indian democracy for sale, Congress has reduced themselves into goods that are up for sale. BJP is willing to shell out as much money as required, after all they have raised plenty of it. Congress is trying to get the highest bid," the chief minister, who reached here for campaigning from his home constituency, Dharmadom, told reporters. Listing the names of states including Goa, Manipur, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Puducherry, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura, Vijayan said the Congress party cannot be trusted as the leaders can join BJP anytime. "What about the stand of those Congress leaders on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)? They oppose it when they are with the Congress and later support it when they join the BJP.The Congress has lost its credibility," Vijayan said. Slamming the Congress and its ally Indian Union Muslim League in the United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala, Vijayan claimed the people don't give much importance to the statements of the leaders of these parties. "The KPCC had declared that they will construct 1000 houses for those who lost their residences in the floods. Can they show at least hundred houses they have built? They have collected funds for the same from the people." "Is there any accountability for such funds? Similarly the IUML leadership was also criiticised for the funds collected for the Kathua victim," the CPI(M) veteran said. He said the Congress and the BJP were keeping the Nemom constituency, the lone seat won by the saffron party's O Rajagopal in 2016 assembly polls, in the limelight just as a distraction to divert the attention from the state government's achievements. The Congress, after much deliberations, has announced K Muraleedharan, MP, as its candidate there this time, while CPI(M) has fielded senior leader V Sivankutty. "The people have seen what the Congress has done in Nemom last time.They allowed the lotus to bloom there. It's evident if you look at the vote share." "How did the Congress votes of Nemom constituency, polled in the 2011 Assembly election, vanish in the 2016 polls? The Congress should apologise to secular Kerala," Vijayan said. He said the Left party was fighting "relentlessly against the communal forces" and as a result its vote share has increased. Vijayan said there was a campaign going on in the state that the food and provision kits given to all by the state government were provided by the Centre. "We have not gone for a massive campaign saying that we are providing kits for all. Yes, it started (providing kits to all) since the lockdown." "But why are they (BJP) saying it was provided by the centre? If that is so, why are they not giving in other states? At least give the kits in BJP ruled-states," Vijayan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-has-put-up-indian-democracy-for-sale-claims-kerala-cm-962792.html
16-03-2021||South||Karnataka former chief secretary Ratna Prabha could be BJP's Tirupati bypoll candidate||The BJP is considering Karnataka former chief secretary K Ratna Prabha as its candidate for the Tirupati Lok Sabha bypoll. The Election Commission of India on Tuesday announced the byelection schedule for the Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Andhra Pradesh and Nagarajuna Sagar assembly constituency in Telangana, along with the Belgaum Lok Sabha in Karnataka and 13 other Assembly constituencies across the country. All these bypolls would be held on April 17 and the results declared on May 2. The Tirupati Parliament (SC Reserved) and Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly seats fell vacant last year following the deaths of the sitting legislators. Telangana Rashtra Samithi's Nagarjuna Sagar MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah passed away in December. Tirupati YSRCP MP Balli Durga Prasad Rao died in September in a private hospital in Chennai due to a heart attack, while reportedly recovering from Covid-19. YSRCP chief Jaganmohan Reddy has picked Maddela Gurumoorthy, a physiotherapist, as the party candidate, while sending Balli's son Kalyan Chakravarthy to the Andhra Pradesh legislative council as an MLC. TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu had earlier announced former Congress leader and union minister Panabaka Lakshmi as their candidate. The BJP is finalising its candidate, after ally Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan agreed to let the saffron party contest from Tirupati. A senior BJP leader told DH that Karnataka's former top bureaucrat Ratna Prabha, who joined the BJP in 2019, is one of the frontrunners. Dasari Srinivasulu, AP ex-IAS officer, Krishna Prasad, an ex-IPS of Telangana cadre, Muni Subramanyam, party's Dalit morcha leader are the other strong contestants for the candidature. The party is expected to make the announcement in a day or two. Meanwhile, the Congress party has announced veteran leader, former minister K Jana Reddy as its Nagarjuna Sagar candidate. The seat, a Congress stronghold, was gained by the TRS in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-former-chief-secretary-ratna-prabha-could-be-bjps-tirupati-bypoll-candidate-962798.html
16-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly Election: Mother of sexual assault victims to contest against CM||The mother of two minor sisters who died in suspicious circumstances after suffering a sexual assault at Walayar in Palakkad district in Kerala announced her plans to contest as an independent candidate against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at his sitting seat Dharmadom as part of her protest. With Congress yet to announce a candidate for the seat, there are strong speculations that the party may back her. BJP fielded party former state president C K Padmanabhan in the constituency. The sisters aged 13 and nine were found hanging in their house at Walayar in Palakkad district in January and March 2017 respectively. Both the sisters were found to be sexually abused. Even as a POCSO court acquitted all the accused, the Kerala High Court ordered a re-trial and the state government later sought a CBI probe. The case assumed political significance as the accused were CPM local activists. The mother of the sisters has been staging an indefinite stir seeking action against the police officials who allegedly sabotaged the case. She had tonsured her head recently and many other women also tonsured their head in support of her. Meanwhile, in a damage control move, Congress fielded one more woman candidate for the Assembly polls in Kerala. Veena Nair, a former state office bearer of Youth Congress, was filed at Vattiyoorkavu in Thiruvananthapuram where former Thiruvananthapuram mayor V K Prasanth and BJP district president V V Rajesh are in the fray. She had contested in the local body election in 2015 but got defeated. There was widespread resentment in the Congress as only nine women were fielded by the party. Mahila Congress state president Lathika Subhash, who was denied a seat, had tonsured her head in protest at the Kerala PCC office and decided to contest as an independent candidate from Ettumanoor in Kottayam district. The Congress is also witnessing internal protests in many constituencies over candidate selection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-election-mother-of-sexual-assault-victims-to-contest-against-cm-962825.html
16-03-2021||State||Covid-19 delays state government project aimed at management of heart attacks||The Covid-19 pandemic has delayed a project proposed by the State National Health Mission (NHM) more than five months ago that could have led to the efficient management of acute heart attacks at the taluk level. First proposed in September 2020 at a cost of Rs 2.3 crore, a hub and spoke model was meant for efficient patient management at the taluk level of those who suffer from STEMI (ST Elevated Myocardial Infarction) which is a severe heart attack. In this, one of the heart's major arteries (one of the arteries that supply oxygen and nutrient-rich blood to the heart muscle) is blocked. Five months on, the state is still in the process of placing newspaper ads calling for agencies to monitor this system, and the hub and spoke model is still not off the ground. The reason being Covid-19, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research Director Dr C N Manjunath said. This was echoed by the State's deputy director for non-communicable diseases, Dr Rangaswamy H V. He told DH, "Due to coronavirus, we could not proceed with the project. We have placed newspaper advertisements inviting 'expression of interest' only now."  The idea is to have three branches of Jayadeva act as the hub hospitals, in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Kalaburagi. The government is looking for NGOs and firms that will link these three hospitals to 45 spoke hospitals or taluk hospitals via 45 ambulances equipped with STEMI kits that has an ECG machine, defibrillator, pulse oximeter, and a mobile phone. This is important as for every half an hour delay in treatment of heart attack, there is a loss of 50% heart muscle and the risk of death increases by 7%. In Karnataka, it is estimated that 96,150 are affected by STEMI every year. They need to be treated within 90 minutes of the attack. Under this project, every case will be tracked and recorded for up to four years after treatment. "The outcome of 4,000 patients who suffered a heart attack in the last year alone who were treated with clot-dissolving medicine or angioplasty showed a mortality of 2.75%. When untreated, it is 14%. The treatment is time-dependent. If it is initiated within the first three to six hours of the onset of heart attack, the survival is more and the outcome is also better," Dr Manjunath said. In hospitals at the periphery and taluk hospitals, facilities for treating a heart attack is not available.  Some taluk-level physicians are capable of treating heart attacks and others are not. Patients are required to long distances to reach a tertiary care centre. To facilitate heart attack management in taluk hospitals, this project has been conceptualised. Funded by NHM, Jayadeva is the implementing tertiary heart hospital. "In each revenue division of Bengaluru, Mysuru and Kalaburagi, 15 taluk hospitals have been mapped to Jayadeva, in all, 45. Here physicians will be trained to medically manage heart attacks. Each cluster will have a State coordinator and there will be six hub coordinators too. The moment an ECG is taken at any of these 45 taluk hospitals, it will be transmitted to cardiologists in one of the three Jayadeva hub hospitals. Once the diagnosis is confirmed clot-dissolving medicine is given and then shifted to nearest Jayadeva hospital in these zones," Dr Manjunath said. Once the clot-dissolving medicine is given, that buys the patient 24 hours time for primary angioplasty. Tamil Nadu STEMI Project for example has been successful.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-delays-state-government-project-aimed-at-management-of-heart-attacks-962497.html
16-03-2021||State||Central team inspects site offered by Karnataka to set up AIIMS: Minister||A high level team by the Union Ministry of Health has inspected the site offered by Karnataka Government in Hubballi-Dharwad to set up AIIMS in Karnataka, Union Minister of State for Health and Family Welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The decision to set up AIIMS is before the competent authority, the Minister said in his written reply. The Minister was replying to a question by BJP Rajya Sabha member K C Ramamurthy, who asked when AIIMS is likely to be set up in Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/central-team-inspects-site-offered-by-karnataka-to-set-up-aiims-minister-962751.html
16-03-2021||State||Bhaskar Shetty murder: SC tells court to complete trial in one month||The Supreme Court has directed the trial court to complete the proceedings of Udupi businessman Bhaskar Shetty’s murder case within one month or the accused would be released on bail. “We are told that the trial is at the fag end,” a bench presided over by Justice R F Nariman said, passing the order on Monday on a bail plea by accused Niranjan Bhat. Bhat, a priest, was accused of burning the body of Shetty in a ‘homa kund’ in 2016 in conspiracy with the deceased’s wife, after developing an illicit relationship with her. The bench, also comprising Justices B R Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy, said, “The trial court is given one month’s time in which to dispose of the matter after which the petitioner shall stand released on bail. If the trial does not end within a period of one month, then the petitioner, in any case, will be released on bail subject to the conditions to be imposed by the trial court.” The top court also clarified that if the petitioner asked for any adjournment, this order would not be applicable. Bhat, led by senior advocate Basava Prabhu Patil, challenged the validity of the Karnataka High Court’s order of July 27, 2020, rejecting his bail plea. On May 10, 2019, the top court asked Bhat to apply for bail after all witnesses are examined by the trial court preferably within six months. In the matter, Shetty’s wife Rajeshwari, a co-accused, has been granted bail. According to the prosecution, Rajeshwari, along with her 20-year-old son Navneet Shetty, threw chilly powder into her husband's eyes and assaulted him with a rod. Thereafter, the accused tied the victim’s hands and feet and administered poison to him. Later, they carried the body of the victim to the home of Bhat and burnt it by organising ‘Yagna’. Further, to destroy the evidence, the bones and body parts were thrown into a river. The victim suspected the fidelity of his wife and had lodged a police complaint with Manipal police station on July 9 before his murder on July 28, 2016. The police acted on a complaint filed by the victim’s mother Gulabi as he went missing. The prosecution relied upon a DNA report to conclude the recovered body parts were the son of the complainant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bhaskar-shetty-murder-sc-tells-court-to-complete-trial-in-one-month-962762.html
16-03-2021||State||Hopes of Covid-19 herd immunity wane as surveillance systems collapse in Bengaluru||With Covid-19 cases surging in the state, hopes of herd immunity are waning even as fears of reinfection are growing. On top of this, the government's surveillance systems have collapsed. On Tuesday, daily statewide numbers hit quadruple digits for the first time since December 25. One official blamed the surge in cases on the collapse of contact tracing and home isolation monitoring since the start of 2021. As per official data, in Bengaluru Urban, home isolation visits were done for only 53.3% of cases in the last seven days and no contacts were generated for 53.9% of new Covid-19 cases over the same period. The noted epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said this was due to personnel shortages prompted by the vaccine drive. “It has now been suggested to bring in personnel from all departments for the task,” he said.  Another official stated that the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) was not entering the number of people traced in the central database while claiming that people had been traced.  "The problem is acute in Bengaluru," said Munish Moudgil, Director of the State Covid War Room. “The simple reason is that people have stopped isolating patients. Once a person gets Covid-19 in a family, all in the family are getting Covid-19,” he said.  He rejected the notion that reinfections were also contributing to case increases. “The reality is that reinfections are negligible,” he said. Hazy herd Immunity Where does this leave the question of herd immunity? On the hazy ground, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said the results of the second seroprevalence study are still being tabulated. “The preliminary results are expected only in one or two weeks. The second round will reveal if there has been a change in the pattern of the disease spread. We can also ascertain whether the districts with low prevalence then have seen the surge subsequently and if there is a need for further intervention to control the spread,” he said. As the survey’s principal investigator Dr Babu said it was too early to speak about herd immunity for Karnataka. To this, eminent virologist Dr T Jacob John, the former Professor of Clinical Virology, CMC Vellore, added that herd immunity is only possible if a community is isolated. “If you have the free movement of people, no community immunity is possible,” he said.  He also disputed the extent of reinfections and their role in feeding the surge of cases. “The disease has reached an endemic status in India and we are going to see periodic ups and downs in the number of cases. Reinfections are not causing these cases, it is the virus going through the vulnerable group of people who have not yet had the virus,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hopes-of-covid-19-herd-immunity-wane-as-surveillance-systems-collapse-in-bengaluru-962806.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ease age curbs in Phase 3 Covid-19 vaccine drive, urge thalassaemics||When Phase 3 of the Covid-19 vaccination drive was announced in February, the vulnerable thalassaemia community expected to be part of it. However, nearly 99% of the community does not qualify. “We were informed that only people above the age of 45 in the community qualify for the immunisation programme. This decision completely overlooks the fact that not many thalassaemia sufferers live beyond the age of 45,” said Gagandeep Singh Chandok, 37, president of Thalassaemia and Sickle Cell Society in Bengaluru. According to Chandok, there are only four known thalassaemics above the age of 45 in Bengaluru, which has between 6,000 and 8,000 (according to government records) survivors. Thalassaemia is a common, inherited blood disorder, where the body is unable to produce enough haemoglobin. Studies have shown that the overall survival rate among thalassaemics is less than 0.74% after the age of 45. According to an April 2020 study published in the journal Blood Advances, actuarial survival of a person in south India “at 26.9 years was 50%”.   The community’s fear has been magnified by several Covid-19 deaths.  One thalassaemic who developed serious Covid-19 complications is Sanjana, 43, (name changed), who contracted the virus in August and had to be hospitalised for 14 days with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). “Owing to my vulnerable status, I was treated with high-end antibiotics and blood-thinners, which resulted in severe side-effects for six months such as hair loss, skin rash and loose motion,” she said. She added that with antibodies lasting for only a few months and with cases rising again, she fears the possibility of reinfection. “The fear of the virus is constant as our immunity is so low,” she said. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar said that under the protocol, it is not possible to vaccinate people with comorbidities under the age of 45 in Phase 3. “However, we have discussed the matter within the state. We are approaching the Centre to modify the protocol,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ease-age-curbs-in-phase-3-covid-19-vaccine-drive-urge-thalassaemics-962489.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Parents squirm as sex scandal creeps into phones||Parents anxious about giving gadgets to children for online classes have a new cause for worry. Images and video fragments of a recent sex scandal that kicked up a political storm are popping up as top suggestions on social media. Many have already dialled the Childline and filed complaints. The common demand is for the removal of such content from social media or a direction to the platforms to put photos, videos and audio files behind a wall. While the posts by some media houses come with thumbnail screenshots of the video, there are users who upload content without blurring images. Geetha M H (name changed), a parent, told DH, "I never thought this controversy would invade our space when I gave my phone to my 13-year-old daughter. While completing her worksheet, she googled something related to the syllabus and the video popped up." The explosion of content surrounding sex scandals also causes embarrassment to many. "I hesitate to give my phone to kids as the controversy is among the top suggestions on many social media apps," said another parent, noting that it will be hard to keep a constant watch on the child's activity. The parents said that they had not searched for news surrounding the scandal, but the content was ubiquitous on all platforms. The Child Rights Trust has decided to approach the cyber crime police and the Karnataka State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KSCPCR). "We have received several calls from parents. We are filing a complaint with the cybercrime police to remove such content from online platforms," Nagasimha G Rao, executive director of the trust, told DH. "Parents have also complained against television channels, saying that even if the video is blurred, the audio is a major problem. They can't watch the news in the presence of kids now," said Rao. Child rights activists have also decided to seek the intervention of KSCPCR and for a law to regulate the telecast of such videos in the interest of children. Parents have raised the issue with schools too. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, "We had formally sought a separate law under the IT Act to regulate such content. We will file a complaint and a PIL in the high court for retraining the media from telecasting such news."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/parents-squirm-as-sex-scandal-creeps-into-phones-962491.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Expert committee recommends 50% cap on occupancy in theatres in Karnataka||In a meeting convened by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to review the Covid situation in the state, the expert committee suggested that barring grades 10 and 12, classes for other grades be suspended for the next two weeks and hold examinations online for these non-board graders. However, the meeting, chaired by the CM along with Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan, Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar, reportedly refused to take note of the suggestions. Sources present during the meeting told DH that the recommendations were opposed by the deputy chief minister. "Most of the strict actions that we proposed were opposed by the DCM. He said the virus is here to stay and that instead of imposing any restrictive measures, we should spread awareness and increase testing," an officer who took part in the meeting told DH. Clarifying the issue, Ashwath Narayan rejected the allegations. "Shutting down everything will not solve the problem and there will not be an end to it. Instead, let us put a system back in place out of our experience last year and enforce stringent rules. The chief minister, health minister and other officials also supported my viewpoint."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-expert-committee-recommends-50-cap-on-occupancy-in-theatres-in-karnataka-962615.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Paddy fields breed mosquitoes causing Japanese encephalitis: Experts||Children who played outdoors amid vegetation where there are shrubs and grass tend to contract scrub typhus bacteria, which can also cause encephalitis, Nimhans found in a study in 2016 in UP's Deoria and Gorakhpur, where the infection is highest in the country. "It turned out that children who defecated in the open near shrubs got bitten by the vector that transmits scrub typhus, an infected chigger. Chigger mites are found on shrubs. In 10% to 15% of the cases, it left a small ulcer that looks like a cigarette burn or eschar. "Children had eschars in their buttocks or groin indicating that they had defecated in the open," Dr Ravi, retired senior professor of neurovirology, Nimhans, told a press conference recently. "Ballari, Kolar, Mandya, Tumakuru and Kalaburagi are endemic to Japanese Encephalitis and the mosquito that spreads it grows in areas where paddy is cultivated. It's called culex tritaeniorhynchus. "It requires stagnant water to breed and migratory birds, which bring the virus from other countries. "Pigs also act as amplifiers. People have tried many interventions like Gambusia fish which eats mosquitoes. In Tamil Nadu, people have tried adding neem cakes to water," Dr Ravi said. Nimhans and the health department launched the brain infection global project at the Nimhans convention centre here. Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar, health secretary and the Nimhans director were among those present. This project is funded by the National Institute of Health Research (NIHR), Liverpool, UK. It aims to establish a standard care package for improving diagnosis and early hospital management of patients with suspected acute brain infections in Karnataka. It will first be started in SNR Government District Hospital and RL Jalappa Hospital in Kolar as a model. The other collaborating centre in India is the Christian Medical College, Vellore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/paddy-fields-breed-mosquitoes-causing-japanese-encephalitis-experts-962618.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka minister directs officials to act against schools reopened for Class 1-5||Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar has instructed officials to crack the whip against schools which run regular offline classes for standard one to five ignoring government's directive in view of Covid-19. The warning to the primary schools was issued on Monday after Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted a few days ago asking Kumar to look into the complaints about reopening of schools for standard one to five. Further media too reported that some private schools were running offline classes. Taking note of it, Kumar directed the officials to take strict action against such schools. He also instructed the education department officials and superintendents of the department to immediately issue a circular to set up Taluk level inspection teams and prosecute schools and institutes violating the norms. At present regular classes are allowed for standard six and above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-minister-directs-officials-to-act-against-schools-reopened-for-class-1-5-962726.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, Maski, Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies on April 17||The Election Commission on Tuesday fixed April 17 as a poll day for the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies, which promises to be high on voltage and stakes for the BJP and the Congress. The model code of conduct has come into force with immediate effect in the districts where these seats are located - Belagavi, Raichur and Bidar. The results of the bypolls will be out on May 2. The Belgaum contest will be the first Lok Sabha bypolls in Karnataka after the BJP’s thumping victory in 2019. The sensational sex scandal is likely to have some bearing on the Belgaum bypolls as the Congress is said to be considering fielding its working president Satish Jarkiholi, the brother of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi who is at the centre of the controversy. The BJP is under pressure to retain Belgaum for the fourth time in a row. The seat was vacated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi, necessitating the bypolls. Apparently, Angadi’s daughter and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar’s daughter-in-law Shradha is in contention for the BJP ticket, along with MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath, who belongs to the dominant Lingayat community and Dr Girish Sonwalkar, a medical professional who is said to have RSS roots.  The Congress will aim to retain Maski and Basavakalyan, which it had won in the 2018 Assembly elections. The Maski bypolls, necessitated due to the disqualification of Pratapgouda Patil, will see BJP vice president BY Vijayendra and general secretary N Ravikumar, known to be efficient poll managers, slog it out as they are in charge of this seat. Patil, who was with the Congress earlier, has been assured the ticket by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, it is said. The Congress has managed to lure Basanagouda Turvihal, the BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate from Maski and he is expected to get the ticket. In Basavakalyan, where incumbent Congress MLA B Narayan Rao died due to Covid-19, the BJP hopes to woo the Lingayat and Maratha community. Yediyurappa is pushing for the Anubhava Mantapa project here, and has announced funds for the new Maratha Development Corporation. There are over a dozen aspirants for the ticket, including 2018 defeated candidate Mallikarjun Khuba. The Congress is mulling over fielding Rao’s wife Mallamma for the ‘sympathy’ factor. It is also thinking about MLC Vijay Singh. "Earlier, the BJP won 12 out of 15 bypolls. We also won big in Rajarajeshwarinagar. We're confident of winning all three seats with a record margin," Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said. Congress working president Saleem Ahmed said the party's cadre was upbeat in Belgaum and that the sex scandal could work in their favour. "Also, the party has a solid base in Maski and Basavakalyan," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bypolls-to-belgaum-lok-sabha-seat-maski-basavakalyan-assembly-constituencies-on-april-17-962731.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nanjangud Jatre cancelled due to Covid-19 surge||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri has issued orders cancelling the Panchamaharathotsava (Dodda Jatra), scheduled on March 26, at Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud, Mysuru district. As the rising Covid cases are causing concern, the Nanjangud rathotsava has been cancelled as per the recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee, the DC said. As scheduled, the puja and religious rituals in connection with the festival to be held from March 19 to 30, will be held in a simple manner, as per the tradition, within the temple premises in the presence of priests, temple employees, with Covid guidelines in place, she said. Covid-19 norms like wearing masks and social distancing should be followed strictly. Permission has been given to hold the car festival on March 26 in a small chariot, in a symbolic manner, the order stated. The Dodda jatra was cancelled last year, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nanjangud-jatre-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-surge-962759.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Toy trains to start at all Bal Bhavans||Bal Bhavan Society president Chikkamma Basavaraj said only five districts have toy trains for children at Bal Bhavans and priority would be accorded to start toy trains at a cost of Rs 1 crore at Bal Bhavans in the other districts. She told a press conference on Tuesday that all the 30 districts in the state have Bal Bhavans, but most of them do not have amusement facilities for the children. Steps would be taken to provide amusement facilities in all the Bal Bhavans, she added. Chikkamma said there is no dearth of funds. But there is a site to develop the Bal Bhavans. “If we get six acres of government land, full-fledged Bal Bhavans can be developed,” she said. She said is touring the state and asking the deputy commissioners to provide sites for the Bal Bhavans.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/toy-trains-to-start-at-all-bal-bhavans-962765.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||India’s first Khadi Plaza to come up in Ballari||Khadi and Village Industries Corporation (KVIC) president N R Krishnappa Gowda said the country’s first Khadi Plaza to provide a market for KVIC organisations under a single roof will come up in the city. Addressing a press conference, he said Rs 10 crore will be spent on the development of the Khadi Plaza under the KVIC project. The KVIC would provide Rs 7.50 crore and the state’s grants of Rs 2.50 crore would also be used. “We have a provision to utilise the KVIC’s grants if the construction cost goes up,” he said. He said only one Khadi Plaza would be constructed in the state. “We had a plan to construct it in either Bengaluru or Mysuru. It has been decided to construct it in Ballari as there was a lack of a site in those places. The Khadi Plaza will come up on one acre of land at Nallacheruvu. The district administration had given the land in 1996 to open the KVIC office and take up activities.” Krishnappa Gowda said the KVIC’s advisers would stay in the city to conduct a survey on the demand for Khadi products in the region.  He said the online market system would be encouraged. “The customers can buy the products, available at different places, through the online market system,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/india-s-first-khadi-plaza-to-come-up-in-ballari-962770.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BEML receives orders from Cameroon, Bangladesh||Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML) has received export orders from Cameroon and Bangladesh under the Government of India-Lines of credit.  Under the conditions of the order, the company will export 71 units of construction equipment, consisting of Bulldozers, Excavators, Wheel Loaders, Motor graders and Compactors to Cameroon for their Cassava Farm Project. The order for the government of Bangladesh comprises the supply of Wheel Dozers for the construction, repair and maintenance of road and infrastructure projects. The two orders are valued at $23 million. BEML said that the equipment to be supplied will have more than 90 per cent indigenous content. It will be manufactured at BEML’s KGF and Mysuru plants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/beml-receives-orders-from-cameroon-bangladesh-962771.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka: Cong boycotts replies to embarrass ministers||The Congress on Tuesday sought to embarrass Ministers K C Narayana Gowda and S T Somashekhar by refusing to ask them questions in both Houses of the legislature saying they had no “moral right” to continue in office. This was part of Congress’s strategy to corner the six ministers who moved the court seeking an injunction on the media against publication or broadcast of any defamatory news related to them. The other Ministers are K Sudhakar, B A Basavaraja (Byrathi), Shivaram Hebbar and B C Patil. During Question Hour in the Assembly, Congress’ P T Parameshwar Naik refused to accept an answer tabled by Gowda, the minister for planning, programme monitoring and statistics. “Our party’s stand is that (Gowda) doesn’t have morality to answer,” Naik said, leading to a furore. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said Naik had no right to question why the ministers went to court. “Didn’t Congress people go to court in the past? What right do you have to question them?”  Amid the din, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, in a first, stood up and breathed fire on Naik for indiscipline. “Are you irresponsible? Is this why you come to the House? If you don’t want the answer, the matter ends there. Why are you wasting time?” Naik, refusing to apologise, said he did not do anything wrong, blaming Bommai for instigating an argument. Member Yathindra Siddaramaiah also refused to accept Gowda’s answer.  In the Council, Congress MLC P R Ramesh said he did not want to seek a reply from Somashekar, the cooperation minister. He and the other five ministers “do not have the moral authority to answer questions”, Leader of the Opposition S R Patil and MLCs C M Ibrahim and B K Hariprasad. However, BJP leaders said once the questions were raised by the legislators, the ministers were obliged to answer them in the interest of the public.  Somashekar said the ministers were afraid of fake CDs being released against them. “During the Congress government, a similar incident occurred involving the then minister H Y Meti. The CD against him was later proven to be fake but he could not regain the dignity he lost,” Somashekar said. As a war of words ensued, Deputy Chairperson M K Pranesh was forced to adjourn the session for ten minutes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cong-boycotts-replies-to-embarrass-ministers-962772.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No plan for cricket stadium in Mysuru: Karnataka government||The state government on Tuesday said it had no plans to construct an international-level cricket stadium in Mysuru.  Youth Empowerment and Sports Minister K C Narayana Gowda said this in response to a question by Congress’ Narasimharaja MLA and former minister Tanveer Sait.  “This is much needed in Mysuru, which is Karnataka’s second-biggest city. There’s already land available for this. The government should hold talks with the Karnataka State Cricket Association,” Sait urged Gowda.  Gowda said he would examine the suggestion of discussing this with KSCA. To another question by Belgaum South MLA Abhay Patil, Gowda said sports stadia were constructed by his department in 29 district headquarters and 121 taluk headquarters. “It is intended to construct stadia in the remaining district and taluk headquarters, and playfields at hobli and village-level based on the availability of suitable land,” Gowda said.  As many as 55 new stadia and sports infrastructure have been proposed by many legislators across the state, Gowda said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-plan-for-cricket-stadium-in-mysuru-karnataka-government-962773.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Now, BJP 'loyalists' turn back on MLA Yatnal||A group of BJP legislators identifying themselves as “party loyalists” came out on Tuesday and demanded the expulsion of their fellow MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, who has been consistently attacking Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. This group of six MLAs, including M P Renukacharya and Madal Virupakshappa, flayed Yatnal for 'causing damage' to the party.  “Yatnal keeps saying he’s just an ordinary party worker, that he’s against dynasty politics and that he was a former union minister in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. He must not forget that it was B S Yediyurappa and (late) H N Ananth Kumar who built the party. What is Yediyurappa’s age? Is this what the BJP taught Yatnal? Why is he washing dirty linen in public and damaging the party,” Renukacharya, the CM’s political secretary, asked.  Renukacharya also pointed out that it was Yediyurappa who convinced the BJP leadership to induct Yatnal back into the party fold. “Is this the reward you’re giving Yediyurappa?” He added that he and other MLAs will press upon the party leadership to expel Yatnal.  Yatnal has been publicly censuring Yediyurappa and his family over alleged corruption. “Is it right to drop Vajpayee’s name again and again to damage the BJP?” Virupakshappa said. “If he continues to wash dirty linen in public, saying he has a CD and that he knows of corruption, is that right? What impact will it have on the party? Does he intend to leave the party? If he has guts, let him resign, win and prove himself as a leader,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/now-bjp-loyalists-turn-back-on-mla-yatnal-962774.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress, BJP in Twitter war over sleaze CD row||The social media units of state BJP and Congress locked horns on Twitter over the controversial sleaze CD row, on Tuesday. In one of its tweets, in a continued battle between the two units, BJP pointed fingers at a "great leader" who was out on bail after being imprisoned under corruption, for the CD. The tweet said that the leader had added fuel to the fire by claiming that there was a ploy to fix him in the case.  The tweet, which indirectly hinted at KPCC president D K Shivakumar, got a retort from the Congress. "Why are you indirectly targeting (Chief Minister) BS Yediyurappa?" Congress tweeted, adding that the great leader on bail referred to the CM. It also shared videos alleging strife within the BJP and of claims made by BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that BJP vice president B Y Vijayendra, second son of the CM, could also be behind the sleaze CD release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-bjp-in-twitter-war-over-sleaze-cd-row-962775.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Manual scavenging: HC asks Karnataka government to do survey of insanitary latrines||The High Court on Tuesday directed the government to immediately undertake a time-bound survey of insanitary latrines in the state. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka perused the compliance of the directions issued by the court on December 9, 2020. The bench observed that survey of insanitary latrines has not been carried out by the local authorities in terms of the provisions under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. “State shall ensure that such a survey is conducted immediately and is done in a time-bound manner. Unless a survey is carried out in its true letter and spirit, very important provisions under Section 4 (1) of the Act, converting all insanitary latrines into sanitary latrines, will not take effect. Fix a time-bound survey and place directions on record,” the court said. The court directed the government to explain why meetings of the state-level monitoring committee were not held after August 20, 2020, and in what manner the schemes will be implemented for the rehabilitation of manual scavengers. “The state must place material showing implementation of the schemes and the state must devise a comprehensive programme for rehabilitating all manual scavengers,” the court said. In regard to the incident in Maddur in the Mandya district, where one Narayana ended his life by suicide allegedly after he was pressurised to do manual scavenging, the court said it is the duty of the government to ascertain the facts, irrespective of the outcome of the police investigation. “If it is found there is a substance in the said allegation, those who are involved in pressurising him to do manual scavenging should be brought to book. We, therefore, direct the government to file on record steps taken on this behalf on or before the next date,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manual-scavenging-hc-asks-karnataka-government-to-do-survey-of-insanitary-latrines-962778.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi scandal: Girl's father files kidnap complaint||The scandal, involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, received another twist with the father of the woman, seen in the alleged video, filing a complaint with the APMC police here that his daughter has been kidnapped from Bengaluru and is being harassed. The police said that a man, aged 54 years and a resident of Hanuman Nagar, has filed the complaint. Based on the complaint, a case has been registered. The complainant has confirmed that the woman seen in the alleged scandal video, involving Jarkiholi, was his daughter, the police stated. The APMC police are investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-scandal-girls-father-files-kidnap-complaint-962781.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||73-yr-old woman dies 2 hrs after taking Covid-19 vaccine in Ramanagar||A 73-year woman who was administered a Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday afternoon died two hours after receiving the jab.  Sajjamma, a resident of Paduvanagere in Ramanagar district, was inoculated with Covishield at about 11:15 am and was in observation till 12:30 pm, said Ramanagar district health officer Dr Niranjan. “She died of indeterminate causes at around 1.30 pm,” he added. However, the victim’s family alleges that Sajjamma’s death was due to an adverse reaction to the vaccine and claimed that she had perished within 20 minutes of leaving the observation room.  Her nephew Ganesh Arya told DH that Sajjamma was with a group of women returning home when she felt dizzy and sat down. “The accompanying women tried to give her water, but she was unable to drink. Within minutes she was dead. The time of death was between 1.10 pm and 1.20 pm. All of this happened within 200 metres of the government hospital,” Arya said. Ramanagar district officials said they have now ordered a post-mortem of the patient to determine the cause of the death. “We are carrying out hundreds of vaccinations per day for the last several weeks and there has been no instance of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) here,” Dr Niranjan said. District officials said Sajjamma’s advanced age could have caused her death. “We cannot necessarily say it was because of the vaccine,” officials said.  However, Arya claimed that his aunt had no comorbidities or health problems that they knew of. “She was robust. In fact, she walked for nearly one kilometre from her house to the Paduvanagere government hospital in Maralavadi,” he said. He said the hospital did not have a single doctor on-hand to ensure that his aunt was capable of taking the vaccine. A source said that the body had been moved to the RR Nagar hospital for post mortem. According to the government, there have been two severe AEFIs registered so far in the state and 21 serious AEFIs, out of over 14 lakh people vaccinated so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/73-yr-old-woman-dies-2-hrs-after-taking-covid-19-vaccine-in-ramanagar-962782.html
16-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||They released CD as I didn't pay them, Ramesh Jarkiholi tells SIT||Three days after former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi filed a complaint alleging that the sleaze CD involving him is fake, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) police recorded his statement on Monday night.  According to sources, the team of SIT officials headed by assistant commissioner of police, CCB, H N Dharmendra recorded a four-page statement. Ramesh reportedly said that he knew about the CD four months ago and he was blackmailed for money. The gang had allegedly demanded a big amount of money from him. Since he refused to pay, they released the CD. The officers spent more than two hours at Ramesh's house in Sadashivanagar to record his statement.  Sources said that Jarkiholi told SIT that four months ago, a few persons hatched a conspiracy against him. He got to know about it through former MLA M V Nagaraju, as the suspects had informed him about leaking the video on social media and news channels. "They repeatedly met Nagaraju and placed a demand for money," Jarkiholi told the SIT and said that since he had not committed any mistake, he refused to pay them.  He added that he knew about the release of the CD a day in advance. There are many people involved in it and they didn't like him becoming a minister, Jarkiholi said. Jarkiholi said the conspiracy was hatched against him in two places, in and around Yeshwantpur. The people behind the conspiracy have spent more than Rs 20 crore and they have even paid the woman in the CD, the former minister told the SIT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/they-released-cd-as-i-didnt-pay-them-ramesh-jarkiholi-tells-sit-962805.html
16-03-2021||West||Fire at Shivaji Market in Pune, 25 shops gutted||A major fire broke in an old fruit and vegetable market in Pune early Tuesday morning, destroying at least 25 shops, fire brigade officials said. There was no report of any casualty, they said. The fire broke out around 4 am in the Shivaji Market, a popular establishment in the Cantonment area here in Maharashtra, a fire official said. At least 25 shops were gutted in the blaze, he said. "After receiving a call about the fire, we sent nine water tankers there and the blaze was doused in half-an-hour," Pune Municipal Corporation's fire department chief Prashant Ranpise said. No one was injured, the official said, adding that the cause of the blaze was yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-at-shivaji-market-in-pune-25-shops-gutted-962571.html
16-03-2021||West||Covid-19 vaccine drive to be accelerated as cases surge in Dharavi||With Dharavi recording average double-digit figures of Covid-19 infections for nearly a fortnight, the vaccination drive in this largest slum cluster of Asia is being accelerated. For the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, the priority is to ensure that cases do not multiply in Dharavi like April-May last year. On March 8, Dharavi reported 18 cases – the highest in a day since October 2020.Between March 9-15, the Dharavi locality has reported 77 cases. Last Saturday, it reported 17 cases, while on Monday, 14 new cases came to light. The total number of active patients in Dharavi also breached the 100-mark and as of now, there are 133 patients undergoing treatment. The progressive total in Dharavi stands at 4,258 cases, according to BMC. Once a Covid hotspot, Dharavi, on an average, had been reporting single-digit infections till December 2020-January, 2021, but there has been a spike during February-March. According to BMC officials from G/North ward that administers Dharavi, the cases are scattered and not concentrated in pockets. “We have decided to speed up the vaccination drive in Dharavi and ensure that a large population is covered,” BMC officials said. Spread over 2.1 sq km, Dharavi – sandwiched between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai -- is a sort of mini-India, with over 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working here. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. Throughout April and the first fortnight of May, the cases zoomed but then it was brought down in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy - Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. The way the situation was contained, it came to be known as the 'Dharavi model' and also earned the praise of the World Health Organisation and the World Bank. On December 25, Dharavi reported zero cases for the first time. It subsequently reported zero cases on January 22, 26, 27 and 21 and February 2 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-vaccine-drive-to-be-accelerated-as-cases-surge-in-dharavi-962579.html
16-03-2021||West||Banking services in Maharashtra impacted on second day of nation-wide strike||Banking services in the state were affected on the second and last day of the pan-India bank strike as around half a lakh employees of public sector banks, old generation private sector and foreign banks did not attend work. Services like cash withdrawals, cheque clearances and other business related transactions were hit across the state. The two-day nationwide strike of bank employees and officers, which started on March 15, has been called by the United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), an umbrella body of nine unions, to protest against the government's decision to privatise two more state-run banks. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced privatisation of two public sector banks (PSBs) as part of the government's disinvestment plan in the Union Budget for the next fiscal. Unions claimed that on March 15, about 2 crore cheques/ instruments worth about Rs 16,500 crore were not cleared across the country. Many ATMs were also out of cash on the first day itself. In Mumbai, around 86 lakh cheques/ instruments worth Rs 6,500 crore were not cleared on Monday, bank union leaders have claimed. All India Bank Employees' Association (AIBEA) in a statement had said that privatisation of banks is a negative step in a developing economy like India. “Indian public sector banks represent the hard-earned savings of the people. Privatisation of banks would risk their savings as many private banks in the past have collapsed and people lost their savings,” AIBEA had said in a statement. Many state-run banks had informed their customers to use digital channels like internet or mobile banking, ATM services for making transactions. Members of UFBU include All India Bank Employees Association (AIBEA), All India Bank Officers' Confederation (AIBOC), National Confederation of Bank Employees (NCBE), All India Bank Officers' Association (AIBOA) and Bank Employees Confederation of India (BEFI). Others are Indian National Bank Employees Federation (INBEF), Indian National Bank Officers Congress (INBOC), National Organisation of Bank Workers (NOBW) and National Organisation of Bank Officers (NOBO).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/banking-services-in-maharashtra-impacted-on-second-day-of-nation-wide-strike-962590.html
16-03-2021||West||Border row: Shiv Sena wants Belgaum to be declared Union Territory||The Shiv Sena on Tuesday said Belgaum should be declared as a Union Territory, alleging that atrocities on Marathi-speaking people by pro-Kannada outfits were continuing there. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' alleged that a pro-Kannada organisation recently beat up Marathi people in Belgaum, removed Marathi boards from shops there and also targeted pro-Marathi social media users. The Karnataka police were also harassing Marathi people, it claimed. "If the atrocities are not going to stop, then the Centre should declared Belgaum as a Union Territory," it said. Maharashtra claims certain areas, including Belgaum, Karwar and Nippani which are part of Karnataka, contending the majority of population in these areas is Marathi- speaking. The dispute between the two states over Belgaum and other border areas is pending before the Supreme Court for many years. The editorial in 'Saamana' requested Maharashtra BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis to take up the issue with the Centre and Karnataka chief minister. There are Marathi people in Indore (Madhya Pradesh) and Vadodara (Gujarat) also. But, they never had any clashes with locals, the publication said. It also said people speaking different languages have been residing in Maharashtra for so many years and that Marathi people never treated them badly. "The way the BJP government in Karnataka is handling the atrocities committed on the Marathi community by locals, it seems to be encouraging such miscreants," the Sena alleged. It is "illegal" to treat Marathi-speaking people in such a way when the boundary dispute issue is pending before the Supreme Court, the editorial said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/border-row-shiv-sena-wants-belgaum-to-be-declared-union-territory-962604.html
16-03-2021||West||Curfew in 4 Gujarat cities from 10 pm to 6 am till March 31 due to surge in Covid cases||To contain the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Gujarat government on Tuesday decided to increase the night curfew timings in four major cities of the state by two hours. The curfew will now remain in force in Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot from 10 pm to 6 am, an official statement said. The curfew timings earlier were from 12 am to 6 am. The decision was taken on Tuesday in the core committee meeting of the coronavirus task-force headed by Chief Minister Vijay Rupani. "The state government has decided to impose curfew from 10 pm to 6 am in view of the increasing cases of coronavirus," the government said in the statement. The restrictions will be in place till March 31, it added. The Gujarat Cricket Association (GCA) on Monday said the next three T20 matches between India and England will be played without any spectators at the Narendra Modi Stadium here in view of rising cases of coronavirus. On Monday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation also asked eateries, restaurants and malls in eight wards of the city to close down at 10 pm. Gujarat on Monday reported 890 new cases of Covid-19, taking its tally to 2,79,097. Last month, the state was reporting around 200 new cases every day. Surat has been reporting the highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state, followed by Ahmedabad, Vadodara and Rajkot, as per official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/curfew-in-4-gujarat-cities-from-10-pm-to-6-am-till-march-31-due-to-surge-in-covid-cases-962617.html
16-03-2021||West||Surat textile, diamond workers to be tested for Covid-19 every week||In the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases in Surat, people working in textile and diamond industries here are required to get themselves tested for the viral infection once a week, the city civic body has said. In daily tests here in Gujarat, majority of those found infected are associated with the textile business, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said in a release issued on Monday evening. Of late, Surat, a textile and diamond hub, has been reporting the highest number of daily Covid-19 cases in the state, as per official data. "Considering the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the city, people associated with textile and diamond industries will be required to get themselves tested once a week, and daily checking with pulse oximeter (to measure oxygen saturation level) will be mandatory," the SMC's release said. The textile and diamond industries will have to strictly adhere to Covid-19 guidelines, it added. The civic body also said it has intensified testing in crowded places, including diamond and textile units and educational institutions. On Monday, Surat recorded 240 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state, taking the infection count in the city to 42,716, as per the SMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/surat-textile-diamond-workers-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-every-week-962644.html
16-03-2021||West||Centre asks Maharashtra to brace for worst-case scenario amid Covid-19 surge||With Maharashtra reporting a 171 per cent jump in Covid-19 cases in the last month, the Union Health Ministry has asked the state administration to give a big boost to surveillance and contact tracing besides accelerating the vaccination drive with a special focus on the eight most affected districts. Fearing a second Covid-19 wave, the ministry asked Maharashtra, which was the epicentre of the epidemic during the first wave, to focus on strict containment strategies, improve surveillance and augment the testing. Also, the state has been told to plan for a worst-case scenario with sufficient lead time, rather than resorting to “measures such as night curfews and weekend lockdowns, which have very limited impact on containing and suppressing the transmission”. In two letters to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte within a gap of three days, the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out the need to resurrect the “incident command” under the leadership of District Collector and Municipal Commissioner and strengthen the surveillance by an active house-to-house search in containment zones. Sharing the report of a central team that visited Maharashtra from March 7 to 11, Bhushan noted that the state must intensify its administrative mechanism to the level witnessed in August-September 2020 in order to contain the ongoing Covid-19 transmission. "ln all the districts visited by the central team, the test positivity rate was high, ranging from 51 per cent in Mumbai to 30 per cent in Aurangabad, implying that there are a lot many cases that are not being tested and there is high transmission in the community," the report said. The fatality rate was very high among admitted cases in Government Medical College in Aurangabad and in Vasant Rao Pawar Medical College, Nashik which needed to be investigated in detail, including sending samples for whole genome sequencing, it suggested, underscoring the importance of resuming death audits. Because of limited contact tracing, a large pool of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic people among contacts was not tracked and tested, the report said, stressing that testing must be considerably enhanced and protocol laid down by ICMR followed. "The absence of rigorous tracing, testing and containment is leading to sustained community transmission," it said. "The case-contact ratio is more than 1:20. Though it appears high, a deep dive into the methodology of contact tracing revealed that the main concept of contact tracing was not clearly understood by field-level staff, who were mainly listing the immediate family and neighbourhood contacts, for the sake of listing.” As a consequence, the high-risk contacts in workplace settings, social settings and family settings were not investigated and listed. The western states had 36,917 cases on February 11, but the number ballooned to 1,00,240 on March 11 – an increase of 171.5 per cent. Underlining the importance of vaccination to protect the vulnerable, Bhushan said since the state could not use 50 per cent of its vaccine stock and another 13 lakh doses would reach by March 18, there are enough doses available to speed up the vaccination drive. Maharashtra received 54.17 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccines, of which the state used 23.98 lakh doses till March 12. Additionally, 12.74 lakh doses are being sent by Thursday. “Adequate stocks are now available with the states for increasing the pace of vaccination,” he wrote. Meanwhile, the vaccination number has increased all over the country as more than three million doses were administered for the first time on Monday. Nearly 25,000 new cases 131 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-asks-maharashtra-to-brace-for-worst-case-scenario-amid-covid-19-surge-962693.html
16-03-2021||West||Experts dismiss lockdown as second Covid-19 wave looms for Maharashtra||Maharashtra yet again is stuck in the clutches of the Covid-19 pandemic with the state reporting over 15,000 cases for the past few days. A central team after a visit declared that the Uddhav Thackeray-led state was on the brink of a second wave of the pandemic.  It also came under strict scrutiny after the report cited negligence in contact tracing, testing, and lack of strict enforcement of Covid protocols, like mask-wearing and social distancing.  A second wave alert has also sparked concerns about whether the state authorities are mulling a full lockdown. Yesterday, the government introduced new measures like reducing crowds at work and public places. However, the choice of a lockdown remains unfavourable even in these desperate times. Various officials and experts say that a complete shutdown further aggravates the situation by adding economic woes and the authorities risking people's jobs. In addition to that, some say a lockdown does not help with reducing cases as people would breach the rules to get to work and other important tasks.  He said that through July-September, despite a lockdown, cases were high. "It’s obvious that lockdowns have not helped,” he added.  Earlier lockdowns were meant to be a buffer so that the healthcare system readies itself to prepare for the rising infections. Now, a year into the pandemic, the system is overworked. A health official told the publication that the contact tracing was not optimal at this point. "There have been cases where the staff simply has gone and asked the infected person to give five names at random for contact tracing instead of the actual people that they have come into contact with,” said the official. Besides that, according to the publication, lawmakers in Maharashtra are worried about frequent lockdowns hurting the image of the government.  A health economist told the publication that lockdowns were not an answer to the rising cases in the state and blamed the situation for lack of testing and contact tracing.  “Maharashtra’s positivity rate in the last 7 days has been 14.4 per cent, which is the highest in the country. To illustrate how badly it is doing, the place with the second-worst positive rate is Chandigarh with 6.7 per cent positivity rate,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/experts-dismiss-lockdown-as-second-covid-19-wave-looms-for-maharashtra-962719.html
16-03-2021||West||NIA searches Vaze's office; court rejects his plea against arrest||Widening its probe, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has conducted a search in the office of suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. An NIA team visited the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch-CID located in the Mumbai Police commissionerate at the Crawford Market here. The NIA has recovered some documents and checked digital devices like laptops, I-pads and mobile phones. The federal agency also continued interrogating officials of the CIU in connection with the investigations involving the parking of Scorpio SUV laden with gelatin sticks near the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani. Another Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, who was a colleague of Vaze, has been questioned on three occasions. Kazi’s role in getting fake number places and collecting the Digital Video Record of Vaze’s housing society’s CCTV camera, is being examined by the NIA. The SUV case was taken over by the NIA following Mansukh Hiran's death. A special court on Sunday remanded Vaze in the custody of the central agency till March 25. On Tuesday, the court rejected Vaze's plea claiming that his arrest was illegal. His lawyers Sajal Yadav and Sunny Punamiya had argued that Vaze was not produced before the courtwithin 24 hours after his arrest, as is required. No sanction was taken from the state government under section 45(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the lawyers contended. Under section 45(1), sanction of the government is necessary if an official is to be arrested for anything done in his/her official capacity. Special public prosecutor Sunil Gonsalves denied the allegations. Vaze was arrested at 11.50 PM on Saturdayand produced before the court at about 2.45 PM next day, he said. Vaze had been called in the morning for some clarification about the probe but he arrived late at night, the prosecutor claimed. Vaze's lawyers had alleged he had been detained since 11 AM on Saturday. Sanction was not needed as Vaze had not acted in discharge of his official duty, the NIA lawyer said. Judge P R Sitre, while rejecting Vaze's plea, observed that he was a policeman and knew his rights. "The entry in the station diary clearly reflects that intimation was provided to the accused and the concerned police station and also information about his arrest, which means grounds of arrest were provided," the judge said. Whether he hadacted "in the course of performance of duty" can be examined during the trial, the court held. The court allowed Vaze's lawyer to watch his interrogation from behind a glass partition but not within the hearing distance. Speaking to reporters here, BJP leader Pravin Darekar said the more the ruling Shiv Sena defended Vaze, the more suspicion there will be about the state government's intentions. The Sena had on Monday said take-over of the case by the NIA was "insult" to Maharashtra police. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-searches-vazes-office-court-rejects-his-plea-against-arrest-962756.html
