17-03-2021||Comment||Emerging economic challenges||Now that most economies of the world have returned to positive growth after the Covid-induced recession, several challenges and opportunities are emerging for India and the world. The immediate one is how to vaccinate the majority of the population before the virus mutates enough to render the currently available vaccines largely ineffective. At the same time, in the coming days, the vaccines need to be modified to cope with the mutated variants and new drugs developed to treat Covid patients better. Hopefully, after the mad global race to come up with vaccines has subsided, more effort and resources would be devoted by the drug companies to find effective treatments for the disease. All these open up huge opportunities for Indian pharmaceutical companies to be major suppliers of low-cost vaccines and drugs to the world. Many countries, including India, have been running fiscal deficits, much above the customary levels, to mitigate the impacts of Covid. The deficits have been largely financed by money creation, leading to bubbles in the asset markets (shares, gold, real estate) all over the world. The rewinding of this liquidity glut has to happen soon. With the resulting downward correction in asset prices, investors in the asset markets would then be poorer. This, in turn, would induce them to cut back on their consumption and investment expenditures, which would dampen the process of economic recovery. According to the IMF, even by the end of 2021, most economies of the world would still be operating below their pre-Covid levels of output. In these circumstances, managing the adverse impacts of reversing excessively loose fiscal and monetary policies would be a big challenge, particularly for emerging economies like India. The ongoing global recovery will likely cause a rise in commodity prices, including the price of petro-products. For an oil import-dependent country like India, there will be predictable consequences, like a hike in inflation and worsening of the trade deficit. ‘Inflation-targeted’ monetary policy would imply a pause in policy interest rate reduction, if not a hike in interest rates. Given that the domestic prices of petrol and diesel have already reached record high levels, despite international oil prices being much below the peaks attained in 2013-14, both the central and state governments would have to go for some cuts in taxes on petrol and diesel in the coming months. Correspondingly, they will have to cut expenditures and/or raise revenue from other sources, including disinvestment of PSUs. Taking recourse to disinvestment proceeds is not a sustainable solution as the space for raising revenue from this source will shrink over time. The long-term solution lies in accelerating the pace of switching from fossil fuels to renewable energy sources, including the use of electric and hybrid cars. The prevailing near-zero nominal interest rates in the developed world and negative real interest rate in India (repo rate below the inflation rate) has provided India a window to borrow funds at low cost to bridge its huge infrastructure deficit. India should seize this opportunity before the situation reverses. The advantage of spending on ‘hard’ (power, transport, storage, telecommunication) and ‘soft’ infrastructure (health, sanitation, education, skill formation), as opposed to consumption expenditure, is that infrastructure spending has dual benefits. On top of increasing demand through the multiplier mechanism, it removes crucial supply-side bottlenecks. Thus, it helps boost GDP growth and employment in both the short and long run.  Would the resulting rise in public debt be sustainable? It would be, if the future rate of return from the projects is higher than the interest rate at which funds are being borrowed. Hence, a proper selection of projects based on expert cost-benefit analysis and efficient project management and monitoring are crucial. It is a matter of big concern that the ratio of interest payments to tax and other revenue receipts of the central government has been steadily rising in India -- from 10% in 1950-51 to 36% in the pre-Covid year 2019-20 and to 44% in 2020-21. This alarming trend implies that an increasing fraction of government revenue is being used up to pay interest on past debt and less and less is available for maintenance and development expenditures. The steady rise in NPAs of banks and NBFCs is another important constraint on credit growth and private investment expenditure. Privatisation of a couple of public sector banks, along with the creation of a ‘bad bank’, is being offered as a solution to these problems. It is difficult to be optimistic about this new policy package as several private sector banks in India are also suffering from bad loans advanced to favoured parties as quid pro quo by the top management of the banks. Big willful loan defaulters have been allowed by the powers that be to abscond and evade the jurisdiction of Indian courts. Eventually, for PSBs, the outstanding debts are routinely “written off” and the government recapitalises the banks using taxpayers’ money. In the case of bankrupt private sector banks, shareholders and depositors suffer the loss. Mere privatisation will not do the job. Unless the existing information, regulation and enforcement systems are synchronised and tightened, we cannot expect any significant improvements.  Care should also be taken to ensure that PSB shares are sold publicly through the open market, instead of selecting favoured business houses as ‘strategic investors’ to give them back-door access to depositors’ money. Finally, the impact of climate change cannot be ignored any more. The increasing severity and frequency of floods, wild fires, earthquakes, droughts, extremely hot and cold waves are now realities in all parts of the globe, including India. The recent Uttarakhand disaster must make us rethink carefully about the future course of many ongoing projects such as building thermal plants and tunnels in the Himalayan areas with highly fragile ecosystems. We just cannot afford to go back to business as usual. (The writer is a former professor of Economics, IIM-Calcutta and Cornell University, USA)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/emerging-economic-challenges-962839.html
17-03-2021||Comment||Converging GST rates: Needed, but not now||A GST Council meeting is due to take place. And the debate about the multiplicity of rates has started yet again. Though discussed many times earlier, it is still important to put in perspective how and why the multiplicity of rates was arrived at when the GST laws were being conceptualised. As is known, GST had merged the myriad indirect taxation laws -- central excise, service tax, and the Value-Added Tax (VAT) laws of the states. While the rates of taxation were common across the country for all manufactured goods (central excise) and services (service tax), the VAT rates differed across states. Hence the weighted average of rates across central excise, service tax and the rates of the various states was taken. This was necessary because GST being a step into the unknown, revenues had to be protected. It had to be ensured that revenues, as were being generated prior to the launch of GST, were also being generated post the concept of revenue neutrality. The result was inevitable -- a multiplicity of rates -- 0,5,12,18 and 28%. For good measure, there was even a 3% for gold, apart from multiple exemptions. This was obviously not good fiscal policy and drew a lot of flak. The roadmap was, however, always clear; that the ultimate goal would be a convergence of rates -- a merit rate, a standard rate and a demerit rate. In the meantime, for considerations other than fiscal, the rates, especially the 28% slab, kept getting whittled. So, revenue neutrality was compromised very early on. An RBI report of 2019 estimated that the effective weighted average GST rate had declined from 14.4% as prevailing at the time of introduction of GST to 11.6%. The International Monetary Fund (IMF), which had carried out an analysis at the behest of the Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC), has arrived at the current effective rate being about 11.8%. The result of these ill-thought-out reduction of rates meant, in effect, that the GST buoyancy during the period 2017-2020 was, as pointed out by the FFC, less than the subsumed taxes during 2011-2017. Currently, there are about 183 items in the 0% slab, 308 at 5%, 178 in the 12%, 517 in the 18%, from where the bulk of the GST revenue comes, and 28 items in the 28%. GST revenue accounts for nearly 35% of the gross tax revenue of the Centre and about 44% of the states’ revenue pool. Any change in the rate structure has ramifications across the Centre and the states. Given the compensation burden which the Centre has taken upon itself, it would possibly mean an additional burden on the Centre. It is in this background that the issue of merger of rates has to be seen. There is no gainsaying the fact that fewer the rates, the better, for both the taxpayer and the tax administrator. The earlier studies by the NIPFP and the then CEA had suggested a median Revenue Neutral Rate (RNR) of about 17% and 15-15.5%, respectively. So, when we talk of convergence of rates, it should be remembered that this would mean not only reducing from 18% towards 15-15.5% but also increasing the rates of several commodities from 12% towards 15-15.5%. Any move towards convergence will also mean an exercise to rectify the consequential inverted duty structure, which has crept in because of the random reduction in rates of final products. This having been done without examining the fallout, the rates of the inputs that go into manufacture have become higher in several cases than the rate of the final product. An exercise of rate convergence is desirable but that it has serious revenue implications should not be forgotten in the cacophony and rhetoric of armchair columnists. Rather, it is the GST Council that has to be sure that this is the course of action needed at this juncture. The focus instead should be on other reforms, starting with the long-delayed expansion of the GST base. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has again gone on record to state that there is no proposal to bring petroleum products within the ambit of GST. Union excise duties have been contributing about 11.8% of the Centre’s gross tax revenue -- much more than the customs contribution of 5.8%. Around 17%, on average, of the non-GST revenue of the states comes from petroleum products. So, while it is understandable as to why petroleum products will remain out of GST ambit, it is still unfortunate. Similarly, electricity, which is outside the GST net, needs to be brought in, too. The earlier these commodities are brought within the GST net, the better. Doing so will reduce costs, improve compliance, and have the potential to spur revenue growth. It would mean the integration of the value-added tax system, where all products are taxed, and input credit made available. The cleaning up of the inverted duty structure is also overdue. All exemptions need to be looked at -- they break the credit chain and distort the GST structure. The indiscriminate levy of cesses -- with the Agriculture Infrastructure Development Cess (AIDC) proposed in the recent Union Budget being the latest -- militates against the concept of GST. What also needs to be done is to improve compliance. The FFC has also pointed out that the gap between the potential of GST collections and the actual collection is 2% of GDP. This is huge. This brings us to the troublesome functioning of GSTN. While its functioning has been steadily improving, there is still much to be done. Technology, ultimately, has to facilitate self-assessment; it has to facilitate analysis of data, risk profiling and targeted action against evaders. Tax administration needs strengthening; this also means ensuring speedy dispute resolution. The GST Council should thus focus on reforms that will have a significant impact on revenues and reduce costs. None of this is going to be easy, but then who said it was?  (The writer is former chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/converging-gst-rates-needed-but-not-now-963200.html
17-03-2021||First Edit||India's democratic decline: World is able to see it||Two telling descriptions have been made in the last few days of the decline of democracy in India. The US-based Freedom House downgraded India from a “free” country to a “partly free’’ country; the Sweden-based V-Dem Institute has defined India not as an electoral democracy but as an “electoral autocracy,” in the same category as Turkey and Hungary, and in some respects as autocratic as Pakistan and worse than Nepal and Bangladesh. The mere holding of elections is no true measure of democracy. Sometimes elections only provide an appearance, and the reality is very different. Many of the institutions that should protect democracy and citizens’ rights and freedoms have become weak. Electoral verdicts are dishonoured. The right to oppose and to criticise the government is often called an anti-national offence. That is why the country’s democratic credentials are increasingly being called into question. The Swedish research institute’s Liberal Democracy Index has traced the decline of India’s democracy over the last several years and says it is "one of the most dramatic shifts among all countries in the world”. While India’s score was 0.54 out of one in 2013, it is 0.34 now, and its rank on the index is 97, among 179 countries. The report has noted that most of the democratic decline has occurred after the Narendra Modi government came to power in 2014. What it calls the autocratisation of India has followed the typical pattern of institutional deterioration with curtailment of the freedoms of the media, academia and civil society and the weakening of institutions. It has also cited the attempts to silence the political opposition, the passage of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), and the frequent use of sedition, national security and defamation laws as "among the instances contributing to the descent into electoral authoritarianism in what used to be the world's largest democracy." Such evaluations of the country may be dismissed as the work of foreign agencies and organisations out to defame India, driven by their own agenda. External Affairs Minister Jaishankar has called them hypocrites. But it should be noted that these and other similar assessments of the state of India’s democracy have been made by vastly different organisations in different countries, and those assessments agree with views and apprehensions held widely and experienced by many within the country itself. The government’s responses have only served to prove exactly the point that democracy watchdogs are making, rather than assuring the world that India, for long the beacon of freedom in Asia, will hold itself to the highest values of democracy and to show that the government is at least trying to live up to them. Where do we go from here? To be clubbed with authoritarian China, Russia?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/indias-democratic-decline-world-is-able-to-see-it-962957.html
17-03-2021||First Edit||Unwise to open a Pandora’s box||It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court has decided to examine the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act which was passed by Parliament and enacted into law in 1991 at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The law bans the conversion of religious places and maintains their “religious character” as it existed on August 15, 1947, with an exception for Babri Masjid. The Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi dispute was already in court and was hence exempted from its purview. But a public interest litigation (PIL) has now been filed in the court challenging the constitutional validity of the law, and the court has issued notice to the government. A court in Mathura is already examining a suit for the removal of Masjid Idgah at the site of Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. A Varanasi court has issued notices on a plea for the removal of the Gyanwapi mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath temple. The PIL has contended that the Act has taken away the rights of Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs to restore their places of worship destroyed by “barbaric invaders.” It says that the inclusion of the birthplace of Krishna in the law, while excluding that of Rama, is “arbitrary and irrational.’’ The cut-off date of August 15, 1947 has also been termed arbitrary, and the petition has asked why Hindus and others “cannot seek judicial remedy to undo the barbarian acts…” The apprehension that politically exploitable demands to “correct historical wrongs,” once started, would put the country on a never-ending path back to the barbaric ages, seems set to come true. One would think that a country that aspires to be a superpower should look to the future, rather than to the past, and move forward, and it was a sensible decision in the 1991 Act to fix a cut-off point on the day the country became independent and made a fresh start. But what started with Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi is now sought to be extended to Kashi and Mathura. Will it end there?      It is surprising that the Supreme Court has decided to look again at this law which it had itself upheld and commended in the 2019 Ayodhya judgement. The five-judge Constitution Bench had said that “the State has, by enacting the (1991) law, enforced a constitutional commitment and operationalised its constitutional obligations to uphold the equality of all religions and secularism which is a part of the basic features of the Constitution. The Places of Worship Act imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism.” To reopen the law, after such clear and firm words, would be unwise and would amount to opening a Pandora's box.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/unwise-to-open-a-pandora-s-box-963202.html
17-03-2021||In Perspective||Is it right to deny schooling to children?||The uncertainty about reopening schools in Karnataka for children of pre-primary and primary classes continues. Is this justifiable? The reasons cited include an expected second wave of Covid-19 cases in the state. This is not tenable because higher classes have been going on smoothly for the last couple of months. Even if these children attend schools only on alternate days, they are back to learning.  This is a great relief to parents, teachers and students. What about the children who attend kindergarten and Classes I to V?  The government keeps saying a decision is in the offing. Meanwhile, the Commissioner for Public Instruction had written to the government, recommending that primary classes could be started. Still, the Govt is dithering. This indecision has dire consequences for children’s learning. Azim Premji University has conducted a study on the impact of a prolonged closure of schools on children and found that there is a substantial decline in basic math and linguistic skills among children.  The rhythm of learning is hampered in the absence of systematic face-to-face classroom interactions.  Online classes have serious limitations especially in relation to younger children’s learning.  Online learning arguably is a poor substitute for face-to-face learning. If we take a cue from other countries, we realise that many of them have been carrying on with regular school even during the severe spread of Covid-19. One of the reasons they cited was that the parents could go to work only if children were sent to school.  It is pertinent to study the situations in other countries where they have partially or fully opened their schools. Studies in the USA show that only less than 12 per cent of the Covid cases belong to less than 18 years of age group. While older age groups constituted 60 per cent of all deaths, children formed 0.1 per cent or less. It is also seen that children are not infected or if infected, they do not become very ill, for a variety of reasons. “The immunologic make-up of children with healthier overall tissues may be one of the reasons for this. Predictably, when children returned to school, we saw that the number of cases was reassuringly low in this country,” says a Paediatric Infection Diseases expert from Stanford University. The journal Paediatrics published a study on New York public schools, revealing that “in-person learning in schools has not contributed to increased incidence of the infection.”  Overall, children and particularly children less than 10 years of age have had low rates of infection, mild disease, and have been considered at lowest risk of transmission to others, studies in the USA have suggested. In North Carolina, a study was undertaken in 11 school districts covering 90,000 students and teachers attending in-person school for nine weeks. NC health department reported “no instances of child-to-child transmission during the period.”   Children are showing signs of depression and are subject to various kinds of abuses when kept out of school, and their peers. Key concepts in math and reading-writing should solidify during this impressionable period.  No amount of screen-time can replace the live voice of the teacher in a live classroom.  The situation is identical in the UK as well.  All schools have opened in the UK on March 8. They were open even earlier in certain areas. The UK contended that children are less affected by the virus and they are unlikely to spread it. The government decided to open schools realising that “children learn a lot by interacting with their peers and teachers, and this is the biggest loss in home-learning.”  Australia too was quick to recognize the impact of keeping schools closed. They found ‘huge gaps in the key milestones in learning’ when children stayed home with online lessons. Children from low socio-economic status are the worst affected by school closure.  Their loss is difficult to rectify in the near future.  Studies conducted by the Department of Education in Australia have found a few factors that militate against home-learning.  They have identified the following divides--  material, digital, and parental-support divides are the chief of them. So, they believed that children were better off and safer in schools. No wonder, Australian schools have been functioning almost uninterruptedly, especially after November last year. On the basis of all these experiences, we need to examine with all seriousness the issue of opening kindergarten and primary classes in Karnataka. Denying schooling to kindergarten and primary class children will have serious deleterious effect on their learning in the long run. Children’s integration into society happens while growing up with their peers, listening to their teachers, and interacting with them. Children’s academic learning and their personality development are hindered by the continued denial of school to them. If schools for small kids are opened for a month or two during the current academic year, the huge gaps can be bridged to a certain extent.  Secondly, the transition to the next academic year will be smooth and there will not be any more uncertainty. Indecision in the matter of children’s schooling is not a small matter.  Of course, it concerns children, but it is not to be treated as a minor issue. It has major implications. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-it-right-to-deny-schooling-to-children-962842.html
17-03-2021||In Perspective||Biden stymied on Iran nuclear deal||After less than two months in office, it may be too early to draw any firm conclusions about American President Joe Biden’s approach to Iran, but one thing is clear -- the Middle East has transformed into a more volatile theatre due to his predecessor Donald Trump’s impetuous actions, leaving Biden’s pre-election commitment to a speedy resumption of the Iran nuclear deal, properly known as the JCPOA, gravely in doubt due to both American domestic and foreign policy considerations.  It was the US under Trump, and not Iran, that reneged on the JCPOA, breaking the agreement negotiated by the five permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany, and later endorsed by the Security Council itself. Therefore, it is logical for Iran to require the sanctions imposed by Trump’s regime to be revoked before agreeing to negotiate. This action Biden has so far refused to take, giving rise to the view that Israel, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates exercise undue influence on US policy. It is equally unreasonable for the US, Britain, France and Germany to require Iran, as a precondition, to roll back elements of its nuclear programme that were implemented after the American unilateral withdrawal from the agreement.    There has yet been no official communication between the Americans and Iranians. Tehran refused to attend a meeting sponsored by the three European signatories, and while Beijing might suggest an alternative forum, there is no clarity on this. Russia, with its own problems with Biden, is unlikely to be helpful in breaking the deadlock. Meanwhile, Biden has further provoked Iran with missile strikes on Iran-connected facilities in Syria, allegedly as retaliation for Iranian-sponsored attacks on America and its allies in Iraq. There is a view in Washington circles that reviving the JCPOA will strengthen the hand of beleaguered Iranian moderates in the forthcoming May elections, but Biden’s team is disunited, unable to arrive at any coherent policies to achieve that goal. Minor actions such as loosening some visa and other restrictions on Iranian diplomats in New York will not suffice. Some in Biden’s team are concerned that the objectives of the original JCPOA were limited, while others, especially John Kerry, now in charge of climate change but who was a leading negotiator of the JCPOA in his previous capacity as Secretary of State, are committed to reviving the Obama-era deal. The Biden government is therefore confronted by a number of crosscurrents, including several of its own creation.   Biden’s entourage only reflects a similar disunity in American domestic politics on this issue. Bitter criticism against any revival or renegotiation will come from Republicans, almost unanimously opposed to a return to the JCPOA, and also from some Democrats, who criticised the agreement’s shortcomings in 2015. The weaknesses of the agreement, according to these critics, are short timelines on uranium enrichment, verification problems, and supposedly malign Iranian activities in the Middle East that are outside the parameters of the agreement -- concerns stoked by Saudi Arabia and UAE, while Israel is hyper-active in revealing information that purports to reveal a greater degree of Iranian non-compliance with the JCPOA than was supposed. In Tehran, the Iranian negotiators are similarly under great pressure from domestic quarters not to yield any ground. When the West is guilty of human rights abuses in denying medical stores to Iran even to fight Covid-19, and the sanctions have imposed great hardships on the Iranian people, there is scant popular sympathy for resuming talks with the Americans. The Iranians have made it clear that the original JCPOA must be revived, and they will not agree to any renegotiation, at least for now. The voluntary degree of access given to IAEA inspectors is domestically challenged, and only an eleventh-hour Iran-IAEA agreement that allows the nuclear watchdog agency access to video recordings of facilities, conditional on the US returning to the deal within three months, has bought some time. Reports suggest that Iranian hardliners are very likely to win the presidential elections, in which event experienced Iranian JCPOA negotiators like President Hassan Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Zarif will be replaced. Given all these contradictory factors, it is hard to see how Biden can fulfill his pre-election commitment to return to the JCPOA without first at least giving Iran some sanctions relief and thereby surrendering a degree of American leverage. Washington might, however, concede the point, since they fear Iran’s capability on the uranium enrichment front. Irrespective of Israel’s known nuclear weapon capacity, to which the Americans and their allies choose to turn a blind eye, Biden will rightly be concerned that if the Iranians were to possess fissile material sufficient to make a nuclear weapon, the unwelcome alternatives will be a Middle East war or the end of the US non-proliferation policy. (The writer is a former foreign secretary)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/biden-stymied-on-iran-nuclear-deal-963201.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi initiates slew of initiatives to improve pass percentage in SSLC exams||In a bid to improve the quality of education and increase pass percentage in SSLC examinations, the Udupi Department of Public Instruction has initiated several programmes and have reached the doors of the houses of students. The department has initiated several programmes to instill confidence in children writing the exam in June. The pass percentage in the Udupi district during last year was 88%. The department has chalked out programmes to reduce the number of students who fail SSLC examinations to 5%. Already, phone-in programmes have been initiated to solve the doubts of the students. The phone-in programmes are held every Friday from 5 pm to 7 pm. Students can clear their doubts from subject experts. Parents told to monitor A team of officials, led by DDPI N H Nagoor, visited the houses of the students and interacted with the parents. The parents were advised to monitor the study of their children apart from taking care of their health from February 1. In addition, motivational camps too were conducted for teachers with resource persons to prepare students for the exam, which in turn helped teachers improve their general knowledge as well, said DDPI N H Nagoor. A total of 3,080 slow learners were identified in the district during the final exams of class nine, held in the last years. A passing package has been prepared to ensure that they focus on passing the exam. They were also counselled to improve their confidence, the DDPI added. A total of 13,950 students have registered for the SSLC exams in the district this year. The district-level and taluk-level officers have adopted 28 schools that registered less than 80% pass percentage in the SSLC examinations held last year. The officials visit the adopted schools once in 15 days and collect information on the educational progress of the students. Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha is the chairman of the adoption committee. In addition, 38 schools that had registered less than 70% results last year, have been adopted by the officials from the Education department||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-initiates-slew-of-initiatives-to-improve-pass-percentage-in-sslc-exams-962851.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Udupi DC warns strict action over failure to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines||With experts warning about the second wave of Covid-19, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha has said that strict action would be initiated against those who fail to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines. Speaking after receiving the second shot of the Covid-19 vaccine, the DC warned the public that the district administration would slap a fine and book a criminal case if found not wearing a mask in public places. “The three mantras of wearing mask, maintaining distance, and sanitising hands should be strictly followed,” he said. The owners of shops, business establishments and malls should strictly adhere to the guidelines. If anyone is found violating the guidelines, then strict action will be initiated along with cancelling of trade licences, he said. Stating that several frontline workers have not received the second dose of vaccination in Udupi, he appealed to all those who received the first dose, to take the second dose. Udupi is in second place when it comes to the vaccination of frontline workers. All the senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions and in the age group of 45 to 59 should receive the vaccination. He appealed to people to take senior citizens to the nearest government hospitals for vaccination. The district is in the sixth position when it comes to the vaccination of senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions. Already, 17,000 senior citizens and those with comorbid conditions have availed the vaccines. The target is to vaccinate 1.51 lakh senior citizens and others in Udupi district. Stating that the Covid-19 cases in the district have steadily increased, he said people should be cautious. From four to five cases per day in January, the cases have increased to 20. The positivity rate is 1.6% from 0.3 per cent in January. Cases of the second wave of coronavirus are on the rise in the neighbouring states of Kerala and Maharashtra. “If we do not take extra precaution, we will be in the danger zone. We have had very cordial relations with Maharashtra and Kerala for ages. The number of people arriving into the districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi from Kerala and Maharashtra are also on rise. Only those with Covid-19 negative certificates will be allowed to enter the district. If people bring it to our notice on those without Covid-19 negative certificate entering the district, then measures will be initiated to get them tested,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/udupi-dc-warns-strict-action-over-failure-to-adhere-to-covid-19-guidelines-962852.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Volunteers undergo lifeguard skill training in Tannirbavi beach||Mantra Surf Club and Mangalore Surf Club jointly organised a week-long beach lifeguard course at Tannirbavi beach ahead of the summer with the Indian Lifesaving and Lifesaving Sports Federation, an International Life Saving Federation member of India. A total of eight surf club volunteers participated in the training and acquired surf rescue and lifeguard skills. The one-of-a-kind engagement with the local surf clubs is a first move towards the dream project of 'Surfers as Lifesavers', said Vijay Kumar Sah, Vice President ILLSF and a Drowning Prevention Leader. This was the first international lifeguard certification programme organised in the region. He also emphasised the importance of educating the public at large with very valuable water safety messages and trained the surf volunteers personally with the 10 key safety messages developed by RNLI and donated banners to the clubs to take the message ahead. The training for beach lifeguards included the duty of lifeguards, safe beach operations, patrolling, communications, rescue and revival skills with various situation-handling that built great confidence in the trainee candidates.The surf clubs have decided to reach out to the local schools and institutions to spread the message on aquatic safety and survival skills through sports, surf and swimming lessons in order to support the drowning prevention mission. Rammohan Paranjape from Mantra Surf Club and Dhruvin Jasrani from Mangalore Surf Club said that there is a need for proper lifeguard training and certification was the need of the hour in the region due to the rise in drowning incidents in the past one year as more and more people are flocking to beaches post-pandemic. The programme has already created great interest amongst the surfing, swimming and fishermen community in the region as many have shown interest in taking part in the certification programme which will also provide alternate employment opportunities both within the country and outside.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/volunteers-undergo-lifeguard-skill-training-in-tannirbavi-beach-963014.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Kiccha’ Sudeep turns saviour for 130 Hubballi students||Sandalwood star ‘Kiccha’ Sudeep turned out to be a real-life hero for 130 students of the Harijan Girl’s School, run by Harijan Hitavardhaka Sangha, in Hubballi by offering every possible help to continue their education. Moved by the plight of students, who were ‘forced' out of the school building by the Gandhiwada Co-operative Housing Society, which won the possession of the 20 guntas of land in the court of law, the actor through his Kiccha Sudeep Charitable Society (KSCS), assured the students that their education will not be affected. KSCS President Ramesh Katti and directors Nagendra and Puttaraju visited the affected students in Hubballi on Wednesday and assured them that the actor was willing to provide every possible help to them. Speaking to media persons Ramesh said, the actor sent the team to understand the ground reality and extend all help to the students. “The actor and KSCS is willing to provide the students with alternative arrangements to continue their studies. If the school requires a temporary building on rent, the KSCS will provide them with financial assistance. We will also help the Sangha in their legal fight. If the legal fight fails then we will provide them alternative building for the continuation of school,” he said and added that they will hold discussion with Gandhiwada Co-operative Housing Society for allowing the functioning of the school. He said Sudeep and KSCS respect the court order and will abide by it. However, it was unfair on the part of students that they were ‘thrown out of school’ just two months before their final exams. Later, the actor had a video interaction with the affected students. It can be mentioned here that Gandhiwada Co-operative Housing Society had leased out the said property for 30 years for running a ‘balwadi’ in 1960. However, the Sangha refused to vacate the building since 1990 and also refused to comply with eviction orders since 2006. However, on March 10, armed with the court order and police protection, the society members got their property vacated by force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kiccha-sudeep-turns-saviour-for-130-hubballi-students-963129.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Abandoned ‘veeragallus’ used for storing wood here!||The historical ‘veeragallus’ (hero stones), were found being used to store wood, at a house in Aalagudu village, Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. The veeragallus were found at a house, near the Government Higher Primary School in the village. Unaware of its importance, the stones have been laid into a small structure to store wood. There are five such hero stones at the place. Small carvings are found on the stones, which depicts a scene of soldiers getting ready for a battle, another stone depicts ‘gandharvas’ welcoming the soldiers, who have died a heroic death to the heaven. Another stone depicts Kailash’ the abode of Lord Shiva, with Nandi, Chandra and Surya. While two stones have been smeared with turmeric and vermillion, others have been left abandoned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/abandoned-veeragallus-used-for-storing-wood-here-963153.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||JD(S) suffers factionalism in main bastion of old Mysuru region||The JD(S), which has a strong presence only in the old Mysuru region, is hit badly, in its main bastion, due to factionalism. The public display of one-upmanship by former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy and Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda in the election to Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers' Societies Union ((MyMUL) on March 16, has the party workers worried. Meanwhile, KR Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh tried to project that nothing is amiss between him and Devegowda. The party, which was in a celebratory mood on February 24, when its corporator Rukmini Madegowda was elected as Mayor, is in no mood for a celebration, even though supporters of its MLA Devegowda swept the election in MyMUL. A senior leader of JD(S) in Mysuru said, "Even in Gram Panchayat elections, held in December 2020, the party fared well. Even in the Mayor election, Kumaraswamy did a good bargain, by wresting the coveted post for the party, contrary to the agreement entered with the Congress in 2018." "Devegowda’s displeasure with Kumaraswamy and Mahesh is not a secret. Even ordinary party workers know that Kumaraswamy favours Mahesh over Devegowda, for various reasons. Kumaraswamy need not sideline Mahesh, but he should not neglect Devegowda, a veteran and a shrewd strategist,” the leader said. Another senior leader said, “We align with both the Congress and the BJP, depending on the benefits. Thus, we need to maintain a cordial relationship with both parties and their leaders. Our rivalry should be limited to elections. That too, in Mysuru region, we need to be careful, as this is where we can perform. Our defeat in Mandya Lok Sabha election in 2019 should have been a good lesson." "In the 2018 Assembly election, we did well in the Mysuru region because Siddaramaiah attacked Kumaraswamy and also party supremo H D Deve Gowda personally. Similarly, we lost in Mandya Lok Sabha as our leaders attacked MP Sumalatha and her supporters personally. Thus, it is proved that personal attacks are fatal.” Pointing out that Kumaraswamy recently declared that Devegowda would not be allowed to return to the party fold, till he is there, an office-bearer of the JD(S) in Mysuru said that Devegowda is an asset for any party. “Devegowda is connected with his voters in Chamundeshwari as well as Hunsur Assembly segments. He was a strength for the BJP, for some time. Even now, he has good relationship with the BJP leaders. Now, there are talks that he would partner with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah and join the Congress. By making negative and adverse comments, we are losing a dependable leader. But, Devegowda has not spoken ill about either Kumaraswamy or H D Deve Gowda. He is only opposing the priority accorded to Mahesh,” the office-bearer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-suffers-factionalism-in-main-bastion-of-old-mysuru-region-963154.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Not thought of contesting ZP poll: Bhavani Revanna||Zilla Panchayat member Bhavani Revanna said that she has not thought about contesting the next ZP election. Addressing media persons here, on Wednesday, Bhavani said, “I had pressure to contest the 2013 and 2018 Assembly elections. But, I had not taken that seriously. It is god’s will. I have not thought about Assembly poll. Moreover, I have never told that I will contest from Hassan or Belur. ZP elections may be held in the month of May. I have not discussed about contesting, with family members.” Expressing happiness over her five-year term as ZP member, Bhavani said, “I have worked hard as Health and Education Standing Committee president. Hassan secured first place in the 2018 SSLC exams.” Bhavani pointed out that five ambulances, with ventilator facility, was given to taluk hospitals from the ZP. “Funds were allocated for constructing toilets in schools, for borewells, for dialysis units, for labs, operation theatres and others. I have satisfaction of working efficiently than the MLA,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/not-thought-of-contesting-zp-poll-bhavani-revanna-963157.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||HDK entered cooperative election due to GTD: Sa Ra||JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh on Wednesday, said that JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy and himself were involved in the election to the Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers’ Societies Union ((MyMUL) as MLA G T Devegowda hatched a conspiracy to finish off JD(S) cooperatives. In a press conference here, Mahesh, who took severe exception to Devegowda, who is away from party activities, and said, it became inevitable for Kumaraswamy to enter the cooperative election because of Devegowda, who supported the opposition parties in the previous elections. In the Legislative Council election too, Devegowda voted for BJP’s Laxman Savadi and in Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) he remained absent to create problem for the JD(S).      “Directors for MyMUL would have been elected unanimously if JD(S) was united. We got three seats out of 15 and we are satisfied. The JD(S) lost two seats as 86 of the votes were invalid,” Mahesh said. Defending the JD(S) move to field the candidates, Mahesh said, “The party decided on it only after February 26. JD(S) will take necessary steps to strengthen the party in the cooperative sector in future. The results of MyMUL was on expected lines.” Taking exception to Devegowda, for comparing Mahesh to ‘Shakuni’ of Mahabharata and ‘Manthara’ of Ramayana, Mahesh said, “There would be no Mahabharata, if Shakuni was not there. Similarly, there would be no Ramayana if Manthara was not there. Rama Rajya would not have been established.” Claiming that Devegowda had hatched a conspiracy to defeat him in the 2013 and 2018 Assembly elections, Mahesh said, “I know what you (GTD) have done to defeat me. I will reveal it soon. I was silent due to the respect on you. I will speak out if you repeatedly target me”. Mahesh asked Devegowda if he wants to finish off JD(S), Kumaraswamy, Sa Ra Mahesh and JD(S) workers. “JD(S) workers, including me, accepted Devegowda as our leader. Even now, we are ready to face elections under his leadership,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hdk-entered-cooperative-election-due-to-gtd-sa-ra-963158.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||New solid waste management facility of railways in Mysuru||Ajay Kumar Singh, General Manager, South Western Railway (SWR), commissioned a solid waste management facility at Mysore New Goods Terminal (MNGT) yard, to segregate and treat the garbage generated on the Railway premises in Mysuru area recently. He said that being a bulk waste generator, the railways has created its own waste collection and processing facilities as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “Operation of this facility will comply with the requirements of Solid Waste Management Rules and also National Green Tribunal (NGT) directives for Mysuru Railway station, he said. Rahul Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysore Division, SWR, said that the solid waste management facility is having an installed capacity of handling two tonnes of waste per day with 3,140 square metres area, with a covered shed area of 1,036 square metres. “The facility has a waste dumping area for collection, segregation area and 18 compost pits to treat wet waste into compost. The bio-degradable waste is converted into compost. Recyclable waste — plastic, E-waste — is handed over to Karnataka State Pollution control Board (KSPCB) approved recyclers. The left out non-biodegradable waste is sent to landfills as per Solid Waste Management rules,” he added. “A contract is awarded to carry out solid waste management activities in Mysuru area at a cost of Rs.4.5 lakh per month for a period of one year, which involves: door to door collection of garbage from houses of railway colonies; removal of garbage from the garbage bins located in the railway colonies and transporting it to the solid waste management facility at MNGT; removal and transportation of garbage from Central Railway Hospital, Divisional Office building, and Railway station to the solid waste management facility at MNGT; and segregation of garbage into bio-degradable, non-biodegradable waste, and recyclable or plastic waste at the solid waste management facility at MNGT,” says a press note.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-solid-waste-management-facility-of-railways-in-mysuru-963159.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MCC procures dry waste for money||In an effort to ensure scientific disposal of dry waste, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has come up with a new idea of procuring the waste from households of the city, for a price. The civic body, along with Wellbeing Out of Waste (WOW), a CSR initiative of ITC, will procure dry waste, including newspaper, bottles, and aluminium, tin, beer and liquor bottles, milk packets among others for money. Initially, procuring is launched as pilot project at Zone-2 and several people sold their waste and collected money from the authorities concerned. An officer said, “The new initiative has multiple-ideas and is implemented to encourage people not to dispose of dry waste unscientifically. Despite several rounds of awareness campaigns, many residents fail to separate dry and wet waste and the new initiative would help for proper segregation.” While Rs 10 is fixed for old newspaper, Rs 14 to 15 will be given for pet bottles and hard plastic. In addition, Rs 2 will be given for beer bottles. An officer said that the initiative will be extended to all nine zones in the city, shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mcc-procures-dry-waste-for-money-963160.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka man marries girl from orphanage||An orphanage for women at Ramanagar in Karnataka was decked up on Wednesday for a unique wedding ceremony. Subraya Manjunath Bhatta of Kumta, Uttara Kannada district tied the knot with Sowmya K M, an orphan in the centre. The priest performed the wedding rituals in the presence of Deputy Commissioner Mahantesh Bilagi, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer Vijaya Mahantesh B Danammanavar, Deputy Director of Women & Child Development Department K H Vijaya Kumar, State Bal Bhavan Society President Chikkamma Basavaraj. The Deputy Commissioner accompanied the bride from the centre to the venue of wedding and greeted the couple after the completion of rituals. This is the 40th wedding in the centre. After losing her parents, Sowmya has been in the centre in Davangere from Tumakuru since 2017. As her relatives refused be a part of the ceremony, the centre took the responsibility of her marriage. The bridegroom is employed as driver in a travel agency. The centre's superintendent Nagaratnamma, accountant Sujata and others were present in the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-man-marries-girl-from-orphanage-963188.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Electrification of Mysuru-Chamarajanagar railway line to begin soon||The much-awaited railway electrification works between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar will begin in a week and the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification, Indian Railways, has informed the South Western Railway, Mysuru division, about the works. With the Ministry of Railways setting a target to electrify all railway routes by 2024, works have been taken up at several places across the country. The Mysuru-Chamarajanagar rail route, which passes via Nanjangud, is 61-km long and the electrification work will be taken up at a cost of Rs 20 crore. Tenders were invited in the beginning of the year. Power Guru Infratech Private Limited has taken the responsibility of electrification. It has been given 12 months’ time to complete the project. Officials said, although one year is more for the project, they have given extra time, keeping in mind the rainy season, when it is not possible to execute the works. It will be a challenge to take up the works on the bridge constructed across River Kapila. Electricity poles have to be installed and officials should inspect if they can be installed beside the existing pillars or whether they need to construct a new one from the riverbed. The works will be easy from Nanjangud to Chamarajanagar, said sources. However, the works will not affect the rail service between Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. The electrification will facilitate the extension of Memu trains and there are possibilities of increasing the speed of the trains, benefiting the people of Mysuru, Nanjangud and Chamarajanagar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/electrification-of-mysuru-chamarajanagar-railway-line-to-begin-soon-963192.html
17-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Sadashiva Commission: Cabinet panel likely||The state government will soon take a call on reconstituting a Cabinet sub-committee to look into the recommendations of Justice A J Sadashiva Commission report, Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu said on Wednesday. The Commission, which submitted its report to the government in 2012, has recommended internal reservation among the Scheduled Castes.  The minister was responding to a question raised in this regard by MLC R Dharmasena in the Karnataka Legislative Council. "In 2018, a Cabinet sub-committee was constituted to look into the Commission's recommendations. However, no decision was arrived upon. We will consider reconstituting the sub-committee at the earliest," the minister assured. He, however, did not specify by when it would be decided.  The MLC sought to know why the state government was delaying the implementation of the Sadashiva Commission's recommendations. "There are several sub-sects within the backward classes which do not have any political representation, Even voters do not encourage these candidates," R Dharmasena lamented.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sadashiva-commission-cabinet-panel-likely-963214.html
17-03-2021||Mysuru||Now, Film City to come up in Mysuru||The Karnataka government on Wednesday made a U-turn from its earlier decision to develop a Film City in Bengaluru. It is likely to shift back to its originally-proposed location in the Nanjangud taluk of Mysuru. Addressing the Legislative Council, Information & Public Relations Minister C C Patil said the government would establish the Film City in Mysuru itself. The minister was responding to a question by MLC Sandesh Nagaraj. Even though Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had announced in the 2020-21 Budget that the Film City would come up in Bengaluru, it will be set up in Mysuru, Patil said. "The Film City requires an area of at least 50-70 acres. When we discussed it with administrative bodies in Bengaluru, none could assure us this much extent of land. Hence, as originally proposed, it will come up near Himmavu in Nanjangud. There is 110.8-acre land available here," Patil said. The project will be taken forward by his department and the next step will be taken after discussion with Revenue Minister R Ashoka, he added. The project is expected to come up at a cost of Rs 500 crore on a public-private partnership (PPP) model. The Film City project was first proposed during the Ramakrishna Hegde government in the 1980s and was later revived under the S M Krishna regime (2004). In 2017, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government proposed to set it up in Mysuru. In 2018, H D Kumaraswamy changed it to Ramanagar. In 2019, Yediyurappa wanted to set it up at the Devika Rani Roerich estate, inviting the wrath of environmentalists. Following this, Hesaraghatta was considered the project site. It has now come a full circle back to Mysuru. Meanwhile, Mysuru district in-charge minister S T Somashekar hailed the move and said setting up the Film City in Mysuru has several benefits. "There are several spots around Mysuru which have been used for film shooting over years. Kannada film producers have been demanding a Film City here for a long time. It will help in attracting more tourists to surrounding regions, apart from contributing to the generation of employment and overall development of the Kannada film industry," he said. Somashekar had written a letter to the chief minister earlier this month asking for the Film City to be set up in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/now-film-city-to-come-up-in-mysuru-963127.html
17-03-2021||National||Over 3.48 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in country: Centre||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 3.48 crore with 19,11,913 people inoculated on Tuesday till 7 pm, the Union health ministry said. A total of 3,48,59,345 vaccine doses have been administered to the beneficiaries, according to a provisional report compiled at Tuesday 7 pm. The beneficiaries include 75,01,590 healthcare workers (HCWs) who were given the first dose, 45,40,776 HCWs who received the second dose, 75,91,670 frontline workers (FLWs) who were administered the first dose and 16,28,096 FLWs who got the second dose. Besides, 1,14,54,104 people above 60 years of age and 21,43,109 aged between 45 and 60 years with specific comorbidities were administered the first dose, the ministry said. A total of 19,11,913 Covid-19 vaccine doses were given to the beneficiaries on Tuesday (till 7 pm), the 60th day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, including 16,10,989 who received the first dose and 3,00,924 who got the second dose, the ministry said, adding that the final report for the day would be compiled by late night. The 16,10,989 beneficiaries who received the first dose of the vaccine on Tuesday include 11,84,736 aged above 60 and 2,54,382 aged between 45 and 60 years. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with the HCWs getting inoculated, while the vaccination of the FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of the vaccination drive commenced on March 1 for those above 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specified comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-348-cr-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-country-centre-962864.html
17-03-2021||National||PM Modi on two-day visit to Bangladesh from March 26||In his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be on a two-day visit to Bangladesh from March 26 in connection with the commemoration of three "epochal" events, the government announced Tuesday.  The Ministry of External Affairs said that Modi will visit the neighbouring country following an invitation of Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," the MEA said. Modi's visit will be his first to a foreign country since the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, and this highlights the priority India attaches to Bangladesh, the PMO said in a statement.  "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events - Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," it said.  Modi had last visited Bangladesh in 2015. During the visit, Modi will attend the National Day programme of Bangladesh on March 26 as the guest of honour. Besides holding bilateral consultations with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Modi's programmes include a call on President of Bangladesh Abdul Hamid. Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen will also call on Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-on-two-day-visit-to-bangladesh-from-march-26-962870.html
17-03-2021||National||BJP depicts women as B-class, C-class: Annie Raja on parties fielding fewer female candidates||Parties talk a lot about giving women more representation in Parliament and Assemblies. However, protests have erupted over not giving women adequate seats in the upcoming Assembly elections. Annie Raja, a member of the National Executive of CPI and the General Secretary of National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW), spoke to DH's Shemin Joy on why women are not getting opportunities to fight elections. Are you unhappy that parties are fielding very few women in the upcoming Assembly elections? First of all, we must understand all these parties are patriarchal in their attitude. There is no difference even in parties where top posts are occupied by women. A majority in the leadership are men and they have a revengeful attitude towards women. In most of the states, we have a 50 per cent quota for women in local bodies. So in many places, I have heard from men complaining that they are not getting much chance. At the same time, men also believe that positions in Assembly and Parliament are more powerful bodies and it should not be left for women. Is it the only reason? Not at all. There are several reasons. Elections are a costly affair today even though there is a ceiling for spending on campaigns. For the Left, parties take care of the funds through several means. In other parties, the candidate will have to mobilise finances. So, it is not the winnability but the ability to mobilise funds or the capacity to spend that determines the candidature. We will also have to examine how many women are there in the committees which select candidates. There is a debate in Kerala over the lower number of women candidates. What is your take? I would say the parties in Kerala have defeated themselves by not fielding women. Some women who were hopeful of tickets had protested in public. Senior Congress leaders made some comments. Men are now dictating how women should protest. This is anti-women. Then BJP has not fielded a single woman in seats, which it considers as 'A-Class' where its winnability is high. BJP is now depicting women in Kerala as B-Class and C-Class. On the Left, I would say the expectation was that there would be more women in the fray. Unfortunately, that did not happen. The Left should have given more seats to women. The participation of women in any protest by any party is significant. Time has come that parties discuss fielding more women candidates. You spoke about women's protests against not being considered for the post and comments against them. What are you referring to? Congress' Latika Subhash had expressed her protest in public. Senior Congress leaders have commented against her for protesting by tonsuring her head as if she doesn't have the right to protest. Men are now dictating how women should protest. They insist they will decide even the mode of women's protest. This is anti-women. What is the remedy? The need of the hour is that the parties should have gender-sensitive leadership. Individuals may be gender-sensitive but what we need is the party machinery to become fully gender-sensitive. But the Left has also not given much seats. CPI has fielded only 2 women out of 25 seats it is contesting. How do you respond? If you cannot bring more women into the political mainstream in Kerala, where else can you do it? Left should be a model across India. Even the Left also didn't provide adequate seats. In the recent protests against the Centre, it was the women who were in the forefront. It was they who bore the brunt of sedition cases, UAPA cases. How many young girls are in jails? We cannot turn our eyes away saying that they are not in our party. We cannot ignore the fact that young women are leading protests. Their leadership role in such protests should reflect in fielding candidates and even in party positions. It is saddening that the Left has also disappointed this time. Is it a matter of concern? This really concerns all of us. This concern shouldn't be the concern of women alone. It should be the concern of the whole party. That is not happening. Party leadership would say that they wanted to give more. There should be some political will and commitment towards gender equality. Only then can the leadership convince the rest of the people about the need of having more women. The advantage of women is that she can tick several boxes at once and help the parties fulfil several criteria. There can be a woman, who is young, Dalit or OBC or tribal, or working in women's group or labour union. Left parties should lead from the front in such matters. Unfortunately, it is not happening. The only way out, I think, is to pass the Women's Reservation Bill. Among those who vote, women turn out in large numbers. But it appears that they are not pressurising parties to field more women. Is it so? There are many independent candidates in the fray. But you see very few women contest as independent candidates. One thing is the cost factor. The candidate will have to mobilise money. Only then she can think of contesting. That is one big drawback. When you say that a large number of women are coming out to vote, if you study this trend, you will find out that it is the women from the marginalised communities who vote in large numbers and not the middle-class, urban and rich women. The women's organisations of all parties should introspect. Women leaders fear that they will be thrown out of positions if they speak their mind. So they choose to remain silent sometimes. So she won't assert. So the perceived inability of women to raise funds is an issue? It is not just money. One should add muscle power to it. Do you think a patriarchal society is hampering the entry of women in active politics? It is not necessary that a man leading a party does not have a feminist approach and it is also not necessary that a party has a positive outlook about women just because it is headed by a woman. Character assassination is the main weapon used against women. There are several things that prevent women from coming out. Finally, the political will and commitment towards gender equality and justice matter. Patriarchal, feudal, fascistic and 'manuvaad' mentality is the problem. How serious is the issue of character assassination? Does it act as a block? The honour of the family rests on the shoulders of women, they say. That is why a rapist can roam around freely and even can be in public life. When a survivor enters public life, she is targeted. No family will like to have their women in public life. The women do not have any role decision making in a family but will have to shoulder the burden of family honour. That is a big burden. Do you think passing the Women's Reservation Bill will help? It is a huge battle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is saying a lot of things. The real issue is democracy. But 50 per cent of women are kept outside the Parliament and Assemblies. The Prime Minister does not talk about women representation in lawmaking bodies. 75 years of freedom and we have only 14 per cent women in Parliament. The Prime Minister should immediately take steps to pass the Women's Reservation Bill. Probably, the memorandum received by Modi after assuming power in 2014 was the one by NFIW demanding passage of the Women's Reservation Bill. BJP can pass it as it has the numbers. But there is no response.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-depicts-women-as-b-class-c-class-annie-raja-on-parties-fielding-fewer-female-candidates-962888.html
17-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Politicians missing in action as inflation soars||The wholesale price-based inflation rose for the second consecutive month to a 27-month high of 4.17 per cent in February, as food, fuel and power prices spiked. The WPI inflation was 2.03 per cent in January and 2.26 per cent in February last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-politicians-missing-in-action-as-inflation-soars-962906.html
17-03-2021||National||India records nearly 29,000 new Covid-19 cases, biggest spike this year||India recorded its highest daily tally of coronavirus cases this year with 28,903 new infections, taking the total Covid-19 tally to 1,14,38,734, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,59,044 with 188 new fatalities, the highest in around two months, the data updated at 8 am showed.  Registering an increase for the seventh day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 2,34,406 which now comprises 2.05 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.56 per cent, the data stated. As many as 30,254 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on December 13. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,45,284, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.39 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,92,49,784 samples have been tested up to March 16 with 9,69,021 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 188 new fatalities include 87 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Chhattisgarh. A total of 1,59,044 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,996 from Maharashtra, 12,556 from Tamil Nadu, 12,403 from Karnataka, 10,945 from Delhi, 10,297 from West Bengal, 8,750 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,185 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-nearly-29000-new-covid-19-cases-biggest-spike-this-year-962929.html
17-03-2021||National||Himachal Pradesh BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma found dead in his house||Ram Swaroop Sharma, a BJP Lok Sabha member from Himachal Pradesh, was found dead at his official residence Wednesday. Sharma, 62, was found hanging from the ceiling fan at his official residence, with the Delhi Police suspecting it to be a case of suicide. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla read out an obituary reference and House adjourned briefly as a mark of respect to Sharma, who was a two-term member from the Mandi parliamentary constituency. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal said Sharma's body was found hanging from a ceiling fan. He was rushed to a hospital where doctors pronounced him brought dead. Police had not found any suicide note at Sharma's residence. An inquiry was underway and the exact cause of his death will be ascertained after a post-mortem examination, the police said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered Sharma as a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people's problems. “He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti,” Modi said. Himachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur expressed grief over Sharma's untimely demise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-pradesh-bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-found-dead-in-his-house-962942.html
17-03-2021||National||Phone-tapping row: Ruckus in Rajasthan Assembly, BJP MLA suspended for a week||The BJP created a ruckus in the Rajasthan Assembly on Tuesday, demanding an immediate debate on the phone-tapping row and prompting the suspension of a party MLA from the House for seven days. Accusing the government of tapping the phones of public representatives, the BJP moved two adjournment motions to discuss the issue. The BJP MLAs held a dharna in the well of the House after Speaker C P Joshi rejected the adjournment motions. Party MLA Madan Dilawar was suspended from the House for seven days for unruly behaviour after he interrupted an Independent legislator and had an argument with him. Reacting to the ruckus, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in the evening accused the Opposition party of creating "unnecessary disturbance" and said he had already made a statement over the issue in the Assembly last year. The BJP had on Monday demanded the resignation of Gehlot on moral grounds after his government said in a reply to a question in the state Assembly that it taps phones in the interest of public safety and order. Though the reply of the government did not specify whose phones were tapped, the BJP linked it to the phone tapping controversy that erupted during the political crisis created by the rebellion of former deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Deputy Leader of Opposition Rajendra Rathore and BJP MLA Kalicharan Saraf had moved the adjournment motions during the Zero Hour. The motion moved by Saraf was about the situation created due to the breach of privacy of people because of phone tapping. Rathore's motion was about the breach of privacy due to phone tapping of elected public representatives, MLAs, MPs and union ministers. The Speaker rejected the motions on the ground that there was no mention whose privacy was breached. Joshi said in the adjournment motions, there was no name and specific details. “There is no clarity about whose privacy has been breached. I have rejected the motions and there cannot be a debate on the ruling of the speaker,” he said. The Speaker asked the BJP MLAs to give facts in support of their claim and said he will forward the facts to the government, who will give a reply today itself. When the Speaker did not allow the BJP MLAs to speak, they created an uproar and stormed to the well of the House. The House was adjourned four times today due to the uproar. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Madan Dilawar was suspended from the Assembly after he approached and interrupted Independent MLA Sanyam Lodha, who was speaking on demands for grants for education, art and culture. Lodha objected to Dilawar's behaviour, following which Speaker C P Joshi warned the BJP MLA. As Dilawar did not pay any heed to him, Joshi asked Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal to bring a proposal to suspend the legislator. Dhariwal moved a proposal to suspend Dilawar from the proceedings of the House for seven days which was passed by voice vote. BJP MLAs protesting in the Well of the House formed a human chain around Dilawar to stop him from being escorted out by marshals. The Speaker then adjourned the House for 30 minutes. It was the fourth adjournment of the day. Reacting to the ruckus in the House, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot in a Facebook post said he had already made a statement over the issue in the Assembly on August 14 last year. I myself have been levelling allegations against the Central Govt. that the whole country is scared today. People are... He posted the transcript of his statement and his talks with the media on July 17 and 20. He accused the BJP of creating "unnecessary" issues due to an “internal fighting” in the party. It is an attempt to disturb the House unnecessarily, he commented. In his address to the Assembly on August 14, Gehlot had denied the charge and had said there has never been a tradition of illegal phone tapping of MLAs or MPs in Rajasthan||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/phone-tapping-row-ruckus-in-rajasthan-assembly-bjp-mla-suspended-for-a-week-962943.html
17-03-2021||National||Dada over Didi? Rajnath says BJP will hit the sixer in Bengal||Are you Bengali? If the answer is yes, then chances are high that the questioner will take you to be a Sourav Ganguly fan. Since his rise from the Behala grounds to becoming the captain of the Indian cricket team, Ganguly has always been present in the altar of Bengali emotion in the form of 'Dada'. The West Bengal Assembly election is just around the corner, and the BJP is leaving no stone unturned to conquer the citadel for the first time. Till a few weeks ago, rumours were rife that Sourav Ganguly would join BJP. The hype was great, for Ganguly is one of the biggest 'son of the soil' celebrities Bengal has borne. Many speculated that Ganguly would join BJP during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Brigade Ground rally on March 7, and he would be declared the party's chief ministerial candidate. Ganguly has refuted all those claims and made his intention of staying away from politics clear. But if the elections arrive, can the presence of Bengal's icon in political speeches be far behind? Union Minister of Defence and BJP leader Rajnath Singh on Tuesday while addressing a rally in the state said that BJP has come out of the crease and will hit a six in the upcoming Assembly election, much like the current BCCI President who during his playing days, used to step out of the crease and deposit the ball into the stands. The signature style of Ganguly is fondly called 'Bapi bari ja." "Whenever Sourav Ganguly crossed the crease, it was sure that he would hit a six. Likewise, with your support in Lok Sabha, we have crossed the crease and surely we will hit a six in Assembly polls and form a BJP government here," said Singh. Taking a dig at Trinamool Congress and CM Mamata Banerjee, Singh said he doesn't know what the party means by "Khela Hobe" (Game on!) because the BJP is yet to play "The game of development and peace in Bengal." Addressing public meetings at Daspur, Sabang and Pingla in Paschim Medinipur district, he said "asol paribartan" (true change) will usher in on May 2, the day of the counting of votes for the eight-phase assembly elections that commence on March 27.   "The BJP will form a government in Bengal with more than 200 seats," he asserted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dada-over-didi-rajnath-says-bjp-will-hit-the-sixer-in-bengal-962950.html
17-03-2021||National||Former Union minister Dilip Gandhi dies||BJP leader and former Union minister Dilip Gandhi died at a hospital in New Delhi on Wednesday, family sources said. He was 69. Gandhi had served as the Minister of State for Shipping in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led central government. He recently tested positive for coronavirus and was undergoing treatment for multiple ailments, the sources said. The BJP leader, who started his career as a corporator in the late 80s, had won the Lok Sabha elections three times since 1999 from Ahmednagar in Maharashtra. He was denied a ticket in the 2019 general polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-union-minister-dilip-gandhi-dies-962953.html
17-03-2021||National||Meghalaya on brink of another power crisis as NEEPCO issues notice to state govt over dues||Meghalaya is on the brink of another power crisis, the third in a month, as utility NEEPCO sent a notice to the state government, stating that it would regulate supply from March 20 if Rs 504.41 crore dues are not cleared, an official said on Wednesday. The Union Power Ministry has also expressed concern over the inability of the Meghalaya Power Distribution Corporation Ltd (MePDCL) to clear dues even as a loan of Rs 1,345.72 crore has been sanctioned to it for the purpose. In a letter to the North Eastern Regional Load Despatch Centre of Power System Operation Corp on Tuesday, NEEPCO's Executive Director (Commercial) NK Mao said that despite constant persuasion at various levels, MePDCL has failed to clear the outstanding dues against the purchase of power from its power stations. Dues of MePDCL continue to escalate and the outstanding in excess of 45 days have piled up to Rs 156.70 crore as of March 15, and there is another pending of Rs 347.71 crore, taking the total dues to Rs 504.41 crore, Mao said in the letter. "In view of the above mentioned situation, NEEPCO has no other option but to exercise its option provided for by central electricity regulatory commission (Regulation of Power Supply) Regulations, 2010," he said. Notice has also been served for round-the-clock regulation of supply to MePDCL from all the power stations of NEEPCO for a period of six months with effect from March 20, or till such time the outstanding dues of more than 45 days are liquidated, whichever is earlier, Mao said. "It is a matter of concern that MePDCL is unable to avail of this opportunity extended by the Government of India to clear their dues... the MePDCL may be advised to request REC and PFC to disburse the remaining instalments to NEEPCO... failing which sanction of the loan will be liable to be withdrawn," Tanmay Kumar, joint secretary in the Power Ministry, said in his March 12 letter. The MePDCL has availed Rs 386.86 crore so far from the Rural Electrification Corp (REC) and Power Finance Corp, a senior power official here said. This amount was disbursed to the central utilities in January as the first instalment of the first tranche of the loan, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-on-brink-of-another-power-crisis-as-neepco-issues-notice-to-state-govt-over-dues-962959.html
17-03-2021||National||Five states account for over 70% of new Covid-19 infections||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a high number of daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for 71.10 per cent of the 28,903 new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. It said 83.91 per cent of the new cases are from Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Maharashtra alone accounts for 61.8 per cent of the daily new cases with 17,864 cases. It is followed by Kerala with 1,970 while Punjab reported 1,463 new cases, the ministry said. Kerala is reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month. India's total active caseload has reached 2,34,406, comprising 2.05 per cent of the total infections. "Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab account for 76.4 per cent of India's total active cases, with Maharashtra alone contributing nearly 60 per cent," the ministry highlighted. Over 3.5 crore (3,50,64,536) vaccine doses have been administered through 5,86,855 sessions, as per the provisional report till Wednesday 7 am, the ministry said. These include 75,06,155 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been given the 1st dose, 45,54,855 HCWs who have been administered the 2nd dose), 76,00,030 frontline workers (FLWs) who have taken the 1st dose) and16,47,644 FLWs who have been given the 2nd doses. Besides, 21,66,408 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities  and1,15,89,444 individuals aged more than 60 years have been administered the 1st dose. As on day 60 of the vaccination drive (16th March, 2021), more than 21 lakh (21,17,104) vaccine doses were given.  Of these, 17,82,553 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 30,871 sessions for 1st dose and 3,34,551 HCWs and FLWs received the 2nd  dose of vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,10,45,284.  The ministry stated that 188 deaths were reported in a span of  24 hours. Six states account for 86.7 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (87). Punjab follows with 38 daily deaths. Kerala reported 15 deaths. Fifteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Andman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-account-for-over-70-of-new-covid-19-infections-962971.html
17-03-2021||National||It's a girl! Bengaluru-Jaipur flight gets additional passenger mid-air||A baby girl was born on board IndiGo's Bengaluru-Jaipur flight mid-air on Wednesday morning with the help of cabin crew and a doctor, according to an airline statement. "A baby girl was born mid-air on board flight 6E 469 from Bangalore to Jaipur. The baby was delivered with the help of the IndiGo crew, effectively assisted by Dr Subahana Nazir, travelling with us on the same flight," the airline's statement noted. Jaipur airport was immediately informed to arrange for a doctor and an ambulance on arrival, it said. "Both the baby and mother are stable," it mentioned. The flight departed from Bengaluru around 5.45 am and landed in Jaipur around 8 am on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-a-girl-bengaluru-jaipur-flight-gets-additional-passenger-mid-air-962973.html
17-03-2021||National||Group Captain of IAF MiG-21 Bison dies after aircraft crashes||A Group Captain of the Indian Air Force died on Wednesday when the Mig-21 Bison he was flying crashed near Gwalior. “A MiG-21 Bison aircraft of IAF was involved in a fatal accident this morning while taking off for a combat training mission at an airbase in central India. The IAF lost Group Captain A Gupta in the accident,” an IAF spokesperson said. A Court of Inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the accident. The accident took place at around 10:50 am, the officials said. The Soviet-origin Mig-21 Bison is an upgraded version of the Mig-21 aircraft that IAF began inducting in the 1960s. While the older generation MiG-21s have been phased out, the IAF still flies four squadrons of the upgraded MiG-21 Bis. The IAF plans to fly these aircraft at least till 2025. In January, another MiG-21 Bison crashed at Suratgarh in Rajasthan. Fortunately, the pilot was able to eject that time. Months before the two accidents, Chief of the Air Staff Air Chief Marshal R K S Bhadauria flew a MiG-21 Bis at Suratgarh. Incidentally, it was a MiG-21 Bison that was being flown by Wing Commander Abhinandan Varthaman in the dogfight with the Pakistan Air Force before his aircraft went down. In June 2019, the Ministry of Defence informed the Parliament that 27 IAF aircraft have crashed since 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/group-captain-of-iaf-mig-21-bison-dies-after-aircraft-crashes-962976.html
17-03-2021||National||CBI summons businessman Amit Agarwal in coal pilferage scam||The CBI has summoned businessman Amit Agarwal in connection with the multi-crore coal pilferage scam, sources said on Wednesday. Agarwal, an aide of kingpin Anup Majhi, has been summoned next week for interrogation in connection with the scam, they said. Sleuths of the CBI raided premises linked to Agarwal in Kulti, Durgapur and Kolkata on Tuesday. The CBI is still in search of Majhi who is on the run and a look-out circular has also been issued against him. The CBI is probing the scam over illegally mined coal from the abandoned mines of Eastern Coalfields, estimated to be worth thousands of crores of rupees, officials said. The crime proceeds have been transacted through the hawala route, which the Enforcement Directorate (ED) is probing, they said. The CBI has also questioned Trinamool Congress MP Abhishek Banerjee's wife Rujira and his sister-in-law Menaka Gambhir in connection with the case. Gambhir's husband and father-in-law have been also interrogated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-summons-businessman-amit-agarwal-in-coal-pilferage-scam-962978.html
17-03-2021||National||India, Bangladesh to expand cooperation in river pollution mitigation, flood management||India and Bangladesh have agreed to expand cooperation across the entire gamut of water resources issues including framework for sharing of river waters, mitigation of pollution, river bank protection, flood management, basin management, according to an official statement on Wednesday. The India-Bangladesh Water Resources Secretary level meeting under the framework of the Joint Rivers Commission took place on March 16 here. The Indian delegation was led by Pankaj Kumar, Secretary (Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation). The Bangladesh delegation was led by Kabir Bin Anwar, Senior Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources. Noting that India and Bangladesh share 54 common rivers which directly impact the livelihood of people in the two countries, both sides commended the close cooperation that exists between them in the matter. "Both sides agreed to expand cooperation across entire gamut of water resources issues including framework for sharing of river waters, mitigation of pollution, river bank protection, flood management, basin management, etc.," the statement said. A Joint Technical Working Group will provide inputs on the matter. The discussions were substantive and held in a cordial atmosphere, it added. Both sides also agreed to schedule the next secretary-level meeting in Dhaka on mutually convenient dates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-to-expand-cooperation-in-river-pollution-mitigation-flood-management-962980.html
17-03-2021||National||Maharashtra's Aurangabad sees 1,271 new Covid-19 cases, 7 more deaths||With the addition of 1,271 new cases of coronavirus, the tally in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district has gone up to 60,100, an official said on Wednesday. Besides these new cases reported on Tuesday, seven more people also succumbed to the viral infection, raising the death toll in the district to 1,351, he said. So far, 52,073 people have recovered from the infection, while there are 6,676 active Covid-19 cases in the district at present, he said. According to a civic official, 716 shopkeepers were tested on Tuesday and out of them, the results of 61 came out positive for the viral infection. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Tuesday caught 53 people for not wearing mask in the city and collected Rs 26,500 as fine from them, the official said. The AMC is also working on increasing the number of beds for Covid-19 patients by 5,000, municipal health officer Dr Neeta Padalkar told PTI. "The buildings that we acquired earlier are now being activated as Covid-19 care centres," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtras-aurangabad-sees-1271-new-covid-19-cases-7-more-deaths-962983.html
17-03-2021||National||A hero for all Indians: PM Modi on Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid homage to Bangladesh founder 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman on his birth anniversary on Wednesday and said he is a hero for all Indians. Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the founding father of Bangladesh, was born on March 17, 1920. "My heartfelt homage to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, a champion of human rights and freedom, on his birth anniversary," Modi tweeted. "He is a hero for all Indians too. It will be my honour to visit Bangladesh later this month for the historic #MujibBorsho celebrations," he said. Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh on March 26 and 27, his first visit to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) made an announcement on Tuesday on Modi's visit to the neighbouring country following an invitation from Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. "This visit is in connection with the commemoration of three epochal events -- Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman; 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties between India and Bangladesh; and 50 years of Bangladesh's war of liberation," it said. Modi had last visited Bangladesh in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-hero-for-all-indians-pm-modi-on-sheikh-mujibur-rahmans-birth-anniversary-962984.html
17-03-2021||National||LPG price hike issue figures in Rajya Sabha||The steep hike in domestic cooking gas price figured in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday with a CPI(M) MP saying it has put an intolerable burden on the common people already suffering from general price rise. Raising the issue through a zero-hour mention, Jharna Das Baidya said subsidised and non-subsidised LPG prices were raised by a steep Rs 125 per cylinder in four installments since February. This together with a cut in fuel subsidy has put an "intolerable burden on people already suffering from price rise," she said. Calling the price hike "unjustified", she said free cooking gas connections given to eight crore beneficiaries under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana have been rendered meaningless because of the hike in cost. Vivek Tankha of Congress sought the government's intervention to bring down the high cost of a drug used to treat infants suffering from a rare disease called spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). An estimated 2,500 children in India suffer from some degree of SMA disease, which can be treated by a drug manufactured in the US, he said, adding the final cost of the drug comes to Rs 23 crore after adding Rs 7 crore of import duty. While the prime minister had waived the import tax for treatment of one child recently, the government should completely withdraw the duty and bargain and get a better price from the manufacturer, he said. Also, states and the Centre should have revolving funds to help children suffering from SMA, he said, adding CSR funds of corporates should also be used for the purpose. AD Singh of the RJD raised the issue of the Bihar government allocating 290 acres of "highly fertile" land for handling waste from coal from state-owned NTPC's Baurani plant in the state. He said infertile land is available adjacent to the plant but the state government has opted to give highly fertile land 5 km away from the plant. Citing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for fertile land not being used for industrial projects, he demanded that the matter be taken up with the state government. While Muzibulla Khan of the BJD demanded Bharat Ratna for Biju Patnaik, Vishambhar Prasad Nishad of the Samajwadi Party (SP) wanted the nation's top civilian honours to be conferred on Ram Manohar Lohia. Amee Yajnik of the Congress raised the issue of public safety of women and girls in rural areas, Sukhram Singh Yadav (SP) wanted setting up of a separate fund to meet the development needs of the villages MPs adopt under the Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana, Mahesh Poddar (BJP) raised the issue of permanent houses for construction workers and Fauzia Khan (NCP) sought developing Sai Baba's birthplace of Pathri in Parbhani district of Maharashtra as a tourist destination. KTS Tulsi (Congress) expressed concern over controversial statements made by people holding high offices. "Reprehensive crime of rape is justified" by statements such as "boys will be boys", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lpg-price-hike-issue-figures-in-rajya-sabha-962985.html
17-03-2021||National||Karnataka's MA Ganapathy appointed NSG Director General||Senior IPS officer M A Ganapathy, who hails from Karnataka, has been appointed as the Director General of the elite National Security Guard (NSG). The Appointments Committee of Cabinet headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi cleared Ganapathy's appointment,  according to an order issued by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Tuesday. The ACC also appointed Kuldiep Singh, a 1986 batch IPS officer of the West Bengal cadre, as the Director General of CRPF. He is presently the Special DG in CRPF. At present, Ganapathy is Director General of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. He has been appointed as the head of NSG "from the date of joining the post and up to 29 February. 2024,  i.e. date of his superannuation, or till further orders, whichever is earlier". The 57-year-old officer, who is from Kodagu and had served as Director General of Police in Uttarakhand, is a 1986-batch officer of the Uttarakhand cadre. Earlier, he has held portfolios like Internal Security and Left Wing Extremism in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). He also served as spokesperson of MHA. After his post-graduation from Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), he joined the IPS in 1986 in Uttar Pradesh. After the bifurcation of UP, he was shifted to Uttarakhand cadre. During his 30 years of service, Ganapathy has served as Superintendent of Police at Moradabad City, Sonebhadra and Hardoi and as Senior Superintendent of Police at Nainital, Meerut and Kanpur. He also served in the CBI from 1999 as Superintendent of Police and was promoted as Deputy Inspector General (Anti-Corruption). While serving in the state, he had the experience of dealing with Maoist menace in Sonebhadra and Sikh militancy at Nainital. He was also posted in Meerut and Kanpur. Ganapathy is also a recipient of the President's Police Medal for Distinguished Service in 2010. He is also an alumnus of the National Defence College in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/karnatakas-ma-ganapathy-appointed-nsg-director-general-962988.html
17-03-2021||National||Himachal Pradesh Assembly adjourns after paying tributes to Mandi BJP MP Sharma||The proceedings of the Himachal Pradesh Assembly were adjourned till Thursday after passing a condolence motion for Mandi MP Ram Swaroop Sharma.  Moving the condolence motion as soon as the Assembly assembled at 11 am, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur noted that Sharma was reluctant to contest the last parliamentary elections in 2019. Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri also paid homage to him.  Cabinet ministers Mahender Singh and Suresh Bhardwaj said the loss due to his death can not be fulfilled. In a statement, the state BJP chief and Shimla MP Suresh Kashyap described Sharma as a simple and honest politician.  Born at Jalpehar village in Mandi district on June 10, 1958, Sharma was two-time MP from Mandi parliamentary constituency.  He was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha in 2014 and 2019 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-pradesh-assembly-adjourns-after-paying-tributes-to-mandi-bjp-mp-sharma-962994.html
17-03-2021||National||PM condoles deaths of sitting Lok Sabha MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, former Union Minister Dilip Gandhi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed grief at the deaths of Lok Sabha MP Ram Swaroop Sharma and former Union Minister Dilip Gandhi and extended his condolences to their families and supporters. "Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people's problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Shri Ram Swaroop Sharma was a dedicated leader, who was always committed to solving people’s problems. He worked tirelessly for the betterment of society. Pained by his untimely and unfortunate demise. My thoughts are with his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti. In another tweet, he said, "Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Saddened by the demise of former MP and Minister Shri Dilip Gandhi Ji. He will be remembered for his rich contributions to community service and helping the poor. He made numerous efforts to strengthen the BJP in Maharashtra. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti. Sixty-two-year-old Sharma, BJP MP from Himachal Pradesh, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at his official residence here on Wednesday. Prima facie, it appears to be a case of suicide, police said. The BJP cancelled its parliamentary party meeting following Sharma's death and also called off the joining ceremony of an "eminent" person, who was not named. Gandhi, 69, passed away at a hospital here on Wednesday. He was admitted to the hospital after he tested positive for coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-condoles-deaths-of-sitting-lok-sabha-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-former-union-minister-dilip-gandhi-962996.html
17-03-2021||National||PM Modi says quick steps needed to stop second Covid-19 peak||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked the States to take “quick and decisive steps” to curb the “emerging second wave” of Covid-19 pandemic that has a potential to spread to the villages since tier-2 and tier-3 cities are being affected this time. In a review meeting with the chief ministers, the Prime Minister said there should not be any let up in creating micro-containment zones at the district level and intensifying the testing, surveillance and referral systems, besides augmenting the ambulance network in smaller towns. “One of the reasons we have successfully survived the Covid-19 battle so far is that we have been able to keep the villages free from the infection. But if the virus now reaches Tier 2-Tier 3 cities, it will not take long to spread to the village and our (healthcare) arrangement in the villages is very limited,” he said. There are 70 districts where the number of Covid-19 positive cases increased by more than 150 per cent between March 1 and March 15. Some of such districts are Ratlam (500%) in Madhya Pradesh; Surajpur (425%) in Chhattisgarh; Nanded (385%) in Maharashtra; Gwalior (360%) in Madhya Pradesh and Rupnagar (256%) in Punjab. The Union Health Ministry pointed out later that there were another 55 districts, spread over 17 states, where the number of infections rose by 100-150 per cent in the last two weeks. Taken together these 125 districts – located mostly in northern and western parts of the country - are areas of concern. “In many places the local administration is no longer showing the same seriousness about the mask. Why is testing going down in some areas? Why is vaccination in such areas also decreasing? This is the time for good governance. Our confidence in the battle against coronavirus should not be turned into over-confidence,” the Prime Minister said, urging the chief ministers to conduct regular reviews on anti-Covid activities undertaken by their States. Modi also asked the CMs to ensure that the gold standard RT-PCR tests would comprise 70 per cent of the total testing, which also needed to be enhanced. For states like Kerala, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattishgarh that rely extensively on the Rapid Antigen Test, he asked for a change in the testing strategy. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that out of the 12 states that are on the radar, low RT-PCR penetration was being seen in Chhattisgarh (34%), Gujarat (50%), Madhya Pradesh (65%), Delhi (64%) and Himachal Pradesh (50%). He also advised the States to increase the testing and enhance the share of RT-PCR. The Prime Minister's interactions with the chief ministers took place at a time when India, for the first time, in three months reported nearly 30,000 new infections and close to 200 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, signalling the emergence of a second wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-says-quick-steps-needed-to-stop-second-covid-19-peak-963015.html
17-03-2021||National||Passengers not wearing marks properly to be de-boarded, treated as unruly: DGCA to HC||The DGCA informed the Delhi High Court on Wednesday that action is being taken against passengers not wearing masks properly despite repeated warnings and they will be de-boarded from planes before departure and treated as “unruly passengers”. The high court expressed satisfaction over the steps being taken by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and said it hoped that the action would continue in the same spirit considering the safety of passengers from Covid-19 infection. A bench of Justices Navin Chawla and C Hari Shankar observed that the court was initially planning to keep the suo motu case open to continue monitoring the implementation of directions issued by the court earlier. However, after noticing the proactive action by the DGCA, the court decided to close the case and observed that initiation of punitive action against the violators is a welcome step, the bench said. Justice Shankar had on March 8 taken suo motu cognisance of the situation after witnessing passengers not wearing masks properly during transportation from airport to the flight and their stubborn reluctance to wear masks properly. The court, which had issued various guidelines to DGCA and all other airlines for immediate compliance, said it was constrained to pass the order because of an alarming situation which was witnessed by the judge himself during the Air India flight from Kolkata to New Delhi on March 5. DGCA, represented through Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Chetan Sharma and advocate Anjana Gosain, informed the court that following its directions, it issued a circular on March 13 relating to strict guidelines to be followed in the airports. "On board the aircraft, in case any passenger does not adhere to wearing of mask properly even after repeated warning, he/ she should be de-boarded, if need be, before departure," the circular stated. "In case, any passenger on board an aircraft refuses to wear mask or violates the ‘Covid-19 Protocol for passengers’ even after repeated warnings, during the course of the fight, such passenger may be treated as ‘Unruly Passenger’ as defined... Civil Aviation Requirements (CAR)...and the procedure in respect of handling such unruly passenger, as provided in above mentioned CAR, shall be followed by the concerned airlines,” it said. Advocate Gosain also informed the court that in a Jammu to Delhi flight, on March 16, four passengers were declared unruly for not properly wearing masks and were handed over to the security officials. She said the authorities have also decided to conduct surprise checks. To this, the bench said, “You have done a wonderful job. We are really impressed”, and asked the ASG to ensure that such steps are also taken in respect of railways and buses. When the counsel for Air India said they have also issued a circular with necessary guidelines, the bench asked the DGCA to ensure that other airlines also follow the guidelines. “This court is not interested in seeing passengers de-boarded,” the bench said, adding that their concern was that passengers adhere to Covid-19 guidelines which are necessary for their safety as well as for the safety of co-passengers. The DGCA has also said in its circular that passengers shall wear masks and maintain social distancing norms at all times during air travel. The mask shall not be moved below the nose except under exceptional circumstances, it said. “CISF or other police personnel deployed at the entrance of the airport shall ensure that no one is allowed to enter the airport without wearing a mask,” it said. The circular said that the Airport Director/ Terminal Manager, as applicable, must ensure that passengers are wearing masks properly and do maintain social distance at all times within the airport premises. In case, any passenger is not following ‘Covid-19 Protocol’, they should be handed over to security agencies after proper warning. If required, they may be dealt as per law, it said. DGCA had issued another circular on March 15 where directions have been issued for strict compliance by all stakeholders. It also informed the court that DGCA website has been suitably modified and a separate button in respect of ‘Covid Protocol for passenger’ has been created wherein all the relevant guidelines and circulars in respect of ‘Covid-19 Protocol’ have been uploaded. The high court had earlier taken strong note of an “alarming situation” of passengers not properly wearing masks in flights and issued guidelines to all domestic airlines and DGCA for strict compliance, including penal action for offenders and periodical checks of the aircraft. The court had said a situation when the country is seeing a resurgence of Covid-2019 cases, after they had shown signs of ebbing, is completely unconscionable. “Passengers in a flight are in a closed air-conditioned environment, and, even if one of the passengers suffers from Covid-19, the effect on other passengers could be cataclysmic. It is a matter of common knowledge that being within arm’s length distance of a Covid-19 carrier, even if he is asymptomatic and is merely speaking, is more than sufficient to transmit the virus,” it had said. If despite being reminded, he or she refuses to follow the protocol, action should be taken against the passenger in accordance with the guidelines issued by the DGCA or Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, including placing him or her on a 'no-fly' regimen, either permanently or for a stipulated, sufficiently long, period, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passengers-not-wearing-marks-properly-to-be-de-boarded-treated-as-unruly-dgca-to-hc-963017.html
17-03-2021||National||Enact law on lines of Australia to make Facebook, Google pay for news: Demand in Rajya Sabha||Taking a cue from Australia, India should enact a law to make tech giants such as Facebook and Google pay local publishers of news content, senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi demanded in Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Raising the issue through a Zero Hour mention, the former deputy chief minister of Bihar said, "The government must make Google, Facebook and YouTube pay print and news channels for the news content they are using freely." The Indian government should take a cue from the Australian parliament that passed the world's first law last month to ensure news media businesses are fairly remunerated for the content they generate, he said. "I would urge the government of India that the way they have notified Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code to regulate social media and OTT platforms, they should enact a law on the pattern of Australian Code so that we can compel Google to share its revenue with traditional media," he added. India, Modi said, should take the lead in making Google and Facebook pay a fair share of their earnings from domestically produced news content on the internet to the publishers.. Rajya Sabha Chairman and Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu remarked that the suggestion is "worth considering". Modi said the traditional print and news broadcast media, whose content is freely available on platforms run by the tech giants, are passing through their worst phase in recent history as advertisements have shifted to tech platforms. "They are in deep financial crisis. Earlier, it was because of the pandemic and now it is because of tech giants like YouTube, Facebook and Google," he said. The traditional news media, Modi said, make heavy investments employing anchors, journalists and reporters who gather information, verify it and deliver credible news. But advertisement, which is their main source of revenue, has in the past few years shifted away from them with the advent of tech giants like Google, Facebook and YouTube, he said. "Advertising earnings are going to these tech giants (and) because of this print media, news channels are passing through a financial crisis," Modi said. "I would urge (that) we should follow a country like Australia which has taken the lead by enacting a law -- News Media Bargaining Code -- by which they have compelled Google to share advertisement revenue with the news media," he said. Google threatened to blackout news from its portal but ultimately surrendered, the BJP leader said. "Australia has set a precedence and now France and other European countries are making laws for advertisement revenue sharing," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/enact-law-on-lines-of-australia-to-make-facebook-google-pay-for-news-demand-in-rajya-sabha-963021.html
17-03-2021||National||Banks not liable to compensate for loss from fraud, says court: Report||If a person falls for a fake call and loses money over it even after banks' repeated warnings against fraud, then the bank is not liable to compensate the person for the loss incurred, a consumer court in Ahmedabad has said. The report says that one Kurji Javia had approached a consumer court after being scammed of Rs 41,500 in April of 2018. Javia had given the scamster the details of his ATM card, leading to the loss. Javia sued the SBI for compensation saying he made calls to the bank's Nagnath branch but got no response. He claimed the bank could have prevented the loss and demanded the lost amount be returned along with Rs 30,000 as compensation for harassment, the report said. The Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission in Amreli rejected his complaint saying that he did not follow the bank's guidelines for safe transactions, making him ineligible for compensation. The court said that the loss incurred was on part of the complainant as customers are warned by banks against sharing their bank details by means of advisories, guidelines and advertisements. "Yet a teacher and a practicing advocate gave information to a stranger and admitted to it. This does not reflect any negligence from the bank," the court order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/banks-not-liable-to-compensate-for-loss-from-fraud-says-court-report-963023.html
17-03-2021||National||India's engagement with China is complex: Government in Lok Sabha||India on Wednesday said its engagement with China is "complex" and the two countries agreed that the future direction of ties should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said in the Lok Sabha that India will continue discussions with China to resolve the remaining issues along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh to achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points. His written response came when asked whether India-China relations are being affected due to violation of negotiations made in the past by China and "unfruitful efforts" to cross the LAC again and again. Referring to the eastern Ladakh row, Muraleedharan said the Chinese side, since April/May last year, undertook several attempts to unilaterally alter the status quo along the LAC in the region and India's armed forces responded to them appropriately. "It has been made clear to the Chinese side that such unilateral attempts are unacceptable. These actions have seriously disturbed the peace and tranquillity along the LAC in the western sector," he said. The government often refers to eastern Ladakh as the western sector. "India's engagement with China is complex. The two sides agree that the future direction of India China relations should be built upon respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations," he said on the overall ties. "The two sides have also agreed to manage their differences and not allow differences on any issue to become disputes," Muraleedharan added. On the border row, the minister said the two sides have maintained communication through both diplomatic and military channels to ensure complete disengagement from all friction points and full restoration of peace and tranquillity in the border areas. "The two sides were able to reach an agreement on disengagement in the North and South Bank of the Pangong Lake, which has been completed. There are however still some outstanding issues with regard to deployment and patrolling at some other points along the LAC in eastern Ladakh," he said. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted on May 5 last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with the agreement on disengagement last month. "Government will continue discussions with the Chinese side to resolve the remaining issues along the LAC in eastern Ladakh and achieve the objective of disengagement from all friction points and restoration of peace and tranquillity in the India-China border areas at an early date," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-engagement-with-china-is-complex-government-in-lok-sabha-963025.html
17-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against cancellation of ration cards causing alleged starvation deaths||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea alleging cancellation of around four crore ration cards in the country due to non-linking with Aadhaar cards, resulting into starvation deaths.  The plea was filed by Koili Devi, mother of an 11-year-old girl, who allegedly died due to starvation on September 28, 2017. On Wednesday, a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said, "The matter is too serious. We have to hear it." The court issued notice to the Centre seeking its response within four weeks in the petition pending since 2018. It also asked the Union government not to treat the matter as adversarial litigation. Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for the petitioner, contended than more than three crore ration cards were cancelled at central level and as many as 10 to 15 lakh cards were cancelled at each state level. Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for the Union government, termed the plea as 'misconceived'. He said that there was a grievance redressal mechanism under the Food Security Act.  "If Aadhaar is not available, alternate documents can be submitted. We have clearly said Aadhaar or no Aadhaar, nobody will be denied right to food," he said. Gonsalves, for his part, said, there were situations where fingerprints or iris scanner did not work in tribal areas. In an additional document, the petitioner claimed insistence on Aadhaar and biometric authentification led to the cancellation of nearly four crore ration cards in the country as per the Union government.  "The Union government casually gives an explanation that these cancelled cards were bogus. The real reason is that the technological system based on Iris identification, thumb prints, possession of Aadhaar, functioning of the internet in rural and remote areas led to large scale cancellation of ration cards without notice to the family concerned," it said. The petitioner also maintained that not a single State has appointed independent nodal officers under Section 14 or District Grievance Redressal Officer under Section 15 of the National Food Security Act. "All the States have mechanically granted additional designations to existing officers. In many cases, the officers given additional designations are from the Food Supply Department and they are the main persons responsible for corruption in the food distribution system," it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-cancellation-of-ration-cards-causing-alleged-starvation-deaths-963026.html
17-03-2021||National||Will cooperate with NIA: Ex-owner of car used by Sachin Vaze||Former owner of a Mercedes car, which was used by arrested police officer Sachin Vaze and seized by the NIA, on Wednesday said he will fully cooperate with the probe agency if it approaches him for any information related to the vehicle. Vaze is at the focus of a probe by the National Investigating Agency (NIA) into a case related to the recovery of a Scorpio car with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. The NIA on Tuesday said it has seized a Mercedes car that was used by Vaze and recovered Rs 5 lakh from the vehicle after searching his office from where "incriminating" documents were recovered. Saransh Bhawsar, a resident of Maharashtra's Dhule district and former owner of the Mercedes car, told a TV channel that he had sold his vehicle last month through an online portal and claimed he did not know the person who purchased it. Bhawsar also said he does not know Vaze and heard his name on Tuesday, after coming to know about the case. He said so far, the NIA or the police have not approached him, but he will fully cooperate with the investigation agency to provide documents and detailed information about the car which he had sold. The man also said he does not have any connection with the case. Bhawsar said though he does not own the car now, he got phone calls from people who knew him, after the vehicle was seized by the NIA. Vaze, who was arrested by the NIA on March 13, was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Mumbai police's crime branch till recently. Its is located in the police commissioner's office compound in south Mumbai. The NIA on Tuesday said its team recovered some "incriminating" documents and electronic evidence such as laptop, iPad and mobile phones from Vaze's office there. A black Mercedes car, which was being used by Vaze, was also seized from a parking lot near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), and Rs 5 lakh in cash, a note-counting machine, two number plates and some clothes were recovered from it, NIA's Inspector General Anil Shukla said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-cooperate-with-nia-ex-owner-of-car-used-by-sachin-vaze-963031.html
17-03-2021||National||Consistently calling upon Sri Lanka to fulfil aspirations of Tamil people, says India||India on Wednesday said it has consistently called upon Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments to meet the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice and peace. In response to a question in the Lok Sabha, Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan also said that External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar in meetings with his Sri Lankan counterpart has reiterated India's support for the reconciliation process in the island nation. "Government has consistently called upon Sri Lanka to fulfil its commitments relating to the Tamil community in Sri Lanka," Muraleedharan said. Jaishankar visited Sri Lanka in January and the Tamil issue figured in his meetings in Colombo. "In his meetings with the Sri Lankan foreign minister, EAM reiterated India's longstanding support for the reconciliation process in Sri Lanka and emphasised that it is in Sri Lanka's own interest that the expectations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka are fulfilled," said Muraleedharan. "That applies equally to the commitments made by the Sri Lankan Government on meaningful devolution, including the 13th Amendment to the Constitution," he said. The 13th amendment provides for devolution of power to the Tamil community. India has been pressing Sri Lanka to implement the 13th amendment which was brought in after the Indo-Sri Lankan agreement of 1987. Muraleedharan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his meeting with Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa in February last and during a virtual summit in September, called upon the island nation to address aspirations of the Tamil people. "The prime minister called upon the government of Sri Lanka to address the aspirations of the Tamil people for equality, justice, peace and dignity within a united Sri Lanka, including by carrying forward the process of reconciliation with the implementation of the 13th Amendment to the Constitution," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consistently-calling-upon-sri-lanka-to-fulfil-aspirations-of-tamil-people-says-india-963042.html
17-03-2021||National||Peace with Pakistan will give India direct access to Central Asia: Prime Minister Imran Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Wednesday said India will be benefitted economically by having peace with his country as it will be able to directly access resource-rich Central Asia through it. Delivering the inaugural address at the launch of the two-day Islamabad Security Dialogue, Khan also said that his government after coming to power in 2018 did everything for better ties with India and it was for India to reciprocate. “India will have to take the first step. Unless they do so, we cannot do much,” he said. India last month said that it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence. India has said the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. India has also told Pakistan that "talks and terror" cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. The prime minister discussed Pakistan's vision of comprehensive national security, built on the pillars of traditional and non-traditional security, including his vision for economic prosperity and human welfare. Khan dwelt at length on the issue of peace in the region, including peace between Pakistan and India, saying "the unresolved Kashmir issue was the biggest hurdle between the two countries." “If India gives the Kashmiris their right under the UN (resolutions), it will be greatly beneficial for Pakistan as well as for India,” he said and added, “India can access Central Asia after peace.” Khan said that having a direct route to the Central Asian region will economically benefit India. Central Asia, in the modern context, generally includes five resource-rich countries -- Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Pakistan has been unsuccessfully trying to drum up international support against India for withdrawing Jammu and Kashmir's special status and bifurcating it into two Union territories in August, 2019. India has categorically told the international community that the scrapping of Article 370 of the Constitution was its internal matter. The Ministry of External Affairs has also underlined that the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an integral and inalienable part of India. India and Pakistan had announced on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. Ties between India and Pakistan nosedived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in the neighbouring country. Subsequent attacks, including one on Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The relationship dipped further after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. The relations deteriorated after India announced withdrawing special powers of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcation of the state into two union territories. Talking about non-traditional threats to Pakistan, Khan said that climate change, food security and a weak economy were among the biggest challenges in the quest to realise the full concept of security. Khan said his initiative of “Ten billion tree tsunami” was being hailed by the world, while his government was also working to achieve food security. He acknowledged that improving the national economy was the biggest challenge but his government was trying to reduce trade deficit and control inflation so that the financial condition of common people could improve. “We cannot become a secure nation when a small rich minority is surrounded by the sea of poor people…National security is achieved when a nation stands up to secure itself,” he said at the dialogue organised by the National Security Division and think-tanks comprising the Advisory Board of National Security Committee. Khan also praised all-weather ally China for its "successful" handling of poverty and lifting more than 700 million people out of poverty in the last three decades. “It is their big achievement whether you like China or not,” he said. Khan said that Pakistan’s 25 per cent population was suffering from extreme poverty and another 25 per cent was just slightly better. He said the government already launched Ehsaas programme to give cash to the poor people and another programme of giving targeted subsidies to the poor was being launched. Khan also talked about peace in Afghanistan and reiterated support for the ongoing peace process by saying that Pakistan would be the greatest beneficiary of a stable Afghanistan. The Islamabad Security Dialogue is envisioned as an annual flagship security forum based on the model of major dialogues on security and international policy. The National Security Division, in collaboration with leading think-tanks that are part of its advisory board, has taken this initiative to provide a platform for critical thinking and robust intellectual discourse on some of the most pressing challenges and opportunities being faced by Pakistan and the wider region, according to an official statement. The two-day event is being attended virtually by international thinkers and scholars, members from the Federal Cabinet, diplomatic corps, former government officials, academia, think-tanks and civil society members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peace-with-pakistan-will-give-india-direct-access-to-central-asia-prime-minister-imran-khan-963048.html
17-03-2021||National||NIA attaches property of two accused in Pulwama suicide attack||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), probing February 2019 deadly fidayeen (suicide) attack in south Kashmir’s Pulwama in which 40 CRPF men were killed, has attached the houses of two accused in the case. Reports said the houses of Shakir Bashir Magrey (23), a furniture shop owner, who had provided logistical assistance to suicide bomber Adil Dar and Insha Jan (24), a college passout, were attached by the NIA in Pulwama district. Magrey and Jan were arrested by the NIA in two separate operations in February and March last year respectively and were named in the charge sheet in the Pulwama car bombing of a CRPF convoy. The NIA attached the properties in exercise of powers granted under Section 25 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. The NIA said that during questioning, Magrey disclosed that on several occasions, he collected and delivered arms, ammunition, cash and explosive material to the JeM militants including those involved in Pulwama attack. The NIA also said that he had provided shelter to Adil Dar and Mohammad Umar Farooq, a Pakistani national, in his house from late 2018 till the attack in February 2019. As per NIA, he had also assisted them in the preparation of IED, besides conducting a reconnaissance of the movement of the CRPF convoy on the Jammu-Srinagar Highway in January 2019 He was also involved in modifying the Maruti Eeco car and fitting the IED in it in early February 2019. The car was used for bombing the CRPF convoy. The NIA has accused Insha Jan of facilitating the militants at their home and providing food and other logistics during their stay on more than 15 occasions for two to four days each time in their house during 2018, 2019. Insha, who was arrested along with her father Tariq Ahmed Shah, as per NIA, was in constant touch with Mohammad Umar Farooq, a Pakistani IED maker and was in communication with him over the telephone and other social media applications.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-attaches-property-of-two-accused-in-pulwama-suicide-attack-963055.html
17-03-2021||National||Good idea, says SC bench on plea for common duct on highways to avoid digging||The Supreme Court on Wednesday agreed to examine a PIL seeking directions to the government to mandatorily provide a common duct for all public utilities in the construction plan of highways and other roads to avoid unnecessary digging and retrenching. "It is a good idea," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said while issuing notice to the Union government, the National Highway Authority of India and others on the plea by Haripriya Patel. The petitioner, claimed her residence was situated along National Highway 10 and she was deeply aggrieved by the perennial maintenance work of highways on account of re-digging and trenching leading to numerous road accidents and traffic inconvenience. "A huge amount of public funds goes to waste each year on account of duplication of civil work on account of construction of road at first and re-digging it to lay utility ducts later," the plea filed by advocate Anirudh Sanganeria stated. The petitioner contended that the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) also issued guidelines on November 22, 2016, for a provision of utility ducts, preferably “as close” to the extreme edge of the Right of Way (RoW). It has been made mandatory by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) in the construction of National Highways with four and six lanes. However, the said guidelines were not compulsorily applied in most road projects. She also cited a statement by Union Cabinet Minister for Road Transport and Highways, Nitin Gadkari, who said that the country's two lakh kilometres of highways can be used for laying optic fibre and oil and gas pipes, which will help the road ministry earn additional revenues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/good-idea-says-sc-bench-on-plea-for-common-duct-on-highways-to-avoid-digging-963064.html
17-03-2021||National||Parliamentary Panel recommends raising HC judges' retirement age to 65 ||A Parliamentary panel has recommended to raise the age of retirement of High Court judges from 62 to 65 years. If this happens, age of superannuation in both the Supreme Court and High Courts will be the same. “The Members of the Committee expressed that there is a need to revisit the age of retirement of High Court judges to compensate for the large number of vacancies existing in High Courts," the department-related standing committee on personnel, public grievances and law and justice said.  In its report on demands for grants for the Law Ministry, the committee noted that in the Supreme Court of India and High Courts, 12 per cent and 39 per cent posts of judges, respectively, are vacant. “While discussing the issues of vacant positions of judges and pendency of cases in the country, members of the committee felt that the huge pendency of cases at all levels of judicial hierarchy can be dealt with by increasing the number of working days of judges," the committee said.  The committee said it is of the view that the justice delivery system in the country is moving towards a stage, where both vacancy positions of judges and pendency of cases are increasing year after year and this state of affairs may erode the trust of the public on the justice delivery system.  “When judges of the Supreme Court can work up to 65 years of age, there is no rationale in retiring the High Court judges at 62, and therefore, (it) recommends the Department to raise the age of retirement of High Courts judges from 62 to 65 years so that there is uniform age of retirement in both Supreme Court and High Courts," the report said.   In the High Courts, as against the approved strength of 1,080 judges, only 661 are in position with 419 vacancies. Further, there are 4.34 crore cases pending in the country, which includes 3.77 crore in subordinate courts, 57 lakh (approx.) in High Courts and 66,000 (approx.) in the Supreme Court as on February 28, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-recommends-raising-hc-judges-retirement-age-to-65-963078.html
17-03-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat blames women wearing ripped jeans for 'destroying culture', courts controversy||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who took charge of the state a few days back, courted controversy after he said that 'ripped' jeans worn by the women spoiled the children. ''These days ripped jeans are very popular with the women... Is it our culture?,'' Rawat said while speaking at a function at Dehradun, the capital of the state, about 500 kilometres from here, on Tuesday. He said that the children learned about the culture from their parents. ''What kind of culture will they learn if their parents wear ripped jean?'' he asked. Rawat said that during one of his plane journeys, a woman wearing ripped jeans sat beside her and introduced herself as a social worker. ''I wondered what kind of social service must she be doing when she herself wears such clothes... The situation was not the same during our times,'' he added. Rawat said that the youths of the new generation were greatly influenced by the western culture, which was not a ''good sign''. ''Wearing ripped jeans has become a status symbol today,'' he remarked.  The Uttarakhand chief minister's remarks came within a couple of days after he likened Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Lord Rama and said that the future generations would 'worship' him (Modi) like they today worship Lord Ram and Lord Krishna. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand MLA Ganesh Joshi also added fuel to the controversial fire by saying that women should soleley focus on their family and children, NDTV reported. “Women talk about all things they want to do in life, but the most important thing for them is to look after their family and children,” he was quoted as saying. Rawat, who sworn-in as chief minister of the hill state last week, replaced Trivendra Singh Rawat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-blames-women-wearing-ripped-jeans-for-destroying-culture-courts-controversy-963083.html
17-03-2021||National||Election to three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala on April 12||Election to three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala falling vacant next month will be held on April 12, the Election Commission said on Wednesday. Abdul Wahab of the IUML, K K Ragesh of the CPI-M and Vayalar Ravi of the Congress are retiring on April 21, the Commission said. The notification for the biennial elections will be issued on March 24. As per practice, votes will counted in the evening of April 12 after conclusion of polling at 4 pm. Members of legislative assembly elect Rajya Sabha members. The MLAs of the outgoing assembly, in which the ruling LDF has a majority, will elect the three new members. Kerala assembly elections will be held on April 6 and counting will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-to-three-rajya-sabha-seats-from-kerala-on-april-12-963084.html
17-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha MP asks govt not to waste Rs 35,000 cr on Covid-19 vaccination||Presenting a contrarian perspective on Covid-19 vaccination, a Lok Sabha MP on Wednesday asked the government not to waste Rs 35,000 crore on the inoculation drive and instead use the money in improving the health infrastructure in the country. Participating in a discussion on demands for grants of the Health Ministry, YSRCP member Sanjeev Kumar Singari argued that vaccination is a waste of money as universal vaccination is neither possible nor warranted. "Now the government is proposing to spend Rs 35,000 on Covid-19 vaccination, this is a waste of money in my view. Covid-19 vaccine saves us only for 6-9 months after that Rs 35,000 crore will be evaporated," Singari said. He also noted that crises like Covid-19 occur once in 100 years, so the government should not give much importance to the coronavirus pandemic. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has provided Rs 35,000 crore towards Covid-19 vaccination in 2021-22 fiscal. "I suggest to the government to divert Rs 35,000 crore to primary healthcare which is very essential for India," Singari said. Noting that 60 per cent seropositivity is considered immunity and many cities like Hyderabad have already recorded 54 per cent of seropositivity rate, he said, "I request the government to not spend money on Covid-19 vaccination." Singari also emphasised that Ayurveda doctors should not be allowed to practice modern systems of medicine. Last year, the government issued a notification authorising post-graduate practitioners in specified streams of Ayurveda to be trained to perform surgical procedures such as excisions of benign tumours, nasal and cataract surgeries. Terming the move a "man-made catastrophe in the making", the Lok Sabha MP said these surgeries are in the domain of various specialties of the allopathic system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-mp-asks-govt-not-to-waste-rs-35000-cr-on-covid-19-vaccination-963089.html
17-03-2021||National||India sticks to AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine 'with full vigour'||India is not worried about some EU countries suspending use of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and will continue to roll out the shot in its huge immunisation programme "with full vigour", a senior official said Wednesday. The AstraZeneca shots, produced by India's Serum Institute, account for most of the 35 million coronavirus vaccines administered in the country so far. European nations including France, Spain and Germany have suspended the vaccine's use because of worries it causes blood clots. This is despite the World Health Organization saying the vaccine is safe and the EU's medicines regulator being "firmly convinced" that the benefits outweigh the risks of side effects. Vinod K. Paul, a member of the government advisory body NITI Aayog, said on Wednesday that Indian authorities were reviewing data, but that there was nothing to suggest a "causal relationship" between the vaccine and blood clots. "(I) again assure you that we have no signal of concern in this regard and therefore clearly, our programme (with the vaccine)... will go on with full vigour," Paul told reporters. India was "watching the information being made available from other sources, but today there is no concern at all", he said. The Serum Institute -- the world's largest vaccine maker -- has already supplied tens of millions of doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine to dozens of mostly poorer countries around the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sticks-to-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-with-full-vigour-963090.html
17-03-2021||National||It's a girl! Woman gives birth on Bengaluru-Delhi flight||An early morning IndiGo flight from Bengaluru landed in Jaipur on Wednesday with an additional passenger as a woman traveller onboard gave birth to a baby girl mid-air. The cabin crew of the Bengaluru-Jaipur flight, with the help of Dr Subahana Nazir travelling on the same flight, helped the woman deliver the baby. The flight departed from Bengaluru around 5.45 a.m. and landed in Jaipur around 8:00 a.m. on Wednesday. The crew of flight 6E-469 informed the Jaipur airport of the medical emergency on board the flight and asked officials to arrange for a doctor and an ambulance on arrival. “Both the baby and mother are stable,” said a statement from the airline. The airline also honoured Dr Nazir with a thank you card to express gratitude for the timely help. In October, a baby boy was born on a Delhi-Bengaluru IndiGo flight and a gynaecologist who was onboard had helped with the premature delivery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-a-girl-woman-gives-birth-on-bengaluru-delhi-flight-963094.html
17-03-2021||National||BSNL expects 4G services rollout completion in 18-24 months: Sanjay Dhotre||State-owned Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd (BSNL) expects the rollout of 4G services to be completed in 18-24 months, Parliament was informed on Wednesday. The government has no plan to privatise BSNL, Minister of State for Communications, Sanjay Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. BSNL had invited an Expression of Interest (EoI) on January 1, 2021, for prior registration/Proof of Concept (PoC) from Indian companies interested in participating in its upcoming 4G tender, he said. "BSNL will follow the applicable Rules/guidelines/Public Procurement orders of the Government, including Rule 144(xi) of the General Financial Rules, 2017 in this regard," he added. BSNL expects the rollout of 4G services to be completed in 18 to 24 months, Dhotre informed. The government had approved the revival plan for BSNL in 2019, which includes an administrative allotment of spectrum for 4G services through budgetary allocation to the company. To another question, Dhotre said the telecom department, at present, has no plan to frame legislation to regulate internet shutdown in the country. However, in order to streamline the process of internet shutdowns in the country, the DoT had notified 'Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency or Public Safety) Rules, 2017' in August 2017, under a section of the Indian Telegraph Act. "Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services (Public Emergency and Public Safety) Rules, 2017 has been amended vide Gazette Notification dated 10.11.2020," Dhotre added. Replying to another question pertaining to a temporary suspension of telecom services, Dhotre said the amendment has been forwarded to all chief secretaries/administrators of states and Union Territories, emphasising that the Supreme Court has mandated the publication of suspension orders, and all orders for suspension of telecom services must adhere to the principle of proportionality and must not extend beyond the necessary duration. Acknowledging the role of internet in education, financial transactions, business, and overall economic well-being of the society, the minister said, "but the fact cannot be denied that the social media platforms operating on internet are also being used by terrorists/anti-social elements to disseminate hate and violence thus disturbing the social harmony". On whether the government proposes to do away with the 2G mobile communications system in the country in the wake of technological advancements and the introduction of 5G, Dhotre replied in negative. "The licensed telecom service providers in the country are using diverse cellular mobile technologies viz., 2G, 3G, 4G and their combinations to provide voice and data services," he said, adding that the choice of technology for provision of telecom services are left to operators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsnl-expects-4g-services-rollout-completion-in-18-24-months-sanjay-dhotre-963099.html
17-03-2021||National||WhatsApp asked to review proposed privacy policy changes: Dhotre||The government has asked messaging firm Whatsapp to review its proposed privacy policy changes, Minister of State for IT and Communications Sanjay Dhotre informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. WhatsApp has drawn massive criticism from users globally, including India, over concerns that data was being shared with its parent company, Facebook. WhatsApp, on its part, has maintained that messages on the platform are end-to-end encrypted and that neither WhatsApp nor Facebook can see the private messages on WhatsApp's platform. "Ministry of Electronics & Information Technology (MeitY) took cognizance of the WhatsApp announcement of its new Privacy Policy stated to be applicable to Indian users. To safeguard the interest of Indian users, Meity has asked WhatsApp to review the proposed privacy policy changes and also to explain the rationale of the same," Dhotre said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Whatsapp has proposed its users to accept updated policy changes by May 15 if they want to continue using the app.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/whatsapp-asked-to-review-proposed-privacy-policy-changes-dhotre-963101.html
17-03-2021||National||Only those with Covid-19 negative report can enter Bihar||Alarmed over a spike in Covid-19 cases in many states, Bihar is now gearing up to check the spread of such cases in view of a large number of migrants and other people planning to visit Bihar during Holi. The Nitish regime has, therefore, decided that those coming from other states, particularly Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, will have to furnish Covid-19 negative report once they land here by flight or train. “Two teams of health professionals have been deputed at Jaya Prakash Narayan International Airport to verify and check those travellers who are coming from Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab. Such passengers will have to furnish the Covid-19 negative report. If they fail to do so, they will have to undergo a mandatory Covid-19 testing here,” said the District Magistrate of Patna, Chandrashekhar Singh. Besides different teams of Health Department professionals have been deputed at railway stations and bus stands to carry out a similar exercise and prepare a list of those coming from these states. The state government has suggested that since the festival of Holi can exponentially spread the Covid-19, one should play it safe and hold the fest in a subdued manner. “Usually, one puts colour/gulal on each other’s face during Holi. This will be a violation of Centre’s guidelines of maintaining physical distance. So, if possible, please refrain from Holi. Or else, celebrate it among the family members, without interacting with outsiders,” opined a senior government doctor, wishing not to be identified.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-those-with-covid-19-negative-report-can-enter-bihar-963105.html
17-03-2021||National||India's reputation as pharmacy of world reinforced, says Jaishankar||; made-in-India vaccines supplied to 72 nations: JaishankarIndia's reputation as pharmacy of world reinforced; made-in-India vaccines supplied to 72 nations: Jaishankar External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar told Rajya Sabha Wednesday that India's reputation as the "pharmacy of the world" stands reinforced the way it reached out to nations in the midst of a global crisis and supplied vaccines to 72 nations. Making a statement on "Vaccine Maitri" initiative, he said the supply of the 'Made in India' vaccine to 72 nations after the world was reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic prompted global leaders and world citizens to extend warmth to India and its citizens. Even as the Covid-19 pandemic was in full fury, there were already global demands of India's pharmaceutical and medical capabilities which could be met largely due to the extraordinary ramp-up of India's Covid-19-related capabilities, Jaishankar said. Talking about low fatality rates and the high recovery rates, he said, "Our reputation as the 'pharmacy of the world' has been reinforced. So indeed has the faith in 'Make in India'. But more than the vaccines, our policies and conduct have emerged as a source of strength for the stressed and vulnerable nations of the world. They can see that there is at least one major nation that truly believes in making vaccines accessible and affordable to others in dire need." He said 'Vaccine Maitri' began in the immediate neighbourhood, starting with the Maldives, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Myanmar, as also Mauritius and Seychelles and thereafter to the Gulf. "Supplying smaller and more vulnerable nations was then the logic of reaching out to regions from Africa to the CARICOM. There were also contracts that our producers have entered into with other nations, either bilaterally or through the Covax initiative. To date, we have supplied 'Made in India' vaccines to 72 nations across geographies," the minister said. He said the House should recognise the enormous feeling for India that its initiative has generated. Jaishankar said there was an external beneficial impact of India's capabilities and it could meet the spiking requirements of hydroxychloroquine, paracetamol and other relevant drugs across the world and added that India's domestic vaccination programme started in January and within a few days, it also started assisting our immediate neighbours. "In fact, we supplied 150 nations with medicines, 82 of them as grants by India. As our own production of masks, PPEs and diagnostic kits grew, we made them available to other nations. This generous approach... was also extended to the Vande Bharat Mission. Starting from Wuhan, we brought back nationals of other countries while looking after our own," he said. He said as Indians, "We are all naturally internationalist by virtue of our culture, traditions, heritage and history" and PM Modi's vision has provided an over-arching framework to make India's goodwill meaningful in terms of practical initiatives and activities that reflected in its humanitarian assistance and disaster responses, whether in Yemen, Nepal, Mozambique or Fiji. "In the last few years, India has developed a reputation of being the first and reliable responder in the region," the minister said. "When it came to Africa, we raised the level of our cooperation very substantially... Our projects, training and presence have today spread widely across that continent. From the Caribbean to the Pacific Islands, the message has been clear that the Prime Minister of India not only has the willingness to engage them personally, but to back that up with concrete development programmes. It is this outlook of human-centric global cooperation that is the driving force of Vaccine Maitri," he said. Jaishankar said the prime minister in his virtual address to the UN General Assembly in September 2020 had declared that India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis. "We also offered to enhance cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of vaccines. This approach is not only in keeping with our age-old tradition of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam.... As a prominent nation in an increasingly multi-polar world, the international community has greater expectations of us, and we, in turn, are prepared to demonstrate our willingness to shoulder greater responsibilities," he said. He said as early as March 15, 2020, the prime minister took the initiative to hold a meeting of SAARC heads of government to fashion a regional response resulting in SAARC COVID-19 Fund that supported the early exchanges on this issue. "The Ministry of External Affairs conducted 14 e-ITEC courses in partnership with premier institutions like AIIMS and PGI Chandigarh" with 1,131 professional participants in it from 47 countries. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said he expected the government to recognise the roots of 2014 success to the previous year adding that the FERA was set up in 1973 while there were huge investments in science and technology in public institutes. He said Bharat Biotech's Covaxin was developed in an institute in Hyderabad set up 16 years ago by public funds. Binoy Viswam of CPI said, "We did not become the pharmacy of India recently question about vaccine reach to the poor. Anand Sharma echoed, "We must place the contribution of our institutes built over decades such as ICMR." To these, Jaishankar replied, "You will recall the saying, success has many fathers. Too many fathers claiming success today... All of us know the enormous efforts of government in getting vaccine prices lowered, the lowest in the world" He also said that he was proud to have taken Covaxin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-reputation-as-pharmacy-of-world-reinforced-says-jaishankar-963106.html
17-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom :B S Yediyurappa rules out imposing lockdown or curfew in any part of Karnataka||In your evening news brief,  Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh removed over bomb scare near  Ambani house; Prime Minister Narendra Modi expresses concern over a rise in Covid-19 cases in parts of the country and CM B S Yediyurappa rules out imposing lockdown or curfew in any part of Karnataka.  Here is the top news of March 17, 2021: Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday removed Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the wake of the sensational incident of a bomb scare near the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren.  Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who worked with the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police, has been arrested by NIA and ATS, respectively, in the two cases. Director-General of Police Hemant Nagarale has been appointed the new Mumbai Police chief. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday expressed concern over a rise in Covid-19 cases in parts of the country and called for "quick and decisive" steps to check the "emerging second peak". In a virtual interaction with state chief ministers over the pandemic situation and the ongoing vaccination drive, Modi said in states like Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh the number of Covid cases has seen a rise while nearly 70 districts in the country have have seen an increase in the positivity rate by over 150 per cent of late. Allaying public fears over the imminent lockdown and night curfew in view of rising Covid-19 cases, CM Yediyurappa on Wednesday ruled out imposing lockdown or curfew in any part of the state including Bengaluru. Appealing to the public, the chief minister said that there is no need for anybody to panic as the state government is taking all measures to contain the spread of the virus Yediyurappa further said that the state government has sought permission from the centre to take up vaccination in apartment complexes, old age homes and inaccessible terrains across the state. Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-b-s-yediyurappa-rules-out-imposing-lockdown-or-curfew-in-any-part-of-karnataka-963112.html
17-03-2021||National||Centre says Covid vaccine wastage in India is 6.5%, calls for optimal utilisation of shots||With only one-tenth of the targeted beneficiaries receiving at least a single dose of the Covid-19 vaccine so far, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked the States to stop wastage of the vaccine as there are lakhs who would be benefitted from such doses. “We should take the problem of vaccine wastage seriously. Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have more than 10% of vaccine waste. In Uttar Pradesh too the vaccine waste is almost the same. Why are the vaccine doses being wasted?” Modi said in a virtual review meeting with the Chief Ministers on the rising number of Covid-19 cases. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that 17.6% of vaccine doses in Telangana and 11.6% doses in Andhra Pradesh had been wasted. In Uttar Pradesh, 9.4% of the doses could not be used. While the national average of vaccine wastage is 6.5%, other states with higher wastage are Karnataka (6.9%) and Jammu and Kashmir (6.6%). “I would like the states to start working with a zero wastage target. We will not allow any waste. Once you try, there will definitely be an improvement,” Modi said, reminding the states to examine the expiry date of a batch before using it. "What has come before, should be used first and what has come later may be used later." Bhushan said that the government had procured 7.54 crore (75.4 million) doses of the two vaccines and there was no shortage of doses as alleged by some of the Chief Ministers. Also, there is a daily review of the vaccine stocks as the Health Ministry has fixed an upper limit of 10% vaccine waste though it is desirable to waste less. The Centre has also placed a new purchase order with the Serum Institute of India for an additional 10 crore (100 million) doses of Covishield, each costing Rs 157.50, according to official sources. India on Wednesday reported 28,903 new cases of which 17,864 (nearly 62%) came from Maharashtra. Other contributors are Kerala (1,970), Punjab (1,463), Karnataka (1,135), Gujarat (954) and Tamil Nadu (867). Asked about the role of any new variant of SARS-CoV-2 behind the Maharashtra surge, NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul said there was no definite signal of any particular variant pushing the epidemic in Maharashtra. But the scientific investigations are on. Paul's comments come in the backdrop of government researchers discovering a SARS-CoV-2 variant in Maharashtra districts with two worrisome mutations that allow the virus to escape the antibodies and spread faster. With the two mutations (named E484Q and L452R) making up about one-tenth of more than 200 coronavirus genomes sequenced from some of Maharashtra’s hardest-hit districts, the scientists are investigating the role of the variant behind the sudden rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-says-covid-vaccine-wastage-in-india-is-65-calls-for-optimal-utilisation-of-shots-963120.html
17-03-2021||National||No proposal to set up social media regulator: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The government on Wednesday informed Parliament that there is no proposal with the IT ministry to set up a regulator for social media. Union IT and Communications Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, however, said that the government has released Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, under the IT Act that specifies the due diligence to be followed by all the intermediaries, including the social media intermediaries. "The social media platforms are enjoined to develop a robust grievance redressal system. Presently, there is no proposal with the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to appoint a regulator for social media," Prasad informed the Lok Sabha. The government in February had announced sweeping regulations for social media firms like Facebook and Twitter as well as OTT players such as Netflix, requiring them to remove any content flagged by authorities within 36 hours and setting up a complaint redressal mechanism with an officer being based in the country. The guidelines also make it mandatory for platforms such as Twitter and WhatsApp to identify the originator of a message that authorities consider to be anti-national and against the security and sovereignty of the country. The new rules related to social media platforms are to be handled by the IT ministry while the Information and Broadcasting ministry will look after content related issues on entertainment apps and online news portals. Prasad said under the provision of section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks unlawful and malicious online content including social media account, in the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order or for preventing incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence relating to above. "Under this provision, 9,849 URLs/accounts/webpages, mostly on social media platforms, were blocked during the year 2020," Prasad said. In response to a question of whether the government has conducted any study regarding the impact of the government's control over social media vis-a-vis the right to freedom of expression enshrined in the constitution, Prasad denied any such study undertaken by the government. He said that the government welcomes criticism, dissent and also the rights of people to ask questions on social media. "However, this needs to be acknowledged that the fundamental right of speech and expression under Article 19(1) is also subject to reasonable restrictions under Article 19(2) of the Constitution which can be imposed in the interest of security, safety and sovereignty of India, public order, friendly relations with foreign countries etc," Prasad said. The minister said it is equally important that social media should not be abused or misused to defame, promote terrorism, rampant violence and compromise the dignity of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-to-set-up-social-media-regulator-ravi-shankar-prasad-963121.html
17-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes Appropriation Bill, completing two-thirds of budget exercise||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed the Appropriation Bill 2021-22, authorising the government to draw funds from the Consolidated Fund of India for its working as well as implementation of its programmes and schemes. This completes two-thirds of the exercise for approval of the Budget for 2021-22. The Appropriation Bill authorising payment and appropriation of specified sums from the Consolidated Fund of India for 2021-22 was introduced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. The bill was later approved by voice vote. The Lok Sabha earlier discussed demands for grants of different ministries, including railways, education and health. Speaker Om Birla later applied the guillotine, after which all the outstanding demands for grants, whether discussed or not, were put to vote at once and passed. After that, the Appropriation Bill was taken into consideration and passed by the lower house of Parliament. The Lok Sabha will now discuss the Finance Bill, which essentially contains the government's tax proposals. Once the Finance Bill is passed, the budget exercise is complete. Both appropriation and finance bills are classified as money bills which do not require the explicit consent of the Rajya Sabha. The upper house only discusses them and returns the bills. After passing the Finance Bill, it enters the statute as the Finance Act. Thus, the final Budget gets approved. While guillotine literally is a large, weighted blade used for executing a condemned person, in legislative parlance, to ''guillotine'' means to bunch together and fast-track the passage of financial business. It is a fairly common procedural exercise in Lok Sabha during the Budget Session. After the Budget is presented, Parliament goes into recess for about three weeks, during which the House Standing Committees examine demands for grants for various ministries, and prepare reports. After Parliament reassembles, time is allotted for discussions on the demands for grants of some ministries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-appropriation-bill-completing-two-thirds-of-budget-exercise-963130.html
17-03-2021||National||Can't imply consent from rape victim's previous experience, says Delhi court||A Delhi court has rejected the anticipatory bail application of a Mumbai based television journalist in a rape case, saying that consent cannot be implied from the complainant's previous experiences with the accused. Special Judge Sanjay Khanagwal dismissed the application field by Varun Hiremath and said that if the woman stated in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not. The 22-year-old woman in her alleged she was raped by Hiremath at a five-star hotel in Chanakyapuri on February 20. The counsel for the 28-year-old accused told the court that there had been history of previous sexual relationship between the accused and the complainant. The counsel had highlighted some WhatsApp and Instagram chats between accused and the complainant “in order to show the love and passion between them for each other”. Defence counsel had stated before the court that the complainant had disrobed herself and indulged in sexual acts with the accused and there had been no mark of resistance on her body which showed she never said no and always consented. However, the judge said, “On this point also I am of the view that prosecutrix in her complaint as well as in her statement under Section 164 CrPC specifically denied that the act was the consented one and she has repeatedly mentioned that despite her resistance and unwillingness, accused kept on doing the same to her and she not able to resist the same as she was fearing of some injuries due to the aggression in the behaviour of the accused.” The court also noted in his order passed on March 12 that some WhatsApp chats of the accused and the victim after the alleged offence indicated “towards the feeling of sorry by the accused of his acts”. It said the question of consent coupled with the conduct of complainant and accused was a matter of trial and that it was only considering the anticipatory bail plea. Although WhatsApp and Instagram chats have not been specifically denied by the prosecution, the fact that they were having relationship and indulged in sexually explicit talks will not make a difference at this stage in view of Section 53A of Indian Evidence Act, the court said. The section provides that evidence of character or previous sexual experiences is "not relevant in certain cases including the offence under Section 376 (rape) and this provision specifically shows that previous sexual experiences with any person shall not be relevant on the issue of such consent or the quality of consent", it said. “Therefore, from her previous experiences with the accused the consent cannot be implied,” the court said. The court further stated that as per law, “So far as the question about the consent or no consent, if the woman states in her evidence before the court that she did not consent, the court shall presume that she did not consent.” The court held that based on the evidence collected by the investigating officer (IO) till today in the form of complaint, statements recorded by the complainant and WhatsApp and Instagram chats and written transcripts were sufficient to say that “this is not a case where such presumption appears to be absent”. “IO has stated about the requirement of custodial interrogation of the accused for the purpose of further investigation in this matter. “Therefore, considering the nature of accusation made against the accused, evidences collected by the IO against him and the facts and circumstances, gravity of offence and discussion made hereinabove, I am not inclined to grant anticipatory bail to the accused,” the judge said. The judge, however, said that the opinion expressed at the stage of bail “does not tantamount to expression on the merit of this case”. On the basis of woman's complaint, an FIR under IPC sections 376 (punishment of offence of rape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) and 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) was registered at Chanakyapuri police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-imply-consent-from-rape-victims-previous-experience-says-delhi-court-963135.html
17-03-2021||National||SC to decide on plea against tying rakhi as bail condition for sexual offences tomorrow||The Supreme Court is set to pronounce on Thursday its judgement on a plea by a group of women lawyers questioning a direction like accused should get 'Rakhi' tied on his hand by the victim as a condition of bail in sexual offences, trivialising the trauma suffered by her. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and S Ravindra Bhat will deliver the verdict on a petition filed by advocate Aparna Bhat who sought guidelines for the court in such matters. The plea was against a Madhya Pradesh High Court's order of July 30, 2020. The petitioners said there have been instances of such orders from other states too. Attorney General K K Venugopal, whose assistance was sought by the court, said the order passed by the High Court an accused in molestation case to "get Rakhi tied from victim" is "nothing less than a drama" and must be condemned. Maintaining that judges must be taught about gender sensitisation, he said that the National Judicial Academy and the state academies should teach that this is not permissible. Judges recruitment exam should have a portion on gender sensitisation, he added. The woman lawyers, for their part, contended such orders objectified the victims. The HC should not have put such weird conditions for bail, which was against the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, they said. In their plea, they said it has been seen in cases of sexual offence, women and families do not seek redressal from the criminal justice system primarily to avoid such kind of secondary trauma that they are subjected to in the process of a criminal trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-decide-on-plea-against-tying-rakhi-as-bail-condition-for-sexual-offences-tomorrow-963140.html
17-03-2021||National||Cash, freebies worth Rs 331 crore seized in poll-bound states, UT||The government agencies already seized much more cash, liquor, drugs and other freebies and valuables in poll-bound Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry this time than they had done during the 2016 Assembly elections. Though voting for the Assembly elections are still several days away, the agencies already confiscated cash, liquor, drugs and other freebies and precious metals worth Rs 331.47 crore in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, over Rs 100 crore more than the total value of the seizures during the 2016 polls, the Election Commission stated on Wednesday. The agencies already confiscated Rs 89.48 crore in cash as well as liquor worth Rs 28.93 crore, drugs worth Rs 75.67 crore, freebies worth Rs 48.52 crore and precious metals worth Rs 88.87 crore from Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam and Puducherry. The EC noted that the maximum amount of cash, Rs 50.86 crore, had been seized from Tamil Nadu, followed by Rs 19.11 crore in West Bengal and Rs 11.73 crore in Assam. The maximum amount of drugs, worth Rs 47.40 crore, had been seized from West Bengal, followed by Rs 27.09 crore in Assam. The precious metals worth Rs 61.04 crore and Rs 15.23 crore had been seized from Tamil Nadu and Kerala, respectively. The freebies worth Rs 29.42 crore and Rs 14.06 crore had been confiscated from West Bengal and Tamil Nadu respectively, the poll-panel stated. The Commission deployed 295 Expenditure Observers to curb the use of black money in the forthcoming Assembly elections. It also appointed five Special Expenditure Observers – two for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry and one each for Assam, Kerala and West Bengal. Of the 824 Assembly constituencies going to polls in the four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry, the EC identified 295 as “expenditure sensitive” for “more focussed vigil” to check the use of black money to woo voters. The polling in Assam will take place in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. All Assembly constituencies in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will go to polls on April 6. The polling in West Bengal will take place in eight phases on March 27, April 1, April 6, April 10, April 17, April 22, April 26 and April 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cash-freebies-worth-rs-331-crore-seized-in-poll-bound-states-ut-963145.html
17-03-2021||National||Auto firms to be fined up to Rs 1 crore on mandatory recall orders for defective vehicles: Govt||Automobile companies will have to pay up to Rs 1 crore as a penalty in case of mandatory recall orders by the government for defects in manufacturing from April 1, 2021, the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways said on Wednesday. The ministry has issued rules for mandatory recall of defective vehicles by manufacturers. The notification mentions fines ranging from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 1 crore on the basis of the number of vehicles and types of vehicles. The rules for the testing of vehicles and mandatory recall under the Central Motor Vehicles Act provides for penalty in case of manufacturers or importers fail to undertake voluntary recall. At present, there is no penalty for it. The government also said that it would set up a portal for vehicle owners to register and lodge complaints. Based on complaints, notices will be slapped on automobile companies providing them 30 days time to respond. A government agency will probe into the complaints before ordering a mandatory recall. The new rules will apply to vehicles that are less than seven years old with the ministry defining defect as a fault in a vehicle or component or software that poses or may pose an undue risk to road safety.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/auto-firms-to-be-fined-up-to-rs-1-crore-on-mandatory-recall-orders-for-defective-vehicles-govt-963147.html
17-03-2021||National||Farmers to intensify agitation with Bharat Bandh, burning farm laws on Holi||Ahead of their Sampurna Bharat Bandh on March 26, farmer leaders on Wednesday said they were preparing to intensify the agitation against the three farm laws. During the nationwide strike on March 26 that also marks four months of the farmers' movement, all shops and other business establishments will remain shut for 12 hours, followed by the burning of the copies of the three laws during "holika dehan" on March 28. "The strike will start from 6 in the morning and will continue till 6 in the evening, during which all shops and dairies and everything will remain closed. "We will burn the copies of the three laws during Holi and hope that better sense prevails within the government, and it repeals the laws, and gives us a written guarantee for MSP," said Ranjit Raju of Ganganagar Kisan Samiti addressing a press conference. The bandh has found support in all trade and transport unions, students', youth and women's unions. "We are also trying to create such meetings at the state level so that the strike is observed everywhere," said another farmer leader Purushottam Sharma. All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) leader Krishna Prasad said the fact that the movement had managed to continue for as long as 112 days was an achievement in itself, and it would only get stronger from now. He added that the Bharat Bandh will happen at "state, zila, tehsil and village levels". "The protest has been going on for 112 days. That itself is an achievement. Neither you, nor us had thought that we could do this, and the public has shown that it supports us," he said. Prasad also expressed concerns over the central government's move to introduce the Electricity Amendment Bill 2021, claiming that any amendments made to the act would be in violation of the government's commitment made to the farmers in January. "During the 11 rounds of talks that we have had with the government, Agriculture Minister Narendra Tomar said that they accepted our demands over the electricity bill. "The media wrote that 50 per cent demands of the the farmers' movement were resolved. But, now they are trying to introduce the act again. This is cheating," he said. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-to-intensify-agitation-with-bharat-bandh-burning-farm-laws-on-holi-963150.html
17-03-2021||National||India responds to critics with Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines and report on democracy||A “Made-in-India” Covid-19 vaccine and a “Made-in-India” report on democracies around the world are among the options Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government is mulling over to counter criticism it received from international organisations as well as foreign governments and non-government entities over the past few years. New Delhi is planning to highlight its initiative to deliver Covid-19 vaccine doses to over 70 countries around the world to counter the criticism the Modi government received from foreign entities for allegedly pursuing a “Hindu Nationalist” agenda. The government is also considering a proposal to engage a research institute based in the country to come out with an annual report after evaluating the quality of democracy around the world and assessing human rights, civil liberties and freedom of press in other nations – ostensibly to turn the table on its foreign critics. “We have never seen a contradiction between the internationalism and the nationalism that was the driver of our independence movement and the subsequent efforts at our nation building,” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday. “Indeed, this experience has even further reinforced our internationalism, by creating a strong solidarity with other nations who have similarly struggled for their freedom,” he added, making a statement on the Modi government’s endeavour to deliver the Covid-19 vaccines around the world. He highlighted how the Government of India supported other nations in its neighbourhood and beyond to deal with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, be it by supplying Hydroxychloroquine or HCQ tablets, Personal Protective Equipment and masks or by conducting online courses for healthcare professionals of foreign countries on management of the pandemic. “To date, we have supplied ‘Made in India’ vaccines to 72 nations across geographies,” said the External Affairs Minister. A source in New Delhi said that the government had planned to highlight its “Vaccine Maitri” (Vaccine Friendship) initiative and drive home the point that while the other nations resorted to “vaccine nationalism”, it was the Indian government which took an internationalist approach and supplied vaccines around the world. It would be one of the main themes of the campaign New Delhi was planning to run to counter the criticism from foreign entities. The government is also studying a proposal mooted by A Surya Prakash, a former chairman of Prasar Bharti, to engage a think-tank to publish an annual report to hold the mirror to whom the External Affairs Minister recently described as “a set of self-appointed custodians of the world”. The V-Dem (or Varieties of Democracy) Institute, an independent research organization based at University of Gothenburg in Sweden of late branded India as an “electoral autocracy” in its latest Democracy Report 2021. The “Freedom House” of the United States downgraded it from a “Free Country” to a “Partly Free Country”. The Modi government over the past couple of years also drew flak from United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights as well as other international human rights organisations over the detention of political leaders and others, restrictions and shutdowns imposed in Jammu and Kashmir after its August 5, 2019 move to strip the state of its special status and to reorganise it into two Union Territories. It also drew flak from United States Commission for International Religious Freedom (USCIRF) – an “independent, bipartisan federal government entity” established by the American Congress – as well as the US State Department and several US lawmakers over the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act. The Modi Government was also criticised recently for the way it responded to the agitation by the farmers against the new agricultural laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-responds-to-critics-with-made-in-india-covid-19-vaccines-and-report-on-democracy-963163.html
17-03-2021||National||Fee to renew registration of old vehicles hiked||To discourage the public from using old and polluting vehicles, the Centre has proposed hefty fees for the renewal of registration of vehicles over 15 years old from October 1, 2021. The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued the Central Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Rules, 2021. As per the new rules, if a vehicle owner obtained the certificate for scrapping a 15-year-old vehicle, then there will be no extra fee levied on the registration certificate to buy a new vehicle. If the owner has not taken a scrap certificate before October 1, then he will not get an incentive on the old car. This will be applicable to all private vehicles and commercial vehicles older than 15 years. As per the proposal, new registration for two-wheelers cost Rs 300, while Rs 1,000 for the renewal of a 15-year-old vehicle's registration. For three-wheelers/quadricycles, Rs 600 to issue a new registration certificate, while Rs 2,500 for renewal. For light motor vehicles, it will cost Rs 600 to issue a new registration certificate, while Rs 5,000 for renewal. For imported two-wheelers and three-wheelers, new registration costs Rs 500 while renewal costs Rs 40,000. If the registration certificate is a smart card type, then you will have to pay Rs 200 more for issuing or renewing it. Apart from this, if the renewal of the registration certificate is delayed, then an additional Rs 300 will have to be paid for the motorcycle every month of delay, for the rest of the vehicles, a Rs 500 extra charge will be applied. The charge for conducting tests for the renewal of fitness certificates for 15-year-old vehicles has also been made expensive. For a manual motorcycle, Rs 400 will have to be paid, while for an automated one, a fee of Rs 500 will be charged. For manual three-wheelers, Rs 800 will be charged while Rs 1,000 has been fixed for automatics. Medium Vehicle/Passenger Motor Vehicle - Rs 800 for manual and Rs 1,300 for automatics. Heavy Vehicle/Passenger Motor Vehicle - Rs 1000 for Manual and Rs 1500 for automatics. The fee for renewal of fitness certificate for commercial vehicles from October 1, 2021: Rs 1,000 rupees for two-wheeler for renewal, while Rs 3,500 for three-wheelers or quadricycles. Rs 5,000 for light vehicles, Rs 10,000 for medium goods/passenger motor vehicles. Rs 12,500 for heavy goods/passenger motor vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fee-to-renew-registration-of-old-vehicles-hiked-963172.html
17-03-2021||National||Congress responsible for infiltration in NE, militancy in J&K : Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Wednesay slammed the Congress for lack of development and infiltration in the north east and militancy in Jammu and Kashmir. Addressing three back-to-back public rallies at Hojai, Kalaigaon and Rangiya in poll-bound Assam, the senior BJP leader charged the Congress of "ignoring the people's welfare and development of the region in its quest for power". "Congress never worked for development and progress of the region or the country's unity or welfare of the people, but only to grab power. This resulted in forcing the people of the north east to endure its misrule and the problem of illegal migration for a long time. "Northeast looked for development under the earlier governments for so many years. But there was none as progress was not in their (Congress') agenda", Adityanath said at Hojai. Lauding the efforts of the BJP-led government at the Centre, he said Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not restrict it to the 'Look East Policy' but looked Beyond and implemented the 'Act East Policy' for the development of the region. He also directed each of his cabinet ministers to spend one day in the region to oversee implementation of welfare schemes. Mounting an attack on the Congress, Adityanath said it had introduced Article 370 which provided for special status to Jammu and Kashmir in 1952 paving the way for entry of militants in the northernmost state. "Congress had put restrictions on the movement of people from other states to Kashmir and buying land there. But now with the revocation of Article 370 by the NDA government at the Centre, anybody from any part of the country can buy property there," he added. Bharatiya Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mukherjee had strongly opposed Article 370 calling it a threat to national unity as there cannot be two Constitutions, two flags and two prime ministers in one country, the BJP leader said. The Bharatiya Jana Sangh was the forerunner of the BJP, which came into being in 1980. "Prime Minister Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah fulfilled Mukherjee's dream by revoking Article 370 and drove the last nail to end militancy in Kashmir", he said adding the Centre has also done daring work by abolishing instant triple talaq. At the Kalaigaon rally Aditynath lambasted the Congress-led Grand Alliance in Assam and said the grand old party has joined hands with Lok Sabha MP Badruddin Ajmal's AIUDF, which is infamous for carrying out infiltration in Assam . "They (Congress) have always supported infiltration. It has formed a 'Mahajot' and is trying to influence the election. This is why this Assembly election is important - it will save the civilisation, culture and identity of Assam," he added. The election to the 126-seat Assam assembly will be held in three phases from March 27. Adityanath claimed that under the leadership of Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal the sstate has become free from terrorism and insurgency and is well on the path of development. "This is new India. No one can be allowed to play with civilisation and culture. No one is allowed to play with the country's security and sovereignty. "We (BJP) will not discriminate in our developmental schemes on the grounds of caste, community, religion, region or language. We are for development for all, but appeasement to none," he asserted. Adityanath said the way BJP freed Srimanta Sankardeva's birthplace (Bordowa) of infiltration will make Assam free from illegal immigrants. "Srimanta Sankardeva was a visionary leader who planted the seed of cultural nationalism in India and drew attention towards infiltration. That's why Sankardeva was never duly recognised by the Congress. The party always did appeasement politics," was his rather surprising comment on the Vaishnavite scholar. Srimanta Sankardeva was born in 1449 and died in 1568, while the immigration from the then East Bengal, which came to be known as East Pakistan after Partition, started in early 20th century. The infiltration problem in the state got into limelight in the post-Independence era. Adityanath said the people need a government like the Modi government, which defended the country with the surgical strike in Pakistan administered Kashmir in 2016 when that country intruded, brought about development and unity to the country and provided employment opportunities to the youth. Modi, he said, has never discriminated among the people of the country but has taken everyone along irrespective of religion, region, caste or language for their welfare and progress,. "Development for all is the prime minister's and BJP's moto," Adityanath said. Under Modi's leadership during the last six years the BJP government undertook welfare schemes for all citizens, irrespective of the various differences. It provided benefits under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, free LPG to women under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana, LED bulbs, electricity, drinking water to each household, Rs five lakh insurance cover for the economically deprived, besides water to agricultural fields, he said. He also referred to US President Joe Biden appreciating Modi for effectively handling the COVID-19 pandemic in India, vaccinating its citizens and also sending vaccines to friendly countries. In the meeting at Rangia, Adityanath said the construction of the Ram temple has begun and invited the people of Assam to visit Ayodhya once the structure is ready.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-responsible-for-infiltration-in-ne-militancy-in-jk-yogi-adityanath-963185.html
17-03-2021||National||Over 64 lakh migrant labourers travelled in Shramik trains: Goyal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday said that over 64 lakh migrant labourers reached home safely by Shramik trains during the Covid-19 pandemic. "More than 64 lakh migrant labourers reached home safely. 4,600 Shramik trains were run on 43 routes during the pandemic, the Minister said in the Rajya Sabha in his reply over a discussion on the railways. "Every state was given the number of trains they demanded. Even then, there were attempts to politicise it. We immediately resolved it. We asked them how many trains they want and we gave them those trains in 12-14 hours. It is a different issue that they were unable to use those because that much was not needed," the minister said. Goyal said that none of the railway employees refused to come to work during the crisis, even when there was no awareness about the Covid-19 virus. Communist Party of India (CPI) member Binoy Viswam alleged that migrant labourers were filled in the Shramik trains like refugees and 97 people died on those trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-64-lakh-migrant-labourers-travelled-in-shramik-trains-goyal-963210.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||G-23 can exist only in Congress: Rahul Gandhi||Breaking his silence on the “dissent” within the party, Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said that such a frank exchange of ideas was possible only in the Congress party. “Today, there are a group of 20 people who have a different view of the Congress party. Do you think they could exist in the BJP? Do you think they could exist in the BSP? Do you think they could exist in the TMC,” Gandhi said during an interaction with the faculty and students of Brown University. “No, they cannot exist in any other party except the Congress. In Congress, we say ‘we do not agree with you but the negotiation cannot stop. It has to go on,” the former Congress President said. A group of 23 leaders had written a letter to Congress President Sonia Gandhi seeking a more visible leadership and demanded sweeping changes in the organisation, including elections for the post of the President and the Congress Working Committee. The leaders, led by former J&K Chief Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad, have been highlighting the shortcomings in the Congress through their public remarks in their bid to seek changes in the organisation. Gandhi asserted that he had a role to play in Congress and would continue to push for new leaders in the party. He deftly stepped aside from the leadership issue and insisted that no one from the Gandhi family had been prime minister since 1989. “I defend an ideological current in the Congress party. … I do not take kindly to the idea that just because my father was someone, I do not get to defend that idea,” Gandhi said. The former Congress President said he had pushed for internal democracy within the party and was “mauled” for doing it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/g-23-can-exist-only-in-congress-rahul-gandhi-962838.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Situation much worse: Rahul on foreign NGOs criticising India on freedom, democracy||After two foreign organisations criticised India on freedom and democracy, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the "situation is much worse than they have imagined". He also said that he was protecting a certain ideology in the Congress party and would not step aside just because someone else does not like it and continue to fight the RSS. He also said he favoured internal democracy in Congress and has promoted many leaders within the party. In an online interaction with Professor Ashutosh Varshney of the Brown University in the US, Gandhi said electoral democracy can be "destroyed" in the 21st century if one can control the social media and institutions and has financial dominance while citing examples of Saddam Hussain and Muammar Gaddafi. Asked about Sweden's V-Dem Institute's democracy report that has downgraded India from the "world's largest democracy" to an "electoral autocracy" and the US government-funded NGO, Freedom House, downgrading the country's status from "free" to "partly free", he said these foreign institutions have their view, but "frankly, we do not need a stamp from them". Gandhi, however, added that directionally, what they are saying is "correct". "I would add one thing. I would say they are much behind the curve. I think the situation is actually much worse than they imagined," he said. The government has strongly rebutted the Freedom House report and called it "misleading, incorrect and misplaced" while asserting that the country has well-established democratic practices. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar has also slammed global bodies for their "hypocrisy" and called them "self-appointed custodians of the world, who find it very difficult to stomach that somebody in India is not looking for their approval". During his interaction with Varshney and the students and faculty members of the Brown University, Gandhi said one cannot separate electoral democracy from institutional frameworks. "An election is not simply about people going and pressing a button on a voting machine. An election is about narrative, about institutions that make sure that the framework in the country is operating properly, an election is about a judiciary that is being fair, an election is about a debate that is taking place in Parliament. So you need those things for the vote to count," he said, noting that even Saddam Hussain and Gaddafi used to have elections and win those, but there was no institutional framework to protect that vote. Asked whether he would step aside and allow others to become leaders in the party, the former Congress chief said he is fighting an ideological war and would continue to do so. "I believe in certain ideas and I defend those ideas. I do not really care what my name is or who my grandfather was. There are certain ideas that I defend and I am going to defend them, whether anybody likes it or not," he said. Gandhi said nobody from his family has been the prime minister since 1989, "but there is an obsession that somehow we are in power". "I have a role to play in Congress. I defend a particular ideological colour in Congress. I am certainly not going to say thank you very much, I will not defend that ideological position in Congress just because I happen to be so and so's the son. Why should I?" he asked. "If you had said to me to step aside when I was not facing the RSS, I would be like yes, I could do that. But if you say that there is this monster that is coming at the ideas that I believe in, then I would say no, I would not back down," he said. On a question on should others become leaders in the Congress, Gandhi said, "Absolutely, 100 per cent. I am more than happy to push as many leaders as possible and make as many of them successful and that is my record...that is all I do all day long. I push people and push them forward." He said he has been pushing for elections in the party from day one and has been mauled in the press because he wants elections. "It is interesting to me that when I am pushing for internal democracy, everybody is saying do not do it," Gandhi said, adding that neither the BJP nor the BSP or any other political party has elections. "But I believe we have a bigger responsibility and we should have internal elections," he said. To another question from Varshney, Gandhi said with modern technology coming in, if one controls WhatsApp and Facebook, one does not need to attack the vote as one can control the narrative. "You can destroy an electoral democracy in the 21st century if you have got Facebook, WhatsApp if you have financial dominance and if you control the institutions, why wouldn't you let people just go and vote...just keep that pretense," he said. Gandhi alleged that the RSS has captured India's institutions and it has been doing so openly since 2014 when the BJP came to power at the Centre. "It is very obvious to me that the institutions allowed a negotiation between our identities, cultures, languages. What I see is a determined attack on those institutions and a capture of those institutions," he noted. Asked if the situation is comparable to the US, Gandhi said there are elements of that taking place in the US. "I am nobody to comment on the US.... But my sense is that the American institutions are showing much more resilience than the Indian ones. I get the sense that the American system is countering this onslaught better than our system," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/situation-much-worse-rahul-on-foreign-ngos-criticising-india-on-freedom-democracy-962873.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Do not belittle institution with repeated innuendos, EC warns Mamata Banerjee||In a stern message to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Election Commission on Tuesday said that it was not proper to belittle the institution by calling it as being close to the ruling party and asserted that it would not like to be repeatedly "put in the dock" with innuendos and averments. Despite meeting representatives of the TMC in Kolkata and the national capital in the recent past, "if it is stated by the CM that the Commission should meet political parties, it is only an attempt to belittle the institution of Commission with repeated innuendos and averments", the poll panel said in response to a letter from Banerjee to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on March 14. "Commission maintains the position that they would not like to keep on being put in the dock for alleged proximity to any political entity," Deputy Election Commissioner in charge of West Bengal Sudeep Jain wrote to Banerjee. Recently, the TMC had urged the panel to remove Jain as in charge of West Bengal and had questioned his neutrality. The commission had defended Jain by coming out with a press statement. If the chief minister "persists in creating and attempting to perpetuate this myth for reasons best known to her, it is singularly unfortunate", he said and added that it was only for her to adjudge why she was doing so. Addressing rallies in West Bengal on Tuesday, Banerjee accused Union Home Minister Amit Shah of "hatching a conspiracy" to harass TMC leaders ahead of the assembly polls and sought to know if the Election Commission was taking instructions from him. Banerjee also said that she would be forced to stage a protest outside the poll panel's office if the BJP continues to "interfere" in its day-to-day functioning. The letter said that a TMC delegation had given a representation on issues relating to her security on March 11. A reply was sent to them from the Commission on the same day. Another representation by the party was given on March 12, the reply of which is being firmed up and will be sent in a day or so, it said. "Meanwhile, the reply of the communication dated March 14 is being sent because as per media reports some of the issues have been raised by you in a public rally in Bankura," the letter said, adding that it does not have an authorised text of the rally. In an apparent response to her allegation in Bankura on Tuesday that the BJP was plotting to kill her, and her director of security, Vivek Sahay, was removed from the post by the poll panel following her injury in Nandigram, for this reason, the EC said a new officer has already been posted to head her security detail. "It would be noted that keeping the security sensitivities of your person as Chief Minister and a Z+ class protectee Commission authorised the chief secretary to immediately appoint a Director Security in consultation with the DGP, which as stated earlier was done yesterday. "It is a reasonable presumption that Chief Secretary, in consultation with DGP West Bengal, has posted Gyanwant Singh, IPS as Director Security. Chief Secretary would have consulted you/ got an approval on file being Chief Minister and Home Minister before issuing the orders of posting of Gyanwant Singh," the letter said. The EC had ordered the removal of Sahay on Sunday for failing in his duty to protect Banerjee. Incidentally, Gyanwant Singh was relocated by the Commission in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to another assignment and was also recently transferred from another assignment by the West Bengal government, the letter said. "It has been repeated ad nauseum in letters...that Commission has been doing things by making changes...arbitrarily which has been commented upon at length in the earlier communication...and need not be commented upon again. Political parties are the second most important component of the entire electoral edifice after the voters," the letter said. The Election Commission on Sunday concurred with its two poll observers that there was no pre-meditated attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Nandigram during her poll campaign and that her injuries were the result of a security lapse. Taking stern action over the "slack" bandobast arrangements, the commission ordered the immediate suspension of IPS officer Vivek Sahay, who was in charge of the CM's security, and Purba Medinipur SP Praveen Prakash. It also transferred Purba Medinipur district magistrate. "Charges must be framed against him (Vivek Sahay) within a week for grossly failing in the discharge of his primary duty as Director, Security, to protect the Z+ protectee," the EC said in a statement. It said that the state chief secretary, in consultation with the DGP, is authorised to post a suitable director of security immediately. The poll panel also decided that a committee comprising the chief secretary and the DGP will "identify within the next three days the other proximate security personnel below Director Security who failed in their duties to prevent the incident and protect the Z+ protectee, and take suitable action for their failure..."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/do-not-belittle-institution-with-repeated-innuendos-ec-warns-mamata-banerjee-962876.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Government is penalising educated youth: Rahul Gandhi on vacant posts in educational institutions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took a dig at the Centre over the reported vacancies in faculties of top educational institutions, saying the educated youth is facing severe joblessness and it seems the government is "penalising" them for having "real degrees". Congress has in the past raised questions over the educational degrees of some BJP leaders. "Educated youth is facing severe joblessness. It seems GOI is penalising them, especially OBC-SC-ST candidates, for having real degrees!" Gandhi tweeted. The Congress leader tagged a table showing faculty vacancies in top institutions such as IITs and several central universities. He also tagged a media report on 60 per cent OBC, Scheduled Caste positions vacant in IIMs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-is-penalising-educated-youth-rahul-gandhi-on-vacant-posts-in-educational-institutions-962966.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Assembly elections: BJP releases list of candidates for Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday released its list of candidates for Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and for the third phase of the election in Assam. The party fielded Banendra Kr Mushahar from the Gauripur constituency in Assam. Elections to the 126-member Assam Assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6. In Kerala, the saffron party fielded Mukundan Palliyara from  Mananthavady, Bitty Sudheer from  Karunagappally, M. Sunil from Kollam and Sobha Surendran from Kazhakoottam. In Tamil Nadu, the party fielded C Nagesh Kumar from Thalli, Bhojarajan from Udhagamandalam and from Vilavancode. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-elections-bjp-releases-list-of-candidates-for-tamil-nadu-assam-kerala-962967.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly elections: TMC likely to release manifesto today||Trinamool Congress (TMC) is likely to release its manifesto for the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections today. The Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led party has postponed the manifesto release for the third time so far. The TMC had announced it will release its manifesto on March 9 but later decided to postpone it to March 11 due to the Kolkata fire incident which claimed nine lives. The ruling party had not released its manifesto on March 11, following the alleged attack on Banerjee during a campaign in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram on March 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-elections-tmc-likely-to-release-manifesto-today-962969.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||LDF eyes return on back of Pinarayi Vijayan's rising popularity in Kerala||Amid the heated poll campaigns in Kerala, Chief Minister and LDF leader Pinarayi Vijayan has emerged as the face of the party, with full-sized posters featuring him being spotted in corners of the state and many likening him to ‘Mundu Udutha Modi’ or 'Modi clad in mundu (a traditional dhoti)', indicating his soaring popularity in God's own country.  Vijayan, who is eyeing a second term in the state, has so far had a rather illustrious political career. Born in Kannur in 1945, Vijayan joined the Communist Party of India (Marxist) as a 19-year-old whilst still studying at Government Brennen College in Thalassery. During that time, he actively participated in student activities and led youth organisations linked to the Left including the Students Federation of India and Democratic Youth Federation of India. After winning four Assembly elections, 1970, 1977 and 1991 from Kuthuparamba seat and 1996 from Payyanur, the 75-year-old's first stint as Chief Minister came in 2016. Over the years, he also held other positions such as Cabinet minister from 1996 to 1998, state secretary of the party and president of Kerala State Co-operative Bank. Vijayan, who soon grabbed the crown of a 'revered administrator' with a key focus on development, rose to many occasions, one such instance being the 2016 Assembly elections when the party had to let go of its popular face former chief minister V S Achuthanandan. Vijayan led the Left government to victory in the absence of his bête noire. Vijayan and the 97-year-old former chief minister were known to be such bitter rivals that in 2007, both of them were suspended from the party’s Politburo for their scathing remarks against each other. Later, Vijayan was reinstated into the Politburo. As Vijayan, beating the drum of developments, leads the Left Democratic Front's way to another term in Kerala, opinion polls suggest he may break the state tradition to rotate its government. According to the Times Now-Cvoter opinion poll, the LDF is expected to win the election and retain power. The LDF is projected to win 82 seats in the 140-seat Assembly. With 42.3 per cent of the respondents saying that they were satisfied with Vijayan's leadership, the chief minister managed to hold on to the 'most popular pick' tag. The Kerala chief minister is planning to contest polls from Dharmadam, a bastion of the Left.  One of the key qualities of Vijayan that may have fuelled his popularity is his no-nonsense personality. Vijayan sticks to his strategy to harp on the work done by his government for the people and avoids addressing accusations made by Opposition parties. In his campaign, he often claims that he never let people go hungry as the government distributed free food kits through the public distribution system. "We gave 2.5 lakh houses for the homeless and distributed title deeds to 1.86 lakh people. The Gail gas line project which everyone thought was impossible was made a reality. Social welfare pensions were increased to Rs 1,600 from Rs 600. Over 6.8 lakh students enrolled in public schools," he said in a campaign rally in February. In the upcoming Assembly elections, however, Vijayan faces an uphill task to gather votes as his government has been mired by scandals such as the gold smuggling case, dollar smuggling case, and issues such as his handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Sabarimala matter and backdoor entry into government service. At first, his government’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic was lauded around the world for keeping the number of Covid-19 cases low and bolstering the healthcare system, but over the past few months, the number of cases skyrocketed before plateauing only recently. This was seen as a failure of the government and Vijayan has borne the brunt of widespread criticism for the soaring of Covid-19 cases. The Pinarayi Vijayan government, which suffered a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, winning only one of 20 seats, might also still be worried about the Sabarimala issue. Recently, the LDF government withdrew cases registered in 2018-19 against those who had indulged in alleged unlawful actions while protesting against the Supreme Court ruling allowing entry of women into the Sabarimala temple, a move seen as to pacify the voters.  "The incidents that took place in Sabarimala in 2018 was something which had pained all of us. It should never have happened. It has pained everyone...it has pained me also," minister Kadakampally Surendran said. While senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala felt the statement was to "deceive" the devotees, BJP State president K Surendran said the minister was shedding crocodile tears and would not be forgiven for the cruelty and injustice shown to Sabarimala, even if he takes a dip in the holy River Ganga a thousand times. Vijayan also faced heat from the Opposition after members of the Chief Minister’s Office were named in the gold smuggling case. With investigations ongoing in the case, Vijayan’s image has taken a beating. Prime accused Swapna Suresh made "shocking revelations" against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan and some ministers on dollar "smuggling" involving UAE consulate officials. In a statement, the Customs said, "She has stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of the Hon'ble chief minister and the Hon'ble Speaker with the help of the Consulate.” The Opposition has jumped to the occasion to point fingers at the Vijayan government. Slamming the CM, Chennithala, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, said he does not have the right to remain in the chief minister's post in view of the revelations. Whilst his critics say that Vijayan made it to the top position in the state because of a well-oiled public relations and cyber outfit, his supporters say that his successful leadership in tough situations is what helped him become the CM. Whether Vijayan's growing popularity will help the party draw the second term, is something only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ldf-eyes-return-on-back-of-pinarayi-vijayans-rising-popularity-in-kerala-962970.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Experts flag financial implications over AIADMK, DMK's shower of freebies; doable say parties||Loaded with doles and freebies to woo the electorate ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu, archrivals DMK and AIADMK's populist agenda-driven election manifesto are also being debated for the financial implications on a state already burdened with high debts. With late DMK chief M Karunanidhi's 'hero' manifesto of 2006 that promised among others, free colour TV sets, virtually setting the trend for similar races in the future, Tamil Nadu has seen it all--- free laptops, milch cows, mixer-grinder and gold for thali (mangal sutra) among others. In 2021 too, the Dravidian majors chose to dish out a slew of promises that carry the 'free of cost' tag, a more politically correct term used to describe freebies by the proponents of such largesse. The two parties--AIADMK seeking a record third term and the DMK planning a strong comeback after a decade in opposition, have converged not only on such freebies, but also on other contentious issues like the repeal of the Citizenship Amendment Act and release of seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination. Free washing machine, housing for all, solar cookers, education loan waiver, government jobs to families without anyone in state service etc are AIADMK's promises to the voter while that of DMK includes Rs 4,000 relief to Covid-19 hit rice ration card holders, laws to reserve 75 per cent jobs for locals and waiver of various loans and provision of various assistance. Both have promised phased prohibition in a state whose coffers are largely filled by liquor sales, even as DMK's ally Congress promised to implement the dry regime soon after the 'new government', apparently headed by DMK, is installed post polls. However, on the economic front, experts feel the new government will inherit the mantle of huge fiscal debt and the onus of balancing developmental programmes and sourcing new funds for poll assurances. It will encounter several challenges, especially amidst apprehension of the second Covid-19 wave post-election, while both the AIADMK and DMK argue their assurances will get transformed into government schemes when elected to power. "In my personal view the freebies announced by both the parties are phenomenal. I wonder if anybody has done any financial burden calculation if the party were to implement all its promises when it comes to power," M R Sivaraman, former Union Revenue Secretary, said. In an apparent reference to the AIADMK, he said "one-party" has promised government jobs to one person from every family without anyone in service. "This was apparently announced without a reality check on the number of households in the state. Imagine the fiscal commitment which the government would accrue in terms of salaries to all government employees if lakhs of households are accommodated," he told PTI. K R Shanmugam, director and professor of Madras School of Economics, argues that one-time freebies may not strain the economy in the long run. "Recurring expenditure in the form of implementing the populist schemes may require huge volume of funds and could leave the government hardly any time and resources to devote to other development activities," he said. When the poll promises become government schemes, the government would evolve a funding pattern in order to improve the lives of the people, he said. The state government has performed commendably well to improve the situation during the pandemic and made conditions operational to revive the economy, he noted. "Tamil Nadu's economy is expected to register a positive growth rate of 2.02 per cent in 2020-2021 at a time when the country is facing a negative growth rate of 7.7 per cent", he said. Agreeing there were apprehensions of a second Covid-19 wave, he said its effect on the economy is debatable. Maintaining that many of AIADMK's poll assurances are part of the ongoing welfare schemes, former minister and party spokesman S Vaigaiselvan claimed that funding will never be a constraint for the party-led government. "The performance of the Palaniswami government, the election manifesto and our achievements will ensure us a third successive victory," Vaigaiselvan, also party candidate from Aruppukottai Assembly constituency, said. The DMK is also confident of meeting the financial requirements for implementing its slew of populist promises. "Our leader M K Stalin and election manifesto are the two heroes in this assembly election. Our poll assurances are doable," DMK spokesperson A Saravanan said. On Tamil Nadu's huge debt burden of about Rs 5.70 lakh crore by March 2022, he said "the debts and borrowings are because of financial mismanagement by the government. It lacks administrative efficiency. Corruption too played a huge role." Incidentally, the DMK manifesto, released on March 13, said that implementing all promises was possible by eradicating corruption, pursuing measures including austerity and increasing tax revenue. Pointing out that the history of such populist promises in the state date back to 1967 when DMK founder C N Annadurai assured three measures of rice for Re 1 through the public distribution system, BJP vice president M Chakravarthy claimed the party failed to implement it when it stormed to power then. After coming to power, the party changed its slogan to "moondru padi latchiyam, oru padi nichayam" (3 padi (approximately 1.5 kg) is the goal, 1 padi is certain)," he said. "The DMK also failed to deliver upon its promise of two acres of land to landless poor (made in 2006). But the AIADMK has fulfilled almost all its election assurances," the BJP leader, whose party is an ally of the AIADMK, asserted. The BJP is fighting the election to ensure the development and welfare initiatives of Prime Minister Narendra Modi reach Tamil Nadu, too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/experts-flag-financial-implications-over-aiadmk-dmks-shower-of-freebies-doable-say-parties-962992.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Kerala Assembly election: Sobha Surendran to be BJP candidate in Kazhakootam||Firebrand woman leader Sobha Surendran has been fielded by BJP from the Kazhakootam constituency for the April 6 state Assembly polls in Kerala An announcement in this regard was made by the party's central leadership on Wednesday. Union Minister V Muraleedharan was fielded by the party in the 2016 Assembly polls and was defeated by around 7000 votes. Sobha is expected to give a tough fight to LDF candidate Kadakkampally Surendran, Devaswom and Tourism minister, who is seeking re-election from the same seat. Dr S S Lal is the UDF candidate. The BJP also released the names of its three other candidates on Wednesday. In Mananthavady (ST) seat, Mukundan Palliyara has been fielded. The party had earlier announced the name of Manikantan, belonging to the Paniya tribe and working as a teaching assistant in the Veterinary Science University in Wayanad. However, he had turned down the offer saying he was not keen on entering the political arena. Bitty Sudheer has been fielded in Karunagappally, while M Sunil will be contesting from Kollam. Earlier, the saffron party had released its list of 112 candidates, including 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, former Union minister K J Alphons, former DGP Jacob Thomas and actor Suresh Gopi. BJP state president K Surendran has been fielded from two constituencies-- Konni and Manjeshwaram. The party has fielded candidates in 115 of the 140 constituencies and the remaining 25 seats have been given to its four NDA allies, including BDJS (Bharath Dharma Jana Sena) and AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-assembly-election-sobha-surendran-to-be-bjp-candidate-in-kazhakootam-963004.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Delhi Congress stages sit-in at Jantar Mantar against Bill on L-G's powers||Delhi Congress workers led by party president Anil Kumar staged a sit-in at Jantar Mantar here on Wednesday against the Centre's bill that seeks to define certain roles and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital, demanding that the government withdraw it. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in Lok Sabha by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy on Monday. "We are protesting against the autocracy of the Centre and the murder of democracy in Delhi through this bill," Kumar said. According to the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in the context of any law made by the legislative Assembly. The Bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. The ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) led by its national convener and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will also stage a protest against the Bill at Jantar Mantar later in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/delhi-congress-stages-sit-in-at-jantar-mantar-against-bill-on-l-gs-powers-963006.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||BJP wanted me to stay indoors before polls, they injured my leg, alleges Mamata Banerjee||Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday alleged that the opposition BJP wanted her to keep indoors ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, which apparently resulted in her injury. Addressing a public meeting in Gopiballavpur in the Jhargram district, Banerjee alleged that earlier it was CPI(M) that used to physically attack her, and now the BJP was doing the same. "They (BJP) wanted to keep me indoors so that I cannot go out during the elections. They have injured my leg," Banerjee said, addressing the election rally sitting on a wheelchair. The chief minister had suffered an injury to her left leg at Nandigram on March 10 during a crowd surge as she greeted people from her vehicle with its door open, at a market area. "They cannot throttle my voice, we will defeat BJP," she said, while urging the people of the region to vote for the TMC candidates. "Every vote you cast for our candidates will be for me," she added. Banerjee claimed that though the BJP won the Jhargram Lok Sabha seat in 2019, the party MP did nothing for the area. She mentioned the schemes launched by her government over the years, reaffirming that if voted to power she will ensure free doorstep delivery of ration. Jhargram, in the Junglemahal area in the western part of the state, witnessed a BJP wave in 2019 with the party winning four Lok Sabha seats in the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wanted-me-to-stay-indoors-before-polls-they-injured-my-leg-alleges-mamata-banerjee-963022.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||16% candidates in Phase 1 of Assam assembly polls face criminal cases: Report||Sixteen per cent of the candidates contesting in the first phase of Assam assembly elections have declared criminal cases against themselves, according to a report by poll rights group Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). The Assam Election Watch and ADR have analysed the sworn affidavits of 259 out of the 264 candidates in the first phase. Out of 259 candidates analysed, 41 (16 per cent) candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves and 34 (13 per cent) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves, the ADR said. The report said out of 259 candidates, 101 (39 per cent) are crorepatis. Giving educational background, the report said 97 (37 per cent) candidates have declared their educational qualifications to be between 5th and 12th standard, while 157 (61 per cent) candidates have declared having an educational qualification of graduate or above. Four candidates are diploma holders and one candidate is just literate. The report said 67 (26 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 25 and 40 years, while 153 (59 per cent) candidates have declared their age to be between 41 and 60 years.   "There are 38 (15 per cent) candidates who have declared their age to be between 61 and 70 years. One candidate has declared his age 85 years," the report said. Giving gender details of the candidates, the report said 25 (10 per cent) women candidates are contesting in the first phase. Among the major parties, 10 (23 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, eight (20 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Among the major parties, nine (21 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, six (15 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad, three (8 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and one candidate each from the NCP, AGP and the SUCI(C) have declared serious criminal cases against themselves in their affidavits. Serious criminal cases are non-bailable offences with over five years of imprisonment. Five candidates have declared cases related to crime against women. "Out of five candidates, one candidate has declared cases related to rape (IPC Section-376)," the report said. Two candidates have declared cases related to murder (IPC Section-302) against themselves and four candidates have declared cases related to attempt to murder (IPC Section-307) against themselves. "Three (6 per cent) out of 47 constituencies are Red alert constituencies. Red alert constituencies are those where three or more contesting candidates have declared criminal cases against themselves," the report said. "The directions of the Supreme Court have had no effect on the political parties in selection of candidates in Phase 1 of the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 as they have again followed their old practice of giving tickets to around 16 per cent candidates with criminal cases," the report said. Giving financial background of the candidates, the report said among the major parties nine (90 per cent) out of 10 candidates analysed from the AGP, 31(72 per cent) out of 43 candidates analysed from the Congress, 28 (72 per cent) out of 39 candidates analysed from the BJP and 15 (37 per cent) out of 41 candidates analysed from the Assam Jatiya Parishad have declared assets valued more than Rs 1 crore. "The average of assets per candidate contesting in the Assam Assembly Elections 2021 Phase I is Rs 1.84 crore," the report said. Elections to the 126-member Assam assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/16-candidates-in-phase-1-of-assam-assembly-polls-face-criminal-cases-report-963030.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||BJP rejects Balashankar's charge of secret deal with CPI(M) in some constituencies in Kerala||Union Minister V Muraleedharan on Wednesday dismissed the allegation made by BJP leader R Balashankar on a deal between the CPI(M) and the saffron party in some constituencies in the April 6 assembly polls, as an emotional outburst of a person disappointed over denial of a seat. The candidates were decided by the central election committee, Muraleedharan told reporters in Delhi. Balashankar is not a person who is against the BJP. His statement comes after the seats were allocated. And seems like he was upset. The seat allocation was not my own decision, he said. "There is a process by which the seats are decided. The central election committee of the party, which includes Prime Minister, Party Chief, Home minister and the Defence minister decides it. The state leadership is also part of the decision but the committee is the decision-maker", the minister added. Balashankar, working with the BJP's national training department, had alleged that he was denied the Chengannur seat in Alappuzha district as part of a deal between the CPI(M) and the saffron party. Attacking the party's state leadership on Tuesday, Balashankar had said he had a very good chance of winning the seat, but was not considered. The BJP had instead fielded a person, who is a political non-entity, damaging its chanceto win the seat. CPI(M)'s Saji Cherian is the LDF candidate in Chengannur, while BJP has put up A V Gopakumar. Meanwhile, State BJP president K Surendran dismissed the allegation as 'baseless', while O Rajagopal, the lone party MLA in the assembly, said there is no such understanding with either the CPI(M) or the Congress. In his reaction, Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala said, "we cannot trivialise or dismiss the allegatonsas an emotional outburst. This has been going on for some time in Kerala". Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and BJP state president, K Surendran should make it clear in how many places such an understanding has been reached, the Leader of Opposition told reporters here. Balashankar had also stated that the state leadership seemed not interested in winning the election because in the constituencies where the BJP has a winning chance, weak candidates have been fielded. Vijayan had laughed off the allegation and said in the 2019 assembly bypoll the Left had defeated K Surendran at Konni. CPI(M) state secretary A Vijayaraghavan said the seats mentioned by Balashankar are sitting seats of the marxist party. "We defeated Sreedharan Pillai in Chengannur, and K Surendran in Konni. We have already made our stand clear that we are against the Sangh Parivar", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-rejects-balashankars-charge-of-secret-deal-with-cpim-in-some-constituencies-in-kerala-963038.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||TMC demands cancellation of Suvendu Adhikari's candidature from Nandigram||The Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Wednesday demanded the cancellation of the nomination of BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari, who is pitted against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee from Nandigram, as his name also "seems to appear" in the electoral roll of Haldia constituency. This development came barely days after Adhikari, once a close aide of Banerjee, demanded cancellation of the TMC supremo's nomination from Nandigram. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O'Brien in a letter to the Electoral Registration Officer of Nandigram assembly constituency alleged that Adhikari's name "seems to appear" in the electoral rolls of both Nandigram and Haldia assembly constituencies and this is not permitted as per Section 17 of the Representation of The People Act of 1951. Section 17 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 mentions that no person shall be entitled to be registered in the electoral roll for more than one constituency. It also appears that Adhikari had filed an application for migration of his name from Haldia assembly constituency to Nandigram constituency, the TMC MP said, by providing "false particulars of his residence". He claimed that this became evident as Adhikari was found to be 'absent' at the time of field visit by a booth level officer (BLO) for verification. The TMC MP claimed that Adhikari has not resided at Nandanayakbar village, which falls under Nandigram constituency, over the past six months, "let alone being a permanent resident thereof". "As per Section 19 of the RP Act, only a person who is 'ordinarily resident' in a constituency may be registered as a voter in the electoral rolls of such constituency. Hence he is not entitled to 'migration' and his migration is bad in law," the letter read. The TMC leader said the Electoral Registration Officer should forthwith delete the name of Adhikari from the electoral roll of Nandigram Assembly constituency and urged appropriate legal action, including criminal proceedings, be initiated against him. "The nomination paper submitted by Adhikari from Nandigram constituency be also struck down", he added. Adhikari had sought rejection of the nomination of the West Bengal chief minister for not declaring six criminal cases against her while filing her papers. In his complaint to the Election Commission, Adhikari had claimed she suppressed the information about five cases filed against her in Assam and another lodged by the CBI in West Bengal. However, CBI sources had said it was a different Mamata Banerjee who was having cases relating to disproportionate assets pending against her and not Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In a significant ruling in March 2018, the Supreme Court had said the returning officer for an election can reject nomination papers of a candidate for non-disclosure and suppression of information, including those related to their assets and criminal background. It had ruled that voters have a fundamental right to know about their candidates and leaving columns blank in the nomination paper amounts to violation of their right||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-demands-cancellation-of-suvendu-adhikaris-candidature-from-nandigram-963059.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Congress built ‘substandard’ buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan: Puri||Insisting that iconic buildings will not be demolished during the course of redevelopment of the Central Vista, Union Housing and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday accused the Congress of constructing "substandard" buildings like Krishi Bhawan, Shastri Bhawan and Nirman Bhawan. The Minister said these buildings were not fit for offices. These buildings have to demolished, the Minister said during Question Hour in Rajya Sabha. He was speaking in parliament in response to a query by Congress leader Amee Yajnik on the number of buildings to be demolished during the development of the new parliament building. The building referred to by the minister houses various ministries' offices at present. As per the redevelopment of Central Vista, the nation's power corridor, several existing government buildings will be demolished and a new building will be constructed as per the master plan prepared by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. The next step is the relocation of offices in 90 acres of hutments. During the stage of building a new central secretariat complex, some of the buildings will be demolished, Puri said, adding that not a single historical or iconic building will be removed. On the usage of the old parliament building, after the project is completed, he said that it will have to be repaired and made available for alternative uses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-built-substandard-buildings-like-krishi-bhawan-shastri-bhawan-puri-963082.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||AAP, Congress hold protest against Delhi L-G powers Bill; Kejriwal says people cheated||The AAP on Wednesday hit the streets against the Bill seeking to give more powers to the Delhi Lieutenant Governor with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that the BJP has brought the Bill as it is scared of his party's development work and reach in other states. Demanding the withdrawal of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, he claimed that the Centre wanted to weaken his government and that is why the Bill has been introduced in Lok Sabha. Addressing the protest organised by AAP at Jantar Mantar, he said, "I want to appeal to the Centre to take back the Bill. Don't cheat the people with this legislation. They have brought the bill as it is scared of the AAP's reach in other states. That is why they are trying to stop our development work in Delhi." He accused the Centre of conspiring to weaken the democratically elected government in the capital. Referring to the 2018 Supreme Court verdict, he said the judgement had made it clear that the elected government should have more powers and the LG should act in the aid and advice of the Cabinet. But, he claimed, the BJP government ignores the directions of the Supreme Court. He said the Bill says that the Delhi government would mean the LG. "Then what does an elected government mean? Where will people go if Delhi government means the LG? Then why elections were conducted. Why people voted? Then the votes of people do not mean anything. Citizens have been cheated," he said. "Centre wants to weaken us through GNCTD (Amendment) Bill, but we will keep struggling for welfare of people," he added. Separately, Congress also held a protest in the capital against the Bill with Delhi unit president Anil Kumar saying, "we are protesting against the autocracy of the Centre and the murder of democracy in Delhi through this Bill."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-congress-hold-protest-against-delhi-l-g-powers-bill-kejriwal-says-people-cheated-963086.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Cash, precious metals worth Rs 127 crore seized in poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu has once again set a wrong record. With less than 20 days to go for elections, cash, gift articles, and liquor flow freely in the state that has been categorised by the Election Commission of India (ECI) as “expenditure sensitive.” Authorities from various departments who keep round-the-clock vigil have seized unaccounted cash and materials, including gift items, worth Rs 127 crore in just 20 days after the Model Code of Conduct came into force on February 26. Cash to the tune of Rs 50.86 crore, liquor worth Rs 1.32 crore, “freebies” with the value of Rs 14.06 crore, and “precious metals” worth Rs 61.04 crore have been seized in Tamil Nadu alone. The total worth of the seized or recovered items is Rs 127.64 crore. The recovery comes as no surprise as political observers and poll watchers say the 2021 Assembly elections will be the “most expensive election” in Tamil Nadu's history. The state has had a chequered history on illegal spending by political parties and candidates – it also has the ignominy of witnessing elections being rescinded for rampant use of money power to buy votes.  Elections to Thanjavur, and Aravakurichi in 2016 and bypolls to R K Nagar constituency in 2017 were rescinded at the last minute as the ECI received several complaints of money being distributed in return for votes. Polls to Vellore Lok Sabha constituency were also cancelled after huge amounts of cash were seized from godowns belonging to relatives of a candidate. The parties have gone beyond money to bribe the voters – candidates distribute home appliances, gold coins, and silver ornaments to the electorate. Naresh Gupta, former Chief Electoral Officer of Tamil Nadu, said it is the voters who have to take a view on not receiving cash for votes and exercising their franchise based on the merits of the candidates. “Money flow is not a new phenomenon, and it has been there for long. But the quantum depends, and political parties treat elections as a life and death issue. Voters should not succumb to temptation. Having said that, only a detailed investigation will reveal whether all the money seized was for distribution to people,” Gupta added. Senior journalist R Mani feels cash for votes have increased to unimaginable proportions in the past 10 years in Tamil Nadu, where political parties come out with “out-of-the-box” ideas to bribe the voters. “The might of the Indian state has ensured that elections are conducted even in militancy-infested areas and in interior parts of the country. But the tragedy is the rampant use of the money during elections is threatening the Indian democracy. Both the parties in Tamil Nadu have made a mockery of the election process. They have destroyed the process by bribing the voters heavily,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cash-precious-metals-worth-rs-127-crore-seized-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-963141.html
17-03-2021||National Politics||Amarinder Singh, Navjot Sidhu's meeting gives rise to speculation of latter's return to Punjab govt||A rapprochement appeared to be on cards as Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh met with arch rival Navjot Singh Sidhu on Wednesday, triggering speculation over his induction into the state cabinet. This is Singh's second meeting in four months with Sidhu, who had walked out of the Punjab government following differences with the chief minister over his visit to Pakistan for the swearing-in ceremony of Prime Minister Imran Khan in 2018. The differences grew when Singh held the cricketer-turned-politician responsible for the poor show of the Congress in the Lok Sabha seats that were won by the Akali Dal in 2019 elections. On Wednesday, Sidhu was scheduled to meet Singh over lunch, but the meeting was delayed till tea time due to the Chief Minister's presence at the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the Covid-19 situation. Both Sidhu and Singh did not comment on the deliberations, but party leaders have been pitching for a larger role for the cricketer-turned-politician, including putting him as a possible successor to the chief minister. Congress has been working behind the scenes to bring about peace among the two leaders, who are hugely popular in Punjab, which will go for elections early next year. Sidhu is considered to be close to Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who have been supporting him in the feud with Singh. The corridors of power in Punjab are abuzz with talk of Sidhu being re-inducted in the state cabinet and also about the likelihood of his appointment as the deputy chief minister. “A picture is worth a thousand words,” Raveen Thukral, media adviser to the chief minister, said sharing photographs of the meeting. AICC General Secretary, in-charge of Punjab, Harish Rawat made first efforts to get the two leaders together ahead of Rahul Gandhi's tractor rallies in the state to support the farmers' agitation against the agricultural reforms. Though Sidhu shared the stage with Singh and other Congress leaders, he was at his combative best in the short speech he had delivered in October. Rawat had reached out to Sidhu in September and was successful in getting the two leaders to meet over lunch in November. Sidhu had quit the BJP in 2016 accusing the party of using him as a “decorative piece” and trying to keep him out of Punjab. Sidhu, who had represented Amritsar Lok Sabha seat between 2004 and 2014, was denied the party ticket when it fielded Arun Jaitley from the seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amarinder-singh-navjot-sidhus-meeting-gives-rise-to-speculation-of-latters-return-to-punjab-govt-963152.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||First patient with S Africa variant of Covid-19 confirmed in Delhi||A 33-year-old man, currently admitted at LNJP Hospital here, has become the first confirmed case of Covid-19 caused by the South Africa variant of the novel coronavirus in Delhi, sources said on Tuesday. He was brought to the hospital about a week ago, and has been kept isolated in a separate unit, a source said. The LNJP Hospital had earlier also admitted people who had been found positive for UK strain of Covid-19, and after their treatment about two such patients had remained till February end, a senior doctor had earlier said. Sources on Tuesday said the 33-year-old man has become the first confirmed case of Covid-19 caused by the South Africa variant of the novel coronavirus in Delhi. "He is kept in a very different isolation area and was brought here about a week ago and then tested. He came positive for the South Africa variant," the source said. The man was initially asymptomatic but his present condition is not yet known. A month ago, the Centre had said that for the first time in India, four people were detected with the South Africa variant of SARS-CoV-2 and one had tested positive for the Brazil variant in the country. In India, the South Africa strain had been detected in four returnees - one from Angola, one from Tanzania and two from South Africa in January, ICMR Director General Balram Bhargava had said - adding all travellers and contacts had been tested and quarantined. Three new variants of Covid-19, from the UK, South Africa and Brazil, have been reported so far in India, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey informed the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. On whether the people who have been infected once could get re-infected by the new virus strain, Choubey said as per the World Health Organization, in the three countries where the pandemic is being driven by the variant mutants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, namely the UK South Africa and Brazil, the South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to re-infect persons who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2. Recognising that the mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 are driving the pandemic in countries of their origin, namely the UK, South Africa and Brazil, the government of India has revised its guidelines for international travel to minimise the risk of importation and further spread of these mutant variants in India, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-patient-with-s-africa-variant-of-covid-19-confirmed-in-delhi-962869.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Bill kicks off Oppn-BJP face-off||The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act 2021 introduced by Centre in the Parliament, which gives overarching power to Delhi Lieutenant Governor has kicked off a fresh political row between BJP and AAP, given the history of CM-LG standoff in Delhi. The Bill makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to seek the opinion of the Lieutenant Governor (LG) before taking any executive action. After Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal accused the BJP of trying to drastically curtail the powers of his government through the new Bill in the Lok Sabha, AAP has now decided to stage a massive protest at Jantar Mantar tomorrow which will be attended by Kejriwal, all the AAP MPs, MLAs and Councillors. The party plans to conduct their protest around the subject 'attack on federalism by the Modi government' and would seek other parties' support. While AAP has alleged that the new Bill would stall Delhi's progress by giving undue powers to the LG, BJP has hailed it and dismissed AAP's protest plans, arguing that even after the passage of the Bill, the elected government will retain 75 per cent of its administrative powers. AAP is also latching on to observations made by the Supreme Court in its July 2018 ruling that said the Lieutenant Governor cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. Congress Lok Sabha MP Manish Tewari said on Twitter, "Govt of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill 2021 effectively buries democracy in Delhi 10 fathoms deep. If passed, the elected Govt & Assembly would be mere petitioners in LG’s Durbar. LG would now rule Delhi more aggressively as MHA viceroy."   National Conference leader Omar Abdullah on Monday gave a fresh impetus to the issue asserting that Delhi deserves to be a full state with all powers exercised by the elected government. The issue may act as the fuel to the demand for Delhi's full statehood, an idea which found favour with many parties when they were in Opposition owing to the history of LG-CM tussle. The last time the issue got big traction was in February 2019, three months before the Lok Sabha polls, when Kejriwal announced an indefinite hunger strike to press for full statehood, an issue that kept reverberating till the conclusion of Delhi Assembly polls last year. Delhi is not a full-fledged state and, as per Schedule I of the Constitution continues to be a Union Territory, though it has some additional powers granted after amendments, that has given it somewhat special status among the UTs. It has an elected state Assembly, which has been invested with the right to legislate on all subjects, barring a few, like law and order and land, which are under the central government. If there is a conflict between a law enacted by the Delhi Assembly and one enacted by the Parliament, the latter will prevail, until a decision is taken by the President. However, Article 239AA, inserted by the 69th Amendment to the Constitution, which came into force in 1992, does leave some room for ambiguity in the distribution of powers between the LG and the chief minister.   AAP has argued that the people of Delhi suffer due to rising crime and lack of sanitation and development as the Centre through LG has control over Delhi Police, municipal corporations and DDA. In 2018, Kejriwal held an unprecedented sit-in protest outside the residence of Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil, alleging there is “de facto President's Rule in Delhi”. Before Baijal, Kejriwal had a massive three-year-long tussle with the then Delhi LG Najeeb Jung over issues like bureaucratic appointments, administrative control and implementation of policy decisions. Even before AAP came into the picture, late Sheila Dikshit, the former Delhi Chief Minister, had her run-ins with the then, LG Tejinder Khanna, in 2010-11 but they did not last long as it was Congress which ruled both the Centre and the state. It is unlike the scenario of the last seven years when BJP has ruled the Centre and AAP has governed the state. In 2019, the Supreme Court for the second time delivered a differing judgment on the Delhi government versus Lieutenant Governor over control of services, making it clear that the Delhi government has limited power under the Constitution. In November 2017, the SC had said that the LG is the final authority in cases of differences between the two on any matter and earmarked the areas in which the state government has no power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-bill-kicks-off-oppn-bjp-face-off-962899.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||Lt Gen Pandey takes over as new commander of 15-Corps||Lt General DP Pandey Wednesday took over the command of strategic Kashmir-based 15 Corps from Lt Gen BS Raju, who has been appointed as the new Director-General of Military Operations (DGMO) of the Indian Army. Prior to his appointment as the Chinar Corps Commander, General Pandey served as the First Director General of the Territorial Army. He has served in Kashmir in various capacities that included General Officer Commanding (GOC) Kilo Force, which is responsible for anti-militancy operations in north Kashmir. He has also served as Commander of Charkote Kupwara based 8 Sector which is looking after the anti-militancy operations across Lolab valley. An alumnus of the National Defence Academy, General Pandey was commissioned into the Sikh Light Infantry Regiment in December 1985 from Indian Military Academy, Dehradun. A defence statement said that outgoing commander of the 15 Corps General Raju worked in critical phase in 2020, where Kashmir was confronted with the twin challenges of militancy and Covid-19. “Lt Gen Raju’s tenure over the last one year is defined by an improved security environment prevailing both on the Line of Control and in Kashmir.  With the civil administration and security forces synergising their efforts to bring normalcy back to Kashmir, militancy is on decline with assessed residual militant numbers being the lowest in a decade," the statement said. On the Line of Control, his approach combined a forward heavy deployment enabled by a dense electronic and surveillance grid.  Pakistani cease fire violations were dealt punitive responses resulting in operational ascendancy by the Indian Army, the statement said. Gen Raju strongly propagated for a second chance to the misguided youth, as he believes this to be critical to achieving lasting peace in J&K.  The Army has taken proactive steps to connect with the youth including those who have picked up the weapons against the state.   There has been a collaborative effort alongwith society members, families and other stake holders to encourage and facilitate return of the misguided youth from the path of terrorism.  The effort has got an encouraging response, success in terms of surrenders and support from all sections of the society, and will get additional impetus in the coming months. On Republic Day, General Raju was awarded the prestigious Uttam Yudh Seva Medal (UYSM), in recognition of this contribution in taking Kashmir on a positive trajectory on the path of lasting peace. In his farewell message, Gen Raju complimented all ranks of Chinar Corps for their dedication and hard work.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-gen-pandey-takes-over-as-new-commander-of-15-corps-963065.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan: Woman admitted in hospital ICU sexually assaulted, male nurse held||A woman admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Jaipur has been allegedly sexually assaulted by a male nurse, police said on Wednesday. The accused was arrested on rape charges on Tuesday evening on the complaint of the victim's husband, they said. "The woman was admitted to the ICU where the accused committed the crime on Monday night. The victim was in a semi-conscious state and she resisted as much she could," DCP West Pradeep Mohan Sharma said. Next morning, when her husband met her, she informed him about the incident by writing on a paper following which he lodged a complaint with the police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-woman-admitted-in-hospital-icu-sexually-assaulted-male-nurse-held-963091.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||Allahabad University VC terms 'azaan' as noise pollution||The vice-chancellor of Allahabad University, a Central university, triggered a controversy after she virtually termed the 'azaan' (a call from the mosques for prayers at prescribed times) as "noise pollution" and said it disturbed her sleep. Professor Sangeeta Srivastava, the VC of the varsity, in a letter entitled "Noise Pollution in Civil Lines" to the district magistrate, said she was not against any religion but any religious practice must not disturb others. "Every day in the morning at about 5.30 am, my sleep is disturbed due to loud azaan done on the mike by the maulvi in the surrounding mosque...even before the Eid, they announce Seheri (breakfast before Roza) at 4 am...the sleep so disturbed does not resume even after trying very hard...this also results in headache throughout the day," she said in the letter. She quoted an adage that "your freedom ends where my nose begins" and said that the 'azaan' might be recited without the mikes. Prof Srivastava also referred to some judgements of the Supreme Court regarding permissible sound levels. According to the sources, the police have asked the mosque custodian to keep the sound levels within the permissible limits. Sources said the mikes of the mosque facing the direction in which the house of the VC was situated has been turned off. However, the letter triggered sharp reactions from the Muslim clerics, who referred to the 'Bhajan-Kirtans' and 'Aartis' in the temples to question the VC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-university-vc-terms-azaan-as-noise-pollution-963092.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||PDP veteran CM Muzaffar Beig joins People’s Conference in Jammu and Kashmir||PDP veteran and former deputy chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Muzaffar Baig on Wednesday joined regional People’s Conference (PC) led by separatist-turned-mainstream leader Sajjad Lone. Baig had quit Mehbooba Mufti-led People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in November 2020 after reported disagreements on the seat-sharing issue during the District Development Council (DDC) polls. Seventy-five-year-old Baig, who served as deputy chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir during the PDP-Congress alliance in 2005-2006, stayed away from active politics since the Centre’s move on August 5, 2019, to nullify Article 370, which accorded special status to the erstwhile state. Baig, who had played a key role in the formation of the People's Conference in the late 70s, re-joined the party today in presence of Lone at his residence in Srinagar, a PC spokesperson said. His joining has come as a major booster for the People's Conference, as it is expected to strengthen the party in north Kashmir especially in the Baramulla district, where he has impressive political clout. Baig has twice represented the Baramulla Assembly segment before he was elected as a Member of Parliament in 2014. The Padma Bhushan awardee was one of the few politicians who was not detained ahead of the Article 370 abrogation move. A lawyer by profession, Baig, who fought for now-banned Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front (JKLF) ideologue Maqbool Bhat’s clemency before he was hanged in Delhi's Tihar Jail in 1984, is considered as Delhi’s point man in Jammu and Kashmir with links to Abdullahs, Muftis and Lone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-veteran-cm-muzaffar-baig-joins-people-s-conference-in-jammu-and-kashmir-963110.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan minister rejects phone tapping claims, says CM will resign if allegations proven right||The Rajasthan government informed the state assembly on Wednesday that it did not tap phones of any legislator during last year's political crisis. Rejecting the BJP's allegations on phone tapping, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal said the saffron party was making an issue in order to protect Union Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat. He said the chief minister would offer his resignation if these allegations were proved right. "Not only the chief minister, all of us will resign," Dhariwal added. However, the BJP demanded a CBI inquiry into the matter and created a ruckus in the assembly which led to adjournment of the House twice. The controversy around phone tapping erupted in July last year during the political crisis that was caused due to the rebellion of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs against Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's leadership. On the basis of three audio clips in which Shekhawat and Congress leaders could be heard talking about a conspiracy to topple Gehlot's government, Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi had registered FIRs with the Special Operations Group (SOG) and the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Dhariwal said after the FIRs were registered, SOG officers had gone to the residence and office of the minister in Delhi to collect Shekhawat's voice sample but failed to get the same. He said BJP leaders should tell Shekhawat that their party was facing embarrassment because of him and hence, he should take the voice test. On the allegations by the BJP that the voice clips were prepared and circulated by Lokesh Sharma, the OSD to the chief minister, Dhariwal said the audio clips were received on WhatsApp. He stressed that forwarding an audio clip on WhatsApp was not a crime. Dhariwal apprised the House that the SOG last year intercepted phones of two persons -- Ashok Singh and Bharat Malani -- with permission from the Home Department, after receiving information about illegal arms smuggling and movement of explosives. He said none of them was a politician but during the interception, conspiracy to depose the Gehlot government was exposed and that the SOG inspector lodged an FIR in the matter. The minister said the government did not order any MLA's, MP's or an elected representative's phone-tapping. Dhariwal reminisced that during the 90s, when efforts were being made to topple Bhairon Singh Shekhawat-led BJP government in the state, it was Gehlot, who met then prime minister PV Narasimha Rao and then Rajasthan governor Baliram Bhagat to speak against it. Dhariwal concluded his reply by taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which invited a sharp reaction from the BJP members who stormed to the well of the House and created a ruckus in the assembly. Speaker CP Joshi concluded the debate and adjourned the House for half an hour. The House was adjourned for the second time for another 30 minutes. Prior to the minister's reply, Leader of Opposition Gulab Chand Kataria asked if the phones were not tapped, then why was the FIR lodged. He said if the cases lodged were true, then the government should take action against the accused. When the House reassembled, the speaker said it was everyone's responsibility to respect the president, vice president, prime minister, chief minister and other leaders in a parliamentary democracy. Saying that no such comment which may weaken the parliamentary democracy should be made, the speaker directed to expunge the comments of Dhariwal against the prime minister. Earlier in the day, the suspension of BJP MLA Madan Dilawar was revoked after the leader of opposition tendered an apology for his conduct. Dilawar was suspended for seven days for his "unruly behaviour" in the House on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-minister-rejects-phone-tapping-claims-says-cm-will-resign-if-allegations-proven-right-963117.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||About 1 kg heroin seized from Srinagar hotel; 2 held||Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday arrested two persons and recovered around one kilogram of heroin from their possession during a raid at a local hotel in Srinagar. Sources said the Counter Intelligence Kashmir (CIK) wing of the J&K Police raided a hotel in city centre Lal Chowk and recovered 998 grams of heroin from the possession of two persons. The arrested persons were identified as Zameer Ahmed Mongryal and Sajad Ahmed, both residents of border town Uri in Baramulla. Drug menace in Kashmir has increased manifold compared to the previous years, which was evident from the seizure of a huge quantity of narcotic substances and the number of arrests of drug peddlers in recent years. Last year, the J&K Police had recovered 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar from different parts of the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/about-1-kg-heroin-seized-from-srinagar-hotel-2-held-963146.html
17-03-2021||North and Central||BHU denies reports of inviting Nita Ambani as 'visiting professor'||The Banaras Hindu University (BHU) on Wednesday denied the reports of Reliance Industries executive director Nita Ambani being invited as the 'visiting professor'. A day earlier, Professor Nidhi Sharma, coordinator of the university's Center for Women's Studies and Development, claimed that a proposal has been sent to make Nita Ambani a 'visiting professor', following which students staged a sit-in on Tuesday. The university administration issued a statement on Wednesday, saying that no official decision has been taken nor any order has been issued to appoint Nita Ambani as a 'visiting professor' in any department of the university. The statement said that for the appointment of a 'visiting professor' in the university, the approval of the Academic Council has to be obtained and no such approval has been given in this case. Reliance Industries Limited has also tweeted that the news of being made a 'visiting professor' in the university is fake and no such proposal has been received by Nita Ambani. At the same time, Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences Kaushal Kishore Mishra, said that he had sent a letter on March 12 to make Nita Ambani a 'visiting professor'. He said that the copy of the letter which was sent was also given to the vice-chancellor of the university. Significantly, on Tuesday, students staged a sit-in protest protesting the proposal to appoint Nita Ambani as a 'visiting professor' in the university. The students staging the protest alleged that the BHU is being run at the behest of industrialists, which is against the dignity of the university. Later, the students stopped their dharna on the persuasion of the vice-chancellor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bhu-denies-reports-of-inviting-nita-ambani-as-visiting-professor-963178.html
17-03-2021||Oasis||Embrace your imperfections||‘Claaaang’… just like two huge cymbals clanging, a loud sound reverberated in the air for sometime when the car hit the mammoth colony gate. Before I could gain back my senses, the security men ran a thorough check on the gate and reported that there was no damage caused to the giant piece of metal.  The poor victim of my error of judgement, was the car with a concavity conducing to a jammed left door. Unable to bear the anguish, I rolled into the garage with only one precondition that the car, if not new, at least must resemble how it was before the accident. A couple of months later the car finally recovered from its indentures but a scraggy line of chipped-off paint constantly bothered me.   To eliminate this scar, I quietly painted the scratch with some leftover white paint. All was well until the next morning when the entire household came down laughing looking at the newly painted strokes that stood out like decoupage. It did not stop the onlookers who after a small inspection left with an amusing smile.  Everyone makes mistakes… when we understand and learn to embrace the faults openly, life becomes a much easier journey.  Imperfections too can be beautiful. It just takes an open mind to understand it. This is the essence of Kintsugi, a Japanese art where the broken pieces of pottery are mended again using gold. The pieces may have come back together but the crack is always seen and is purposely kept that way to understand and accept the imperfections and flaws.  In the words of Ernest Hemingway, “The world breaks everyone and afterwards many are strong at the broken places”. I now see that little jagged white streak as a work of art that adds beauty with its own history and uniqueness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/embrace-your-imperfections-962845.html
17-03-2021||Opinion||One year later, we still have no plan to prevent the next pandemic||By Thomas L. Friedman Imagine that in December 2019 country X had a nuclear accident — a missile test gone awry. It resulted in a small nuclear explosion that sent a cloud of radioactivity around the world, causing 2.66 million deaths, plus trillions of dollars in health care costs and lost commerce that nearly triggered a global depression. What do you think we’d be talking about today? We’d be discussing a new global regime of nuclear weapons safety protocols to try to make sure it never happened again. Well, we just had the natural world equivalent of such a nuclear accident. It is widely suspected that a pathogen in a bat jumped to another animal to a human in China and then hopped onto the globalization express, causing extraordinary suffering and trillions of dollars in damage. And this happened after several decades of other pandemics set off by unhealthy human interactions with wildlife — with bats or civets in the case of Ebola and SARS-CoV-1 and most likely chimps in the case of HIV. As we have just hit the one-year mark since the World Health Organization declared SARS-CoV-2 — the pathogen that causes Covid-19 — a pandemic, it’s appropriate to ask what smart collective action are we pursuing to prevent this from ever happening again. The answer, as best as I can detect, is nothing — at least nothing meaningful. And if you talk to wildlife veterinarians and other conservationists, they will tell you that the breakout of SARS-CoV-2 from an animal living in the wilderness to humans was not only NOT surprising, but that a similar outbreak could happen again soon. So, don’t throw away your leftover masks. That was my takeaway from a global webinar I got to moderate a few weeks ago titled “Emerging Disease, Wildlife Trade and Consumption: The Need for Robust Global Governance” and subtitled “Exploring Ways to Prevent Future Pandemics.” It brought together some of the best experts on the interactions among animals, the wilderness and humans, capped by an inspiring talk from famed primatologist Jane Goodall. I really like how one of the organizers, Cornell University’s Steve Osofsky, a wildlife veterinarian, summarized how the health of wildlife, the health of ecosystems <em>and our own health</em> are inextricably linked. To say that a majority of emerging viruses come from wildlife is not to blame wild creatures, explained Osofsky. It is to make the point that through our own behaviors we “invite these viruses into humanity’s living room: We eat the body parts of wild animals; we capture and mix wild species together in markets for sale; and we destroy what’s left of wild nature at a dizzying pace — think deforestation — all greatly enhancing our encounter rates with new pathogens.” What these three behaviors have in common, added Osofsky, is one “surprisingly simple underlying cause: our broken relationship with wild nature, often based on a hubris that we are somehow separate from the rest of life on earth.” It’s so simple: Forests, freshwater systems, oceans, grasslands and the biodiversity within them literally give us the clean air, clean water, climate-stabilizing buffers and healthy food we need to thrive, as well as natural protection from viruses. If we protect those natural systems, they will protect us. This truth needs to guide everything we do going forward to prevent another zoonotic-driven pandemic. That means taking three steps right now for sure: First, recognizing that many of the zoonotic viruses that can cause pandemics can jump to humans via so-called wet markets, which sell a mix of domestic and wild creatures from the land and sea — all crowded together, along with the pathogens they carry. A report Monday on NPR said Chinese officials themselves think a mammal from one of its wildlife farms — which breed civets, porcupines, pangolins, raccoon dogs and bamboo rats and were supplying wet markets in Wuhan — was the likely bridge carrier of the coronavirus from a bat to humans. Beijing has to curb its wildlife diet. “While we missed our chance to stop SARS-CoV-1 and now SARS-CoV-2 from emerging, how many more times must humanity allow this cycle to repeat?” asked Osofsky. “It’s time for markets selling wildlife (especially mammals and birds) in places where people have other sources of nutrition to be deemed totally unacceptable to humanity.” To be sure, there are people across the globe who need to eat wildlife for their sustenance and survival. So the world’s wealthier nations need to band together to help address the poverty and food insecurity that drives these practices, not only out of compassion but out of self-interest. Second, the wealthy nations also need to come together to bolster Interpol’s and other new efforts to wipe out the illicit wildlife-related supply chains feeding these wet markets with endangered wildlife species that are in high culinary and/or cultural demand. For too long, the traders and corrupt government officials who aid them have been allowed to privatize their gains from selling wild animals — like pangolins, whose meat and scales are cherished by some — and then socialize the losses when these same creatures spread viruses to us. America should threaten to ban all legal trade from any country that won’t stop its illicit wildlife trade. Loose nukes kill. So can caged pangolins. Finally, there is deforestation. What Brazil does with its rainforest and what we do with our urban sprawl and what China does with its rapid urbanization into wilderness areas is everybody’s business. All three countries are removing natural buffers and expanding the interface, the touch points, between wildlife and people where pandemics emerge. That has to stop. “If multinational companies can still undertake large-scale logging or mining in the world’s remaining great forests without paying for the very real risks those activities bring upon all of us, we will get what we deserve,” said Osofsky. “But if companies actually had to pay for the pandemic risks associated with these extractive activities, perhaps some of these projects would not be undertaken at all.” As Russ Mittermeier, chief conservation officer for Global Wildlife Conservation, remarked to me: “We marvel when a spacecraft lands on Mars to search for minute traces of life that may or may not exist.” At the same time here on earth, “we continue to destroy and degrade amazingly diverse ecosystems, like tropical forests and coral reefs,” that sustain and enrich us. Halting that practice is the only truly sustainable vaccine against the next pandemic. In other words, it’s time that we stop looking for intelligent life on Mars and start manifesting it here on planet earth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/one-year-later-we-still-have-no-plan-to-prevent-the-next-pandemic-962900.html
17-03-2021||Panorama||Bitcoin: A tulip-mania blended with hawala?||Economic bubbles, such as the dot-com bubble of the late 1990s and the subprime mortgage crisis of 2008, occur when too much money chases too few assets. Such bubbles ought to burst. The dynamics of Bitcoin is often compared with the tulip-mania of the 1630s in the Netherlands, perhaps the most famous bubble in history. Tulips, then newly introduced and fashionable flowering plants, became a status symbol for Holland’s newly wealthy merchant class around that period, and the price of tulips skyrocketed because of speculation in tulip futures among people who never saw the bulbs. At the peak of tulip-mania, some single tulip bulbs sold for more than 10 times the annual income of a skilled artisan. The world’s first futures contracts emerged in Holland when the tulip bulbs couldn’t be moved during October through March and in 1636, the Dutch created a formal futures market, where contracts to buy the bulbs at the end of a season were bought and sold. Such tulip contract trading was known as ‘windhandel’, meaning ‘wind trade’ – the tulip bulbs themselves weren’t traded, only the ability to buy the bulbs at a certain price at a certain point in the future was traded. The prices of the contracts kept rising with every changing hand – people purchased tulip bulbs at astronomical prices, with an intention to make profits by selling them in the future. Some bulb contracts were reportedly changing hands 10 times a day. The bubble intensified. However, an outbreak of bubonic plague in the Dutch town of Haarlem in February 1637 ultimately caused the bubble to burst. The demand for the flowers disappeared, resulting in a crash in prices, and people holding contracts or having bulbs could see that the tulip was manifold cheaper in the tulip spot markets. In 2013, while addressing students at the University of Amsterdam, former president of the Dutch Central Bank, Nout Wellink, said that the hype around Bitcoin “is worse than the tulip mania. At least then, you got a tulip [at the end], now you get nothing.” Bitcoin recently slumped over 18 per cent from a lifetime high of around $58,300 within days after Tesla chief Elon Musk tweeted that the prices “seem to be high.” Tesla recently announced that it added $1.5 billion in Bitcoin to its balance sheet and, as a result, its shares slid 8.6 per cent, wiping $15.2 billion from Musk’s net worth.  He dropped to second place on the Bloomberg Billionaires Index of the world’s 500 richest people. This might give an indication of the high volatility in Bitcoin prices and the lack of tangible backing. Its price volatility, in fact, is 80 per cent, which is 12 times higher than that of the Euro. How are crypto-assets like Bitcoin to be characterised? Back in 2015, the US regulator for the futures market, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, declared: “Bitcoin and other virtual currencies are encompassed in the definition and properly defined as commodities.” Nouriel Roubini, a professor of Economics at the New York University, who accurately predicted the 2008 financial crisis two years before Lehman Brothers declared bankruptcy, considers Bitcoin a “pseudo-asset” that is pumped up by “massive manipulation”. Some assets give income, and therefore there is a reason for the capital gain. Assets such as real estate give housing services. And although gold doesn’t have income, it is used for multiple purposes from industry to jewelry and for liquidity and has a store value for thousands of years. Bitcoin, on the other hand, doesn’t have any intrinsic fundamental value – neither income, nor any uses in industry, nor any utility. Now, about the functioning of bitcoins. Some people find Bitcoin similar to hawala. Hawala is the system of transferring money and property in a parallel arrangement, avoiding the traditional banking system. Suppose that from the country ‘Alpha’ a person named ‘A’ wants to send money to another person ‘B’ located in country ‘Beta’. ‘A’ deposits the money with a specified grocer in his country, passes on the information to ‘B’, and ‘B’ collects the money from a specified shopkeeper in his country. It is as simple as this. The money reaches quickly and also escapes the due tax. Such a fully trust-based system has a long-standing presence in the Middle East, North Africa and the Indian sub-continent and South Asia. Unlike hawala, which generally has no public (or even written) record of transactions, the details of each transaction report of Bitcoins are available in a secured ledger called ‘blockchain’. From this open source, anybody can tell how many Bitcoins are traded at some specified public key. But nobody knows who the owner of those Bitcoins is, or who is sending and receiving virtual money, with their location also being hidden. India is very much unimpressed with such a decentalised digital money as it carries great risk of deception, fraud and terrorist financing. Ahead of the government’s plans to introduce a law to ban private cryptocurrencies, the RBI has expressed concern that cryptocurrencies would impact financial stability in the economy. Cryptocurrencies are already banned in some countries. The bubble of the new tulip-mania is, however, becoming bigger, and a part of the private sector is embracing it. Tesla, for example, said it would start accepting Bitcoin as a payment method for its products. “It’s a totally speculative play on a bubble that is self-fulfilling,” Nouriel Roubini thinks. Its similarity to hawala, its very nature of anonymity and lack of control, however, might be the major reasons for officialdom’s scepticism towards it in many parts of the post-9/11 world. Maybe rightly so. (The writer is a professor of Statistics, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bitcoin-a-tulip-mania-blended-with-hawala-962843.html
17-03-2021||Panorama||The optics of satellite towns||Develop satellite towns on the outskirts of the city, was a clarion call given by the ex-mayors during their recent meeting with BBMP administrators and similar messages were put forth by leading architects and planners in various forums.  It was in 1902 that Ebenezer Howard propounded the idea of "satellite towns" through his book, "garden cities of tomorrow". He defined satellite towns as those habitats with a population of 58,000 connected by fast roads and railways near the parent city that is separated by a green zone or green belt!  How can we conceive satellite towns in the outskirts of Bengaluru especially when subsequent master plans have erased almost 830 sq. kms of green belt or agriculture zone of outskirts?  The Lakshman Rau committee in the 1950's proposed five satellite towns for Bengaluru, viz., Kengeri, Yelahanka, Dobaspet, Chandapur and Hosakote, and they are now an integral part of the city, as the designated green belt disappeared.  Kengeri Satellite town remained underdeveloped till the year 2000 due to the nauseating smell of Vrishabhavathi river and mosquito menace. The residents there still feel that they are in satellite town, due to the vast vacant lands of Bangalore University that acts as a buffer to Bengaluru.  It's amusing to see that the earlier proposed "Ring towns" that were termed as "Counter magnets" around Bengaluru, viz., Magadi, Ramanagaram, Kanakapura, Doddaballapur are now labelled as satellite towns. The Satellite Town Ring Road Planning Authority (STRRPA) connects these proposed Satellite towns/ Ring towns along its entire 204 Kms stretch comprising of 331 villages. The Draft Master Plan-2031 had proposed seven (7) Special Economic Zones along the Intermediate Ring Road, which may evolve as Satellite towns, upon its development. However, proper development control should be unleashed to avoid any urban sprawl in the proposed stretch.   Even the proposed Bangalore-Mysore Infrastructure Corridor Project (BMIC) that envisaged to construct expressway integrated with five self-sustained townships, could have decentralized Bengaluru to some extent, if it was implemented! The delay in project approval caused distortion to the very vision of the project, as both the authorised and unauthorised urban sprawl has emerged all along the corridor. This may lead to the creation of an "unstructured megalopolis", merging  Bangalore and Mysore in the near future.  Why is the state concentrating on Bengaluru's decentralization alone?  Today, the broadband infrastructure is reaching the Gram Panchayath level, ushering the development in smaller towns and cities across the state. Hence, every emerging city in Karnataka should come up with "satellite towns and rurban towns" proposals (on PPP Model) integrated with "satellite forests or botanical/healing gardens or horticulture corridors ", to curb any urban sprawl in their respective region. To counter the delay in the development of socio-commercial infrastructure, these satellite towns could be located adjacent to an existing town or a vibrant Pattana Panchayath (Town Municipality) or a tourist potential area and should be developed in one single phase!  The government should come out with "new township act" to promote satellite towns, with an intension to expedite various approvals till the groundbreaking of the project, through flexible rules without compromising the broad principles of planning. The Government should do everything to reverse the ratio of project approval time: project development time from the existing 80: 20 to 10: 90 (in many cases), for the effective implementation of projects on time. It's quite common that certain experts suggested shifting the population to new habitats and decentralise Bengaluru. Is it possible? In 1950s China adopted the principle of rustication- reverse migration willingly or under coercion people were sent to live and work in rural areas, to achieve decentralization of their cities and it didn't fully succeed!  Hosur became a vibrant industrial town as it used the facilities of Bengaluru, but pays the majority of its taxes to its parent state Tamil Nadu. The same is not true in the case of Bidar located adjacent to Hyderabad. Our state government should do everything to make its border cities and towns significant enough to propel economic development in its hinterland! Hence, we need a robust urbanisation policy that recommends a perfect algorithm of spatial pattern for propelling the economic growth of our towns and cities.  (The writer is an urban planner)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-optics-of-satellite-towns-962844.html
17-03-2021||Panorama||In Madhya Pradesh, Shiv-raj or jungle raj?||In India’s political discourse, “jungle raj” does not conjure up the image of Madhya Pradesh; the phase normally evokes the lawlessness of Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. But the Supreme Court was anguished enough on March 14 to use the phrase for Madhya Pradesh’s Shivraj Singh Chouhan government, as the two judges -- Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah -- discovered to their shock that the state’s police had failed to arrest an accused in the case of the murder of Congress leader Devendra Chourasiya over two years ago. The accused, Govind Singh, the husband of BSP MLA Rambai Prajapati, is absconding, and the arrest warrant issued against him remains unimplemented. What the judges found even more galling was that the additional sessions judge of Damoh district, who ordered the arrest in February this year, was compelled to write to the apex court seeking safety of his own life, alleging that the district Superintendent of Police had threatened to implicate him in false cases.   “This is jungle raj,” observed the judges while ordering MP Director General of Police Vivek Johri to immediately ensure the arrest of Govind Singh. “If you cannot make the arrest, admit that you have failed to conduct the administration as per the Constitution,” Justice Shah said. The police’s failure to nab Govind Singh is a sordid reflection on the survival politics that has come to dog the state since the Congress came to power in the 2018 Assembly election with a fractured mandate and was ousted by the BJP through defections.   Govind Singh was named prime accused by the son of Chourasiya, who was murdered in February 2019. But the then Kamal Nath government dilly-dallied on Singh’s arrest as his MLA wife Rambai’s support was considered crucial to cobble together a majority. The Kamal Nath government fell nonetheless, paving way for the BJP, and Shivraj Singh Chouhan, to return to power -- with support from Jyotiraditya Scindia, who switched from Congress to the saffron party. Unlike his predecessor, Chief Minister Chouhan didn’t need outside support as the BJP added a dozen more MLAs to its tally in the by-elections for 22 seats in November last year, thus fortifying his government’s stability. Yet, his government risked public opprobrium and the top court’s wrath in not going after Govind Singh, perhaps calculating that it might need his wife’s support in future. As the BJP is set to celebrate the first anniversary of its snatching power from Congress on March 22, Chouhan doesn’t seem confident in his seat. Unlike his three previous terms, when he had ruled with a certain moral authority, having led the party to victory in successive elections since 2008, Chouhan is no longer as sure-footed as in the past. His style of functioning has changed remarkably, so also his language. He had never before uttered words such as “I will bury you 10-feet under,” which he used recently while warning land mafias. This is just one example of many such foul utterances, including against political opponents.   During the 13 years of his uninterrupted rule from 2005 to 2018, Chouhan was regarded as a moderate and polite leader, and seen as the inheritor of Atal Behari Vajpayee’s political legacy in the party. However, in his fourth term, Chouhan is seen as having attached his bandwagon to Yogi Adityanath than to Vajpayee.  The change in his disposition was striking almost as soon as he assumed office this time. The Covid-19 pandemic had begun to spread in the state. In April, a sizeable number of Tabligi Jamaat members had fled from their congregation in Hazrat Nizamuddin to their respective homes in Madhya Pradesh. But without any empirical basis, the Chief Minister blamed the Jamaat event as a pandemic ‘super spreader.’ His remark deepened hatred in the Hindu community towards Muslims at large, and in many places in the Malwa region, led to attacks on Muslims. Several Muslim youths were interned in the state under the National Security Act on the charge of attacking medical teams. On the other hand, saffron activists were allowed to undertake religious functions such as Kalash Yatra in public in utter disdain of the Covid protocol of the district administrations. The BJP channelled the aroused religious fervour amid the pandemic to its election campaign for the 22 by-elections necessitated by the resignations of Congress MLAs loyal to Jyotiraditya Scindia, with whom they switched over to the BJP. The BJP’s spectacular victory in the by-elections further emboldened the party and the Hindutva forces alike and Chouhan veered towards even more aggressive posturing. A month after the by-elections, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) activists took out bicycle rallies in the Malwa region in the name of collecting donations for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. They specifically targeted Muslim areas in Mandsaur, Indore and Ujjain and vandalised homes and mosques. The government acted swiftly -- not to arrest the culprits, but the victims. The houses of several Muslims were razed to the ground on the district administration’s order. The Chief Minister announced a harsh law to deal with “stone pelters” from the Muslim community, holding them squarely responsible for the communal flare-ups in the Malwa region in December. To keep up the Hindutva momentum, the ‘love jihad’ law was announced. It was finally passed by the state Assembly in March, with provision of jail term up to 10 years for the ‘guilty’. In January, stand-up comedian Munavar Faruqui was jailed on the complaint of a BJP MLA’s son on the suspicion that the artiste might crack some jokes to insult Hindu gods and goddesses. It took 45 days and the Supreme Court’s intervention to grant bail to Faruqui for a ‘crime’ he had not committed. The apex court severely censured the Chouhan government for its bias in the case. Such is the stuff of which “jungle raj” is surely made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/in-madhya-pradesh-shiv-raj-or-jungle-raj-963206.html
17-03-2021||Panorama||Vaccine diplomacy post-Covid-19||Vaccine diplomacy is state-led action of leveraging vaccine expertise for furthering foreign policy goals. These goals can range from maintaining ties between nations, burnishing an international reputation, or developing influence within a region. A robust framework can aid in the identification of vaccine diplomacy opportunities and allow India to quickly respond to such need. According to GAVI, the international organisation aimed at improving access to vaccines, “today the potential for diseases to spread is actually increasing,” due to an exponential increase in international travel, an increasing majority of people living in urbanised areas and climate change. If the number of pandemics, or even limited outbreaks is to increase, then vaccines- their development, research, and logistics- will surely play a more important role in international politics. India is already well-positioned as one of the world’s largest vaccine manufacturers. The next obvious step is to take advantage of the opportunity and engage in aggressive vaccine diplomacy. For this, India requires the development of a clear, long-sighted vision: one that allows India to balance domestic needs with international victories, and humanitarian aid with political gains. Through Covid-19 pandemic, India has offered vaccines aligned to its “Neighbourhood First” policy, an initiative of the Indian government for nearly seven years. The development of a vaccine diplomacy framework should echo this policy and will provide a new avenue for influencing international relations. The real advantage of having a clearly defined policy surrounding vaccine diplomacy is that the government will be able to respond faster to international public health threats. And swift action is the difference between striking a deal to send vaccines to another country, or letting an international adversary take that deal instead. There is a definite number of people that need to be vaccinated, therefore a lost deal is a lost opportunity to create goodwill. India’ speed, alacrity, and interest will therefore define the scope of vaccine diplomacy in foreign policy goals. A robust policy surrounding vaccine diplomacy also balances the domestic need with international exports. India develops 3 billion vaccines every year and exports two-thirds of them. A vaccine diplomacy framework should center domestic usage but allow effective development and use of surplus capacity. Vaccine diplomacy only leverages the pre-existing transport for furthering India’s international relations. However, amongst all of this, the Indian government should ensure that its regulations don’t disincentivize private manufacturers and researchers. Government over-regulation can act as a handicap to attracting and keeping technology giants in India. The framework built for vaccine diplomacy must not encroach on the operational freedom of private companies. Actions such as forbidding the Serum Institute of India from exporting vaccines made for Covid-19 reduces the confidence of companies and will hamper vaccine development. Ben Rhodes, the former deputy national security advisor to President Obama, has spoken at length about the “moral authority” of the United States, and how many nations of the world look to the American model for lessons in developing a democracy. But if the past four years--and, particularly, 2020--proved nothing else, it showed how fragile American democracy is, and how the mantle of leadership is no longer on any single nation’s shoulders. Indeed, this is an opportunity for India: one of India’s most ambitious foreign policy goals has been to gain a permanent seat at the UN Security Council, but it has been stymied for years on end by the inherent nature of the UNSC. The only realistic path to winning a permanent seat on the UNSC is to be, as Mohamed Zeeshan puts it, “so influential and indispensable in international politics that it counts for more than the Security Council as a whole.” A UNSC that does not include the United States would be all but defunct; India must aim at such heights if it wishes to overcome the obstacles standing in its path to a permanent seat at the UNSC. By shouldering some of the moral leadership that was once the purview of the US or the EU, India can pursue a strong vaccine diplomacy policy that forges new alliances, changes the world order, and allows India to gain one of its longest-held ambitions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/vaccine-diplomacy-post-covid-19-963207.html
17-03-2021||Right in the Middle||To smile or not to smile||Our apartment’s security guard, Billa, is unrelenting when it comes to the imposition of Covid-19 protocols on residents and visitors alike. Courtesy of his matronly watch over us, the lift has not carried its capacity for what now seems, ages. Billa has ensured that anyone using the lift follows the ‘one person at a time’ rule to the letter. The resulting isolation has provided welcome relief to reticent souls like me. While riding the lift with neighbours during better times, I could not bring myself to smile even half-heartedly at them. The solitary ridership during these Covid days has lifted (no pun intended) a huge burden off my shoulders. But should something as natural as smiling at people feel like a burden in the first place? That is definitely some food for thought. In the eponymous Shakespearean play, Hamlet’s dilemma is ‘To be or not to be’. I am faced with a more mundane question: ‘To smile or not to smile’. I have painted myself as the sole wrongdoer but (with due respect to my neighbours) may I say I enjoy ‘august' company here? As neighbours, we (literally) rubbed shoulders in the lift but seldom betrayed even a hint of a smile. We obviously bore no ill-will towards each other, yet, when it came to sporting a smile, we acted coy. The entire time that we were in the lift was mostly spent thumbing around one’s smartphone or emptily gazing at the whirring fan or the panel lighting up the floor numbers. The forced sedentariness of Covid-19 has provided an opportunity for reflection. Looking back at my own bashfulness, my feelings are not without a tinge of regret. What made me so reserved?  Smiles need not be scarce, so there is no reason to ration them out. In a moment of epiphany, I resolved that I should overcome my hesitation and be more welcoming in the future — a future that is overdue. Seeing mask-less folks socialising with gay abandon is not uncommon now. But I for one would like to wait for better days so that I may confidently cast off my mask (pun intended) of restraint and grab every opportunity to smile at my neighbours in the block. They are a motley group, speaking perhaps half a dozen vernaculars among them. I am sure they would smile back at me as I am a strong believer in the adage, ‘a smile begets a smile'. Also, didn’t George Carlin, the American comedian say, ‘Everyone smiles in the same language’?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/to-smile-or-not-to-smile-963205.html
17-03-2021||Second Edit||Quad is no longer just a 'talk shop'||The Quad’s four member-states, India, Japan, the United States and Australia, can draw quiet satisfaction from their recent virtual meeting. This was the grouping’s first summit ever. Besides, unlike in the past when Quad meetings saw the four countries put out separate statements, this time the summit culminated in a joint statement. ‘The Spirit of Quad’ signals a greater unity of purpose and meeting of minds.  The summit produced substantial outcomes. The four countries agreed to pool their resources, manufacturing and logistics capabilities to deliver a billion Covid-19 vaccine doses to countries in the Southeast Asian and Pacific regions. Back in 2004-5, the four countries  came together as the Tsunami Core Group to coordinate disaster relief to countries in the Indo-Pacific that had been battered by the December 2004 tsunami. It was out of this cooperation that the idea of the Quad emerged. That the first substantial joint effort by Quad will go towards addressing a global public health concern is heartening. The summit also decided on the creation of working groups on the vaccine implementation plan, climate change and critical and emerging technologies. Over the past decade, China has mocked and condemned, even issued warnings to the Quad. The Quad’s joint statement should prompt Beijing to pause and rethink its aggressive policies in the Indo-Pacific. The statement sends out a cooperative message: should China be a part of a rule-based order, it can be part of a mutually beneficial relationship that the Quad is working to set up in the Indo-Pacific. If China persists with its flagrant violation of international norms in pursuit of hegemonic ambitions, then it can count on the Quad countering it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/quad-is-no-longer-just-a-talk-shop-962840.html
17-03-2021||Second Edit||Bridge gap between words and actions||Overland connectivity between India and Bangladesh has taken an important step forward with the two countries recently inaugurating the Maitri Setu or Friendship Bridge, a 1.9 km-long bridge across the River Fen. The bridge, linking Sabroom in Tripura to Ramgarh in Bangladesh, will facilitate North-East India’s seaborne trade. Being landlocked, India’s North-Eastern states have depended on Kolkata port for importing and exporting goods. At present, goods are trucked down from Agartala through the narrow Siliguri Corridor to Kolkata port, over 1,600 km away. Thanks to the Maitri Setu, goods can be trucked across the bridge to Ramgarh and then onward by truck or boat to Chittagong port, a distance of 82 km. It would thus give a boost to trade and economic development. In recent years, the Indian and Bangladeshi governments have prioritised the construction of bridges, roads and railway lines linking the two countries. A little over two months ago, they inaugurated a 10.5 km-long rail line connecting Haldibari in West Bengal with Chilahati in Bangladesh. This railway line is among several others that existed and was active till the 1965 India-Pakistan war. These travel and transport links are being restored. Building connectivity infrastructure is undoubtedly useful not just for trade and economic development but also to encourage travel and people-to-people exchanges. Given their shared cultures, India and Bangladesh are acutely aware of this. At the inauguration of Maitri Setu, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke on the importance of overland connectivity between the two countries. But his words would seem to ring hollow. For his government has made it amply clear that Bangladeshis are not welcome in this country. Home Minister Amit Shah once likened Bangladeshi immigrants to “termites.” The enactment of the Citizenship Amendment Act and plans to implement the National Register of Citizens are not seen as friendly acts in Bangladesh. The disconnect between actions, which are positive and welcome, and words, which are poisonous and aimed at domestic political polarisation, are visible to people on both sides of the Maitri Setu. The government will do well to bridge that disconnect. Bangladesh is a neighbour and a country whose birth India midwifed, a fact that Modi will proudly acknowledge when he visits Dhaka next week, even as he will have one eye on the elections in West Bengal, where the BJP is running a high-pitched campaign of polarisation. It is also key to India’s Act East policy. Domestic political considerations should not be allowed to cause disenchantment, or worse, between Delhi and Dhaka, especially when Beijing is watching.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/bridge-gap-between-words-and-actions-963203.html
17-03-2021||South||Cong names candidates for Assembly polls in Puducherry, former CM Narayanasamy doesn't find place||The Congress on Tuesday announced names of candidates for 14 seats for the April 6 Puducherry Assembly elections but the list did not contain the name of party veteran and former chief minister V Narayanasamy. The Congress, which heads the Secular Democratic Alliance in the union territory, was allotted 15 of the 30 Assembly seats while its ally-the DMK- was earmarked 13 constituencies. VCK and CPI, the other constituents of the alliance, have been earmarked one seat each. In a release, the All India Congress Committee (AICC) announced the list of candidates for 14 seats which significantly did not include the name of Narayanasamy, whose government fell last month after it lost the trust vote. While the candidates for 14 constituencies were released, the nominee for Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh, has not been announced. Former Industries Minister M O H F Shah Jahan has been fielded from Kamaraj Nagar. He had contested the last poll in 2016 poll from the Kalapet constituency which has been by and large the traditional seat for the Congress. PCC president A V Subramanian is contesting from his hometown of Karaikal (north). Former Ministers M Kandasamy and R Kamalakannan have been fielded again in Embalam (reserved) and Tirunallar in Karaikal respectively. The 14 seats are spread over Puducherry (10), Karaikal (three) and Mahe (one). Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party which has been allocated nine seats as part of the NDA also released its list of candidates. Former PWD Minister A Namassivayam has been fielded from the Mannadipet constituency and the president of the BJP State committee V Saminathan is the nominee for the Lawspet segment. A John Kumar and his son Richards John Kumar have been allotted the Kamaraj Nagar and Nellithope seats respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cong-names-candidates-for-assembly-polls-in-puducherry-former-cm-narayanasamy-doesnt-find-place-962872.html
17-03-2021||South||Narayanasamy not to contest Puducherry Assembly Election||Former Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy, whose government lost majority at the fag end of its tenure, will not contest the April 6 assembly election. "Our PCC President A V Subramanian is contesting the election. Mr Narayanasamy will look after the campaign and other issues," Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC incharge for Puducherry, told DH. The move is aimed at countering the anti-incumbency factor attached with the fallen government. The Congress-DMK alliance is pitted against a resurgent NR Congress which has tied up with BJP and AIADMK. Puducherry will go to assembly polls on April 6. The assembly has a strength of 30 members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narayanasamy-not-to-contest-puducherry-assembly-election-962952.html
17-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Polls: MDMK releases poll manifesto||Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) Chief Vaiko released the party's poll manifesto at party headquarters in Chennai on Wednesday. Tamil Nadu goes to polls on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-mdmk-releases-poll-manifesto-962955.html
17-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly elections: BJP announces candidates for three more constituencies||The BJP on Wednesday announced its candidates for three more constituencies in Tamil Nadu for the April 6 Assembly polls, two days before the last date to file nominations. The Saffron party, an ally of the ruling AIADMK had days ago named its nominees for 17 out of the 20 constituencies allotted to it by its partner and now announced candidates for Thali (C Nagesh Kumar), Udhagamandalam (Bhojarajan) and Vilavancode (R Jayaseelan). While the filing of nominations opened on March 12, the last date to submit nominations is March 19 and the papers would be taken up for scrutiny the next day. The last date for withdrawal of candidature is March 22 and the election is scheduled on April 6, while counting on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-elections-bjp-announces-candidates-for-three-more-constituencies-963002.html
17-03-2021||South||P C Thomas-led Kerala Congress quits NDA||The Kerala Congress (Thomas) faction led by former Union Minister of State P C Thomas has decided to quit the NDA and merge with the Kerala Congress (Joseph) in Kerala. Thomas, a six-time Lok Sabha MP and the first NDA MP from Kerala in 2004, decided to quit NDA as his party was not given even one seat for the coming Assembly election in Kerala even as the party contested in four seats in last Assembly election. Thomas said that though the NDA leadership wanted him to contest from the Pala Assembly seat in Kottayam, he declined owing to personal reasons. He said that his party and Kerala Congress (Joseph) led by former minister P J Joseph, which is a coalition partner of Congress-led UDF, would merge and he would campaign for the UDF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/p-c-thomas-led-kerala-congress-quits-nda-963008.html
17-03-2021||South||Nemom: The cynosure of all eyes in Kerala assembly polls||If anyone asks which is the most talked-about constituency in Kerala in the April 6 assembly polls, a majority of the people may have only one answer -- Nemom, a tiny suburb located on the outskirts of the state capital. And, what makes it so high profile is the do-or-die situation faced by the major political fronts-Congress-led UDF, CPI(M)-headed LDF and BJP-NDA- at this segment which has already garnered national attention. Nemom is the lone seat of BJP in the Kerala Assembly. BJP candidate and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan and LDF nominee V Sivankutty have already begun their campaign in the constituency. Though a bit late, Congress heavyweight, K Muraleedharan, whose candidature was announced onlytwo days ago, made a mass entry into the constituency by taking out a mammoth road-show on Tuesday. With the arrival of a strong leader like Muraleedharan, Nemom is expected to witness one of the toughest triangular fights in its history in the polls. Rajasekharan, who submitted nomination papers on Wednesday, expressed confidence about his victory and said the BJP would surely retain the seat. The senior leader, who was reportedly the unanimous choice of the saffron party as candidate in the prestigious segment, said his candidature was the result of the trust shown by the people of Nemom. The saffron party has no choice but trying all means to retain their sole Assembly constituency, which they had gained after years of struggles and toil, breaking the dominance of decades-long bipolar polity enjoyed by the UDF and LDF in the southern state. However, the traditional fronts- UDF and LDF- have the heavy responsibility to throw out the BJP from the soil of the state to reclaim their hegemony in polls and implement their aim to keep the state "BJP mukth". The steady rise in its vote bank in Nemom has prompted many BJP leaders tolabel the constituency as the "Gujarat of Kerala" while Marxist party termed it as their "red fort" quoting the figures of the voting percentage in previous polls. The Congress party leadership might have spent a significant time to choose a strong nominee in Nemom to discard the allegations by the Marxist party against their "tie-up" with BJP in theconstituency. The mass drain of votes from the UDF side during the 2016 assembly election was the reason for the Left to raise allegations against them. The Congress even thought aboutfielding a high profile leader like Oommen Chandy to give a befitting reply to the CPI(M) but finally roped in senior leader K Muraleedharan, a member of parliament. If the party wins and it can wrest the lone seat from BJP, it would be a game-changer in state politics, the Congress leadership feels. After launching the campaign at Nemom, Muraleedhran, son of former Chief Minister, the late K Karunakaran, said he and the Congress were contesting for the first position in the upcoming elections. "Let them (LDF and BJP) decide the second and third positions.But, we are fighting for the top position. I have whole-heartedly taken up the responsibility entrusted to me by myparty," the leader said. Rejecting the claims ofthe UDF and BJP, Sivankutty, the LDF candidate, however, said the constituency has all the favourable factors for theLeft front to succeed and he wasreceiving very positive responses from voters. "People here havetheir own reasons,whether the issues at the national level or the development projects implemented by the Pinarayi Vijayan government,to choose an LDF candidate as their representative this time," he said. He alleged thatpresent BJP MLA had done nothing for the development of the constituency in the past five years. With nearly two lakh voters, Nemom has a large chunk of upper-caste Hindu votes besides a considerable Muslim and Nadar community votes. BJP veteran and former union minister O Rajagopal had won Nemom in the 2016 assembly polls garnering 67,813 votes and defeating V Sivankutty who secured 59,142 votes. However, the UDF candidate V Surendran Pillai (JD-S) could finish only in a distant third with 13,860 votes. Untilthe saffron party wrested Nemom in 2016, both the traditional fronts- LDF and UDF- had won the constituency twice each in four elections since 1996. Of the total 1,57, 949 votes polled in Nemom assembly segment during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the BJP candidate garnered 58,513 votes while Congress and CPI nominees 46,472 and 33,921 votes respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nemom-the-cynosure-of-all-eyes-in-kerala-assembly-polls-963020.html
17-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls: Pinarayi Vijayan declares assets worth Rs 54 lakh||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared assets worth Rs 54 lakh while submitting his nomination for the April 6 assembly polls from the Dharmadam constituency in Kannur district. Vijayan, who filed his nomination on Monday, submitted he has immovable assets worth Rs 51.95 lakh, including two plots with a house. He has movable assets valued at Rs 2.04 lakh including Rs 78,048.51 in his bank account in the SBI, Thalassery Branch, 1000 shares worth Rs 10,000 in Malayalam Communication Ltd and shares worth Rs one lakh at KIAL. According to the affidavit, his total income is shown as Rs 2,87,860 for 2020-21. His wife Kamala has Rs 5,47,803.21 in her account with the same bank and assets worth Rs 35 lakh. The affidavit also shows that there are two pending cases against him including the SNC Lavalin case in which he was discharged by a special CBI court. The case is currently pending before the Supreme Court. Leader of Opposition in the State Assembly, Ramesh Chennithala, who filed his papers from the Harippad segment in Alappuzha district, has declared assets worth Rs 1.23 crore including immovable assets valued at Rs 76,20,620. He has movable assets worth Rs 47,26,091 including car, a LIC policy and investments in shares and bonds. His wife Anitha Ramesh has assets worth Rs 2,20,77,033 including movable assets worth 1,61,07,033. The senior Congress leader has a liability of Rs 2,04,24,034 and total income at Rs 5,15,930 for the year 2020-21, besides eight cases pending against him. Veteran Congress leader and former chief minister Oommen Chandy has submitted he has immovable assets worth Rs 3.41 crore and movable assets worth Rs 2.99 lakh. In the affidavit filed for his candidature from Puthuppally constituency in Kottayam district, Chandy has also declared there are four cases pending against him and he has a liability of Rs 25,26,682. The election commission's website shows that 222 candidates have filed nominations from various constituencies of the state since the process started on March 12. The last date for submitting nominations for the 140 seats in the state Assembly is on March 19. Scrutiny will take place on March 20 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is on March 22. The state will go to polls on April 6 and the results will be out on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-pinarayi-vijayan-declares-assets-worth-rs-54-lakh-963036.html
17-03-2021||South||RSS leader's allegation of CPM-BJP vote trade in Kerala a shot in the arm for Congress||In an embarrassment to the BJP and the CPM in Kerala, an RSS-BJP ideologue has alleged of CPM-BJP vote trade at several constituencies in Kerala. R Balashankar, who is a former editor of RSS mouthpiece organiser, alleged that the CPM did not field strong candidates at certain constituencies where the BJP was pinning high hopes. He cited that in order to help BJP state President K Surendran contesting at Konni in Pathanamthitta, the CPM fielded a weak candidate in the constituency, and in return, the BJP would be helping the CPM in Aaranmula and Chengannur seats in Pathanamthitta and Alappuzha districts. The fresh allegations by an RSS leader have come as a shot in the arm for the Congress with Congress leaders alleging that at several constituencies the BJP had fielded candidates who had joined the saffron party from the CPM or the CPI. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress demanded the BJP and the CPM leaders to clarify to the people about the allegations raised by the RSS leader. The BJP is trying hard to ensure CPM's victory in the coming election. But the CPM was playing a politics that was dangerous for the state and the people will realise it, he said. Meanwhile, BJP leaders were maintaining that Balashankar was upset as he did not get the NDA seat for the Assembly election and this was the provocation for such baseless allegations. The CPM leaders were also relying on the BJP leaders' stand against Balashankar to wriggle out of the embarrassment. Balashankar is said to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and he had penned the book 'Narendra Modi; Creative Disruptor'. He was reportedly being considered for the Chengannur constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rss-leaders-allegation-of-cpm-bjp-vote-trade-in-kerala-a-shot-in-the-arm-for-congress-963058.html
17-03-2021||South||As poll campaign heats up in Kerala, CPM reaps the whirlwind over Sabarimala issue||The ruling CPM-led LDF in Kerala, which already burnt its fingers over the Sabarimala women entry issue in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, seems to be still reaping the whirlwind with the Congress and the BJP camps targeting the government again during the ongoing campaigns ahead of the Assembly elections. While Kerala Devaswom Minister and CPM leader Kadakampally Surendran recently said that he was quite sad about the incidents at Sabarimala Ayyappa temple in connection with the women entry issue in 2018-19, CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday stepped in to justify the stand of the ruling LDF in Kerala on the Sabarimala issue. Yechury said in an interview to a news channel that he doesn't know why Kadakampally Surendran regretted over the Sabarimala incidents as the LDF government only implemented a Supreme Court order, which was the obligation of any elected government. Congress leader and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said that the CPM was maintaining one stand to woo the voters by expressing regrets over the Sabarimala women entry issue, while their real stand was otherwise. If the Left Front really regretted the issue, the LDF government should have altered the affidavit submitted before the apex court favouring the entry of women of all ages to the temple, said Chandy.  BJP state president K Surendran said that the real face of the CPM on the Sabarimala women entry issue was once again exposed with the fresh statement of Yechury. The BJP is making use of the Sabrimala women entry issue mainly to garner votes in Hindu-dominated constituencies. In a damage control measure over the Sabrimala issue, the LDF government had recently decided to withdraw cases registered against hundreds of persons in connection with the protests staged against the entry of women in the 10-50 age group to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple during 2018-19. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the LDF got defeated in 19 of the 20 seats in Kerala and a review of the party found that the handling of the Sabarimala women entry matter as one key reasons for the setback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-poll-campaign-heats-up-in-kerala-cpm-reaps-the-whirlwind-over-sabarimala-issue-963134.html
17-03-2021||South||Liquor ban promise surfaces again in poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Its election time and prohibition is back in focus in Tamil Nadu where the dry law was lifted about five decades ago. Political parties, including the ruling AIADMK, Opposition DMK and Congress, have pitched for a complete ban on liquor, albeit in a phased manner, making the promise in their respective manifestos for the April 6 assembly elections. Total prohibition was in force in the state from 1937 to 1971 when the then DMK government headed by M Karunanidhi lifted it first. The AIADMK and DMK have both bet on phased re-introduction of prohibition and closure of liquor outlets in a staggered manner in their manifestos. PMK, an ally of AIADMK, and MDMK, a partner in the DMK- led front, have also made an assurance to ensure liquor-free Tamil Nadu. While the DMK has also promised de-addiction centres, its ally Congress has presented a detailed roadmap for implementation of prohibition in its separate manifesto. Gandhiya Makkal Iyakkam chief Tamizharuvi Manian, who has been in the forefront of anti-liquor campaign for years, is not impressed much by the promises. "The mention of bringing prohibition in the manifestos of AIADMK and DMK is just a passing reference which indicates there is no commitment to implement it," he told PTI. Manian, a Gandhian and former Congress leader who has held several campaigns against liquor, said he would continue to fight for the dry law in the state. In their manifestos for the 2016 Assembly elections too the two Dravidian parties besides the Congress had assured to enforce a ban on liquor, sale of which is a major revenue earner for the government contributing around Rs 30,000 crore annually. Introducing complete prohibition, which encompasses closure of liquor outlets and a halt to production and storage of spirits, was a hotly debated topic during the 2016 Assembly polls unlike the present election. In 2015, the demand for prohibition peaked with the death of Gandhian Sasi Perumal during a protest against liquor outlets. Perumal championed the cause of a complete ban on production, storage and consumption of alcoholic products. As part of implementing the AIADMK's promise, then chief minister J Jayalalithaa had issued an order closing down around 500 Indian Made Foreign Liquor shops after assuming power in 2016. The state Congress recalled that till 1967, when it held the reins of power in Tamil Nadu, total prohibition was in force and there need not be any hesitation in implementing it again. In its poll document, the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee said as soon as a 'new' government assumed office, a high-level committee comprising experts and officials would be formed to work towards imposing a complete ban on liquor. While mulling a ban on alcoholic beverages, the panel would work on ensuring that the proposed move does not lead to the brewing of illicit liquor and also look into ways to offset the loss of revenue -from liquor sale- to the government due to the move, it said. The phased reduction in the number of liquor vends till imposition of a total ban, rehabilitation units in every taluk for people addicted to consuming alcoholic products, including the evils of alcohol in school and college syllabi, stern punishment for brewers of spurious liquor were among the steps promised by the Congress. The MDMK, in its manifesto, said liquor outlets must be permanently shut and prohibition clamped. The Vaiko-led party too advocated setting up a committee of experts to explore ways to compensate the loss of revenue. The MDMK would continue to work for a liquor-free Tamil Nadu, it said, recalling Vaiko's padyatra years ago to press for prohibition. "Complete prohibition is our goal," the party's manifesto says. In the past, the DMK had argued that a total liquor ban may lead to a spurt in illicit alcohol that would affect the people. There were also difficulties in enforcing such a ban in view of factors like availability of liquor in all the neighbouring states, the DMK had argued years ago, but it reversed its stand later and promised dry law. Freedom fighter and Congress stalwart C Rajagopalachari was instrumental in bringing the Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act of 1937, which ensured a dry spell in the state for decades. In 1971, when the then Chief Minister M Karunanidhi lifted prohibition, Rajaji, who was by then steering the Swatantra party, personally visited the DMK patriarch and requested him not to revoke the ban. Though the DMK regime did not heed to his counsel, the party re-introduced the ban three years later. The AIADMK government (during 1977-81) under Chief Minister M G Ramachandran eased complete prohibition and initially allowed liquor only for permit holders and then such rules were relaxed, turning the clock back to 1971. While earlier licences were auctioned for the operation of liquor outlets, the government took over the business from 2003 with the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC) becoming the sole player.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/liquor-ban-promise-surfaces-again-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-963138.html
17-03-2021||South||EC transfers 10 Tamil Nadu police officers, including South Zone IG||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday ordered the transfer of ten police officers, including South Zone IG S Murugan, and directed that they should not be assigned any election-related duty. In a notification, the ECI said it has ordered the transfer of Murugan to a non-election post and asked the state government to send a panel for appointment in place of Murugan. The Commission also transferred nine other police officers – three from Central Crime Branch (CCB), Chennai, one each from Prohibition Enforcement Wing in Chennai, Tiruchirappalli and Vellore, one from Economic Offences Wing, Chennai, one from Investigative Unit of Crime Against Women, and one from District Crime Records Bureau in Ramanathapuram. Tamil Nadu will go to the polls on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-transfers-10-tamil-nadu-police-officers-including-south-zone-ig-963143.html
17-03-2021||State||12% of Karnataka's frontline workers receive 2nd Covid-19 vaccine dose||Karnataka has vaccinated 12% of its frontline workers with the second dose of the vaccine. Districts like Mandya, Ramanagar, Davanagere, Chikkaballapur and Dharwad have given the second dose to 3.1%, 3%, 4.8%, 5.7%, and 5.9% respectively. The district health officials said not only those who have completed a 28-day period after the first dose but also those who have completed 42 days after the first dose are eligible and hence, have time to get the second dose. About 205 frontline workers, out of 4,253 who were vaccinated with the first dose, also received the second dose in Davanagere till 5.30 pm on March 15.  Although they do not have data on how many of these have already completed their 28-day period, Davanagere District Health Officer Dr Nagaraj told DH, “We started vaccinating frontline workers on February 10. In the beginning, we didn’t have much coverage from the police, revenue and rural development departments. Even those from the urban local bodies started coming on February 10. Now, when their turn comes after 28 days, we will contact them. We will be calling the heads of RDPR and police and get them vaccinated with the second dose.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/12-of-karnatakas-frontline-workers-receive-2nd-covid-19-vaccine-dose-962937.html
17-03-2021||State||CD row: Girl's father files kidnap complaint; special team formed to probe case||The scandal involving a former minister got murkier on Wednesday with the Belagavi police forming a special team to probe the kidnapping claim raised by a girl's father stating that his daughter, allegedly the same girl from the video, was being harassed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Vikram Amathe informed reporters here that based on the complaint, a special team, led by Assistant Commissioner of Police Market Subdivision and APMC Police Inspector, has been formed to investigate the case. The father of the woman, seen in the alleged video, filed a complaint with the APMC police on Tuesday stating that his daughter has been kidnapped from Bengaluru. The police said a 54-year-old man, a resident of Hanuman Nagar, filed the complaint and a case has been registered based on it. The complainant has confirmed that the woman seen in the alleged scandal video involving Jarkiholi was his daughter, the police stated, adding that unidentified persons have kidnapped his daughter and were harassing her. He also said that while his daughter had denied that it was her in the video and said it was a girl resembling her, she has not been accessible over the phone. An FIR has been registered as per the complaint. Jurisdictional police will decide on the matter if the family members of the girl seek police protection, Dr Amathe said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-row-girls-father-files-kidnap-complaint-special-team-formed-to-probe-case-962974.html
17-03-2021||State||Flying training schools to be set up at Belagavi, Kalaburagi: Centre||Airports Authority of India (AAI) has identified six airports in the country including Belagavi and Kalburagi airports in Karnataka for setting up flying training schools, Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri informed Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. Replying to a question posed by BJP Member K C Ramamurthy, the minister said the bidding process for the selection of flying training operators is currently underway. The operators can also apply to DGCA for unmanned aircraft operations like drones etc. if they so desire, he said. “Flying training operations at these airports will help increase the number of commercial pilots produced every year within India," the minister said. The Centre has decided to set up six flying schools at underutilised airports in the country to meet the growing demand for pilots. The decision to open new flying schools was taken on the recommendation of a committee of experts chaired by former Indian Air Force chief Fali H Major. As per the Civil Aviation Ministry estimate, over the next five years, India would require an estimated 9,488 pilots to meet the growing demand of its burgeoning civil aviation sector. Currently, India’s scheduled airlines employ over 9,000 pilots. The civil aviation regulator DGCA issues about 700-800 commercial pilot licenses every year, of which 30% are given to pilots who have undergone training in a foreign country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/flying-training-schools-to-be-set-up-at-belagavi-kalaburagi-centre-963111.html
17-03-2021||State||Explosive materials seized in Mandya district||Acting on a tip-off, Police personnel conducted a raid and seized explosive materials that were stored in a house, to be used for illegal mining activities, at N Kodihalli, under Koppa hobli, Maddur taluk, Mandya district. The explosive materials were seized from the cattle shed of K T Satyappa, in N Kodihalli. Police seized around 64 cartridges, weighing around 10 kg, and other materials. A team, led by Superintendent of Police M Ashwini and Malavalli DySP Lakshmi Narayan Prasad conducted the raid, on Tuesday. According to police officials, locals had complained to SP Ashwini that Satyappa was selling explosive materials to those involved in illegal quarrying around Kodihalli and he has stored them in a shed near his house. Thus, the Police team conducted a raid and seized the materials. However, accused Satyappa is absconding. Besagaralli Police have filed a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/explosive-materials-seized-in-mandya-district-963161.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Waqf Board circular bars loudspeakers in mosques, dargahs from 10 pm to 6 am||The Karnataka State Wakf Board has prohibited the use of loudspeakers in mosques and dargahs between 10 pm and 6 am. In a circular, it has specified sound limits for the use of speakers in different zones, while recommending the use of noise-governing apparatus. In a circular issued recently, the Board directed the management of mosques and dargahs to strictly adhere to the Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control) Rules, 2000. “The area comprising not less than 100 metres around hospitals, educational institutions and courts are declared as a silence zone. Whoever uses any sound amplifier, or bursts sound-emitting firecrackers, uses a loudspeaker or public address system in the silence zone is liable for penalty under the provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, 1986,” the circular read. Among the 11 instructions issued to all masjid and dargah committees, loudspeakers are allowed only for Azan and other important announcements such as the sighting of the moon. For congregational prayer ceremonies, speakers should be installed inside the religious premises, the circular said, directing the committees to train mosque staff to operate the loudspeaker within the prescribed sound limit.  The government has not imposed any restrictions on Azan, Wakf Board member Shaafi Saadi tweeted to clarify. “Under instruction number 3 of the circular, it is clear that loudspeakers can be used for Azan and other announcements,” he said. The circular has the same directions as issued by the Board in July 2017, Shaafi said, adding that any shortcomings in the circular will be addressed in the next board meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-waqf-board-circular-bars-loudspeakers-in-mosques-dargahs-from-10-pm-to-6-am-962877.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka crosses 1,000-mark in daily Covid-19 cases for the first time in three months||For the first time in three months, Karnataka on Tuesday reported 1,135 cases of Covid-19 infection, with Bengaluru alone adding 710 new cases. The last time Karnataka saw the numbers crossing the 1,000 mark was on December 25, when the state reported 1,005 Covid-19 cases. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said Tuesday’s numbers were a warning. “Contact tracing has to be expedited, as any delay will lead to higher reproductive number (R0). The R0 (average number of infections from one individual) for last week and this week shows that there is an increase in case spread,” he said. He said there was an increasing trend in numbers, but it was not increasing exponentially. “We need to wait and see,” he added. He said the increase has been more in Bengaluru and border districts like Dakshina Kannada, Bidar and Kalaburagi. A significant proportion of new positives are asymptomatics, he noted. In Bengaluru, both urban and rural areas, have seen a rise. “In Bengaluru, among individual zones, the R0 is increasing from 0.2 to 0.4 and 0.5, all in a matter of a week. Even though it is less than one, the trend is that the case transmission is increasing. If the seven-day growth rate of the cases is exponential, that is if it doubles week to week, then it is alarming,” he said. Dr C N Manjunath, the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee member, said he had requested the chief minister to allow people with comorbidities in all age groups to be vaccinated. “I have requested the CM to remove the age bracket in the comorbid category for vaccination. As high as 25% angioplasties have been done for people below the age of 45 at Jayadeva every year over the past four years,” he said. Karnataka reported six new Covid-19 fatalities. The total number of infections has now risen to 9,62,339 and the death toll to 12,403. The day also saw 561 patients getting discharged after recovery taking the discharges to 9,40,489. Out of 9,428 active cases, 9,299 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 129 are in ICU. Three deaths were from Bengaluru Urban and one each from Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Mysuru. Mysuru reported 58 cases, Dakshina Kannada (50), Kalaburagi (46) and Bengaluru Rural (38). A total of over 1,99,21,424 samples have been tested so far, out of which 68,469 were tested on Tuesday alone, and 6,485 among them were rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-crosses-1000-mark-in-daily-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-in-three-months-962928.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Karnataka to regulate indoor events, no restrictions on outdoor activities||Ruling out a lockdown or curfew possibility in any part of the state to contain the spread of Covid-19, CM Yediyurappa said that the state government will regulate all types of indoor activities including marriages, birthdays, parties and other events. However, the CM clarified there will not be many restrictions on outdoor events. Addressing media persons soon after participating in the video conference with the Prime Minister, CM Yediyurappa said, “The government will strictly regulate large gatherings that violate Covid-19 protocols.” When asked about large gatherings in the wake of upcoming bypolls to the state Assembly and Lok Sabha, Yediyurappa clarified that there will not be many restrictions on outdoor activities. “Our focus is on regulating large gatherings that take place within four walls in a closed environment. Any events violating the Covid rules including the permitted number of participants will be dealt with seriously. There will not be many restrictions on outdoor activities other than mandatory wearing of masks,” Yediyurappa briefed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-karnataka-to-regulate-indoor-events-no-restrictions-on-outdoor-activities-963045.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka MLA explains how government land worth Rs 1,800 crore was grabbed, stuns Assembly||Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday promised a stronger law to deal with encroachments after senior JD(S) member A T Ramaswamy stunned the Legislative Assembly by narrating how government land worth Rs 1,890 crore was grabbed in Bengaluru. This pertains to 63 acres of gomala (grazing) land in Mullur village near Mahadevapura. “In December 2019, the regional commissioner had stated in a report that this was a clear conspiracy to grab land. Officials were named for action to be taken against them. Nothing has been done,” Ramaswamy, a member of the government’s committee on land encroachment, said during his speech on the Budget. Ramaswamy also read out a statement made by IAS officer N Manjunath Prasad, who was the revenue secretary when he deposed before the committee. “One acre is worth about Rs 30 crore. There was a complaint from villagers on encroachment. There are 73 acres including survey numbers 141, 145, 146 and 149 being gomala land. Out of the 73 acres, genuine grant was for 10 acres only. In 2005, the ‘land mafia’ created a fake grant certificate,” Ramaswamy said, adding that the Department of Stamps & Registration was asked to stop the sale of this land. “Private persons created a fake certificate to show that the land was granted in 1962-63. They also created fake conversion documents for the cultivated land,” he said. “All these were submitted to the court. But, the court quashed the stoppage of registration of the land and asked for the documents to be sent to the forensics lab. The lab said it had too much work and sent the file back. Look at the level of nexus!” Ramaswamy said. This case alone had land worth Rs 1,890 crore, he said. “You ministers struggle for Rs 50-100 crore. There are thousands of such cases,” said Ramaswamy, who earlier headed a joint house committee that looked into government lands usurped in and around Bengaluru. “The government can get two years’ worth of money by recovering lands in the Bengaluru metropolitan region alone,” Ramaswamy said. Ashoka said it was in this case that he tried to suspend and transfer the officials concerned, but in vain. “We need a proper law so that those involved do not get any relief from the courts. I’m ready to amend the existing laws,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mla-explains-how-government-land-worth-rs-1800-crore-was-grabbed-stuns-assembly-963108.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt plans to issue NoC to investors at their doorsteps: Mines Minister||Karnataka Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh R Nirani on Wednesday informed investors that the government planned to issue NOCs (No Objection Certificate) within 90 days at their doorsteps, instead of them having to run from pillar to post for it. He said the government was considering introducing a "One Time Settlement" scheme to garner the revenue from penalties imposed on mine owners for mining beyond limits. "I am your representative and I will take your grievances to the Chief Minister and get them redressed. We are planning to issue No-Objection Certificates (NOC) in 90 days and take the service to your doorsteps," Nirani was quoted as saying by his office in a release. The Minister said this while addressing a safety workshop organised by the stone quarry owners association here. Stating that a single-window agency is being set up to expedite the process of clearing applications for various mining proposals, he said the move is expected to get rid of red-tapism and boost the Ease of Doing Business in the sector. The speedy approval through a single-widow agency will help investors start the projects and generate employment, Nirani said. At present, investors in the minor minerals sector like sand, stone and granite have to run from pillar to post to get NOCs from various departments like Revenue, Forest and Pollution Control Board to start their ventures, he said. The proposed single-window agency will integrate these departments for better coordination and ensure approval of projects in a smooth and time-bound manner, he added. Speaking on the 'One Time Settlement' scheme,the Minister said "The penalties have come upto over Rs 6,700 crore and government doubts that this amount will be garnered. Instead, OTS scheme will bring half of the amount of Rs 6,700 crore. The quarry owners will also be made members of settlement committees." Nirani said the Mines and Geology department will introduce a new liberalised mining policy, which will create an investor-friendly atmosphere and make Karnataka an easier place to do business. He also said the state government planned to supply sand free of cost to those constructing houses for less than Rs 10 lakh at Gram Panchayat limits. This is expected to help lakhs of people constructing houses under Ashraya and other schemes, he said, adding that the free sand supply is expected to spur construction activity and revive the rural economy. Khanija Bhavans will be set up in every district, which will help smooth functioning of the mining sector and ensure ease of doing business for investors, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-plans-to-issue-noc-to-investors-at-their-doorsteps-mines-minister-963133.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Cabinet clears plan to set up Prison Development Board||The Karnataka Cabinet on Wednesday is learnt to have approved the establishment of a Prison Development Board that will look into welfare measures for penitentiary staff and explore avenues to engage inmates in economic activities. The Karnataka Prison Development Board Bill, 2021, was approved in the Cabinet, sources said. This is on the lines of what states such as Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Punjab have done. The Board will allow for manufacturing units to be set up within jail premises. The Cabinet is said to have cleared a plan to supply free textbooks for students in classes 1-10 in government and government-aided schools and to 74 Adarsha Vidyalayas from classes 6-10 at an estimated cost of Rs 153.91 crore for the 2021-22 academic year. According to sources, the Cabinet approved two Bills mooted by the Cooperation Department - the Karnataka Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Bill and the Karnataka Souharda Sahakari (Amendment) Bill. The propose of the Bills is to restrict a person from being a member of multiple societies of the same kind. For instance, a person who is a member of a housing society cannot become a member of another housing society. Also, the proposed legislation will allow secretaries to be transferred from one primary agriculture credit society (PACS) of a taluk to another one. In another decision, the Cabinet is believed to have approved an amendment to the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement Act, which proposes to exempt the state-run Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) to rural take up works worth Rs 2 crore without going through the tender process. The Cabinet on Wednesday informally discussed the April 17 bypolls to the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies. While some ministers are said to have favoured curtailing the ongoing session of the legislature in view of the bypolls, no decision was taken. The Session is scheduled to go on till March 31. The Cabinet concluded that the government will consider curtailing the Session only if the Opposition pressed for it, sources said. During the discussion, Yediyurappa supposedly asked his colleagues to focus on the bypolls after the end of the legislative session and pointed out that the Congress held sway over Maski and Basavakalyan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cabinet-clears-plan-to-set-up-prison-development-board-963149.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Two kabaddi players from Maharashtra killed in SUV-lorry collision||Two kabaddi players from Maharashtra died and six of their teammates sustained grievous injuries when a Chevrolet Tavera in which they were travelling rammed into a lorry head-on near Ronihal Cross on NH 218 on Wednesday. Syed Sohail (20) and Mahadev Avati (23), were the residents of Kulum near Pune. The injured players and the driver are being treated at a private hospital in Vijayapura. The accident occurred on the highway when they were going to Bilagi in Bagalkot district for a tournament, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/two-kabaddi-players-from-maharashtra-killed-in-suv-lorry-collision-963193.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Charmadi Ghat opened for a few heavy vehicles||Charmadi Ghat has been opened for a few heavy vehicles, including the KSRTC buses (except Rajahamsa, Airavata, Ambari). The KSRTC buses (normal), six-wheel lorries, tempo travellers, ambulances, cars, jeeps, minivans and two-wheelers will be allowed on the Charmadi Ghat. Deputy Commissioner K N Ramesh said that the movement of bullet tankers, ship cargo containers, long chassis vehicles, trucks, multi-axle trucks, KSRTC Rajahamsa and heavy-loaded goods vehicles have been banned. The movement of vehicles was banned after massive landslides hit Charmadi Ghat one-and-a-half years ago. After the repair of the road, light vehicles were allowed on the stretch. However, the buses were not allowed on the stretch. The KSRTC was operating only minibuses. Without the bus services, people were inconvenienced a lot and were demanding the bus services on the Ghat stretch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/charmadi-ghat-opened-for-a-few-heavy-vehicles-963197.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Geethanjali Kirloskar becomes head of health CSR panel||Karnataka has tasked Kirloskar Systems Limited director Geethanjali Kirloskar to mobilise companies to invest in public healthcare in the state. She has been appointed as the head of the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) committee under the Health Department. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that 76% of companies in Karnataka have contributed Rs 8,619 crore via CSR in 2020-21. "Her vast experience as an entrepreneur and philanthropist will help leverage CSR initiatives to enhance public healthcare in the state,"  Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said. The government wants her to concentrate on getting contributions to Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in rural areas. There are more than 900 PHCs running 24/7 in the state. Kirloskar said she had drafted a list of companies willing to contribute and that she has to schedule meetings with companies for the same. On March 10, PHCs at Singasandra and Roopenahalli built at a cost of about Rs. 2.5 crore by the department, with a contribution of Rs.78 lakh from BOSCH company's CSR initiative, was inaugurated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/geethanjali-kirloskar-becomes-head-of-health-csr-panel-963208.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for 2nd consecutive day||Karnataka logged 1,275 new Covid-19 cases and four related fatalities, taking the caseload to 9.63 lakh and the toll to 12,407 on Wednesday. This is the second consecutive day the state reported over 1,000 cases. The day also saw 479 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban, with 786 cases, continued to top the state in the number of infections. Cumulatively, 9,63,614 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 9,40,968 discharges. Of the 10,220 active cases, 134 are in intensive care units. Bengaluru Urban reported three of the four deaths on Wednesday, the other in Mysuru. Among districts, Dakshina Kannada was behind Bengaluru Urban with 72 cases, Kalaburagi had 61, Bidar 47 and Udupi 42. A total of 2,00,08,072 samples have been tested so far, out of which 86,648 were tested on Wednesday alone. The state has, so far, vaccinated 18,21,176 people, with 1,51,135 being vaccinated on Wednesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-1000-covid-19-cases-for-2nd-consecutive-day-963211.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Food handlers, teachers want to be in frontline category for Covid-19 jabs||Different organisations have urged the government to include food handlers and teachers in the category of people eligible to get Covid vaccination. Hotels and restaurant associations have written to the union and state health ministers to include food handlers who come in contact with the public every day in the frontline workers' category.  Similarly, the government teachers' association said that 20,000 teachers were involved in contact tracing duties in the state and they should be vaccinated. P C Rao, president of, Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association, said, "Employees of the hospitality sector like restaurants, hotels, catering businesses and food delivery boys are Corona warriors because they interact with the public while handling food. As the hospitality sector is important, they should get vaccination on priority. "Free vaccination should be arranged for food business operators at government-empanelled hospitals and ESIC dispensaries on priority," Rao said. Basavaraj Gurikar, president of, Karnataka State Government Primary School Teachers' Association, said, "As many as 20,000 teachers across the state were involved in contact tracing. We visited Covid patients' houses, collected details and uploaded them on the app." "We did all this at risk to our own health. If teachers can be deployed on Covid duty, they should be vaccinated as well. We will request the education minister in the next meeting to be included in the frontline workers' category."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/food-handlers-teachers-want-to-be-in-frontline-category-for-covid-19-jabs-963213.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Manipal Institute of Technology declared as containment zone||With a large number of Covid-19 cases found in the Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT) campus, the district administration has declared the MIT campus area as a containment zone. Out of the 32 fresh coronavirus cases reported on Tuesday, 27 were from MIT. Out of 42 cases reported on Wednesday, 26 were from MIT. The students have their final examination on Friday and the district administration had instructed the institution to conduct the examination with all Covid-19 protocols. The institute is yet to take a decision on postponing the examinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manipal-institute-of-technology-declared-as-containment-zone-963215.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||50% drop in SC/ST couples seeking marriage aid||The number of applications seeking incentive under the simple marriage scheme for couples from SC/ST communities has come down by half.   The department of social welfare provides an incentive of Rs 50,000 for couples of the two communities who tie the knot in a simple marriage. Though 2020-21 saw many people embracing the idea of simple marriage due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, less number of couples from these communities have come forward to avail the incentive.   Data available from the department shows that the applications received for the incentive under the simple marriage scheme dropped by at least 50% compared to the previous year. Every year, the department received 1,500 to 2,000 applications seeking incentive under the scheme. But for 2020-21, the department has received 585 applications, of which documents of 390 applications were verified and sent for approval.  “As many as 129 couples have received the incentive and 35 applications got rejected due to lack of documents,” said a senior official of the department. Under this scheme, the couples are allowed to submit applications within a year of getting married and their annual income should be within Rs 2 lakh. According to officials from the department, a major reason for the dip in the number of applications was the lack of mass marriages organised by various organisations. However, this year, the department has received 3,528 applications for the incentive under the inter-caste marriage scheme, of which 1,390 have been disposed of.  For the widow marriage incentive scheme, the department has received 65 applications, of which 20 applicants received the benefit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50-drop-in-sc/st-couples-seeking-marriage-aid-963216.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Corporations for castes a policy decision, Karnataka tells HC||The state government has filed a detailed statement of objections on the PILs challenging the setting up of boards and corporations for the benefit of individual castes, communities or religion. The state government has defended the establishment of boards and corporations stating that they are intended to eradicate inequalities. A common statement of objections was filed in a batch of petitions filed challenging the establishments of Lingayat, Maratha, Brahmin, Aryavysya development boards or corporations. The government said it has exercised constitutional powers under Article 162 of the Constitution and maintained that the issue falls within the domain of a policy decision. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka posted the next hearing to March 31. According to the government, the boards or corporations are intended to cater to the community that falls in the SC/ ST/OBC or economically weaker section (EWS). These boards and corporations were set up keeping in mind various factors like social status, education levels, cultural and economic background, the state said. One of the contentions of the petitioners was that the inclusion of some of the castes into the list of backward classes was a politically favouring entry, keeping in view the voters in the upcoming bypolls. The state government said that several boards/corporations were in existence even before the announcement of bypolls. The statement of objections said that boards and corporations such as Karnataka Christian Development Corporation, Karnataka Uppara Development Corporation, Vishwakarma Development were established in the past 15 years. The government said that it was not the case of the petitioners that every individual in the community of the Brahmin, Maratha, Veerashaiva Lingayath, Arya Vaishya, Vishwakarma etc. are socially, economically and educationally forward. "Most of the individuals only owing to the fact of the community to which they belong would be deprived of their legitimate entitlement and the state is duty-bound to reach out to each and every such person and extend its helping hand which have been so sought," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/corporations-for-castes-a-policy-decision-karnataka-tells-hc-963218.html
17-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Contact tracing hit as booth officers, teachers get to their work||Though the state government has mandated tracing and testing at least 20 contacts for every Covid positive case, the data shows that Covid positive patients in Haveri, Koppal, Raichur, and Vijayapura districts have zero contacts traced. These patients were detected over the past seven days. With respect to the new strains of the virus, both UK and South African, which are 40% more contagious, contact tracing is of paramount importance for Covid containment. The district officials said that previously booth-level officers (BLOs) and teachers would do contact tracing. But now they have gone back to their original work hampering the contact tracing. The BLOs are usually tasked with verifying and collecting details of electors by visiting and collecting their papers for any kind of services they require. There are more than a million BLOs across the country. Vijayapura has not traced a single contact for 44 Covid patients over the past week. Dr Mallangowda Biradar, district surveillance officer, told DH, “BLOs generally do contact tracing. In the district surveillance team, except me, an epidemiologist and a microbiologist, there is no one else. BLOs have left for their original jobs. In the video conference with the CM, we discussed this.” “For the past three months, since the cases were less, they have left and no contact tracing has been done. We have to rope in PHC medical health officers and ASHAs to do surveillance,” he said. Raichur district health officer (DHO) Dr Ramakrishna H told DH, “We had roped in teachers to do contact tracing. But since schools have reopened partially, they have left for their original jobs. The DC has asked us to form a team and do contact tracing though. Our MBBS doctor finished contact tracing for nine cases. The rest has to be done by Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram officials.” “Male health workers and doctors will be tasked with it. We have 12 teams. At least one of them will be entrusted with contact tracing. Each taluk to which the case belongs, the doctor from that taluk will be entrusted with contact tracing,” he said. Dr Alakananda, DHO, Koppal, clarified that though the State Covid-19 War Room data says nine Covid patients have had nil contacts traced over the past week, the district had finished tracing their contacts. Haveri district surveillance officer Dr Jagdish Patil said, “Two cases that the war room data shows with nil contacts are from Shiggaon and Hirekerur. The Hirekerur patient is not cooperating in revealing contacts. Shiggaon patient’s tracing was done and we found two contacts. Our auxiliary nurse midwives are doing contact tracing in our district.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/contact-tracing-hit-as-booth-officers-teachers-get-to-their-work-963219.html
17-03-2021||West||Maharashtra govt says jeans ok at office, but not T-shirt||After asking employees and officials not to wear T-shirts and jeans at the office, the Maharashtra government on Tuesday amended the order by dropping jeans from the prohibition. Government employees must not wear T-shirts while on official duty, the new order said. By an order on December 8, the government had prohibited the wearing of jeans and T-shirts, a fiat that had met with opposition from employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-says-jeans-ok-at-office-but-not-t-shirt-962868.html
17-03-2021||West||NCP, Cong leaders meet CM Thackeray over Vaze affair||Leaders from allies Congress and NCP on Tuesday met Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray against the backdrop of the arrest of assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze in the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house here. Sources from both the parties said they pointed out during the meeting that Vaze's arrest has caused embarrassment to the Shiv Sena-led government. The Congress was already miffed with Vaze being reinstated in 2020 and getting special treatment despite his alleged involvement in the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, an accused in a blast case, 16 years ago. Vaze was arrested by the NIA on Saturday following the mysterious death of businessman Mansukh Hiren who had claimed that the Scorpio found near Ambani's house had been stolen from his possession. Hiren's wife has alleged that Vaze played a role in her husband's death. Opposition BJP had alleged that Vaze was a Shiv Sena member, but Thackeray had clarified that he was a member in 2008 but his membership was not renewed and now he has nothing to do with the party. "If there is substantial evidence of senior police officials being mixed up with Vaze's activities, they should be removed. We need to give a strong message to the police department," said a senior Congress leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-cong-leaders-meet-cm-thackeray-over-vaze-affair-962875.html
17-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: 1,359 new Covid-19 cases reported in Thane, six more deaths||Thane has added 1,359 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 2,78,928, an official said on Wednesday. These new cases were reported on Tuesday, he said. The virus also claimed the lives of six more persons, pushing the death toll in the district to 6,349, he said. The Covid-19 mortality rate in the district is 2.28 per cent, he said. So far, 2,62,360 patients have recuperated from the infection in the district, which reflects a recovery rate of 94.06 per cent. There are 10,219 active Covid-19 cases in Thane at present, the official said. In neighbouring Palghar district, the Covid-19 case count stood at 46,878 and the death toll at 1,207, another official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-1359-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-thane-six-more-deaths-962958.html
17-03-2021||West||Mumbai's General Post Office very Indian, says e-book||Although it was built during the British Raj, the majestic General Post Office in Mumbai's Fort area is exclusively an Indian building. This was revealed in an e-book named 'Dawn Under The Dome', which delves into the history of the iconic building which is over a century old. Released by Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the research that went behind the book was done by Swati Pandey and Orchida Mukherjee while the photography was done by Krishna Iyer, Yash Kocchar and Orchida Mukherjee. “The GPO is a very important building…it is as important as CSMT or BMC….in fact, the post connects people and it is for the general public,” said Pandey, Postmaster General, Mumbai Region. This is also the first time that the history of the building, located in a tri-junction off the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) and in the vicinity of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) headquarters, is being documented in the form of an e-book.  A paradigm of Indo-Saracenic architecture, the GPO, which covers an area of 1,20,000 sq ft and is the biggest post office in the country, was built on the lines of Gol Gumbaz of Bijapur in Karnataka.  “The GPO’s beautiful external dome at the top has a diameter of 65 ft, almost half the diameter of the tomb of Mohammed Adil Shah at Gol Gumbaz that features a dome of 125 ft,  making it a building with the second largest dome in the country,” said Pandey. The building has 100 working counters, nine gates, 10 entrances, three basements along with a blend of different kinds of staircases. Interestingly, it also had three tunnels. Pandey said that the Indo-Saracenic style denotes a fine blend of Indian and Islamic architecture. “We can say it is an integral part of archaeological tripartite along with the Victorian Gothic Revival (Victoria Terminus or CSMT) and the Gothic (BMC) genre,” she said.  The book says that three types of Indian stones were used in the construction of the building – the grey basalt with buff trachyte and the yellow stone from Mumbai's Kurla and Malad respectively and the white stone from Dharandhra, a small town in Gujarat which was then part of the erstwhile Bombay Presidency. The building was designed by a Scottish architect named John Begg who had practised in London, South Africa and India with the help of his protégé George Wittet. It took the architect duo nine years to complete the building's construction which began on 1 September, 1904 and was completed on 31 March, 1913. The entire construction cost Rs 18,09,000, as mentioned a commemorative plaque. Though fully Indian in theme, design and material, Begg did not forget to leave behind traces of his Scottish roots by presenting an interplay of lotus and thistle sculpted throughout the walls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-general-post-office-very-indian-says-e-book-962965.html
17-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: NIA to probe 'other players' involved in conspiracy||The case of recovery of gelatin sticks near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai has turned murkier with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) claiming there were "other players" who had been allegedly instructing arrested policeman Sachin Vaze. Vaze, who was arrested by the NIA on Saturday, was working at the instruction of "some people" and that needs to be found out, officials associated with the probe said on condition of anonymity. The Mumbai Police officer was the second investigator in the case related to the recovery of an explosive-laden vehicle and a threat letter near Ambani's residence on February 25. They said that evidence about the involvement of some more people had surfaced during the investigation and soon they would be called for questioning. A letter from the terror outfit Jaish-Ul-Hind, posted on the Telegram app, demanding ransom and claiming responsibility for the incident will also be investigated. The Delhi Police's special cell has already taken into custody Tehseen Akhtar, an associate of the Indian Mujahideen who is an expertise on fabricating improvised explosive devices. The officials said some evidence have been collected after questioning Akhtar and seizing the mobile instrument used to post the threat letter on the Telegram app, and Vaze will soon be confronted with these. The officials said that the case had virtually been cracked and soon the entire conspiracy behind the case would be unravelled. An assistant police inspector, Vaze, who was reinstated in service after 16 years of suspension in a case related to the murder of Khwaja Yunus in 2003 and destruction of evidence, allegedly agreed to be part of the conspiracy behind the incident to earn back the respect that he might have lost due to his prolonged suspension, officials said. The NIA on Tuesday recovered a Mercedes Benz and the original number plate of the vehicle used to plant explosives near the residence of Ambani on Carmichael Road in Mumbai. Cash of Rs 5 lakh and currency counting machine were also seized at the disclosure of Vaze, the officials said. On the fateful day, Vaze used his own government vehicle to escort the explosive-laden vehicle and himself drove it to the scene of the crime. The vehicle was seized by the NIA on March 14. The officials said investigation regarding the actual owner of the Mercedes car will also be established during the probe. The NIA had said in the court that there is sufficient prima facie evidence to show the involvement of the accused in the conspiracy of the crime and the conspiracy angle needs to be thoroughly probed, besides establishing the identity of the co-conspirators.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-nia-to-probe-other-players-involved-in-conspiracy-962986.html
17-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb threat case: Damage control exercise in Mumbai||Amid BJP’s fierce attack over the sensational Scorpio-planting case, the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi’s massive damage-control exercise continued for the third day on Wednesday. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister held a meeting of MVA leaders in Mumbai in the wake of the image crisis that the government is suffering because of the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze, who had planted a Scorpio SUV laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near the residence of Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani and has come under cloud of suspicion over the death of the car owner Mansukh Hiren. Those present in the meeting included Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, state NCP President and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat, Public Works Minister Ashok Chavan, Woman and Child Development Minister Yashomati Thakur, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Anil Parab and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde. Around midnight, Thackeray and Deshmukh met Director General of Police Hemant Nagrale and Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and discussed the entire issue. A possible shake up in the police force is expected, sources said. The federal investigative agency also recovered the number plate of the Scorpio car, which was parked outside Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai with explosives. Rs 5 lakh, a note-counting machine and some clothes were also recovered. Senior  BJP leader Dr Kirit Somaiya has meanwhile demanded security for Hiren’s family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-threat-case-damage-control-exercise-in-mumbai-962998.html
17-03-2021||West||Covid-19 surge: Ahmedabad zoo, lakefront, gardens closed||The Ahmedabad civic body on Wednesday announced the closure of the city zoo, lakefront and all public gardens here in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, the city recorded 241 new cases of coronavirus, a sharp increase from 40 cases reported a month back on February 16. The Covid-19 tally in the city has gone up to 60,992, as per official figures. "It has been decided to close all the gardens, Kankaria Lakefront, zoo, etc from March 18 till further orders in view of the Covid-19 pandemic," the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) said in a release. The Gujarat government on Tuesday increased the night curfew timings in Ahmedabad and three other major cities -- Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot -- by two hours. The curfew will now remain in force from 10 pm to 6 am, instead of the previous timings of 12 am to 6 am, till March 31. As of Tuesday, there were 60 'micro-containment' areas (where a number of Covid-19 cases have been found) in the city, the civic body said. Ahmedabad has so far reported 2,269 deaths due to Covid-19, while 58,043 have recovered from the disease. The Covid-19 recovery rate in the city stood at 95.3 per cent, as per the civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-surge-ahmedabad-zoo-lakefront-gardens-closed-962999.html
17-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh shunted, Hemant Nagrale to be new Mumbai Police chief||Maharashtra's Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday removed Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh in the wake of the sensational incident of a bomb scare near the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who worked with the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of the Crime Branch-CID of Mumbai Police, has been arrested by NIA and ATS, respectively, in the two cases. Director-General of Police Hemant Nagarale has been appointed the new Mumbai Police chief. The decisions were taken after a series of meetings presided over by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray over the past three days. State Home Minister Anil Deshmukh made the announcement. सरकारचा मोठा निर्णयश्री हेमंत नगराळे होणार नवे मुंबई पोलीस आयुक्तश्री रजनीश शेठ यांच्या कडे पोलीस महासंचालक महाराष्ट्र राज्य या पदाचा अतिरिक्त कार्यभारश्री संजय पांडे यांच्या कडे महाराष्ट्र राज्य सुरक्षा महामंडळाची जवाबदारीश्री परमवीर सिंह यांच्या कडे गृह रक्षक दलाची जवाबदारी Singh has been made the head of the Civil Defence Force. Senior IPS officer Rajneesh Seth, who is the Director-General of the Anti-Corruption Bureau, has been given the acting DGP. Sanjay Pande would be the new Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Maharashtra State Security Corporation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-shunted-hemant-nagrale-to-be-new-mumbai-police-chief-963070.html
17-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare: NIA questions API Riyazuddin Kazi for 4th day||The NIA questioned Mumbai crime branch officer Riyazuddin Kazi for the fourth consecutive day on Wednesday in connection with its probe into a case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here, an official said. Another assistant police inspector (API) of the crime branch, Prakash Howal, also appeared before the National Investigation Agency (NIA) here in the afternoon, he said. The NIA on Tuesday said it has seized a Mercedes car that was used by arrested police officer Sachin Vaze and recovered Rs 5 lakh from the vehicle after searching his office from where "incriminating" documents were recovered. Vaze is at the focus of a probe by the NIA into the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. The Mumbai Crime Intelligence Unit's (CIU) API Riyazuddin Kazi was questioned for the fourth day in a row on Wednesday, the official said. Kazi had on February 27 collected the Digital Video Record (DVR) of CCTVs from the housing society in Thane's Saket area where Vaze lived, two days after the explosives-laden Mahindra Scorpio car was found on Carmichael Road near Ambani's house,an official earlier said. The NIA suspects that it was collected to destroy evidence which could implicate Vaze himself, the official earlier said. During the search, the DVR was seized. The wife of businessman Mansukh Hiran, who had claimed that the Scorpio was stolen from his possession and who died mysteriously, has alleged that the SUV was being used by Vaze for some time. Kazi had also allegedly procured the fake number plates found in the SUV, the official claimed. The SUV case was taken over by the NIA following Hiran's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-nia-questions-api-riyazuddin-kazi-for-4th-day-963074.html
17-03-2021||West||Maharashtra offers Haffkine Institute for vaccine production||The Maharashtra government has offered the facilities of Mumbai-based Haffkine Institute for production of vaccines to fight Covid-19. During the video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray mooted the proposal. The two options that Thackeray suggested is manufacturing of vaccines by way of technology transfer from or making on a fill and finish mode. “The Haffkine Institute has space as well as high-tech equipment…these can be put to use,” Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. Located in the Parel area of Mumbai, the Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing is one of the oldest biomedical research institutes in the country. It was established in 1899 and is named after the legendary scientist Dr. Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. The first ever Phase-I clinical trial in India was perhaps conducted by the founder of the Haffkine Institute in 1899, when he injected himself with the plague vaccine he developed for evaluating its safety and efficacy. In the first half of the twentieth century, the Institute extended its scope against various other common infectious diseases – like Cholera, Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis and Rabies. The institute also developed and manufactured Anti-rabies serum and anti-snake-venom serum. Later on, it undertook the production of Oral Polio Vaccine. Since then the Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary, full-fledged bio-medical research Institute engaged in various aspects of infectious diseases - Bacteriology, Bioavailability, Biochemistry, Chemotherapy, Clinical Pathology, Entomology, Human Pharmacology, Immunology, Parasitology, Pharmacology, Radiation Biology, Toxicology, Virology and Zoonosis. Nodal Laboratories for Re-emerging diseases have also been set up at the Institute. The current research areas in the Haffkine Institute include studies of infections occurring in AIDS patients, surveillance and microbiological analysis of brucellosis, Leptospira, prevalence of drug resistance in bacteria, and continuous development of newer chemotherapeutic agents to combat microbial and zoonotic infections. The Institute is also involved in the testing of various bio-molecules against HIV. The bio-molecules range from disinfectants and detergents to specialized/ purified extracts, herbal medicines and plant products. It also is involved in the identification of influenza strains using hemagglutination and hemagglutination inhibition assays||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-offers-haffkine-institute-for-vaccine-production-963076.html
17-03-2021||West||Hinting at Vaze's 'deep links' with Sena leaders, Devendra Fadnavis demands probe into his 'political bosses'||"Who are behind this? That should be probed. Political bosses who operated Vaze will have to be found out," he told a press conference. Fadnavis on Wednesday targeted Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and went to the extent of claiming that when he (Fadnavis) was Maharashtra chief minister, Thackeray as Sena chief had called him and pressured him in 2018 to seek reinstatement of Vaze, who was then in suspension from service into the state police force. The BJP and Shiv Sena were then alliance partners. Fadnavis had earlier said that Vaze's arrest in connection with the explosives-laden vehicle found near Ambani's home was just the beginning of the flow of information about the case. The entire episode, which has sunk more and more into mystery following the security scare outside India's richest businessman's residence and then Hiren's death, reminds him of the 90s when people had seen the criminalisation of politics in Mumbai, Fadnavis said. Hiren owned the SUV found with gelatin sticks. "A vehicle with gelatin sticks is planted by the police department and then Mansukh Hiren, who is the most important link, is murdered. This never happened in the history of Mumbai and Maharashtra," Fadnavis said. Vaze had led the team that arrested journalist Arnab Goswami in November last year in a suicide abetment case. The BJP has said Vaze had in past joined Shiv Sena while he was under suspension. Fadnavis demanded that the NIA, which has taken over the case of Assistant Inspector of police Sachin Waze in connection with the explosives-laden vehicle found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's home, should now also take over Mansukh Hiren's mysterious death.  Hiren was the owner of the explosives-laden vehicle found near Ambani's residence. Businessman Mansukh Hiren's wife had claimed that the Scorpio was stolen from his possession and that the SUV was being used by Vaze for some time. Vaze, credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters' was himself arrested on March 13 in the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25.  The NIA taking over the case has invited the charge from Sena that this probe would lower the morale of Maharashtra police but it has been vehemently denied by Fadnavis Meanwhile, Maharashtra NCP chief Jayant Patil had earlier ruled out the possibility of Maharashtra Home Minister and party leader Anil Deshmukh losing his job. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hinting-at-vazes-deep-links-with-sena-leaders-devendra-fadnavis-demands-probe-into-his-political-bosses-963114.html
17-03-2021||West||Mumbai Police Commissioner Nagrale among the first to respond to 26/11 attack||The new Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale known for maintaining a low-profile and no-nonsense attitude, was among the first to respond to the 26/11 terror attack. A daredevil officer, he covered a live bomb with sandbags to avoid major destruction. Hailing from the Vidarbha region, Nagrale is a 1987-batch IPS officer. He was Special Inspector General attached to the Maharashtra State Electricity Supply Co Ltd in November 2008. As soon as he heard gunshots from the Leopold Café he rushed out of his official residence near Colaba police station and then moved towards the Taj Mahal Hotel. Then in plainclothes, rescued several injured people and his work was appreciated. He spotted a suspected live bomb in a bag – and with local policemen covered it with sandbags and then summoned the Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad. As Joint Commissioner of Police (Administration) in Mumbai, he drafted the residential quarters allotment policy — a move highly-appreciated by the constabulary. Nagrale served as Police Commissioner of Navi Mumbai from May 2016 to July 2018 after which he was elevated to Director General (Technical and Legal). On January 8, this year, he was given the additional charge of Director General of Police after incumbent Sobodh Jaiswal opted for a Central assignment. From 1998-2002, he was in Central deputation and attached to the CBI and handled cases like the Hardhad Mehta scam, Ketan Parekh scam and Madhavpura Cooperative Bank scam. Nagrale was also the Staff Officer posted to former DGP SS Puri, who investigated the Telgi stamp paper scandal at the directives of the Bombay High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-police-commissioner-nagrale-among-the-first-to-respond-to-26/11-attack-963131.html
17-03-2021||West||Uddhav had asked me to reinstate Sachin Vaze when I was CM: Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday claimed that when he was Maharashtra chief minister, Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray had called him in 2018 to seek reinstatement of the then suspended police officer Sachin Vaze into the state police force. He also accused the Shiv Sena of pressuring him over this demand at that time. Mumbai police officer Vaze is at the focus of a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) into the case related to the recovery of an SUV with explosives near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. Vaze, arrested in the case on March 13 for his alleged role in the crime, was attached to the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of city police's crime branch till recently. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Fadnavis said, "I was Maharashtra chief minister in 2018 and also helmed the home department. Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray had called me to reinstate the then suspended police officer Sachin Vaze back into the police force. Some Shiv Sena ministers later met me with the same request." "When I received the proposal to reinstate Vaze back into police force, I verbally sought advocate general's opinion about it. I was told that Vaze was suspended after the Bombay High Court's order. Therefore, I decided not to reinstate him," Fadnavis said. The Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Assembly also alleged that the Shiv Sena even tried to pressurise him over it. The BJP and the Shiv Sena shared power between 2014 and 2019. However, after the 2019 Assembly polls, the Sena parted ways with the BJP over sharing the chief minister's post and joined hands with the NCP and the Congress. Uddhav Thackeray heads the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', Vaze, a 1990-batch officer of the state cadre, was suspended in 2004 over his role in the custodial death of a 2002 Ghatkopar blast suspect Khwaja Yunus and was reinstated last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uddhav-had-asked-me-to-reinstate-sachin-vaze-when-i-was-cm-fadnavis-963132.html
17-03-2021||West||Maharashtra fears second Covid-19 wave as it reports over 23,000 cases on Wednesday||In what probably signals the beginning of Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave in Maharashtra, the state reported more than 23,000 cases on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the state recorded 23,179 cases and 84 deaths, taking the total to 23,70,507 cases and 53,080 deaths. These figures take the state back to September, 2020, when it recorded the peak in cases, followed by gradual flattening of the curve, which saw a northward movement in February-March, 2021. The highest cases recorded in a single day in Maharashtra were 24,886 on September 11, 2020. The jump comes on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi reviewed the situation with chief ministers of various states, during which Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray briefed him about the situation and the measures being taken. “Today, 23,179 new patients have been tested positive in the state. Also, 9,138 patients have been cured today. In total, 21,63,391 patients are cured and discharged from the hospitals Total active patients are 1,52,760. The patient recovery rate in the state is 91.26 per cent,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said. During the day, in Mumbai 2,377 cases were recorded, while the same for Mumbai metropolitan region was 4,811. In the state, 6,71,760 people are in home quarantine and 6,738 are in institutional quarantine. “The situation is alarming. The situation must not go out of hand else things would be difficult,” said Dr Suhas Pingle, Chairman, Action Committee, IMA-Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-fears-second-covid-19-wave-as-it-reports-over-23000-cases-on-wednesday-963148.html
17-03-2021||West||Sawant cannot present full budget during municipal polls: Goa Opposition||Raising questions over the presentation of the annual budget in course of the now-postponed polls to five municipal councils, the Opposition in Goa has urged Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Speaker Rajesh Patnekar to stop Chief Minister Pramod Sawant from making any budgetary announcements, for fear of influencing voters. A joint memorandum signed by Opposition MLAs, including Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, has also said that Sawant should only present the annual financial statement and seek a vote of account for the year 2021-22, instead of presenting a full-fledged budget on the opening day of the assembly session, which begins on March 24. "In our memorandum, we have said that during the election process and especially when the election code of conduct is in force. It is important that the government in power should not make any announcements, declare any schemes and give any assurances which may directly or indirectly influence the mind of the people and have an impact on the elections," the letter to the Governor and Speaker states. "In view of the above, the government should not be permitted to make any announcements, declare any schemes and give any assurances for public benefit during the budget session," the letter also adds. Eleven municipal councils and one municipal corporation was scheduled to go to polls on March 20. But polls to five municipal councils were postponed, after a judicial intervention two weeks ago, when the High Court found faults in the government's process of reservation of municipal wards for women, other backward classes, scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. In a subsequent ruling, the Supreme Court had directed that elections to the five municipal councils namely in Margao, Quepem, Mormugao, Sanguem and Mapusa, should be held before April 30. Fresh dates for polls to the five municipal councils have not been announced yet. Goa's budget session has been scheduled to be held from March 24 to April 16. "The elections to these five municipal councils are likely to be announced any moment and the date of polling is also likely to coincide with the schedule of the budget session. The State Election Commission will also extend the Election Code, presently in force for the six municipal council elections, till the elections to these five municipal councils are over," Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sawant-cannot-present-full-budget-during-municipal-polls-goa-opposition-963165.html
17-03-2021||West||Sanjay Raut dares Fadnavis to name Vaze's 'political bosses'||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut Wednesday dismissed any pressure behind the transfer of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and dared BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis to name arrested policeman Sachin Vaze's "political bosses" if he had any evidence. Raut said Fadnavis, who is a former chief minister of Maharashtra, should not resort to anything that demoralises Mumbai police. "If the opposition thinks the transfers have been done under any pressure, then it is false. The Uddhav Thackeray government has not done the transfer under anyone's pressure. This is our moral responsibility that till the time the probe is on these transfers should take place," Raut told reporters here. Earlier, Fadnavis said Singh and Vaze are "small people", and the matter can't be solved by blaming them alone. "Who are behind this? That should be probed. Political bosses who operated Vaze will have to be found out," he told a press conference here, suspecting that Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran was murdered and alleging that Vaze had close and deep links with many leaders of Shiv Sena, a party the suspended cop had joined once. To this Raut said, "Name those people if you have the evidence." Taking a dig at Fadnavis, Raut said the BJP leader could keep raising issues for the remaining next three-and-half years as the Mahavikas Aghadi government will complete its term. Under fire over the handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred Singh to the low-key Home Guard. Singh's transfer came even as the case of recovery of gelatin sticks near Ambani's residence turned murkier with the National Investigation Agency (NIA) claiming there were "other players" who had been allegedly instructing Vaze.        Fadnavis, the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly, has been attacking the Thackeray government over the Vaze issue. Earlier this month, the opposition cornered the government over Vaze following which he was transferred from Crime Intelligence Unit. Vaze, 49, credited with eliminating 63 alleged criminals in 'encounters', is also facing heat in the murder case of Hiran, who was in possession of the Scorpio. Hiran was found dead in a creek in Thane district on March 5. Vaze, a 1990-batch officer, was earlier suspended in 2004 over his role in the custodial death of a 2002 Ghatkopar blast suspect Khwaja Yunus. Later, he joined the Shiv Sena. However, he was reinstated last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-dares-fadnavis-to-name-vazes-political-bosses-963177.html
