18-03-2021||First Edit||Places of Worship Act: Unwise to open a Pandora’s box||It is unfortunate that the Supreme Court has decided to examine the validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act which was passed by Parliament and enacted into law in 1991 at the height of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement. The law bans the conversion of religious places and maintains their “religious character” as it existed on August 15, 1947, with an exception for Babri Masjid. The Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi dispute was already in court and was hence exempted from its purview. But public interest litigation (PIL) has now been filed in the court challenging the constitutional validity of the law, and the court has issued notice to the government. A court in Mathura is already examining a suit for the removal of Masjid Idgah at the site of Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura. A Varanasi court has issued notices on a plea for the removal of the Gyanwapi mosque adjacent to the Kashi Vishwanath temple. The PIL has contended that the Act has taken away the rights of Hindus, Jains, Buddhists and Sikhs to restore their places of worship destroyed by “barbaric invaders.” It says that the inclusion of the birthplace of Krishna in the law while excluding that of Rama, is “arbitrary and irrational.’’ The cut-off date of August 15, 1947 has also been termed arbitrary, and the petition has asked why Hindus and others “cannot seek judicial remedy to undo the barbarian acts…” The apprehension that politically exploitable demands to “correct historical wrongs,” once started, would put the country on a never-ending path back to the medieval ages, seems set to come true. One would think that a country that aspires to be a superpower should look to the future, rather than to the past, and move forward, and it was a sensible decision in the 1991 Act to fix a cut-off point on the day the country became independent and made a fresh start. But what started with Babri Masjid-Ram Janmabhoomi is now sought to be extended to Kashi and Mathura. Will it end there?      It is surprising that the Supreme Court has decided to look again at this law which it had itself upheld and commended in the 2019 Ayodhya judgement. The five-judge Constitution Bench had said that “the State has, by enacting the (1991) law, enforced a constitutional commitment and operationalised its constitutional obligations to uphold the equality of all religions and secularism which is a part of the basic features of the Constitution. The Places of Worship Act imposes a non-derogable obligation towards enforcing our commitment to secularism.” To reopen the law, after such clear and firm words, would be unwise and would amount to opening Pandora's box.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/places-of-worship-act-unwise-to-open-a-pandora-s-box-963245.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka government to revoke quarry ban||The government said on Wednesday that it is ready to revoke the stay order, so as to facilitate the resumption of quarrying and stone crushing activities in the state. The works had been stayed in the aftermath of incidents of blasts in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts.  Inaugurating ‘Safety Guidelines Awareness Campaign for Miners and Stone Crushers’ organised by the Federation of Karnataka Quarry and Stone Crushers Owners’ Association, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said that all the firms with a valid licence can resume activities.  ‘I don’t need money’ Nirani said, “If any officer or anybody demands money in the minister’s name, I will give you my e-mail ID and contact number. Please report that to me. I have a turnover of Rs 5,000 crore and I don’t need money collected from you all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-to-revoke-quarry-ban-963343.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Malali Vasanthkumar no more||Well-known Kannada writer Malali Vasanthkumar passed away due to illness in Bengaluru on Thursday. Vasanthkumar has served as Kannada professor at Maharaja’s and Yuvraja’s College. He also served as Kannada Sahitya Parishat president. He is survived by wife Shanta Malali, daughter Roopa and son Ranna. The mortal remains of the writer will be kept for public view in front of Town Hall between 9 am and 10 am. The final rites of the writer will be held at his farmhouse in Kalalavadi near Mysuru on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/malali-vasanthkumar-no-more-963539.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MyMUL election is closed chapter, says GTD||JD(S) MLA G T Devegowda on Thursday said that the election to Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers Societies Union ((MyMUL) on March 16 is a closed chapter. "Now, we need to concentrate on developing the MyMUL", he said. Speaking to reporters here, Devegowda said that the election is a closed chapter and the issue should not be politicised. "Mysuru has its own reputation across the globe and the city must not be in news for wrong things." He urged the media to drop the matter. It has to be noted that there was a rift between JD(S) leaders H D Kumaraswamy, Sa Ra Mahesh and Devegowda, during the election. Devegowda urged the newly-elected directors of MyMUL to work for the development of the milk producers' and also take steps to popularise the brand across the globe. There should be no politics involved, he said. The first prime minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru had said, the cooperative sector plays a key role in the economy of the nation. The Union government as well as the state government must strengthen the cooperative sector. No tax should be levied on cooperative banks as 60% members are farmers, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mymul-election-is-closed-chapter-says-gtd-963540.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Film City in Mysuru cheers tourism, hospitality stakeholders||With the state government has decided to establish the state’s first Film City in Mysuru district, it has brought cheers to the stakeholders of tourism and hospitality sectors. It has also put an end to the confusions over the suitable place for the Film City.   Minister for Information and Public Relations C C Patil announced that the Film City will be set up at Himmavu near Mysuru, where Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB) has identified 110 acres for the purpose. Former chief minister Siddaramaiah had identified lands for the project at Himmavu, coming under Varuna Assembly segment during his term as the CM. But, H D Kumaraswamy announced Film City in Ramanagar, after he became the CM. In 2020, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced a film city of global standards will be established in Bengaluru, at a cost of Rs 500 crore. However, Mysuru has finally retained the Film City. The stakeholders and the District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar have thanked the CM for the decision. The minister, who had submitted a memorandum to the CM in this regard on March 3, said that the CM approved Film City in Mysuru, as per the earlier plans. Minister Patil has sent the project report to the CM for his consent. Mysuru is a historical, cultural and heritage city and an estimated 50 lakh tourists visit the city every year. The state government has given a nod considering all these factors. Film City will have production and post-production zones for film making, hospitality, training and entertainment zones. Film professionals feel that the Film City will outperform Pinewood Studios, London and Universal Studios in Singapore. There are many shooting locations in and around Mysuru and hundreds of films, including Kannada, Hindi, have been filmed in the region. Mysuru Palace, Lalitha Mahal Palace Hotel, Chamundi Hill, Mysuru Zoo, University of Mysore, Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) Dam, Balmuri and Yedamuri in Srirangapatna taluk of Mandya district, are some of the film shooting sites near Mysuru. The Film City will also boost tourism and hospitality sector, which are under stress due to Covid-19 pandemic. The tourism and hospitality stakeholders were upset with the government as the CM did not announce much for these sectors in the recent budget. The stakeholders had also opposed shifting of the project from Mysuru earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/film-city-in-mysuru-cheers-tourism-hospitality-stakeholders-963541.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vairamudi Utsav celebrations from today||The annual Vairamudi Brahmotsava celebrations begins at Melkote, Mandya district from today. It will be held up to March 31. Various rituals will be held on all the days, and Vairamudi jatra, the procession of the idol decorated with diamond-studded crown will be held in a simple manner on March 24. However, the celebrations have been been scaled down for the second consecutive year, due to the rising Covid cases in the state, as per the guidelines issued by the government on March 12. Thousands of devotees used to visit Melkote to witness the Vairamudi jatra. Restrictions will be in place for the devotees coming from other states, districts and other taluks of Mandya district. According to Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi, only 100 devotees will be allowed to enter the temple at a time and thermal screening will be conducted. Distribution of prasada, selling of puliyogere and other food  have been banned during the festival.The district administration has also issued orders to finish the Brahmotsava procession by 12 midnight, the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vairamudi-utsav-celebrations-from-today-963542.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||NiSleep clinic to deal with sleep problems in Mangaluru||Sleep is very essential for people's, especially children, wellbeing and survival. Poor sleep affects the mental health of a child leading to problems in attention and behaviour, said Prof Amita Hegde who is serving as Head of Department of Paediatric and Preventive Dentistry, A B Shetty Memorial Institute of Dental Science (ABMIDS). “Sleep problems can also affect the physical growth of children. Unfortunately, sleep problems are largely underdiagnosed and underreported in a majority of children," he said. A Sleep clinic - NiSleep - was inaugurated at Department of Pediatric and Preventive Dentistry, A B Shetty Memorial Institute of Dental Sciences, on World Sleep Day on Tuesday. Prof Hegde said she, along with Dr Vabitha Shetty, in the past few years had carried out a number of studies on sleep problems in children. They discovered that almost half of the children in the district suffered from sleep problems like restless sleep, sleeping with their mouth open, bedwetting and snoring. “We have also found that children with obesity have more sleep problems. As there is an increase in the occurrence of sleep problems among children, there is a need for dental and medical practitioners to work in tandem to identify and treat problem as early as possible.” Nitte University Chancellor Vinaya Hegde and A B Shetty Memorial Institute of Dental Sciences Principal Dr U S Krishna Nayak were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nisleep-clinic-to-deal-with-sleep-problems-in-mangaluru-963583.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Lorry driver charred to death as vehicle catches fire in Hassan||A lorry driver was charred to death, when the engine of a moving vehicle caught fire, near Bittagowdanahalli on the outskirts of Hassan city on Thursday morning. The deceased has been identified as Anbalagan (32), of Tirumalai, Tamil Nadu. Technical problem is said to be the reason behind the mishap. The driver could not come out of the vehicle and was burnt to death. The efforts of the locals to put off the flames and save the driver turned futile. The lorry was totally gutted in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lorry-driver-charred-to-death-as-vehicle-catches-fire-in-hassan-963589.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Council passes money lenders’ Bill, Congress walks out||The Legislative Council, on Wednesday, passed the Karnataka Money Lenders' (Amendment) Bill, even as Congress members staged a walkout. The Bill makes way for increasing the term of imprisonment for and penalty on money lenders if they fleece debtors.  As soon as Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar tabled the Bill, Congress member B K Hariprasad announced that the party members would not take part in the proceedings on 'moral grounds'. Somashekar is among the six ministers who sought a court injunction against any 'defamatory' content being published against them. The Congress members have been boycotting these ministers, questioning their moral right to continue in office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-council-passes-money-lenders-bill-congress-walks-out-963222.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||R Ashoka promises stringent law against encroachments||Revenue Minister R Ashoka on Wednesday promised a stronger law to deal with encroachments after senior JD(S) member A T Ramaswamy stunned the Legislative Assembly by narrating how government land worth Rs 1,890 crore was grabbed in Bengaluru.  This pertains to 63 acres of gomala (grazing) land in Mullur village near Mahadevapura. “In December 2019, the regional commissioner had stated in a report that this was a clear conspiracy to grab land. Officials were named for action to be taken against them. Nothing has been done,” Ramaswamy, a member of the government’s committee on land encroachment, said during his speech on the Budget.  Ramaswamy also read out a statement made by IAS officer N Manjunath Prasad, who was the revenue secretary when he deposed before the committee. “One acre is worth about Rs 30 crore. There was a complaint from villagers on encroachment. There are 73 acres including survey numbers 141, 145, 146 and 149 being gomala land. Out of the 73 acres, the genuine grant was for 10 acres only. In 2005, the ‘land mafia’ created a fake grant certificate,” Ramaswamy said, adding that the Department of Stamps & Registration was asked to stop the sale of this land.  “Private persons created a fake certificate to show that the land was granted in 1962-63. They also created fake conversion documents for the cultivated land,” he said. “All these were submitted to the court. But, the court quashed the stoppage of registration of the land and asked for the documents to be sent to the forensic lab. The lab said it had too much work and sent the file back. Look at the level of nexus,” Ramaswamy said.  This case alone had land worth Rs 1,890 crore, he said. “You ministers struggle for Rs 50-100 crore. There are thousands of such cases,” said Ramaswamy, who earlier headed a joint house committee that looked into government lands usurped in and around Bengaluru.  “The government can get two years’ worth of money by recovering lands in the Bengaluru metropolitan region alone,” Ramaswamy said.  Ashoka said it was in this case that he tried to suspend and transfer the officials concerned but in vain. “We need a proper law so that those involved do not get any relief from the courts. I’m ready to amend the existing laws,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/r-ashoka-promises-stringent-law-against-encroachments-963225.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka MLAs cry foul over 'disparity' in funding airport projects||‘Disparity’ in the allocation of funds to construct some airports in Karnataka turned out to be a contentious issue in the Assembly on Wednesday, with legislators criticising the government for hiking the cost of the Shivamogga airport, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s pet project.  Bijapur City MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, speaking during the question hour, noted that while Shivamogga airport was sanctioned Rs 384 crore, funds set aside for the Vijayapura airport was only Rs 220 crore. “Injustice is being meted to Vijayapura in all projects of the government,” he said, accusing the Yediyurappa administration of treating Shivamogga differently from other districts. Arguing about the need for better airport facilities at Vijayapura, Yatnal said that amenities such as night flights, landing facilities for large aircraft and cargo facility was not provided. “The said facilities are available in Shivamogga airport. What is the reason for such discrimination?” Yatnal said. Responding to his query, Infrastructure Development Minister Anand Singh said that the same amenities were not provided to Vijayapura as shifting a high-tension line close to the airport - which was essential to extending the airport runway - will require a few crores of rupees. This prompted questions from JD(S) legislators on developing Hassan and Raichur airports. While JD(S) member H D Revanna accused the government of ignoring works for Hassan airport, another legislator Venkatrao Nadagouda highlighted that the whole Raichur airport project was put on the backburner. Yatnal, meanwhile, intervened to highlight that the cost of Shivamogga airport was increased by 15% above the tender rate. “I smell something fishy here,” he said. Requesting Singh to ensure the same facilities for Vijayapura and Shivamogga, he advised the minister not to provoke the people of North Karnataka. Singh assured that he would discuss with Yediyurappa to ensure that both the airports in question are provided with the same amenities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-mlas-cry-foul-over-disparity-in-funding-airport-projects-963227.html
18-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress announces names for Karnataka Assembly bypolls||The Congress on Thursday announced the party candidates for the three Assembly segments bypolls in Karnataka. The party named Mallamma, wife of late MLA Narayan Rao from Basavakalyan constituency while it announced the candidature of Basavanagouda R Turvihal, from Maski. Turvihal joined the Congress from the BJP recently. In the 2018 Assembly elections, Turvihal, who contested from BJP in Maski, lost against Congress candidate Pratapgouda Patil with a narrow margin. Pratapgouda Patil joined the BJP after resigning from the Congress. The party also announced the candidature of Ashok Managoli, son of late MLA M C Managoli for Sindgi segment. However, the date for holding the bypoll for the Sindgi assembly segment was yet to be announced by the Election Commission of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-announces-names-for-karnataka-assembly-bypolls-963602.html
18-03-2021||National||DH Deciphers | Elected govt vs L-G: Why is the Centre bringing a new Bill on Delhi?||Opening a new front in the Centre vs states battle, the Narendra Modi government tabled the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, in the Lok Sabha on March 16. The Bill states that the expression 'government', in the context of legislation passed by the Delhi legislative assembly, shall mean the Lieutenant-Governor. Once passed, the Bill will enable the Centre to override the Supreme Court's July 4, 2018, verdict that gave the Delhi government the primacy in legislations. The ruling AAP and the Congress have opposed the Bill, saying it usurps the elected government's legislative powers. Here's what you need to know  What's the issue?  The union territory of Delhi has an elected legislature by way of Articles 239AA and 239AB, which were inserted into the Constitution through the 69th amendment in 1991. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act, 1991, supplements the Articles 239AA and 239AB in outlining the distribution of power between the Delhi assembly and the LG, who is appointed by the central government. The Delhi assembly can legislate on all matters except land, police and public order. The AAP, which wants full statehood for Delhi, has been at loggerheads with the Centre over the LG's powers. The Supreme Court ruled in favour of the Delhi government. The Bill seeks to clearly define LG's powers and make him the principal authority in certain matters.  What had changed after the Supreme Court judgement? The Supreme Court had said that the LG's concurrence was not needed in issues other than police, land and public order but that these matters needed to be communicated to him. The court also said that the LG should act in the aid and advice of the council of ministers. Following the judgement, the Delhi government had stopped sending files regarding executive decisions to the LG.  What does the new Bill say?  The statement of objectives and reasons says that the Bill seeks to ensure that the LG gets to exercise his constitutional powers "in a select category of cases and also to make rules in matters which incidentally encroach upon matters falling outside the preview of the legislative assembly". The assembly will also not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the day-to-day administration of the capital. At the centre of the controversy is the amendment to Section 44 of the GNCTD Act which states that the Delhi government must seek the opinion of the LG before taking any executive action.  What is the Centre's argument? The Ministry of Home Affairs says there is no structural mechanism in the GNCTD Act for effective and time-bound implementation of Section 44. There is also no clarity as to what proposals or matters are required to be submitted to the LG before issuing orders.  What objections have been raised by the AAP-led Delhi government? Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal says the BJP is seeking to drastically curtail the powers of the elected government through an "unconstitutional" Bill after being rejected by people in elections. He argues what the elected government will do if the government means the LG. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the amendments would have a dangerous impact on the federal structure. What about the BJP and the Congress?  The Delhi BJP welcomed the Bill and dismissed the allegation that it is usurping power through the backdoor. Even after the amendment, 75% of the administrative work and powers would rest with the Delhi government, Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said. Congress called the bill undemocratic, saying it will curtail the powers of an elected government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-deciphers-elected-govt-vs-l-g-why-is-the-centre-bringing-a-new-bill-on-delhi-963237.html
18-03-2021||National||Goyal calls upon investors to stick to spirit, ambit of laws, not try to find loopholes||Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal on Wednesday called upon all investors to stick to the spirit and ambit of laws and not try to find loopholes in the policies while inviting them to take advantage of the 'demand, democracy and demographic dividend' in India. Speaking at the Indian Private Equity and Venture Capital Association Annual Conclave 2021, he said despite best efforts to provide a predictable and stable policy environment, some of the investors have been trying to circumvent and misuse the provisions through ingenuity and innovations. This, he said, leads to the government trying to plug the loophole and bring in changes. "The minister called upon all investors to stick to the spirit and ambit of the law and not try to find loopholes in the policies or laws," an official statement quoted Goyal as saying. The minister further said international investors are important for startup funding and are welcome in the country but they have their own limitations. He said domestic investors can possibly penetrate much deeper into the hinterland and smaller towns and cities where there is a lot of innovation and potential waiting to be tapped. Domestic investors chasing good startup ideas can even bring confidence and comfort level among the international investors, he added. Inviting the investors to take "India's '3D' advantage - Demand, Democracy and Demographic dividend", he said "we can see before us a bright future, a billion people aspiring for a better quality of life and that is what provides opportunities to look at innovative solutions to the day to day problems."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goyal-calls-upon-investors-to-stick-to-spirit-ambit-of-laws-not-try-to-find-loopholes-963251.html
18-03-2021||National||Ola to cover Covid-19 vaccination cost for employees, their dependents||Mobility service provider Ola on Wednesday said that it will cover the Covid-19 vaccination cost for all its employees and their dependents. The vaccination drive will also be extended to all the direct contractual employees, consultants, advisors of the company and their immediate dependents, including spouses, kids and parents, comprising more than 24,000 people, the company said. "While this vaccine is voluntary, it is also one of the most effective tools to fight against Covid-19. As the Government gears up for the next phase of the vaccination drive, we encourage all our employees and their families to opt for the vaccine and fight against Covid-19," Ola spokesperson Varun Dubey said in a statement. The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be over and above Ola's existing medical insurance policy. Ola will start extending end-to-end support to those applicable, starting with the ones above the age of 60 years and those over 45 with co-morbidities. "It will expand this process to include the rest as soon as the government rolls out the next phase of the vaccination drive," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ola-to-cover-covid-19-vaccination-cost-for-employees-their-dependents-963254.html
18-03-2021||National||Government, BJP not trustworthy: Naresh Tikait||The government and the BJP are not trustworthy, BKU president Naresh Tikait alleged on Wednesday, as he hit out at the Centre over the contentious agriculture laws. Tikait made the remark as he participated in a monthly meeting of his farmers' union at Ghazipur on the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border. Addressing Bharatiya Kisan Union supporters, who have been camping at Ghazipur for nearly four months now, Tikait said: "This movement will continue for long, make it a part of your routine." "The government and the BJP are not trustworthy," the farmer leader said, according to a statement issued by BKU's national media incharge Dharmendra Malik. "More people like (Meghalaya Governor) Satyapal Malik will come forward. The farmers respect their truth. BJP MPs are now feeling suffocated," Tikait said. Malik had on Sunday sided with farmers protesting the Centre's new agriculture laws and urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah not to offend the community. Speaking at an event in his home district of Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, Malik had said if the Centre gave legal guarantee of the minimum support price (MSP) for crops, farmers would relent. "None of the laws are in favour of farmers. A country in which farmers and soldiers are not satisfied, that country cannot move ahead. That country cannot be saved. Hence, the Army and farmers should be kept satisfied," Malik had said. Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delh's borders at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November with a demand that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws and make a new one that would ensure legal guarantee on the MSP. The government, however, has held that the laws were pro-farmer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-bjp-not-trustworthy-naresh-tikait-963255.html
18-03-2021||National||Bengal polls: Jhargram's elderly woman casts first vote through doorstep facility||Eighty-two-year- old Basanti Shit in West Bengal's Jhargram district was among the first to have exercised her franchise in the assembly elections through doorstep voting facility, an official said on Wednesday. The octogenarian cast her vote from the comfort of her home on Tuesday as the Election Commission has made provision for voting through postal ballot for senior citizens above 80 years of age and persons with disability. Seven others from her ward, including six octogenarians and another person with a disability, have also cast their votes through postal ballots. "A team of poll personnel and agents of parties, along with a few CRPF personnel and policemen went to the woman's house on Tuesday morning. A cardboard structure was set up at her residence so that she can cast her vote in secret. "Her family members were not allowed to enter the room where the poll was conducted. The ballot paper was kept in an envelope and sealed in front of her. The polling process was video graphed," the EC official said. Four assembly constituencies in Jhargram will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27. Her grandson said she was delighted as she was able to exercise her franchise from home. "My grandma cannot walk properly. It would be very difficult for us to take her to the polling booth. As the Election Commission has allowed senior citizens and persons with disability to vote through postal ballots, we have opted for this. She is very happy," the grandson said. Around 86 teams of polling personnel will visit residences of people who opted for the doorstep voting facility for the next six days ahead of the first phase polls, the official said.   Electors, who have qualified to vote from home in Jhargram, Purba Medinipur, Paschim Medinipur, Bankura and Purulia for the first phase, will also get a chance later this week, he said. At least 5,715 voters have so far exercised their franchise through postal ballots in 30 assembly constituencies where the polls will be held on March 27, the official said. For the first phase polls, at least 32,432 people have been eligible to vote through postal ballots, he said. "There is no definite timeframe to complete the process. We are going to every household to collect such votes and have to finish it well before the beginning of the first phase polls," he said. The eight-phased elections to the 294 seats in West Bengal will be held between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-polls-jhargrams-elderly-woman-casts-first-vote-through-doorstep-facility-963268.html
18-03-2021||National||Bengal polls: BJP names candidates for 4 seats for 3rd phase||The BJP on Wednesday released the names of four candidates for the third phase of West Bengal assembly elections, with actor Paapia Adhikari finding a place in the list. The central election committee of the BJP named former Congress leader Anupam Ghosh, who joined the saffron party a couple of years ago, as its candidate for the Jagatballavpur constituency in Howrah.  While Adhikari will contest from the Uluberia Dakshin seat in Howrah district, Chandan Mandal and Bidhan Parui are the saffron party's choice for Baruipur Purba and Falta respectively in South 24 Parganas district, the BJP said. Barring these four seats, the party has declared candidates in other constituencies going to polls in the third phase.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-polls-bjp-names-candidates-for-4-seats-for-3rd-phase-963273.html
18-03-2021||National||Train rolls backwards on tracks due to technical glitch||A train going from New Delhi to Uttarakhand's Tanakpur district rolled backwards for over 30 kilometres due to a technical snag on Wednesday. As per reports, the pilot of the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi Express had applied brakes to avoid collision with a cow that had strayed onto the tracks. Immediately, the driver lost control of the locomotive and the entire train started rolling backwards. Even though some passengers tried to pull the emergency chain, the train did not stop. After emergency messages sent to the nearest stations alerted staff to close level crossing gates. Then the train was finally stopped at Khatima, nearly 330 kilometres from the national capital. However, around 25 passengers, who were travelling on the train were safe and there was no derailment. Later railway authorities sent them to Tanakpur by bus from Khatima, said an official from the railways. The railways ordered a probe. It was learnt that the air pressure pipe between coaches was damaged and started leaking, which led to the failure of the brake system. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal flagged off Tanakpur (Uttarakhand)-Delhi Junction Special train on February 26 to provide seamless connectivity between hill state and national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/train-rolls-backwards-on-tracks-due-to-technical-glitch-963284.html
18-03-2021||National||DH Toon | India mulls its own 'world democracy report'||The Ministry of External Affairs may come up with its own “world democracy report” and a “global press freedom index” by an independent Indian think tank. It was reported that the discussions to do this were going on before recent reports by Freedom House and V-Dem Institute downgraded India. After US-based human rights think tank Freedom House deemed India to be 'partly-free' a step down from the earlier 'free' status, Minister of External Affairs S Jaishankar slammed the report, calling it "hypocrisy" by a group of "self-appointed custodians of the world".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-india-mulls-its-own-world-democracy-report-963295.html
18-03-2021||National||India reports over 35,000 Covid-19 cases in a day, highest this year||India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union health ministry data. Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The death toll increased to 1,59,216 with 172 new fatalities, it stated. The single-day spike of 35,871 cases is the highest in 102 days. As many as 36,011 new infections were recorded on December 6. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,63,025, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.39 per cent, according to the data. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,03,13,163 samples had been tested up to March 17 with 10,63,379 being tested on Wednesday. The 172 new fatalities include 84 from Maharashtra, 35 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. So far, 1,59,216 deaths have been reported in the country including 53,080 from Maharashtra, 12,564 from Tamil Nadu, 12,407 from Karnataka, 10,948 from Delhi, 10,298 from West Bengal, 8,751 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,186 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-over-35000-covid-19-cases-in-a-day-highest-this-year-963326.html
18-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: Khushbu Sundar files nomination from Thousand Lights||BJP leader Khushbu Sundar filed her nomination from the Thousand Lights Assembly constituency in Chennai on Thursday. After a stint in the DMK and Congress, she joined the BJP in October last year. Tamil Nadu will hold its single-phase elections on April 6. The results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-khushbu-sundar-files-nomination-from-thousand-lights-963355.html
18-03-2021||National||SC to hear plea against 'illegal detention' of Rohingyas on March 25||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would take up next week a matter for release of 150-170 Rohingyas from “illegal detention” in Jammu, made earlier this month. Advocate Prashant Bhushan made a mention of the matter before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde for urgent hearing.  He maintained that the detention of Rohingyas was illegal. If they are deported to Myanmar, they may face genocide. We have filed an application in the issue, he said.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, contested the assertions made by Bhushan. The court said it would take up the matter on March 25. The application filed by Bhushan on behalf of Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refuge, pointed out these people faced deportation back to Myanmar following verification by their embassy.  It sought a direction to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to intervene and determine the protection needs of the Rohingya refugees not just in the Jammu but also in camps across the country and complete the process of granting them refugee cards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-plea-against-illegal-detention-of-rohingyas-on-march-25-963368.html
18-03-2021||National||Former CEA Arvind Subramanian resigns from Ashoka University||Subramanian resigned citing circumstances around the exit of Pratap Bhanu Mehta from the university. He said in his letter, "Ashoka—with its private status and backing by private capital—can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing." More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-cea-arvind-subramanian-resigns-from-ashoka-university-963384.html
18-03-2021||National||Over 23 crore Covid-19 tests conducted in India so far||The number of tests conducted for detection of Covid-19 across the country has crossed 23 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. It also said that India's cumulative positivity rate stands at 4.98 per cent as of date. India's tests per day per million population are more than 140 and the daily positivity rate is 3.37 per cent as of today, the ministry said. India is fast approaching total vaccination coverage of 4 crore. A total of 3,71,43,255 Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered through 6,15,267 sessions, as per the provisional report till Thursday 7 am. These include 75,68,844 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have been given the 1st dose, 46,32,940 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 77,16,084 frontline workers (FLWs) who have been given the 1st dose and 19,09,528 FLWs who have taken the 2nd dose. Besides, 24,57,179 beneficiaries aged more than 45 -60 years with specific co-morbidities and 1,28,58,680 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years have been administered the 1st dose. More than 20 lakh (20,78,719) vaccine doses were administered on day-61 of the vaccination drive (17th March). Of the total, 17,38,750 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 28,412 sessions for 1st dose and 3,39,969 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine. India's total active caseload has reached 2,52,364 comprising 2.20 per cent of the total infections.  "A net incline of 17,958 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said. Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu continue to report a surge in the Covid-19 daily new cases, the ministry said adding 79.54 per cent of the new cases are from these five states. The ministry said that 35,871 new cases were registered in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 16,620 (accounting for 63.21 per cent of the daily new cases). It is followed by Kerala with 1,792 while Punjab reported 1,492 new cases, the ministry said. "A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. "Kerala is reporting a consistently declining trend over the last one month," the ministry stated. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,10,63,025 with 17,741 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. The ministry further said that 172 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Five states account for 84.88 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (84). Punjab follows with 35 daily deaths and Kerala reported13 deaths in 24 hours. The case fatality rate remains below 1.5 per cent (1.39%) and is continuously declining, the ministry said. Eighteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Chandigarh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-23-crore-covid-19-tests-conducted-in-india-so-far-963390.html
18-03-2021||National||As coronavirus cases rise, airlines become stricter, deboard passengers flouting norms||AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from its Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday, while IndiGo handed over two flyers to security officials during the last three days for not following the Covid-19 rules in flights, said senior government officials on Thursday. While action was taken against two passengers on the AirAsia India flight for refusing to wear PPE gowns, IndiGo handed over two passengers of its two different flights to security officials at the destination airports for refusing to wear masks, the officials noted. Aviation regulator DGCA had on Saturday asked airlines to de-board passengers who do not wear their masks "properly" despite repeated warnings. The aforesaid incidents came to light after media reported on Wednesday that four passengers were handed over to security agencies on Tuesday for not wearing masks properly onboard Alliance Air's Jammu-Delhi flight despite repeated warnings by the cabin crew. The government officials said on Thursday that a middle seat passenger on IndiGo's Delhi-Goa flight on Monday first created fuss on the issue of wearing PPE gown, and then she kept taking off her mask during the flight even after repeated warnings by the cabin crew.  The crew handed her over to the security authorities once the flight landed in Goa, they added. A similar incident happened on Wednesday on IndiGo's Delhi-Hyderabad flight where a passenger refused to wear mask even after repeated warnings by the crew members, they said. The passenger was handed over to the security officials once the flight landed in Hyderabad, they added. The officials also said AirAsia India offloaded two middle seat passengers from Goa-Mumbai flight on Monday for not wearing PPE gowns before take off.  When asked, AirAsia India spokesperson confirmed the incident and said, "Despite repeated requests, on observation that two guests refused to comply with the safety protocols laid out by the health and governing bodies, AirAsia India deplaned the guests from its Goa-Mumbai flight. The guests were escorted from the flight for further procedures." "We place safety and security foremost in all aspects of our operations and apologise for any inconvenience caused to other guests," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-coronavirus-cases-rise-airlines-become-stricter-deboard-passengers-flouting-norms-963393.html
18-03-2021||National||Smriti Irani faced death threats in Amethi during 2014 polls: Book||When Smriti Irani entered the electoral fray against Rahul Gandhi in Amethi for the first time in 2014, a new book has claimed, her family feared that she could be harmed, prompting her husband to ask doctors on what should be done if she was shot at. The claim was made in the book 'Dynasty to Democracy: The Untold Story of Smriti Irani's Triumph', which tells the story of how the Women and Child Development Minister turned the tables against the former Congress president in his family's bastion in 2019, after losing the battle five years ago. During the 2014 campaign, the book by senior journalist Anant Vijay said, when Irani stopped her car at one locality while on way to a rally, a man approached her and said, “you have come to contest the election from Amethi, but you do not even know what is going to happen to you. A bullet could come anytime from any direction and pierce your head.” The man vanished from the scene immediately even before Smriti could manage to make sense of what was said. She did not tell this to local party leaders or media thinking that it would be seen as a publicity stunt, the book says adding she telephoned her husband Zubin Irani after the incident. Zubin then went the “extra mile” and immediately contacted doctors in Mumbai to know what should be done if one was shot at and which hospital was best at handling such injuries. Doctors told him to rush the victim to Medanta hospital in Gurugram in such an eventuality. According to the book, Zubin's car and his driver stayed in Amethi against Smriti's wishes. He had planned it to the minutest detail, including how Smriti could be rushed to Lucknow and an entire evacuation plan was prepared to take her to Delhi and then to the hospital. The book also gives extensive details about how the RSS, which “stood firmly” behind Smriti and started preparing the ground as early as December 2018, turned the tables against the Congress machinery in Amethi. It alleges that Congress used to distribute money to voters ahead of the elections in Amethi. Providing details on one such alleged instance in 2019, the book claimed members of RSS-allied outfits held a meeting with the district magistrate and all sub-divisional officers posted, during which it was told that police and state officials under no circumstances should allow distribution of money. A prominent RSS office-bearer, playing a key role in the campaign, had sent an “indirect message” that officers would face "consequences" if they allow money distribution, it added. After Smriti's loss in 2014, the book said, the RSS had increased its footprint in Amethi – from 250 RSS shakhas in 2014 to over 300 by early 2019 – and created a “winning atmosphere” by cashing in on the resentment against the Congress. From February 2019, the RSS had been holding small booth-level meetings, including in Muslim-dominated areas. The RSS instructed all its allied outfits to come on one single platform and work towards a common goal. The book also claimed that Congress' strategic "errors" some way or the other had contributed to Rahul's defeat. “The party could not do anything new. Its programmes were all stale. The leaders working in Amethi could not get new people associated with the Congress, and the older lot had lost connect with the public. The party could not sense this...” It went on to add that there was no election management and leaders simply assumed that people would vote for Rahul because of their old association with the Gandhi family. The representatives of Rahul and Priyanka made separate plans and there was no coordination, it added. The book also provides an interesting backstory of Prime Minister Narendra Modi landing in Amethi to campaign for Smriti in the 2014 polls, though initially there was no such plan. The man behind the plan was late BJP leader Manohar Parrikar, who found out a change in political atmosphere in Amethi then itself. Finding out that Smriti was almost on her own in that election, the book said, Parrikar suggested Modi that he hold a rally there, following which the then Uttar Pradesh in-charge Amit Shah was tasked with organising one. Modi held the rally on May 5, 2014, which was the last day of campaigning for the polls then.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-faced-death-threats-in-amethi-during-2014-polls-book-963394.html
18-03-2021||National||Any attempt to create 'imperialism of internet' by few companies unacceptable: Ravi Shankar Prasad||Union Communications and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday told Rajya Sabha that any attempt to create "imperialism of internet" by a few companies would not be tolerated. Speaking during Question Hour on the banning of Twitter accounts, Prasad said the government welcomes dissent but cannot allow misuse or abuse of social media. Replying to G C Chandrashekhar (Congress), who raised the issue of climate activist Disha Ravi's arrest in the 'toolkit' document case, Prasad said India is proud to have nearly 140 crore social media users. LinkedIn, WhatsApp, Twitter, Facebook are free to do business in India. They have empowered ordinary Indians. "The government welcomes dissent. The issue is not of use of social media, the issue is of abuse and misuse of social media... "Internet is a powerful invention of human mind, but it should not become the monopoly of few. And we have taken a position, any attempt to create imperialism of internet by few companies is not acceptable," the Union minister said. Prasad said Ravi's case is under judicial consideration, but the House should consider whether some people should be allowed to "abuse social media" to "defame" India internationally. Replying to a supplementary question, he said there are cases where the dignity of a woman is sought to be compromised by displaying her nude or morphed photo. In such cases, the minister said, the guidelines are clear that the content should be removed within 36 hours. "The guideline is very clear that you have to remove that (content) within 36 hours only if it relates to the unity and integrity of India, safety and security of India, public order, and most importantly, the dignity of the woman...," he said. As far as content creation is concerned, Prasad said, "We don't wish to interfere so that is is the job of the users of social media as to what there is to say." He also said his department works in close coordination with the Election Commission. "The Election Commission has set up a dedicated cell to weed out fake news, fake media designed to influence (voters)," he said, adding that Cambridge Analytica has been banned and a CBI probe is going on against the UK-based data analytics firm. For maintaining the purity of India's electoral process, the government is working in close coordination with the Election Commission to ensure that fake news do not influence elections, Prasad said. Assembly elections will be held in four states and one Union Territory -- Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, West Bengal and Puducherry -- in late March and April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/any-attempt-to-create-imperialism-of-internet-by-few-companies-unacceptable-ravi-shankar-prasad-963395.html
18-03-2021||National||Gadkari hails vehicle scrapping policy as 'win-win', says it will reduce pollution||Union minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the vehicle scrapping policy will be a "win-win" policy that will help improve fuel efficiency and reduce pollution. Making a statement regarding the vehicle scrapping policy in the Lok Sabha, the Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister said the policy will also lead to an increase in the country's automobile industry turnover to Rs 10 lakh crore from the current Rs 4.5 lakh crore. Announced in the 2021-22 Union Budget, the policy provides for fitness test after 20 years for personal vehicles, while commercial vehicles would require it after the completion of 15 years. Gadkari has also issued an advisory to automakers, advising them to provide an incentive of a five per cent rebate for those buying a new vehicle after producing a scrapping certificate. Noting that the policy will be a "win-win" policy, the minister said it will help improve fuel efficiency, reduce pollution and GST income will also rise due to the purchase of new vehicles. According to him, the policy is aimed at reducing the population of old and defective vehicles, bringing down vehicular air pollutants, improving road and vehicular safety. Besides, it will help in achieving better fuel efficiency, formalising the informal vehicle scrapping industry, and boost the availability of low-cost raw materials for the automotive, steel and electronics industry. With the scrapping of old vehicles, raw materials such as plastic, copper, aluminium, steel and rubber will be recycled. This will bring down the cost component and help the industry become more cost-competitive. The Road Transport and Highway Ministry will publish a draft notification for stakeholders' comments in the next few weeks. The minister said that there are 51 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 20 years and 34 lakh light motor vehicles that are older than 15 years. Around 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles are older than 15 years without a valid fitness certificate, he said, adding that older vehicles pollute the environment 10 to 12 times more than fit vehicles. A vehicle failing the fitness test or failing to get a renewal of its registration certificate may be declared as End of Life Vehicle. The ministry has proposed that commercial vehicles be de-registered after 15 years in case of failure to get the fitness certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased fees for fitness certificate and fitness test may be applicable for commercial vehicles 15 years onwards from the date of initial registration, according to the minister. Another proposal is that private vehicles be de-registered after 20 years if found unfit or in case of a failure to renew the registration certificate. As a disincentive measure, increased re-registration fees will be applicable for private vehicles 15 year onwards from the date of initial registration. The ministry will promote the setting up of Registered Vehicle Scrapping Facility (RVSF) and will encourage public and private participation in opening such centres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gadkari-hails-vehicle-scrapping-policy-as-win-win-says-it-will-reduce-pollution-963398.html
18-03-2021||National||J&K records highest number of Covid-19 cases since January 17||Jammu and Kashmir registered 126 new cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) on Wednesday, indicating a sharp rise in cases and a likely second wave. Since January 17 this year, the daily count of confirmed Covid-19 cases had stayed between 44 and 117. In February, the new positive cases started to rise slightly but steadily. In March, the cases went up to over 70 in the first week and now over 100 this week. The cases reported on Wednesday were the highest since January 17. With trains, road transport, schools, offices, hospitals and market places crowded with people, experts believe that the rise in cases is inevitable. “Poor adherence to infection control protocols is responsible for the surge of the viral infection here,” they said. Prof Parvaiz A Koul, head department of pulmonary and internal medicine at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, said that with new threats emerging, “we need to continue doing what we did in 2020 – wear masks, wash hands and avoid crowds.” While higher education institutions reopened in Kashmir on February 15, the schools started to reopen in gradual manner from March 1, and by March 15 all the students were back to schools. Parents have expressed concern over the "poor" SoPs in schools. “Instead of allowing some outdoor activities where they could be in better ventilation, our kids are made to sit in the classroom the entire day with other children,” said a parent of a primary school student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-records-highest-number-of-covid-19-cases-since-january-17-963401.html
18-03-2021||National||S Jaishankar holds talks with Kuwaiti counterpart||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Thursday held wide-ranging talks with his Kuwaiti counterpart Sheikh Ahmed Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah to elevate bilateral relations. The Kuwaiti foreign minister arrived here on Wednesday evening on a nearly 18-hour visit. "Glad to welcome this morning, along with @MOS_MEA, FM @anmas71 of Kuwait. Productive discussions on our bilateral agenda & regional developments," Jaishankar said on Twitter.  "Will co-chair Joint Commission with him to elevate our relationship further," he added. Kuwait remains a reliable supplier of crude oil and LPG to India. Historically, India-Kuwaiti ties have always had an important trade dimension. India has consistently been among the top trading partners of Kuwait. In the financial year 2019-20, Kuwait was the 10th largest oil supplier to India and it met about 3.8 per cent of India's energy needs. The total bilateral trade with Kuwait during 2019-20 was USD 10.86 billion, according to official data. Various aspects of bilateral ties and regional issues are expected to be discussed in the talks between the two foreign ministers, said a diplomatic source. The evolving situation in the Gulf region is also expected to figure in the deliberations. Around 641,000 Indians are living in Kuwait and the community adds an important dimension to the ties between the two countries. Indian nationals are the largest expatriate community in Kuwait. Over the last few years, India has been expanding its overall ties with the Gulf region which is home to an estimated 8.5 million Indians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-jaishankar-holds-talks-with-kuwaiti-counterpart-963402.html
18-03-2021||National||Cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil coronavirus variant in India rise to 400||The total number of cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of the coronavirus in India rose to 400, the Health Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union health ministry data. Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The death toll increased to 1,59,216 with 172 new fatalities||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cases-with-uk-south-africa-and-brazil-coronavirus-variant-in-india-rise-to-400-963403.html
18-03-2021||National||Supreme Court stays hearings in High Courts on Covid-19 vaccines||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the ongoing hearing related to Covid-19 vaccines in the Delhi and Bombay High Courts. It also sought responses from the Centre and others on pleas of the Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech seeking transfer of the cases from the high courts to the apex court. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde took note of the pleas of the two firms that the high courts are conducting parallel proceedings on vaccine-related issues and they need to be transferred to the top court for an authoritative judgement. The bench also transferred to itself the vaccine-related case going on in the Delhi High Court. The vaccine manufacturing firms have said different high courts are seeking data on how many vaccines are produced and when they will give vaccines to all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-stays-hearings-in-high-courts-on-covid-19-vaccines-963406.html
18-03-2021||National||SC objects to NCB's plea against Bombay HC observations in Rhea Chakraborty's bail||The Supreme Court on Thursday took objections to the Narcotics Control Bureau filing a petition against 'prima facie' observations by the Bombay High Court without challenging the bail granted to Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty on October 7. "We find it very difficult to understand. You cannot file a petition challenging observations. You can only challenge the order. The observations are prima facie," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The court's remarks came after Mehta said the NCB did not challenge the bail but only observations made by the High Court, which made the NDPS Act unworkable. On this, Mehta agreed to amend the petition, to include a challenge to the bail order. He requested the court to take up the matter next week. The court posted the matter for consideration on Monday. The Bombay High Court had on October 7, 2020, granted bail to actor Chakraborty who had been arrested by the NCB on September 8, in connection with an alleged drugs-related case linked to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput on June 14. Rhea’s counsel had contended that the NCB lacked jurisdiction to probe the matter in view of the Supreme Court order of August 19, 2020 directing to hand over all investigations in the Sushant case to the CBI. The offences under which the accused were nabbed by the NCB were bailable and the charges under the NDPS Act Section 217A against the accused did not have supporting evidence.  Rhea and her brother Showik Chakraborty and three others -- Abdel Basit Parihar, Samuel Miranda and Dipesh Sawant -- were accused of having facilitated the procurement of drugs for consumption by late actor Sushant Singh Rajput.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-objects-to-ncbs-plea-against-bombay-hc-observations-in-rhea-chakrabortys-bail-963424.html
18-03-2021||National||SC quashes Madhya Pradesh HC's order for molestation accused to get Rakhi tied by victim for bail||In an important ruling, the Supreme Court on Thursday laid down guiding principles for the courts to deal with sexual offences with a direction to judges to "avoid reflecting stereotypical or patriarchal notions about women". A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and S Ravindra Bhat held that the use of reasoning or language which diminishes the offence and tends to trivialise the survivor, should especially be avoided under all circumstances.  The top court noted that gender violence is most often unseen and is shrouded in a culture of silence.  So, notions such as the survivor had in the past consented to similar acts or that she behaved promiscuously, or by her acts or clothing, provoked the alleged action of the accused, that she behaved in a manner unbecoming of chaste or of an Indian women, should be avoided, it said. "The greatest extent of sensitivity is to be displayed in the judicial approach, language and reasoning. Even a solitary instance of such order or utterance in court, reflects adversely on the entire judicial system of the country, undermining the guarantee to fair justice to all, and especially, to victims of sexual violence," the bench said. The court set aside a Madhya Pradesh High Court's order of July 30, 2020 for molestation accused to get Rakhi tied from the victim as a condition for bail, by terming it as "wholly unacceptable, and has the effect of diluting and eroding the offence of sexual harassment".  "The act is not a minor transgression that can be remedied by way of an apology, rendering community service, tying a rakhi or presenting a gift to the survivor, or even promising to marry her," the court added. Acting on a petition by advocate Aparna Bhat and eight others, the court said using Rakhi tying as a condition for bail, cannot transform a molester into a brother, by a judicial mandate.  It ordered for developing a training module on gender sensitisation as part of the foundational training of every judge, who played a vital role as teachers and thought leaders. It also directed the Bar Council of India to include the topic as part of syllabus for LL B programme and All India Bar Examination.  Justice Bhat, who authored the judgement, said that the courts should ensure that bail conditions should not mandate, require or permit contact between the accused and the victim. "The courts should not suggest or entertain any notions (or encourage any steps) towards compromises between the prosecutrix and the accused to get married, suggest or mandate mediation, or any form of compromise as it is beyond their powers and jurisdiction," the bench said. Among others, the top court said discussion about dress, behaviour, or past “conduct” or “morals” of the survivor, should not enter the verdict granting bail. "Sensitivity should be displayed at all times by judges, who should ensure that there is no traumatisation of the prosecutrix... Judges, especially, should not use any words, spoken or written, that would undermine or shake the confidence of the survivor in the fairness or impartiality of the court," the bench said. The court should not render itself susceptible to the charge of re-negotiating and mediating justice between confronting parties in a criminal offence and perpetuating gender stereotypes, the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-quashes-madhya-pradesh-hcs-order-for-molestation-accused-to-get-rakhi-tied-by-victim-for-bail-963430.html
18-03-2021||National||Centre bats for All India Judicial Service||A "properly framed" All India Judicial Service (AIJS) on the lines of other all-India services such as IAS and IPS is important to strengthen the overall justice delivery system, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told Rajya Sabha on Thursday. The service will give an opportunity for induction of suitably qualified fresh legal talent selected through a proper all-India merit selection system as well as address the issue of social inclusion by enabling suitable representation to marginalised and deprived sections of the society, he said in a written reply. A comprehensive proposal was formulated for the constitution of AIJS and the same was approved by a Committee of Secretaries in November, 2012. The proposal was included as an agenda item in the conference of Chief Ministers and Chief Justices of the High Courts held in April, 2013, he noted. He said it was decided that the issue needs further deliberation and consideration. The views of the state governments and the high courts were sought on the proposal. "There was divergence of opinion among the state governments and among the high courts on the constitution of All India Judicial Service. While some state governments and high courts favoured the proposal, some were not in favour of creation of AIJS, while some others wanted changes in the proposal formulated by the central government," he observed. The proposal to constitute AIJS with views from the high courts and state governments received thereon was included in the agenda for the Chief Justices conference held in April 2015, he recalled. "However, no progress was made on the subject and it was decided to leave it open to the respective high court to evolve appropriate methods within the existing system to fill up vacancies for appointment of district judges expeditiously ... the government is engaged in a consultative process with the stakeholders to arrive at a common ground," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-bats-for-all-india-judicial-service-963436.html
18-03-2021||National||Bombay HC says police do not seem to have any substantial evidence against Goswami in TRP case||The Bombay High Court on Thursday said that even after three months' probe Mumbai Police did not seem to have anything "on record" to make Republic TV editor- in-chief Arnab Goswami and other employees of ARG Outlier Media accused in the TRP scam case. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale also asked the Maharashtra government when the probe will be over. The government must be reasonable and if police did not find anything incriminating against Goswami and others, it must accept it and make a statement to the effect, the court said. "The investigation is going on for the last three months. We don't see anything that has surfaced on record to arraign the petitioners as accused," the bench said. The observations came after Chief Public Prosecutor Deeps Thakare informed that the police was still collecting evidence in the case, and wanted to continue the investigation against ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs Republic TV channels, and Goswami. The court, however, said a probe can not go on "forever". "ED, CBI, state police, all should act with reasonableness, objective assessment... They should not appear to be another form of trouble," it said. The high court was hearing final arguments on pleas filed by Goswami and ARG Outlier Media seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam case. Petitioners' lawyer, senior advocate Ashok Mundargi told the HC that the Mumbai police's crime branch was dragging out the probe, without naming Goswami and other employees of ARG as accused but merely naming them as suspects in the chargesheet. At this the bench said the state must make clear how long was the police likely to take to complete its probe. "At which point will your officer say that there is reason to believe that there is reason to arrest (Goswami and other employees)?" the bench asked. "You cannot have it both ways. You cannot not make them accused and then say you have evidence. If you have evidence make them accused so that they know what kind of relief can be granted against them," it said. The HC, at the same time, also clarified that it had not formed any opinion about the case. "Don't misunderstand. We have not formed our opinion at all," it said. Among other things, ARG Outlier Media and Goswami have sought protection from coercive action such as arrest, and quashing of the FIR against them. They have also demanded the transfer of the probe to the CBI or any other "independent agency". The court is currently hearing arguments on whether FIR can be quashed when the probe is ongoing and petitioners are yet to be named as accused. The hearing will continue on Monday. Earlier, the police had denied petitioners' allegation that the probe was a political vendetta against Republic TV for its political coverage. There was evidence to show that Goswami had connived with senior officials of the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) to rig the TRP of Republic TV, police alleged. The Republic TV has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bombay-hc-says-police-do-not-seem-to-have-any-substantial-evidence-against-goswami-in-trp-case-963439.html
18-03-2021||National||Teacher education institutions functioning as 'commercial shops', finds study||Azim Premji University said on Thursday a study conducted by it has revealed the presence of many sub-standard, dysfunctional teacher education institutions (TEIs) functioning as 'commercial shops'. Of the 17,503 TEIs in the country, more than 90 per cent are privately-owned, stand-alone institutions, offering single programmes localised in certain geographies, it found. The University released its first 'Issues in Education' volume on 'Teachers and Teacher Education'. It said 26 out of 29 private TEIs studied do not have the required number of teacher educators and adopt deliberate corrupt practices to hide this issue. Most private TEIs in the study deliberately neglect basic curricular requirements that are committed by them to get the approval to run the programmes, it revealed. Almost all allowed students with shortage of attendance to appear for examinations, the study found. Most TEIs do not have basic instructional facilities: curriculum laboratories were not available in more than 50 per cent; more than 30 per cent did not have libraries, computer labs or seminar halls, it was stated. "The dysfunctional Teacher Education system is at the core of India's problems in school education." "Till we address this comprehensively, all efforts at improving the quality of our schooling is like treating the skin, while an aggressive cancer corrodes the body everywhere inside," Anurag Behar, Vice-Chancellor, Azim Premji University, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/teacher-education-institutions-functioning-as-commercial-shops-finds-study-963445.html
18-03-2021||National||India at forefront of global efforts to forge decisive response to Covid-19: President Ram Nath Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday said India has been at the forefront of the global efforts to forge a decisive and coordinated response to the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure collective health and economic wellbeing. Addressing an event, he said under the government's Vaccine Maitri initiative, highly affordable vaccines made in India have already reached several countries, re-enforcing our reputation as the "Pharmacy of the World". Kovind accepted credentials from Ambassador/High Commissioners of the Republic of Fiji, Dominican Republic, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and the Cooperative Republic of Guyana in the virtual ceremony, a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan said. Those who presented their credentials were Kamlesh Shashi Prakash, High Commissioner of the Republic of Fiji, David Emmanuel Puig Buchel, Ambassador of the Dominican Republic, Farid Mamundzay, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan and Charrandass Persaud, High Commissioner of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, it said. Speaking on the occasion, the president conveyed his good wishes to the envoys on their appointment. He said India enjoys warm and friendly relations with all these four countries and that our ties were deeply rooted in a common vision of peace and prosperity. The president also thanked their governments for supporting India's candidature for the non-permanent seat of the UN Security Council for the term 2021-22. President Kovind noted that India has been at the forefront of the global efforts to forge a decisive and coordinated response to Covid-19 to ensure our collective health and economic well-being, the statement said. In their remarks, the Ambassadors/High Commissioners highlighted the excellent relations their countries share with India and conveyed the resolve of their leaderships to take them further. "Ambassadors/High Commissioners also thanked the Government of India for their continued development assistance and support in capacity-building across diverse areas," it said. They also expressed their gratitude to India for its humanitarian gesture of supplying Covid-19 vaccines to their countries, the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-at-forefront-of-global-efforts-to-forge-decisive-response-to-covid-19-president-ram-nath-kovind-963449.html
18-03-2021||National||1,117 cases pending probe with CBI, 18 of them for more than seven years: Govt||Over 1,100 cases were pending investigation with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), 18 of them for more than seven years, Rajya Sabha was informed on Thursday. The information was provided by the Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh in a written response to a question. “As per information up to 31.12.2020 furnished by CBI, 1,117 cases were pending investigation/enquiry with CBI. Out of these, 18 cases were pending investigation/enquiry for more than seven years,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1117-cases-pending-probe-with-cbi-18-of-them-for-more-than-seven-years-govt-963452.html
18-03-2021||National||Govt keen to develop, strengthen own mobile app store: Prasad||The government while encouraging private players to host apps, is equally keen to develop and strengthen its own mobile app store, Parliament was informed on Thursday. India’s first indigenously developed Appstore, ‘Mobile Seva Appstore’ hosts more than 965 live apps from various domains and categories of public services, Minister for Electronics and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply in the Rajya Sabha. "While the government encourages private players to host apps, it is equally keen to develop and encourage its own mobile App Store," Prasad said. The response has been good and the government wishes to strengthen it further, he added. The minister was replying to a question on whether in the absence of country’s own digital application store, dependence on Google and Apple for digital services is creating problems in digital ecosystem and if the ministry would consider having either a single or separate digital store for Government and private apps, for self-reliance. Prasad informed that India is the largest user of mobile apps, and mentioned that Digital India programme coupled with encouragement being given to Indian innovators to create apps has become a big movement. Citing India App Market Statistics report 2021, he said that around 5 per cent apps on Android are from Indian Apps developers. "The government also noted that there has to be a proper Indian App Store for hosting apps free of cost in the initial stages," he said. Accordingly, the `Mobile Seva App Store' was started which besides hosting Government apps is also encouraging private apps to come on board, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-keen-to-develop-strengthen-own-mobile-app-store-prasad-963458.html
18-03-2021||National||Over 42,000 govt schools lack drinking water supply; 15,000 lack toilet: Union Education Minister||Over 42,000 government schools across the country do not have drinking water facilities, while more than 15,000 schools have no toilets, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said on Thursday. The minister quoted the statistics from Unified District Information System for Education (UDISE) in response to a written question in the Rajya Sabha. "As per UDISE, 2018-19, out of 10,83,747 total number of government schools in the country, 10,41,327 government schools have drinking water facility and 10,68,726 government schools have toilets," he said in his written reply. "States and UTs have been repeatedly advised to ensure that all the schools, including those under the non-government sector (private, aided schools, etc.) in their jurisdiction should have provision for separate toilets for boys and girls and safe and adequate drinking water facilities for all children," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-42000-govt-schools-lack-drinking-water-supply-15000-lack-toilet-union-education-minister-963462.html
18-03-2021||National||No definite opinion on cause of Sunanda's death, Tharoor tells Delhi court, seeks discharge||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, accused in a case related to his wife Sunanda Pushkar's death, has told a Delhi court that he should be discharged as various investigations have been conducted by experts but they have not given a "definite opinion on the cause of death". Tharoor, represented by Senior Advocate Vikas Pahwa, sought discharge in the case, saying there was no evidence against him to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pahwa said her death should be treated as accidental. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Pahwa told special judge Geetanjli Goel on Wednesday that during the course of the investigation there have been a plethora of reports by experts before the investigating officier (IO) but there was 'no definite opinion on the cause of death'. “These reports have been drafted by some of the nation's most renowned doctors & forensic experts. Furthermore, a psychological autopsy was conducted in this investigation. “All of these reports have one thing in common that is 'no definite opinion on the cause of death'. As experts have failed to establish death by suicide or homicide, one must conclude that the death would fall into the only remaining category which is accidental death,” Pahwa told. He added that even after years of investigation by the police, the prosecution has failed to conclusively identify the cause of death. Pahwa further submitted before the court that Pushkar was grappling with various medical ailments at the time of her death. “In January 2014, she was not a healthy person. A lady who can't talk, who was on a wheelchair, who had autoimmune disease, they say such a lady is fit,” he told the court, adding that “when suicide is not established how could the question of abetment to suicide arise”. Pahwa added that "the Investigating Officer erroneously formed an opinion vis-a-vis the commission of an offence”. “However, reports and other material relied upon in fact exonerates Tharoor from all charges.  “Such a case has never been seen before, nobody (friends or relatives) filed any complaint or made any statement alleging mental cruelty against Sunanda Pushkar by Tharoor,” he told the court. In the absence of any of the essential ingredients of 498A or 306 of IPC it would be absurd to frame such charges, he said.  “The opinion of the Autopsy Board took into consideration circumstantial evidence beyond the four corners of the autopsy room which is not permissible.  “The Board has failed to substantiate their opinion during the course of the investigation due to which the IO decided to move onto seeking opinion from another Medical Board,” Pahwa told the court. The arguments on charge remained inconclusive and the court will resume the hearing on March 23. Tharoor has been charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-definite-opinion-on-cause-of-sunandas-death-tharoor-tells-delhi-court-seeks-discharge-963468.html
18-03-2021||National||Delhi High Court restrains Rs 24,713-crore Future-RIL deal||The Delhi High Court Thursday upheld the Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator's (EA) order restraining Future Retail Ltd (FRL) from going ahead with its Rs 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Retail to sell its business, which was objected to by US-based ecommence giant Amazon. Justice J R Midha directed Kishore Biyani-led FRL not to take further action on the deal and held that the group wilfully violated Singapore Arbitrator's order. The High Court directed the Future Group and its directors to deposit Rs 20 lakh cost in Prime Minister's Relief Fund for providing Covid-19 vaccines to senior citizens of Below Poverty Line (BPL) category. The court directed the presence of Biyani and others before it on April 28 as also attachment of their properties. The High Court asked them to show cause as to why they should not be detained for three months under civil prison for violating the emergency arbitrator's order. The order came on Amazon's plea seeking direction to order enforcement of the award by Singapore's EA on October 25, 2020, restraining FRL from going ahead with its Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Amazon, in its interim plea, has sought to restrain FRL from taking any steps to complete the transaction with entities that are a part of the Mukesh Dhirubhai Ambani (MDA) Group. Future Group and Amazon have been locked in a battle after the US-based company took FRL into emergency arbitration over alleged breach of a contract between them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-restrains-rs-24713-crore-future-ril-deal-963474.html
18-03-2021||National||Supreme Court restrains Delhi High Court from hearing Covid-19 vaccine case||The Supreme Court on Thursday stayed the suo motu proceedings initiated by the Delhi High Court to prioritise lawyers in the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive.   A bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued a notice on the petitions filed by vaccine manufacturers – Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India – for transferring the case in Delhi High Court to the top court.  Bharat Biotech, led by senior advocate Harish Salve also sought permission to amend the plea for transferring the cases pending in other High Courts to the Supreme Court. The vaccine manufacturing firms had contended that the High Court was conducting parallel proceedings on vaccine-related issues. They have contended that different High Courts are seeking data on how many vaccines are produced and when they will give vaccines to all. The firms submitted that these cases should be transferred to the apex court for an authoritative judgment.   The bench also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We are of the view that suo moto writ petition pending before the Delhi High Court be transferred to this court.”  The top court said the High Court should not proceed in the meanwhile. It posted the matter for consideration next week. The Delhi High Court had registered a suo moto case for the purpose of vaccinating all persons associated with judicial functioning and treating them as frontline workers. The High Court had earlier this month sought affidavits from the vaccine manufacturing firms on their capacities.   During the hearing on a related PIL by Arvind Singh, the bench noted that lawyers can't earn a livelihood without coming in contact with people. “That's why they want to be vaccinated on priority," the bench said.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, submitted journalists may also come up with a similar demand followed by bank employees.  The bench said advocates find it very difficult not to meet people. Following a brief exchange, Mehta submitted that he will place the representation on the behalf of the legal community before the expert committee, dealing with the vaccination issue.  In an affidavit, the Centre on Monday made it clear that it can't prioritise vaccination on the basis of trade and profession. It maintained that the government was taking pro-active measures based upon rational and justifiable policy in connection with vaccination of people, depending upon their vulnerability to disease, nature of work, age and co-morbid health situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-restrains-delhi-high-court-from-hearing-covid-19-vaccine-case-963476.html
18-03-2021||National||Jai Kisan Andolan launches 'MSP loot calculator' to show losses incurred by farmers||The Jai Kisan Andolan on Thursday launched an "MSP Loot Calculator", which will calculate the losses incurred by farmers when forced to sell crops below the minimum support price. According to Avik Saha, the national convenor of Jai Kisan Andolan - a nationwide movement dedicated to farmers' rights, the calculator would be sharing new data every day showcasing the losses faced by farmers in different parts of the country in association with the sale of the variety of crops that they grow. "Its purpose is to expose the false propaganda of the government that the farmer is getting the MSP announced by the government," Saha said. New findings by the loot calculator about different crops in different states and the losses incurred by farmers will now be shared daily on Jai Kisan Andolan's social media pages, he added. "From now on, every day the Jai Kisan movement will release the data of the plunder of the farmer in any state, any market or any crop,” Saha said. He said the calculator would use data from the government website Agmark.net to deduce its findings. Getting a written guarantee on the MSP has been one of the major demands being fielded by the farmers who have been protesting against the three farm laws at several Delhi borders for over 100 days now. Jai Kisan Andolan founder Yogendra Yadav said while the government has been claiming that the "MSP was, is and will be there", farmers have been forced to sell below the minimum support price and face huge losses for years. According to the findings of the "MSP Loot calculator", farmers have lost Rs 140 crore by selling their crop below the minimum support price during the sale of chana (Bengal Gram) alone in the first 15 days of March, Yadav claimed. "If the same trend of sale below MSP price continued and the government did not interfere, then in this year itself, farmers will be looted of Rs 870 crore," he alleged. He, however, added that this “loot” was not new. "Farmers were looted of Rs 884 crore in the year 2020-21 for their gram crop as they got Rs 800 less than the MSP. In the previous year of 2019-20, farmers were robbed of Rs 957 crore. This trend continues every year as the government has not made any arrangement for the purchase of gram,” Yadav claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jai-kisan-andolan-launches-msp-loot-calculator-to-show-losses-incurred-by-farmers-963477.html
18-03-2021||National||Academics' exit from Ashoka University kicks off row||Days after Pratap Bhanu Mehta quit Ashoka University, former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian followed suit claiming that the varsity can “no longer provide space for academic expression and freedom”. The exit of two academics in quick succession sparked off protests by students on the university campus and Opposition parties accused the Modi government of trying to curb academic freedom and free speech. Mehta had quit as vice-chancellor of the private university in July 2019 but continued to teach there as a professor of political science. Subramanian, who had joined last year as a professor in the department of economics and founding director of the Ashoka Centre for Economic Policy, in a letter to varsity Vice-Chancellor Malabika Sarkar said the “resignation” of Mehta had “devastated” him. Students of the university staged protests at the varsity campus near Sonepat in Haryana expressing solidarity with Mehta and Subramanian and demanding that they be reinstated. “We strongly condemn the conditions that led to these resignations and the lack of transparency from the university administration about the same. Professor Mehta and Professor Subramanian are invaluable members of the Ashokan community and we are extremely saddened that they have submitted their resignations under these conditions,” a statement by the Ashoka University Student Government and Alumni Council said. “Ashokans don't sit behind a screen and shout. We stand in solidarity, and protest against the wrongs,” Gaurav Nandan Tripathi, a student of political science and history at the University, said on Twitter posting photographs of the protests. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra hit out at the Modi government for stifling freedom of speech. “The aim of the BJP is to tie knowledge into fetters, to instill fear in the minds of the people,” she said referring to the resignations of Mehta and Subramanian. “They go to Bengal and say that they will turn the state into 'Sonar Bangla' but are attacking Gurudev's original spirit. Gurudev Tagore had said, 'Where the mind is without fear ... where knowledge is free',” Priyanka said referring to the BJP's campaign in the West Bengal elections. The resignations also came days after Rahul Gandhi questioned academic freedom in universities in the country and claimed that he was not allowed to interact with students as he does with foreign varsities. “Yesterday Rahul Gandhi claimed at Brown (University) that he is not allowed to speak at Indian universities. This morning, Pratap Bhanu Mehta resigned from Ashoka. It should be clear what the regime wants: crush dissent in universities and generate ideological conformity,” Ashutosh Varshney, Professor at US-based Brown University said. Gandhi had an interaction with students and faculty of Brown University on Tuesday which was moderated by Varshney.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/academics-exit-from-ashoka-university-kicks-off-row-963482.html
18-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Covid cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of virus in India rise to 400||In your evening news brief, Covid cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of virus in India rise to 400; Tanzania's main Opposition leader Tundu Lissu said that President John Magufuli had died from the coronavirus; Supreme Court sets aside a Madhya Pradesh High Court's order for making molestation accused to get Rakhi tied from the victim as a condition for bail and Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his rally in Assam said the Congress kept the state disconnected from rest of the country.  The total number of cases with UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of the coronavirus in India rose to 400, the Health Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. India on Thursday recorded 35,871 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, which took the infection tally to 1,14,74,605, according to Union health ministry data. Registering an increase for the eighth consecutive day, the active caseload reached 2,52,364, which accounts for 2.20 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 96.41 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. Tanzania's main opposition leader Tundu Lissu said Thursday that President John Magufuli had died from the coronavirus, calling his death "poetic justice" after the strongman leader downplayed the severity of the virus. The country's vice-president announced late Wednesday that Magufuli, who had not been seen in public for nearly three weeks, had died in a hospital in Dar es Salaam from a heart condition he had suffered from for a decade. But Lissu, who ran and lost against Magufuli in a disputed October election, said the 61-year-old strongman leader had succumbed to coronavirus and the government was "lying even now that he is dead". The Supreme Court on Thursday set aside a Madhya Pradesh High Court's order for making molestation accused to get Rakhi tied from the victim as a condition for bail, with a direction to judges to avoid passing such stereotype orders. A bench of Justices A M Khanwilkar and S Ravindra Bhat also issued directions for preparing training modules on gender sensitisation for judges, lawyers and public prosecutors. A petition was filed by advocate Aparna Bhat who sought guidelines for the court in such matters. The plea was against a Madhya Pradesh High Court's order of July 30, 2020. The petitioners said there have been instances of such orders from other states too. PM Narendra Modi during his rally in Assam on Thursday, targeted Congress party saying that the latter's "corruption and vote-bank-based governance" kept the state disconnected from rest of the country. "Decades ago, this entire region was one that had better connectivity. However, Congress' corruption and vote-bank-based governance made Assam one of the most disconnected states in India," Modi said while addressing a gathering in Karimganj, ANI reporter. "Rail connectivity was very poor in Barak Valley, and people have continuously demanded for it. Quality of roads, too, was poor. People had to travel long distances to reach different parts of Assam," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-covid-cases-with-uk-south-africa-and-brazil-variants-of-virus-in-india-rise-to-400-963501.html
18-03-2021||National||No more Hurricane Pi, Rho, Sigma or Tau — Here's why||There will be no Hurricane Pi, Rho, Sigma or Tau.  The Greek alphabet has been retired as a way of identifying tropical storms, the World Meteorological Organization said Wednesday. The decision was made after nine Greek letters were pressed into service last year during the record-breaking 2020 Atlantic hurricane season, which exhausted the normal list of 21 storm names prepared by the organization. Greek letters had been used to name storms only once before, in 2005, another busy hurricane season that produced Hurricane Katrina, among others. National Weather Service officials said the Greek alphabet got in the way of the main reason for naming storms — to help the public readily identify and track them. Many people were confused by the sounds of the Greek letters, and public attention often focused more on the use of the alphabet itself than on the destruction caused by the storms, officials said. “Zeta, Eta, Theta — if you think about even me saying those — to have those storms at the same time was tough,” said Kenneth Graham, the director of the National Hurricane Center, pointing to three Greek letters that were used in rapid succession to name three of the last storms of the season. “People were mixing the storms up.” Graham said that the confusion was particularly evident after Hurricane Zeta hit Louisiana last year. He said he got phone calls from people who believed that Zeta was the last letter in the Greek alphabet and were asking what the next storm would be named. In fact, Zeta is only the sixth letter in the 24-letter Greek alphabet. Omega is the last. The World Meteorological Organization, a United Nations agency, said its Hurricane Committee had developed a supplemental list of names that could be deployed instead of Greek letters when the standard list is exhausted in a given season. The 21-name backup list of Atlantic storms begins with Adria, Braylen and Caridad, and ends with Viviana and Will. Like the main list of storm names, the supplemental list does not include names that begin with the letters Q, U, X, Y or Z, which officials said are not common enough or easily understood across English, Spanish, French and Portuguese, the languages frequently spoken throughout North America, Central America and the Caribbean. “I think we kept it simple, which wasn’t easy,” said Graham, the chairman of the Hurricane Committee. “If you think about the list of names that we could pick, it’s very easy to get a situation where they’re too complicated or tough to say because, remember, we’re talking about English, we’re talking about Spanish, we’re talking about French and, in some cases, also Portuguese.” The World Meteorological Organization also said Wednesday that Dorian, Laura, Eta and Iota would no longer appear on the rotating lists of Atlantic tropical storm names, which repeat every six years. The names were retired, the organization said, because of the death and destruction the storms had caused. Dorian, a Category 5 hurricane in 2019, was the strongest hurricane to hit the northwestern Bahamas in modern records, according to the organization. It killed more than 60 people and caused catastrophic damage, mainly in Abaco and eastern Grand Bahama Islands. Dexter will replace Dorian on the list of names in 2025. Hurricane Laura struck Louisiana in August and was responsible for 47 deaths in the United States and Hispaniola and more than $19 billion in damage, officials said. Leah will now replace Laura on the list of names in 2026. Hurricanes Eta and Iota made landfall less than two weeks apart in November in the same area of the Nicaraguan coast. At least 272 people were killed in the storms, which also produced more than $9 billion in damage, officials said. Ninety-three names have now been retired from the Atlantic storm list since 1953, when storms began to be named under the current system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-more-hurricane-pi-rho-sigma-or-tau-heres-why-963509.html
18-03-2021||National||Mallya, Nirav Modi & Mehul Choksi, all coming back to face law: FM Sitharaman||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday said that fugitive businessmen Vijaya Mallya, Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi are "coming back" to India" to face the law. The government is persuing extradition of Mallya and Modi from the UK while Choksi is believed to be in Antigua. Vijay Mallya, Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi are all coming back to face law of the land, Sitharaman said in the Rajya Sabha while replying to a debate on the insurance amendment bill. Mallya, an accused in bank loan default case of over Rs 9,000 crore involving his defunct Kingfisher Airlines, is in the UK since March 2016. Nirav Modi and his maternal uncle Choksi fled the country allegedly after committing fraud in the public sector lender Punjab National Bank. Modi is accused of committing a fraud of $2 billion (around Rs 14,500 crore) in the PNB.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mallya-nirav-modi-mehul-choksi-all-coming-back-to-face-law-fm-sitharaman-963510.html
18-03-2021||National||Toll booths to be removed, GPS-based toll collection within 1 year, says Nitin Gadkari||Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said that the government will remove all toll booths and implement complete GPS-based toll collection within one year. "I want to assure the House that within one year all physical toll booths in the country will be removed. It means that toll collection will happen via GPS. The money will be collected based on GPS imaging (on vehicles)," Gadkari said in the Lok Sabha during Question Hour. As per the proposed system, there will be no physical toll plazas on highways. Automatic Numberplate Recognition (ANPR) cameras will be fixed at all the entry and exit points of the roads. The toll charges for the vehicle will automatically be deducted from the FASTag wallet linked to the vehicle registration number after reading the registration number plate. In this system, vehicles need not stop or slow down to pay toll charges. The new system is also called a closed tolling system. Once the system is established, vehicle users have to pay for the kilometres travelled rather than paying for the entire stretch. However, the company, which is authorised to collect toll charges, will set up check posts near entry and exit gates to monitor if vehicles are using the toll corridors even without having FASTag wallets. However, implementing this will be a challenge due to non-uniform number plates and possible violation of norms by commuters. Not updating addresses by vehicles owners could let to a problem to send challans for violating rules like avoiding toll amount or damaged number plates or for the use of fake number plates. "The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) will implement the new system on select expressways on a pilot basis. It will address the problems faced during its execution," said an official in the Road Transport Ministry. At present 93% of the vehicles pay toll using FASTag, but the remaining 7% have still not taken to it despite the imposition of double toll for vehicles without a FASTag. The minister said he has instructed a police inquiry into those vehicles that do not pay toll using FASTags. There are cases of toll theft and GST evasion cases if FASTags are not fitted in vehicles. FASTags, which facilitate electronic payment of fee at toll plazas, was introduced in 2016. From February 16, vehicles without FASTag are required to pay double toll fee at electronic toll plazas across the country. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toll-booths-to-be-removed-gps-based-toll-collection-within-1-year-says-nitin-gadkari-963515.html
18-03-2021||National||2 lakh jobs added in IT sector since 2019: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The IT sector has contributed 8 per cent to the country's GDP and two lakh new jobs have been added in the sector since 2019, Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad told the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. He said the government also intends to lay BharatNet in villages all over India and the prime minister wants this to be accomplished in the coming 1000 days. Replying to supplementaries during Question Hour, the minister said India has attained its image in the world due to digital India. "The IT sector has contributed 8 per cent in country's GDP. A total of 46 lakh people work in it, which include 14 lakh women. After 2019, two lakh people have got jobs in the IT sector,"he said. Prasad said the success of online education has been confirmed by the one year of the pandemic, as school education was not interrupted even during the pandemic. He also informed the House that a total of 70 lakh cases have been heard digitally by the Supreme Court and the High Court during the pandemic. Highlighting the new developments in the IT sector, he said, India has become the top most performing country in the world in UPI in making digital payments. "We are laying out BharatNet in all villages all over India. The prime minister wants this to be done in the coming 1000 days. But, surely once that is done, then a lot of opportunity will emerge to give more digital content to local schools," he said. The minister said his focus in particular is to keep the government schools in mind while providing digital education, so that students there also get new opportunities to study.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-lakh-jobs-added-in-it-sector-since-2019-ravi-shankar-prasad-963517.html
18-03-2021||National||Covid-19 pandemic pushed 32 million Indians out of middle class, says Pew Research||Financial woes brought by last year's coronavirus pandemic have pushed about 32 million Indians out of the middle class, undoing years of economic gains, a report showed on Thursday, while job losses pushed millions into poverty. The number of Indians in the middle class, or those earning between $10 and $20 a day, shrunk by about 32 million, compared with the number that could have been reached in the absence of a pandemic, the US-based Pew Research Centre said. A year into the pandemic, the numbers of those in the middle class has shrunk to 66 million, down a third from a pre-pandemic estimate of 99 million, it added. "India is estimated to have seen a greater decrease in the middle class and a much sharper rise in poverty than China in the COVID-19 downturn," the Pew Research Centre said, citing the World Bank's forecasts of economic growth. Nearly 57 million people had joined the middle income group between 2011 and 2019, it added. In January last year, the World Bank forecast almost the same level of economic growth for India and China, at 5.8 per cent and 5.9 per cent respectively, in 2020. But nearly a year into the pandemic, the World Bank revised its forecast this January, to a contraction of 9.6 per cent for India and growth of 2 per cent for China. India faces a second wave of infections in some industrial states, after a decline in cases until early this year, and its tally of 11.47 million is the highest after the United States and Brazil. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government has taken steps to support the economy, while projecting a contraction of 8 per cent in the current financial year, which ends this month, before economic growth picks up to about 10 per cent in the next financial year. The Pew Centre estimated the number of poor people, with incomes of $2 or less each day, has gone up by 75 million as the recession brought by the virus has clawed back years of progress. A rise of nearly 10 per cent in domestic fuel prices this year, job losses and salary cuts have further hurt millions of households, forcing many people to seek jobs overseas. In China, however, the fall in living standards was modest as numbers in the middle-income category probably decreased by 10 million, while poverty levels remained unchanged, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pandemic-pushed-32-million-indians-out-of-middle-class-says-pew-research-963518.html
18-03-2021||National||Delhi puts onus back on Islamabad after Pakistan PM, Army Chief stress India has to make first move to restart talks||India on Thursday put the onus back on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for the resumption of the bilateral dialogue – just a day after the neighbouring country’s Prime Minister Imran Khan said that his counterpart Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi would have to first make the move to restart the stalled talks. “The onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross-border terrorism against India in any manner,” V Muraleedharan, the Minister of State for External Affairs, informed the Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question. “India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence.” New Delhi reiterated its stand on the resumption of the stalled bilateral dialogue with Islamabad on a day the chief of the Pakistan Army, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, said that it was time for his country and India to bury the past and move forward. “We feel it is time to bury the past and move forward," General Bajwa said, speaking at a conference in Islamabad. He, however, echoed Pakistan prime minister to put the onus on India for restarting “meaningful dialogue”. “Our neighbour will have to create a conducive environment, particularly in occupied Kashmir,” the chief of the Pakistan Army said. He stressed that if the issue of Kashmir was not addressed, any effort to restore normalcy in Pakistan-India relations would be “susceptible to derailment to politically-motivated bellicosity.” Khan too on Wednesday said that the row over Kashmir was the only issue stopping Pakistan and India from making attempts to improve bilateral relations. “We will make our efforts, but India must take the first step because after August 5, till they take the first step, then, unfortunately, we cannot move forward,” the Prime Minister of Pakistan said, addressing the conference in Islamabad. He was referring to the Modi government’s August 5, 2019, move to strip Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) of its special status and to reorganise it into two union territories. New Delhi had suspended its formal bilateral talks with Islamabad in January 2013 after Pakistan Army personnel had brutally killed two Indian Army soldiers along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K. Though the Modi government had in December 2015 agreed to restart the engagement between the two neighbours as Comprehensive Bilateral Dialogue, the attacks on the Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Pathankot in Punjab and on the Indian Army’s brigade headquarters at Uri in J&K by the terrorist outfits based in Pakistan derailed the process. The Indian Army’s “surgical strike” on terrorist camps in Pakistan in September 2016, the terror attack on Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel at Pulwama in J&K and the retaliatory bombing by the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on the terror camps in the neighbouring country in February 2019 worsened the relations between the two nations. Islamabad also launched a global campaign against New Delhi to protest against the Modi government’s August 5, 2019, move on J&K. But when the armed forces of the two nations last month agreed to stop firing across the LoC and adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement, it fuelled speculation about back-channel talks between New Delhi and Islamabad for exploring the possibility of restarting the stalled bilateral dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-puts-onus-back-on-islamabad-after-pakistan-pm-army-chief-stress-india-has-to-make-first-move-to-restart-talks-963521.html
18-03-2021||National||Arindam Bagchi may replace Anurag Srivastava as MEA spokesperson||The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) is likely to get a new spokesperson with Arindam Bagchi, an Indian Foreign Service officer of the 1995 batch, replacing Anurag Srivastava as the Joint Secretary (External Publicity). Sources said that while Bagchi would take over as the new spokesperson of the MEA, Srivastava would replace him as the Joint Secretary (North) at the headquarters of the ministry.  A formal announcement is expected to be made soon. Bagchi earlier served at India’s embassies in the capitals of Spain and Peru. He also served as First Secretary at the Permanent Mission of India to the United Nations in New York. He was posted at the Prime Minister’s Office from May 2010 to June 2014. He served as India’s Deputy High Commissioner to Sri Lanka from June 2014 to September 2018 and as India’s ambassador to Croatia from November 2018 to June 2020. He returned to New Delhi in June 2020 and took over as the Joint Secretary (North) at the MEA headquarters. Srivastava, who joined the IFS in 1999, had taken over as the MEA spokesperson in April 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arindam-bagchi-may-replace-anurag-srivastava-as-mea-spokesperson-963523.html
18-03-2021||National||India and Pakistan suffer resurgence of Covid-19 cases||India and Pakistan reported a big jump in new coronavirus infections on Thursday, driven by a resurgence in cases in their richest states. In efforts to curb the spread of Covid-19, Punjab state in India extended a night curfew across nine districts and the New Delhi city government announced an increase of vaccinations to 125,000 doses per day from around 40,000 at present, officials said. Local authorities in the Indian state of Odisha sought additional vaccine doses and in Gujarat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's home state, authorities ordered schools and colleges to be shut across eight administrative divisions until April 10. Officials in India have blamed the surge in infections mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks. Pakistan says the coronavirus variant first found in Britain may also be a factor. Maharashtra state, home to India's commercial capital Mumbai, reported 23,179 of the country's 35,871 new cases in the past 24 hours, and the rapid spread in industrial areas raised risks of companies' production being disrupted. India's total cases stood at 11.47 million, the highest after the United States and Brazil. Deaths rose by 172 to 159,216, according to health ministry data on Thursday. In Pakistan, 3,495 people tested positive in the past 24 hours, the most daily infections since early December. Total cases passed 615,000. Deaths rose by 61 to 13,717. Most of the new cases came from Pakistan's largest and richest province, Punjab. Pakistani minister Asad Umar said hospital beds were filling fast, and warned of stricter curbs if rules were not followed. "The new strain (first found in Britain) spreads faster and is more deadly," he said on Twitter. India's first wave peaked in September at nearly 100,000 cases a day, with daily infections dropping to just over 9,000 early last month. India and Pakistan have a combined population of 1.57 billion, a fifth of humanity. Curbs Return The surge in infections in India has been led by Maharashtra as businesses reopened and millions used crowded suburban trains again. The state of 112 million people ordered a new lockdown in some districts and put curbs on cinemas, hotels and restaurants until the end of the month after infections hit a multi-month high this week. New cases have more than doubled in the past two weeks in Maharashtra's industrial towns such as Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik and Nagpur, home to car, pharmaceutical and textile factories. "We have asked industries there to operate with minimum manpower as much possible," said a senior Maharashtra government official. Hospital beds and special Covid-19 facilities were filling up fast, especially in Mumbai, Nagpur and Pune, said another state official. Cases have also risen this month in several other states including Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. In Odisha, authorities sought an additional 2.5 million doses of Covishield, the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, to ensure a smooth inoculation campaign in the next two weeks. Since mid-January, India has administered more than 37 million vaccine doses, mostly reliant on Covishield, and Modi has asked state leaders to increase testing and vaccinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-pakistan-suffer-resurgence-of-covid-19-cases-963524.html
18-03-2021||National||Arun Govil, Lord Ram actor from Ramayan TV series joins BJP||Days before assembly polls begin in West Bengal and three other states, actor Arun Govil, who played the role of Lord Ram in the famous TV serial Ramayan, joined the BJP on Thursday, saying his decision was triggered by TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee 's "irritation" to the chant of Jai Shri Ram. Govil joined the BJP in the presence of its general secretary Arun Singh and Union Minister Debasree Chaudhuri after the party announced the names of 148 candidates for the West Bengal assembly polls. "West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's irritation to Jai Shri Ram was a trigger point for me to join the BJP. And there is nothing wrong in saying Jai Shri Ram....it is not a slogan, not even a political slogan. It is a way of life for us, it represents our culture and ethos," he told the media at the BJP headquarters here. Govil, who essayed the role of Lord Ram on Ramanand Sagar's superhit 1987 series Ramayan, also said the BJP will give him a "platform" to do his bit to serve the nation. The phrase 'Jai Shri Ram' is being widely used and heard at BJP rallies and events in poll-bound West Bengal, where the party has emerged as the main opponent to the ruling TMC and is aiming to form its government this year. Govil, 63, has acted in films in several languages including Hindi and Bhojpuri. The multi-phased elections to West Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry will end on April 29 and the results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arun-govil-lord-ram-actor-from-ramayan-tv-series-joins-bjp-963525.html
18-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha MP seeks Centre's intervention on Karnataka-Maharashtra border dispute||Rajya Sabha Member from Karnataka G C Chandrashekhar on Thursday urged the Centre to advise the Maharashtra government not to rake up border issues for political gains. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, the MP said the border issue between Karnataka and Maharashtra was settled long ago. Since the matter is also pending before the Supreme Court, let the court decide on the issue, he said. Due to frequent raking up of the border issue with Karnataka, Maharashtra is creating tension in border villages. The Centre should advise the Maharashtra government to stop making comments on the issue frequently, he said. Insisting that Karnataka will not leave any villages to Maharashtra, he said the Mahajan Report on border issues was final.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-mp-seeks-centres-intervention-on-karnataka-maharashtra-border-dispute-963526.html
18-03-2021||National||India facing high fossil fuel consumption challenge: Ministry of Power||India is facing a "challenge of high fossil fuel consumption", a senior official said on Thursday, stressing the need for adopting non-polluting electric vehicles to contribute to energy goals. Climate change is a growing challenge the world over and there is increasing momentum for the transition towards a low carbon economy, Vivek Kumar Dewangan, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Power said. "India is facing a challenge of high fossil fuel consumption...reinforcing the importance of alternative clean energy in the future. "The transportation sector, which contributes in a large measure to the emission, has been identified as an area which needs immediate intervention to see that desirable results," he said while addressing the India Electric Vehicle Technologies Summit, organised by industry body PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. India is importing more than 80 per cent of petroleum products for its requirement. From the perspective of energy security also, there is a need to give impetus to electric mobility, the official said.                       He noted that countries like the US, UK, Germany, Japan and China, among others, have already taken a lead in electric vehicle technologies. However, India is fortunate to be a part of this group which is committed to leading the e-vehicle technological initiatives, he said, adding the country is already collaborating with some nations to meet its e-vehicle aspirations.                       India is a signatory to the Paris Agreement. Under the agreement signed in 2015, India has committed to cut GHG (Green House Gas) emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35 per cent, increase non-fossil fuel power capacity to 40 per cent from 28 per cent in 2015, add carbon sink of 2.5-3 billion tonnes CO2 per annum by increasing the forest cover, all by 2030. "I am happy to share with you...we have already reduced (intensity) emission by 20 per cent so far and in the next 9 years we will be able to, in fact, we are going to over-achieve the target," he said. India's transition to the usage of e-vehicles is part of the overall goal of reducing carbon emissions and cut dependence on imports for oil. From providing subsidies to setting up charging infrastructure, the government is taking various measures to promote the use of electric vehicles in the country, Dewangan said. He also urged stakeholders to make use of the support being extended by the government.                       "We have issued a clarification on charging infrastructure...that charging of batteries of electric vehicles through charging stations does not require any licence under the provision of the Electricity Act 2003. There is also a provision of subsidy support (on e-vehicles)," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-facing-high-fossil-fuel-consumption-challenge-ministry-of-power-963528.html
18-03-2021||National||Planning to junk your 20-year-old car? This is the right time — Here's why||Are you planning to junk your 20-year-old vehicle and buy a new one? This might be the right time as the Centre on Thursday announced incentives for those scrapping their old private vehicles and buying a new one.  As per the Voluntary Vehicle-Fleet Modernisation Programme, the government is offering incentives to encourage owners of old vehicles to junk them. Under the policy, the owner who junks their old vehicle through registered scrapping centres would get a scrapping certificate. The owner can later use this certificate to get incentives while buying a new vehicle.   Meanwhile, to discourage the public from using old and polluting vehicles, the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has proposed a plan to de-register 15-year-old commercial vehicles and 20-year-old private vehicles if they failed to get a fresh fitness certificate. Even if such vehicles get fitness certificates, they will have to pay a hefty amount for re-registration. Announcing the details of the policy, Union Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said in Lok Sabha that some of these incentives include scrap value for the old vehicle given by the scrapping centre, which is approximately four to six per cent of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle, a road tax rebate of up to 25 per cent for personal vehicles and up to 15 per cent for commercial vehicle and up to 5 per cent discount on the purchase of new vehicle against the scrapping certificate. The ministry has also proposed to request states to waive the registration fee on the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate. Gadkari further clarified that the policy won't be applicable for vintage cars. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman first announced the policy in the Union Budget- 2021-22. The ministry proposed that all vehicles of the central government, state government, municipal corporation, panchayats, state transport undertakings, public sector undertakings and autonomous bodies with the Union and State Governments may be de-registered and scrapped after 15 years from the date of registration. The minister expects that over 100 registered vehicle scrapping centres across the country will come up over the years by private investors. Besides, automated fitness testing centres will be set up to test vehicles who have completed 15 years for commercial vehicles while 20 years for private vehicles. The automated testing centres would check vehicle fitness without manual intervention. This would attract an investment of around Rs10,000 crore and create as many as 50,000 jobs, he added. Setting the timelines for implementing the scrapping policy, Gadkari said, the scrapping of 15-year-old government vehicles will start from April 1, 2022. Mandatory fitness testing of heavy vehicles would start from April 1, 2023, while for other vehicles in a phased manner from June 1, 2024, and the rules for fitness tests and scrapping centres will be issued on October 1, 2021. According to the minister, India has 51 lakh light-motor vehicles that are older than 20 years and 34 lakh light-motor vehicles that are older than 15 years. Around 17 lakh medium and heavy commercial vehicles are older than 15 years without valid fitness certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/planning-to-junk-your-20-year-old-car-this-is-the-right-time-heres-why-963534.html
18-03-2021||National||Allow those above 18 years to take Covid-19 vaccine, Arvind Keriwal tells Centre||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday appealed to the Centre to bring some relaxations in the Covid-19 vaccination guidelines and make the process open for all aged above 18 years. If done so then the entire population of Delhi could be immunised in three months, he asserted. Acknowledging that coronavirus cases in Delhi have been rising in the last few days, Kejriwal, at a virtual press conference, asserted it was not a matter to be worried about even as he announced the capacity of daily inoculation in Delhi will be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He also said the number of vaccination centres will be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities. The closing time for vaccination would be extended and would be done from 9 am to 9 pm from 9 am to 5 pm currently. Later in the day, an order about extending the timings of vaccination was issued by the Health Department. "All the facilities will ensure the deployment of adequate manpower at these sites to ensure the proper functioning of vaccination sites. Non-compliance shall be viewed seriously," it stated. Kejriwal said on one hand India has taken a lead in making a vaccine, but unfortunately, on the other, a rise in coronavirus cases is being reported in the country. This is "difficult to digest", he said. "Thus, I would appeal to the Central government to bring some relaxations in the vaccination guidelines, in terms of eligibility of age groups. The current guidelines are very strict and rigid, and also has co-morbidity rider for an age group. "Our country is now doing good in terms of the production of the vaccine. Therefore, rather than creating criteria on the eligibility, age groups with comorbidities etc, we should create a category of ineligible people, for instance, people below 18 and other age groups," he said. The chief minister suggested that the Covid-19 vaccination process be made open, and a walk-in facility should be included in case of a regular immunisation procedure. "If the Centre relaxes those criteria and allows vaccination largely for all, and if we get a sufficient supply of the vaccine, then we have formulated a plan today to administer the vaccine to the entire population of Delhi in three months," he added. Kejriwal also appealed to the Centre to decentralise the vaccination system so that it exercises less control and allows the state governments to carry out the job "on a war footing". "I also want to appeal to the Central government to provide some relaxation in the guidelines for the expansion of vaccination centres. We will be writing to the Centre to relax a few parameters. We assure them that we will be careful, and take all precautions. "This relaxation will help us in opening new centres. Also, many of the existing centres are functioning 24 hours a day. We will have more centres functioning round-the-clock," he said. During the press interaction, Kejriwal acknowledged a spike in Covid-19 cases in the city, particularly in the last three days, and said his government has directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases. On Wednesday, the number of daily cases increased to over 500. It was a "negligible" rise and "not a cause for worry". It was still much lower compared to several thousands of daily cases reported in June, September and November, the chief minister added. Earlier in the day, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain asked people to be cautious, observe all safety norms and not get complacent about the pandemic situation in the city. Delhi on Wednesday had recorded 536 coronavirus cases, the highest in about two-and-a-half months, while there more persons died from Covid-19 infection, taking the death toll to 10,948. Kejriwal said that due to a decrease in cases a few weeks ago, laxity had crept in the system but now direction has been issued for stricter surveillance and stricter enforcement of safety norms like using of masks and social distancing. The Delhi government is in consultation with experts of its own and the Central government and taking all possible measures to check the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases. "We are closely monitoring the situation and taking adequate measures to address the situation," the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/allow-those-above-18-years-to-take-covid-19-vaccine-arvind-keriwal-tells-centre-963538.html
18-03-2021||National||Centre considering proposal to vaccinate all above 45 against Covid-19||With India reporting nearly 36,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day rise in over 100 days, the Centre is considering a proposal to widen the vaccine net to include anyone above 45 years. Currently, people in the 45-59 age bracket are eligible for the vaccine if they have certain chronic illnesses. However, amid fears of a second nation-wide Covid-19 wave and demand from state authorities to widen the vaccine coverage, experts advising the Centre are considering whether such restrictions can be lifted provided there is enough supply of the vaccine from manufacturers. “Yes, a proposal (to vaccinate anyone above 45 years) is under our consideration in addition to coverage for elderly as well as those, who are not elderly but having comorbidities,” a member of the National Expert Group on Vaccination told DH. Earlier NEGVAC chairman Vinod Paul stated that the Centre in future would further expand the circle of people eligible for vaccination. However, did not disclose any details. Public Health specialists outside the government also agree on expanding the vaccination net. “It is better to widen the coverage by expanding based only on age criteria and removing all restrictions. For now, above 45 seems to be the reasonable age bracket,” commented Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India. The NEGVAC is discussing the proposal at a time when Odisha wrote to the Centre seeking to include journalists, electricity, water supply and airport workers and priests of Lord Jagannath Temple and Lingaraj Temple in the frontline workers category and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal claimed Delhi could vaccinate everyone above 18 in the next three months if the Union Health Ministry removes restrictive conditions. Earlier this week, Ludhiana district administration in Punjab allowed Covid-19 vaccination of bankers, judicial officers, employees of schools and food grain agencies, members of NGOs and journalists to ensure "safety of wider population in public interest." Though the Centre planned to vaccinate one crore healthcare workers and two crore frontline workers in the first two phases, so far 76 lakh healthcare workers have a single dose and 46 lakh completed the two-dose regimen. However, progress among the frontline workers is slow as just about 77 lakh got the first dose whereas only 19 lakh have received both. Among senior citizens, 1.28 crore got the first dose whereas 24.5 lakh individuals in the age group of 45-59 years have been inoculated with the first dose of the vaccine. India has registered an increase in the fresh Covid-19 cases for the eighth consecutive day. The single-day spike of 35,871 cases is the highest in 102 days. As many as 36,011 new infections were recorded on December 6. In the last 24 hours, as many as 172 new fatalities were recorded of which 84 were from Maharashtra and 35 from Punjab – the only state where the death rate in the second wave is bigger than what it was in the first wave.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-considering-proposal-to-vaccinate-all-above-45-against-covid-19-963575.html
18-03-2021||National||Two students get 100 NTA score in JEE for B.Arch, B.Planning||Two students—one each for B.Arch and B.Planning papers— cleared the Joint Entrance Exam with a 100 NTA score in the February session, results of which were declared on Thursday. Josyula Venkata Aditya from Telangana and Aditya Sunil Jadhav from Maharashtra got 100 NTA scores for B.Arch and B.Planning papers respectively. Manoj E S and P Sai Krishna topped the B.Arch and B.Planning exams respectively in Karnataka. The JEE (Main) Examination for B.Arch and B.Planning was conducted by NTA on February 23 with 59,962 students registering for B.Arch and 25,810 for B.Planning respectively. The examination was conducted in 329 cities, including seven cities outside India in Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, and Kuwait.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-students-get-100-nta-score-in-jee-for-barch-bplanning-963604.html
18-03-2021||National||Farmers slam FCI for tighter procurement norms||Farmers agitating against the three farm laws on Thursday refused to accept the revised norms outlined by the Food Corporation of India (FCI) that mandate submitting land records for making direct payments to farmers for the food grains procured by it. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, the umbrella body spearheading the farmers' protests, also hit out at the FCI for bringing in tighter procurement specifications for food grains. It said the FCI had proposed moisture content in food grains for procurement will be brought down to 12 per cent from 14 per cent, foreign matter reduced to 0.50 per cent from 0.75 per cent, slightly damaged grains decreased from 4 per cent to 2 per cent. The new FCI norms also seek to reduce the prevalence of shriveled and broken grains from 6 per cent to 4 per cent. The proposals for uniform specifications of foodgrain for procurement under central pool also mention that there can be no prevalence of other food grain in wheat as against the 2 per cent that was allowed till date. “These moves by FCI as an attack on the ongoing movement and on Punjab, which is in the forefront of the struggle. Punjab and Haryana farmers will resist these moves very strongly,” SKM leader Darshan Pal said. The farmers' organisations from Punjab, at a meeting on Thursday, decided that they will not submit the Land Record-related papers to the FCI and urged farmers from other states to follow suit. Jai Kisan Andolan leader Yogendra Yadav accused the government of looting the farmers of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Rajasthan of Rs 140 crores in the first fortnight of March by allowing sale of chana below the minimum support price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-slam-fci-for-tighter-procurement-norms-963607.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||BJP will win all seats in bypolls: Rajasthan BJP chief||Rajasthan BJP president Satish Poonia said on Wednesday that the party was fully prepared for the assembly by-election. Poonia said he had visited all the four assembly constituencies where the polls are due and communicated with the workers and office-bearers. "The party is very strong everywhere and the BJP will win all seats due to the hard work of the workers," he told reporters in Jaipur. The BJP is already fully prepared and it has completed the organisational work firmly on the ground, Poonia said. Voting for bypolls to the Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats will be held on April 17, while the election date for Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) has not been announced yet. Meanwhile, a demonstration was held in Jaipur under the BJP's 'Halla Bol' programme. BJP workers marched from Chinkara Canteen to the collectorate in Jaipur against the two-year ''misrule'' of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-will-win-all-seats-in-bypolls-rajasthan-bjp-chief-963250.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's Chief Election Committee meets to shortlist candidates for upcoming Assembly polls||The Central Election Committee (CEC) of the BJP met here on Wednesday to finalise the party candidates for the seats for which it has so far not named its nominees for the upcoming state Assembly elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other senior BJP leaders met at the party headquarters to deliberate on the probable names and short-list the candidates. The CEC has so far announced the names of candidates for the Assam polls and the first few phases of the election in West Bengal. It has also named its nominees for a number of seats in Kerala and all the nine constituencies in Puducherry the party will contest.  The polls in the four states of Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry will be held between March 27 and April 29. Assam will have three-phase polls, Bengal will have eight-phase polls while Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will have single-phase elections on April 6. The counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-chief-election-committee-meets-to-shortlist-candidates-for-upcoming-assembly-polls-963256.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||SC to hear plea against sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly elections on March 24||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to hear on March 24 a plea of NGO 'Association For Democratic Reforms' for restraining authorities from allowing the sale of fresh electoral bonds ahead of Assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said it would hear the matter on Wednesday as advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the NGO, mentioned the matter for urgent hearing. Bhushan contended that a new set of electoral bonds is to be issued from April for upcoming elections.  "We need an urgent hearing of the case. We are seeking a stay on the fresh issuing of electoral bonds. Two documents from RBI and Election Commission say these bonds are very detrimental to our democracy," Bhushan contended. The plea of the NGO sought an urgent hearing of the case saying the sale of fresh electoral bonds should be stopped till the top court decided the three pending petitions challenging Electoral Bond Scheme 2018 which granted anonymity to donors to political parties.  Last week, the NGO moved the court against the opening of windows for the sale of Electoral Bonds before forthcoming Assembly polls in five states.  It contended that there is a serious apprehension that any further sale of Electoral Bonds before the upcoming state elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, would further increase illegal and illicit funding of political parties through shell companies. The Finance Ministry on January 2, 2018, notified the Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018. As per the scheme, an electoral bond is a bond issued in the nature of a promissory note, it may be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or entities incorporated or established in India. The bonds are issued in multiples of Rs 1,000, 10,000, one lakh, 10 lakhs and 1 crore.  The petitioner asked the court to restrain the authorities from further selling the Electoral Bonds during the pendency of the petition against its validity. It maintained that the Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies which can have serious repercussions on the Indian democracy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-to-hear-plea-against-sale-of-electoral-bonds-ahead-of-assembly-elections-on-march-24-963378.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata's appeasement politics is the main reason behind infiltration in Bengal: Modi||Launching a scathing attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday alleged that her "appeasement and vote-bank politics" was the main reason behind infiltration in the state. Modi further accused the Trinamool Congress (TMC) of creating a “new breed of Maoists” who were looting the public money. “The main reason behind infiltration is the tactics of appeasement and vote-bank politics pursued by Didi and her government. Bengal has been suffering from appeasement politics for 10 years,” said Modi. He was addressing a rally in Purulia district. Modi said that she questioned the Batla House encounter for the sake of appeasement politics. “The people of Bengal know very well who you sided with during the Pulwama terror attack. Court has awarded death penalty to the accused in the Batla House encounter. But then Mamata didi raised questions on the encounter. She has done all this for appeasement politics,” said Modi.  He also said that the people of Bengal have a “very strong memory” and remember who accused the Army of trying to engineer a coup in the State. The Prime Minister further alleged that the TMC Government was covertly patronising underground Maoist rebels. “The TMC has created a new breed of Maoists in Bengal who usurp public money, the money which is meant for welfare of the people. The TMC government has covertly patronised Maoist violence for political gains,” said Modi. Accusing the Chief Minister of neglecting the needs of Dalits, tribals and forest dwellers, Modi said that her “henchmen” even looted the subsidised rice provided by the Centre during the nationwide lockdown. He further alleged that the TMC never bothered about the plight of Dalits and tribals who became the "worst victims of their corrupt practices of cut money or bribe to access Government schemes and extortion". “The motto of the BJP Government at the Centre is the Direct Benefit Transfer. But TMC’s policy is ‘Transfer my commission',” he added. Even as the Prime Minister said that he “respects” Mamata, he  accused her of committing countless atrocities in Bengal. “Didi is getting angry with me. Didi, you are also a daughter of  India. I have respect for you. But you have committed a lot of atrocities in Bengal. But now the people will rise against you and ensure your defeat,” said Modi. Taking a dig at TMC’s “khela hobey” (game on) slogan, the Prime Minister said that in the Assembly elections, it will be “game over for Didi.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamatas-appeasement-politics-is-the-main-reason-behind-infiltration-in-bengal-modi-963380.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||BJP government does not believe in vote bank politics: Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi||The Modi government does not believe in vote bank politics and all sections of society including minorities are reaping benefits of welfare schemes launched by it, Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Thursday.          During Question Hour in the Lok Sabha, Naqvi said the government works for development with dignity and empowerment without appeasement.          "Our government does not believe in vote bank politics, neither it will in the future...All sections of society including minorities are reaping benefits of the welfare scheme of the Union government," Naqvi said in response to a query by KC (M) member Thomas Chazhikadan.            He also asserted that the Union government is working for the well-being of weaker sections and economically backward people.        Naqvi also added that the prime minister abolished the archaic and medieval practice of triple talaq to help Muslim women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-government-does-not-believe-in-vote-bank-politics-mukhtar-abbas-naqvi-963418.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||Meet Himanta Biswa Sarma, the one tasked to make lotus bloom again in Assam||BJP's Assam unit is facing a litmus test this election with questions being posed on whether the saffron party can retain its power after winning for the first time in the region in 2016. Himanta Biswa Sarma's defection was a major factor in the party's victory back then and now he assumes a more important role, to help the party retain power. Sarma had joined the BJP after quitting the Tarun Gogoi-led Congress government in the state just months before the election. Sarma an astute politician and election strategist helped the saffron party win in a state that was traditionally a Congress stronghold and was rewarded with a Cabinet Portfolio. This script seems to have been put to play again in West Bengal with Suvendu Adhikari. The 52-year-old quit the Congress government in 2015 over political differences between him and the then chief minister Tarun Gogoi. Till then Sarma was voted into power and re-elected twice from the Jalukbari constituency. He also held Cabinet positions in his time in the Congress government, which he resigned from on July 21, 2014. He became the convenor of the North-East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) when he joined the BJP and was tasked with guiding the party during the Assam polls. After Assam, he led BJP's Manipur unit to form its first government in the state in 2017. Sarma, believed to be aiming for a bigger role in the party, said that he would not contest in the polls this time around. However, he was named as a candidate from Jalukbari, a constituency he hasn't lost since 2001. Sarma in 2019 indicated that he wanted to shift base to New Delhi eyeing a more prominent role in national politics, but in what was a commendation of his achievements and contributions to the party, Amit Shah wanted his services to further the party's position in the region as the chief of NEDA, a BJP-led alliance of anti-Congress parties in the region. "Central BJP has urged him (Sarma) to fulfil the responsibility of the Minister and NEDA Chairman in Assam and strengthen the party in Assam and Northeast," Amit Shah tweeted back in March 2019. His role in the state after the polls is under speculation if the party returns to power. The BJP high command has not projected a CM face for the Assembly elections and if rumours are to be believed, Sarma might replace Sarbananda Sonowal as the chief minister of the state. "At the time of forming the government, the Parliamentary Board will take a decision on the issue," Assam BJP chief Ranjit Dass said. Like many popular and successful politicians, Himanta Biswa Sarma's political journey started when he was a student. From 1991 to 1992, he was Cotton College Student's Union's General Secretary where he graduated with a master's degree in political science after a law degree. He later obtained a PhD from Gauhati University. He practiced law at Gauhati High Court from 1996 to 2001, till he joined the Congress party and won from Jalukbari constituency. Sarma's political acumen has been sharpened over the years with him being popular only in his constituency at the start of his career to now being a key figure for the BJP not only in the region but across the country. There are very few politicians from the region who have managed to achieve this feat. His oratory skills are said to have played a key role in the party's victory in 2016 and the win in Manipur a year later.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/meet-himanta-biswa-sarma-the-one-tasked-to-make-lotus-bloom-again-in-assam-963420.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||Congress kept Assam divided for votes, says PM Modi in Assam polls campaign||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday alleged that Congress kept Assam divided for votes and the BJP-led government in the state was trying to reach out to all communities for their development. "Congress kept Assam divided for votes. But BJP is making all our efforts to unite Assam and all living in Barak Valley, Brahmaputra Valley, hills and the valley. All sections of the society are now getting benefits of government schemes, be it free LPG connections, free treatment under Ayushman Bharat scheme or the schemes for the tea garden workers," Modi said addressing his first election campaign rally in South Assam's Karimganj district. Modi, however, did not say a word about the citizenship issue, be it the CAA or the NRC, which is a major concern for voters in South Assam, having almost equal number of Bengali-speaking Hindus and Muslims. NRC is a concern for the Bengali-speaking Muslims but the Bengali-speaking Hindus, who were left out of the NRC hoped that Modi would give them assurance about citizenship through CAA. South Assam or the Barak Valley, comprising Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts has 15 Assembly constituencies. "Barak Valley had given us 9 out of 15 seats three decades ago when BJP was not doing well in Assam. This time we hope Barak Valley will give us more votes than 2016 and provide a push to BJP's double engine government," Modi said. Modi, who began his speech in Bengali, said that Barak Valley was well connected with the rest of India via Chittagong port and Meghna river in neighbouring Bangladesh decades ago but the connectivity was snapped due to Congress' vote bank politics. "Congress made Assam one of the most disconnected state. But since BJP came to power in 2016, we are improving the connectivity by roads, rails, waterways and airways. At the same time we are trying to reach out to people of all communities and trying to build bridges with hearts," he said. Unstable Congress Modi called Congress an "unstable party" for the selection of its allies in West Bengal, Kerala and Assam. "In West Bengal and Assam they are playing lal salam with the left but they are wrestling against it in Kerala. Congress has become so weak that they can join hands with anyone to grab power. Just imagine the party, which is not stable in its approach, can they give a stable government in Assam? Can they take Assam forward?" Modi asked. Before Modi's rally, Congress lashed out at him saying the Prime Minister made several false promises to the people of Assam since 2016 but failed to implement them. Talking to reporters in Guwahati, Congress leader Randeep Surjewala mentioned BJP's promise to construct a bridge over the Brahmaputra to connect Majuli island with Jorhat town in eastern Assam, the promise to construct 1,300km express highways along the Brahmaputra, besides others. He said the Modi government hatched a conspiracy to destroy the identity of the Assamese people by bringing the CAA and even failed to check crime against women and improve the condition of children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-kept-assam-divided-for-votes-says-pm-modi-in-assam-polls-campaign-963440.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||RS adjourned briefly amid Opposition uproar over Insurance Amendment Bill 2021||Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for 10 minutes on Thursday amid Opposition uproar over the Insurance (Amendment) Bill 2021. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman moved a bill in the Upper House to consider for further amendment of the Insurance Act 1938. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said the insurance amendment bill 2021 will put people in trouble. The Insurance Act 1938 is being amended for the third time. He said the Act was first amended during Atal Bihari Vajpayee's tenure when 26 per cent FDI was allowed in the insurance sector. Later in 2015 the law was amended further to allow 49 per cent FDI and now the amendment is for allowing 74 per cent "I want the bill to be scrutinised to address the gaps and it should be referred to a standing committee," Kharge said. The Opposition raised slogans and trooped into the well following which Deputy Chairman Harivansh was forced to adjourn the House for 10 minutes till 2:43 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rs-adjourned-briefly-amid-opposition-uproar-over-insurance-amendment-bill-2021-963441.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||Will remove BJP from Centre after winning Bengal Assembly polls: Mamata Banerjee||Throwing a direct challenge at the BJP and giving indications of her national political ambitions, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that after winning the Assembly elections, she would go after the BJP at the national level to oust it from power at the Centre. She alleged that BJP leaders arrive in Bengal in choppers and planes with bags of cash to lure people during elections, but are nowhere to be seen at times of crisis. “Just wait till the Assembly elections are over. After we win the Assembly elections, I will go after them (BJP) in Delhi (at the Centre) and oust them from the capital,” said Mamata. She was addressing a rally at Kalaikunda in West Medinipur district. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo accused the saffron party of having “no mercy” for the migrant workers during the lockdown and dubbed it as a party of “tyrants and demons.” “I have sent money for the stranded migrant workers in Mumbai, and buses for stranded students in Rajasthan during the lockdown. You have seen how a woman was carrying her sleeping child on a wheeled suitcase walking miles to reach home. But they (BJP) don’t have any compassion. They are a party of tyrants and demons,” said Mamata. She urged the people not to bother about who the TMC candidate is in their respective constituency but to vote for the party as "then only she would be able to work for them". At another rally at Garbeta area of the district, the TMC leader said that although her government might have missed a few people while distributing financial aid for those affected by the cyclone Amphan, BJP leaders only arrived in Bengal during elections and not in the times of crisis. “They only arrive in Bengal in choppers and planes with bags of cash to lure voters during elections. But where were they when Amphan hapened? They are always absent in times of humanitarian crisis” said Mamata. Alleging that the BJP government at the Centre would remove names of voters if they were not found at home during the visit of enumerators, Mamata said that her party will never allow the National Population Register (NPR) in Bengal. “The BJP government will remove voters if they are not found at home during the visit of enumerators. We will never allow them to update the NPR in Bengal.” said Mamata.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-remove-bjp-from-centre-after-winning-bengal-assembly-polls-mamata-banerjee-963500.html
18-03-2021||National Politics||Meet the Giant Fighters: It is DMK's Thanga Tamilselvan vs OPS at Bodinayakkanur||Candidate: Thanga Tamilselvan Constituency: Bodinayakkanur Challenger: O Panneerselvam, Dy CM Thanga Tamilselvan and O Panneerselvam entered the Tamil Nadu Assembly for the first time in 2001. And both caught the attention of the then Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. Tamilselvan vacated the Andipatti constituency for Jayalalithaa to get elected to the Assembly, but a Supreme Court verdict forced her to resign from the top post. She chose O Panneerselvam, a first-time MLA, to standby for her. When Jayalalithaa eventually won from Andipatti in the 2002 byelection and in the 2006 assembly election, Tamilselvan was her points person in the constituency. He was also rewarded with a Rajya Sabha berth. Both OPS and Tamilselvan had the confidence of Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK supremo till her last breath, but the duo never shared the best of relations. After the upheaval that Tamil Nadu politics underwent post Jayalalithaa's death, Tamilselvan is now with the DMK taking on his bete noire in his home turf. “Whether it is a Chief Minister or deputy Chief Minister, if one does not keep up the trust imposed in them by the electorate, they will not be liked by the people. OPS has done nothing for the people of Bodinayakkanur,” Tamilselvan, who shared an excellent rapport with V K Sasikala, told DH. In fact, the long-held political rivalry between the two came to the fore when Panneerselvam took over as Chief Minister after Jayalalithaa's death in 2016. Tamilselvan was among the first to demand OPS's scalp as he proposed Sasikala fill the shoes of her friend Jayalalithaa. Tamilselvan was disqualified in 2017 for owing allegiance to rebel T T V Dhinakaran and lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Theni. He joined DMK after the loss. Tamilselvan is popular in the picturesque Theni district, having represented Andipatti, a traditional stronghold of AIADMK, thrice. He is a grassroots politician who always has his ears to the ground and is considered an able organiser. For a long time, DMK lacked a proper base in Theni but it is fast changing. Tamilselvan was made in charge of the district in October 2020 laying the groundwork to take on Panneerselvam, who is contesting from the seat for the third time. “We have done enough groundwork to defeat the AIADMK in Bodi this time. The constituency will become DMK's seat on May 2,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/meet-the-giant-fighters-it-is-dmks-thanga-tamilselvan-vs-ops-at-bodinayakkanur-963508.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Drug menace as big a challenge as militancy: J&K police||While rampant drug abuse has become an alarming public health problem worldwide, the situation has worsened in Kashmir in recent years with cases of deadly heroin and brown sugar addiction showing an upward trend. As the geographical location of Kashmir makes the transit of deadly drugs possible, thousands of young men and women are in the grip of drug addiction due to the easy availability of deadly heroin and brown sugar. As per the data available with J&K Police, in 2020 alone, 36.08 kilograms of pure heroin and 49.7 kilograms of brown sugar were recovered from different parts of the Valley. In the north Kashmir districts of Kupwara and Baramulla, which share a border with Pakistan, 21.15 kgs and 7.60 kgs of heroin respectively were recovered in 2020. A senior police officer told DH that the recoveries last year make it amply clear that narco-terrorism is emerging as one of the biggest challenges in Kashmir. “The seizure of a huge quantity of heroin and brown sugar and the related arrests indicate a close link between drugs and terrorism. Narcotics trade in Kashmir is the most recent route to fuel terrorism,” he said. Since early 2019 when the cross LoC trade was shut down, it has become one of the main routes for Pakistan to finance terrorism and unrest in the Valley, he revealed. In April last year, the National Investigation Agency arrested a bank manager, Afaq Ahmad Wani, from Handwara in Kupwara in a case related to the seizure of 21 kg of heroin and cash from the members of a drug syndicate operating in J&K. “The total cache was worth over Rs 200 crore. The malaise is much deeper and the narco-terror is growing to become a big threat from Pakistan not only in terms of sustenance of terrorist activities by outfits but also in terms of its impact on the youth in the valley who are seen increasingly indulging in substance abuse,” the officer added. From 15% of heroin abuse recorded in 2016, it has now gone up to 90%, said doctors at a government de-addiction centre in Srinagar. While 489 drug addicts had visited the out-patient department in 2016-17, the numbers witnessed a surge in 2018-19 when 5,113 patients sought medical help. Dr Yasir Rather, a consulting psychiatrist at Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar says most of the drug abusers reporting at the hospital in the last few years are heroin addicts and their number is increasing constantly.  "Almost 90% of drug abusers coming for treatment are those who consume deadly heroin. Even as young as 14-year-old patients are coming to seek help which is more alarming,” he told DH. And for the law enforcing agencies in Kashmir, the drug menace is as big a challenge as militancy. “There is a lot of drugs and narcotics being pumped into the Valley from across the border. It is quite clear who is pumping drugs and narcotics here. Our focus is not only on fighting terrorism but on fighting drug trafficking and drug abuse too,” Inspector General of Police, Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/drug-menace-as-big-a-challenge-as-militancy-jk-police-963337.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Akhilesh Yadav blames Yogi Adityanath for high level of pollution in Uttar Pradesh||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday accused the Yogi Adityanath led UP government of stalling environment-related works initiated by the previous government, saying it has led to high level of pollution in several cities of the state. Referring to the World Air Quality Report 2020 by a Swiss technology company, the SP president tweeted, “Among the 30 most polluted cities in the world, ten are from Uttar Pradesh and the capital Lucknow is at the ninth spot in the world.” Holding the BJP-led government responsible for the present state of affairs, Yadav said, “If the SP government's public transport metro, cycle track, Gomti river front, park and safari and other environment relation works had not been stopped, today's BJP government would not have to see this day.” UP cities including Ghaziabad, Bulandshahar, Noida, Greater Noida, Kanpur, Lucknow, Meerut, Agra and Muzaffarnagar among others feature in the list of most polluted cities in the report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/akhilesh-yadav-blames-yogi-adityanath-for-high-level-of-pollution-in-uttar-pradesh-963363.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||J&K sees highest single-day Covid-19 cases in 60 days; doctors warn of second wave||Jammu and Kashmir registered 126 new coronavirus disease cases on Wednesday, indicating a sharp rise in cases and likely a second wave. Since January 17 this year, the daily count of confirmed Covid-19 cases had stayed between 44 and 117. In February, the new positive cases started to rise slightly but steadily. In March the escalation has pushed the cases to over 70 in the first week and now over 100 this week. The cases reported on Wednesday are the highest since January 17. With trains, road transport, schools, offices, hospitals and market places abuzz with people, experts believe that the rise in cases is inevitable. “Poor adherence to infection control protocols is responsible for the surge of the viral infection here,” they said. Prof Parvaiz A Koul, head department of pulmonary and internal medicine at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar said that with new threats emerging, “We need to continue doing what we did in 2020 – wear masks, wash hands and avoid crowds.” While higher education institutions reopened in Kashmir on February 15, the schools started to reopen in a gradual manner from March 1 and by March 15 all the students were back to schools. Parents have expressed concerns over the poor SoPs in schools. “Our kids are made to sit in the classroom the entire day with other children, instead of allowing some outdoor activities where they could be in better ventilation,” said a parent of a primary school student.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-sees-highest-single-day-covid-19-cases-in-60-days-doctors-warn-of-second-wave-963382.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan publishing house owner booked for Islamist terrorism reference in textbook||The Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of a publishing house have been booked for hurting religious sentiments over a reference to Islamist terrorism in a political science textbook, police said on Thursday. The FIR against the board and Mohseen Rashid Khan, the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication, was registered on Wednesday, they said. A chapter in the political science textbook in Hindi, 'Terrorism, Criminalisation of Politics and Corruption', states "Islamist terrorism is a form of Islam". The textbook was published in 2018 under the former BJP government and is no longer in circulation. Convenor of the political science textbook Bhanwar Singh Rathore, who was an associate professor with a government college in Jodhpur and wrote this portion, died in September 2020. The case against the Rajasthan State Textbook Board and the owner of Sanjeev Passbook Publication has been registered under sections 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 295A (Hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the police said. "We registered the FIR on the basis of a complaint lodged by Muslim community leaders late on Wednesday. They objected to the text comparing Islam with terrorism," Station House Officer (SHO), Lalkothi, Surendra Singh said. The office of Sanjeev Passbook Publication was vandalised on Wednesday by a group of people miffed over the content of the textbook. Three people were arrested in connection with the incident, the police said. Manager of Sanjeev Passbook Publication Vijay Shukla said after the matter came to light, the books were recalled from the market and destroyed. He added that the publishing house has apologised in writing but it continues to receive threat calls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-publishing-house-owner-booked-for-islamist-terrorism-reference-in-textbook-963385.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||As Covid-19 cases surge, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain asks people to not 'give in to complacency'||Amid a surge in daily Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday asked people to be cautious and observe all safety norms, and not get complacent about the pandemic situation in the city. Interacting with reporters, he also said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has convened a meeting with him on Thursday to review the situation. Delhi on Wednesday had recorded 536 coronavirus cases, the highest in about two-and-a-half months, while three more persons died from Covid-19 infection, taking the death toll to 10,948. The number of active cases on Wednesday rose to 2,702 from 2,488 a day ago, according to the health bulletin. "Yesterday, 536 cases were recorded with a positivity rate of 0.66 per cent. However, it is still below 1 per cent and much lower compared to the figures in others cities and other states," Jain said. The health minister asserted that the situation in Delhi was "a lot under control" vis-a-vis in other cities, adding, an awareness drive is being carried out to make people comply with safety norms. "In Maharashtra, positivity rate is 19.32 per cent, in Punjab, the figures were 5.96 per cent. In MP, it was 4.89 per cent, in Kerala, 3.49 per cent, Haryana figures were 2.88 per cent and in Gujarat the positivity rate was 1.92 per cent positivity rate, while in Delhi, it was 0.66 per cent," he said. A few days ago, Jain had appealed to “all Delhiites to maintain social distancing and celebrate a dry Holi this year” to check the spread of the pandemic. On Thursday, he said, some people have become lethargic and complacent about the pandemic situation, and that behaviour should not be there at all. "I urge people to continue to wear masks and observe all safety norms, and not give in to complacency," he said. Delhi on Monday had recorded 368 Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.59 per cent. On Tuesday, the count had risen again to 425, with a positivity rate of 0.61 per cent. On Sunday, the daily fresh cases tally had crossed the 400-mark for the fourth consecutive day. Delhi on Saturday had recorded 419 Covid-19 cases, while the positivity rate stood at 0.56 per cent, according to data shared by the health department. On Friday, 431 cases were recorded, while the count on Thursday was 409. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-surge-delhi-health-minister-satyendar-jain-asks-people-to-not-give-in-to-complacency-963400.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Threatening can't be termed as abetment: Madhya Pradesh HC on suicide case||A single bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court held that "threatening" cannot be termed as "abetment", and discharged a woman of abetment to suicide charge and quashed the proceedings against her in a trial court. In an order issued on March 3, Justice Anjuli Palo observed that threatening may be the cause for committing suicide, but it is not covered under the term of abetment. "If the deceased was blackmailed by the petitioner, he had the remedy to lodge a report against her," the court said. The petitioner was having an extra-marital affair with a man and was accused of compelling him to marry her, which he refused, government counsel Papiya Ghosh said on Thursday. The petitioner woman had allegedly blackmailed and threatened him that if he does not marry her, she would lodge a complaint against him and his family members and implicate them in false cases, the government counsel said. The accused forcibly entered her lover's home on January 17, 2020 and after opposition from his family members, left the house, but again came there on January 26 and stayed till January 28, when the victim killed himself, Ghosh said. An FIR was registered against the woman under section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the IPC at Bargi police station in Jabalpur district, the government counsel said. The petition filed by the woman challenged the criminal proceedings against her on the grounds that there was no direct or indirect instigation by her and the deceased had other remedies to resolve his problem, Ghosh said. The court allowed the petition on March 3, 2021 in view of the principle laid down by the Apex Court in cases related to such matters, the counsel said. Justice Palo in the order said, "For the conviction of a person under section 306 of the IPC, there has to be a clear mens rea (guilty mind) to commit the offence," the court order said. "It also requires an active act or direct act, which lead the deceased to commit suicide seeing no option and this act must have been intended to push the deceased into such a position that he committed suicide," the order stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/threatening-cant-be-termed-as-abetment-madhya-pradesh-hc-on-suicide-case-963425.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Over 300 arrested in drug cases in Himachal Pradesh's Una in three years: State Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj||As many as 330 people have been arrested for possession of drugs in Himachal Pradesh's Una district in the last three years, state Urban Development Minister Suresh Bhardwaj informed the assembly on Thursday. Replying to member Rajesh Thakur's question on drug cases in Una district, Bhardwaj, on behalf of Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur, stated that the state police seized over 627 gm synthetic heroin, over 15 gm charas and over 655 gm opium in the Una district between January 1, 2018, and January 31, 2021.   Of the total 238 cases registered, 222 were sent to courts while 15 are under investigation and one report is cancelled, he added. "Criminals in one of the 222 cases were convicted, while 218 are pending in courts and accused in three cases have been acquitted, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-300-arrested-in-drug-cases-in-himachal-pradeshs-una-in-three-years-state-urban-development-minister-suresh-bhardwaj-963433.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Teen gangraped in Uttar Pradesh after father refuses to withdraw from panchayat poll||In a shocking incident a 16-year old girl was gangraped in Uttar Pradesh's Barabanki district, allegedly after her father, who had declared to contest for the post of 'pradhan' (village panchayat chief),  refused to withdraw from the poll as demanded by his rival. According to the police sources, the teen, who was a resident of a village in Jaidpur area in the district, was kidnapped by four youths from her village while she was on her way to school on Wednesday. The youths took her to a secluded spot and allegedly gangraped her. They later dumped her on the road near her home, sources said. The teen's father said that his rival had been exerting pressure on him to withdraw from the contest but he had refused. ''I was also offered money if I withdrew from the poll,'' he said. He said that the alleged culprits were supporters of his rival and that they 'gangraped' his daughter to 'punish' him for not withdrawing from the contest. Police said that a case was registered against the four youths, who were absconding. The victim was sent for medical examination, they added. A senior police official said in Barabanki that it was being ascertained if the incident had any connection with the forthcoming panchayat polls. Though the dates of the panchayat polls were not yet declared, they are expected to be held shortly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/teen-gangraped-in-uttar-pradesh-after-father-refuses-to-withdraw-from-panchayat-poll-963472.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Rajya Sabha passes Bill to raise FDI in insurance to 74%||A Bill to increase the foreign direct investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector to 74 per cent from the current 49 per cent was approved by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Replying to the debate on Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the foreign investment will supplement domestic long-term resources with a view to further insurance penetration in the country. The Bill was passed with a voice vote. Sitharaman said the decision to increase the FDI limit to 74 per cent was taken after sector regulator IRDAI held detailed consultations with stakeholders. As per the Bill, the majority of directors on the board and key management persons would be resident Indians, with at least 50 per cent of directors being independent directors, and a specified percentage of profits being retained as a general reserve. It was in 2015 when the government had last hiked the FDI cap in the insurance sector from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. Increase in FDI is aimed at improving life insurance penetration in the country. Life insurance premium as a percentage of GDP is 3.6 per cent in the country, way below the global average of 7.13 per cent, and in case of general insurance, it is even worse at 0.94 per cent of GDP, as against the world average of 2.88 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajya-sabha-passes-bill-to-raise-fdi-in-insurance-to-74-963506.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Increase RT-PCR tests to 50% of daily Uttar Pradesh count: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Thursday to increase the number of the RT-PCR tests to 50 per cent of the daily count amid fears of a second wave in the country as coronavirus cases surge in some states. Addressing a high-level meeting in Lucknow, Adityanath said antigen tests must be made mandatory at railway stations, airports and bus terminals in view of the upcoming panchayat elections and Holi. He asked the officials to take effective steps for increasing the RT-PCR tests to 50 per cent of the total tests being done daily in the state, an official said. Describing the Covid-19 vaccine as "precious", the chief minister stressed on ensuring that not a single vial of vaccine was wasted. "Immunisation of the citizen should be ensured on the scheduled date of vaccination," Adityanath said. Uttar Pradesh has become the only state to conduct about 33 lakh vaccination, the spokesperson said. The officials have been directed to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distancing, the spokesperson said. During the review meeting, the chief minister stressed on the importance of surveillance teams and contract tracing in fighting the pandemic in the state. Keeping in view the festival of Holi, samples of people working in restaurants, stalls, liquor shops are being taken, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/increase-rt-pcr-tests-to-50-of-daily-uttar-pradesh-count-yogi-adityanath-963544.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh bans movement of buses to and from Maharashtra to check coronavirus spread||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday announced a ban on movement of passenger buses to and from Mahrarashtra from March 20 in view of the alarming rise in coronavirus cases in the neighbouring state. The decision was taken by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan during a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation with municipal commissioners and district collectors, an official said. The government has already advised officials in border districts to place the passengers arriving from Maharashtra in week-long quarantine. Markets and business establishments in the districts which are affected most due to the pandemic, including Gwalior, Jabalpur, Ujjain, Sagar, Betul, Burhanpur, Khargone, Ratlam and Chhindwara, will remain closed from 10 PM to 6 AM, it was decided during the meeting. In Indore and Bhopal cities, night curfew from 10 PM to 6 AM is already in force from Wednesday. The vaccination target will be raised to 5 lakh doses per day by setting targets for each district. Chouhan also said that wastage of vaccine doses was a "national wastage" and it should not happen. Madhya Pradesh on Thursday reported 917 coronavirus positive cases, taking its tally to 2,71,957 while with one more death, the toll rose to 3,894.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bans-movement-of-buses-to-and-from-maharashtra-to-check-coronavirus-spread-963579.html
18-03-2021||North and Central||Bihar Assembly passes Lokayukta Amendment Bill||The state assembly on Thursday passed the Bihar Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that proposes to punish people filing false cases before the anti- corruption ombudsman body to prevent any waste of time or misuse of the institution. Four other bills passed by the Assembly during the day are the Bihar Municipality (Amendment) Bill, Bihar Taxation Disputes Resolution Bill, Bihar Civil Court Bill and Bihar Appropriation Excess Expenditure (1984-85) Bill. The Bihar Lokayukta (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced by the minister incharge for General Administration Department Bijendra Prasad Yadav and passed by voice vote. Introducing the bill, Yadav said that the proposed legislation has been brought keeping in view the misuse of the Lokayukta institution in false cases. Lokayukta carries out expeditious investigation and prosecution relating to allegationS involving corruption against public servants of all grades. It was proposed by the Lokayukta itelf that there should be a provision for punishing people filing false cases before it, the minister said. The Lokayukta acts of other states have the provision of punitive action against such erring persons. The bill proposes that a case against a person filing a false case can be filed in the district court. If the person is found guilty of it or for giving false testimony or filed wrong affidavit, he/she will be sentenced to a jail term of upto three years besides a provision for fine. Several members who moved amendments to the Bill were of the view that it will dissuade people from approaching the Lokayukta and will work against whistle blowers who expose corruption. The Bihar Municipality (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was tabled by Urban Development and Housing Minister Tarkishore Prasad who said that it proposes recruitment of grade C employees of municipalities at the state level. It also proposes to introduce Rs 20,000 fine for permanent encroachment and Rs 5,000 for temporary encroachment in municipal areas of the state, Prasad said. Prasad, who also holds of charge of commercial taxes department, tabled the Bihar Taxation Disputes Resolution Bill, 2021, for one time tax settlement scheme 'Samadhan' in respect of disputes arising out of non clearance of tax dues and penalty imposed prior to July 1, 2017 when Goods and Services Tax was implemented in the country. The state government had brought the scheme thrice in 2015, 2016 and 2019 and 31,177 applications were received for resolution of tax dues amounting to Rs 1127.55 crore under Samadhan scheme in 2019. The House also passed by voice vote the Bihar Civil Courts Bill, 2021. The existing Bengal, Assam Civil Court Act 1887 was enacted by the Centre jointly for the state of Bengal, Agra, Assam and Bihar which was a part of Bengal, Law Minister Pramod Kumar said while introducing the Bill for a debate and passage. Since Bihar is now a separate state a separate Civil Courts Act is necessary. On the passage of the Bill, Energy Minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said that the passage of the Bill marks a historic moment for the state. Till now we have been following an act which had been enacted by the British ... Chief Minister Nitish Kumar should be congratulated for it, he added. The Assembly also passed the Bihar Appropriation Excess Expenditure (1984-85) Bill, 2021 by voice vote without any discussion on it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-assembly-passes-lokayukta-amendment-bill-963600.html
18-03-2021||Oasis||Learning from experiences||Veethahavya a king who belonged to the Haiheya clan killed the king of Mahishmathi for a particular reason. Prathardana the son of the assassinated king wanted to avenge his father’s unreasonable death. Veethahavya knew that he had committed a blunder and deserved to be punished. Yet he was not willing to be killed. He went to the Ashram of sage Bhrigu and sought asylum, stating that his life was in danger. The good sage obliged his refugee unquestioningly. After a while, Prathardana appeared at the Rishi’s doorstep and cited his case. The truth dawned on sage Bhrigu. He had unwittingly embroiled himself in a moral conundrum. He could not breach his promise of the sanctuary to Veethahavya. However, the Rishi could see that Prathardana was not wrong in wanting to execute his duties as both a king and a Kshatriya. He gave the matter a thought. Then he made a categorical statement that those present in his Ashram were only Brahmins. He hesitated momentarily and turned away albeit doubtful. All the same, Prathardana felt triumphant because he felt that he had relieved Veethahavya of the qualities of a Kshatriya and none less than sage Bhrigu had pronounced the verdict for whatsoever the reason. When Prathardana went his way, the sage heaved a sigh of relief and went into his hermitage. Veethahavya sat cowering in a corner in trepidation. The Rishi repeated his cryptic words that only Brahmins stayed in his Ashram. That was a moment of enlightenment for Veethahavya. He knew that his payback time had come. He decided consciously to give up his kingdom and the Kshatriya way of life as penance for his crime and also as a sign of gratitude to the sage. Veethahavya was suitably chastised almost wordlessly by the commitment of the sage towards his word of honour. He started leading the life of a Brahmin to render the words of the sage true. Over a period of time Veethahavya went on to become a Brahmavadi and later on a Brahmarishi by strictly sticking to a life of Truth and integrity. This story from the Bhagavatha Purana throws the spotlight on various facets of human behaviour, values and lessons to be learnt from our experiences to upgrade our lives qualitatively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/learning-from-experiences-963246.html
18-03-2021||Opinion||India may join net-zero emissions club but membership won't be easy||By Clyde Russell, India may be the last major climate change domino to fall into place as the government considers setting a target to reach net-zero carbon emissions, in line with similar moves by other major polluters. India is examining setting a target of net zero emissions by 2050, according to media reports, with Bloomberg also reporting that an earlier ambition of 2047, to coincide with 100 years of independence, is being discussed among senior officials in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's office. If India does end up setting a target of no later than 2050, it will trump China's promise of 2060 and match the ambition set out by new US President Joe Biden. China, the United States and India are the world's three largest carbon emitters respectively, and any hopes of meeting global emissions reductions targets to mitigate climate change are largely dependent on the actions of these three nations. If the United States and India do set formal targets of net zero emissions by 2050, it would mean that more than two-thirds of global carbon emissions and three-quarters of world gross domestic product would be bound to net-zero goals, according to Simon Evans, policy editor of climate website Carbon Brief. However, as with China, the devil is going to be in the detail when it comes to India and any net-zero target. China and India both face seemingly contradictory goals, namely continuing their rapid economic growth while reducing emissions simultaneously. Climate analysts will point to research showing it can be done, but the cost of switching to renewable and clean energy sources will be tremendous for both nations, even assuming their political leaders are determined to succeed. One thing is clear about net zero targets, namely that new coal-fired power generation has be to effectively stopped, and existing generation phased out and replaced by renewables. In this regard India has quite ambitious targets already, with the South Asian nation aiming for 450 gigawatts (GW) of renewable energy generation capacity by 2030. This would be about five times the existing 90 GW of renewable energy already installed, and meeting the target would require installations of at least 35 GW per year from now until 2030. The physical building of the wind and solar plants is probably the easiest part of India's target, with integrating the electricity generated into the grid and dealing with the variability of output far greater challenges. India will also have to halt its pipeline of new coal-fired plants and work to close older units. India still has about 36.6 GW of coal generation under construction and 29.3 GW of plants that have either been announced or are seeking permits to build, according to data on the website of the Global Energy Monitor, an environmental group that tracks coal-fired power plants worldwide. China ambitions If India has challenges to meet a 2050 target, so does China in reaching its 2060 goal. Similar to India, China has made rapid progress in boosting the use of renewables, but it remains heavily reliant on coal for electricity and the latest five-year plan, released earlier this month, did little to persuade that Beijing is going to rapidly move away from coal. The five-year plan didn't ban new coal-fired plant construction, rather it committed to cutting the economy's carbon intensity by 18% and having non-fossil fuels meet 20% of total energy consumption by 2025. China currently has 88.1 GW of coal-fired capacity under construction and a further 158 GW announced or in the process of permitting, in both cases about 49% of the global total. Even allowing for accelerated retirements of older plants, it would appear that China will continue to increase its coal-fired generation, even if coal's overall share of total generation falls in percentage terms. It's also worth noting that both India and China are well behind many Western nations when it comes to carbon emissions per capita, a possible signal that it will be challenging for them to lift hundreds of millions of people into more middle-class lifestyles while meeting climate goals. The United States, Australia and Canada have emissions per capita more than double that of China and some nine times more than India. The main problem with setting long-term climate goals is that the actions needed to meet them need to start now, and while India and China have definitely started down the path, it could be argued that they are still walking when they need to run.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/india-may-join-net-zero-emissions-club-but-membership-wont-be-easy-963359.html
18-03-2021||South||Amaravati land case: Former CM Chandrababu Naidu challenges CID FIR on him in Andhra High Court||TDP chief Chandrababu Naidu filed a quash petition in the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday, challenging the FIR and thereby the summons issued to him by the state CID in the alleged Amaravati land scam case. The High Court, it is understood, would take up the petition on Friday. The former chief minister of Andhra Pradesh was on Tuesday notified by the state Crime Investigation Department to appear before the investigating officer in its Vijayawada office on March 23. The summon is for questioning in a case filed alleging that SC, ST assigned lands in the Amaravati capital region were procured deceitfully by persons close to then TDP government. The FIR filed on March 12 named Naidu as primary accused and P Narayana, the municipal administration and urban development minister in Naidu's cabinet, as the second accused. The notice giving one week's time further stated that Naidu is liable for arrest under Section 41 A of CrPC, for failure to attend/ comply with the terms of the notice. A similar notice was issued to Narayana asking him to appear before the CID, a day before Naidu. In the notices, Naidu and Narayana were asked by the CID to co-operate and to “not interfere with the investigation process either directly or indirectly and not to tamper or vanish the evidence.” On Wednesday, the premises of Narayana, the founder of Narayana educational institutions, in Nellore were reportedly searched by the CID sleuths for documents related to the Amaravati land case. The capital lands dispute In 2015, about 33,000 acres of agricultural land was pooled by the Naidu government from the farmers of 29 villages in Amaravati for the construction of “a world class, mega capital,” in partnership with Singapore. The Reddy government has been maintaining that Naidu's family, benamis and other TDP leaders have benefited enormously from surreptitious land deals executed before the December 2014 declaration of Amaravati in Guntur district as the new capital region of AP. The present FIR on Naidu and Narayana is based on a complaint of YSRCP MLA Alla Rama Krishna Reddy. In his February 24 complaint, the Mangalagiri MLA said that the “middlemen part of the conspiracy made the farmers of his constituency believe that the government would take away their lands without providing compensation.” On Thursday, MLA Alla appeared before the CID to present his arguments. Alla is alleging that about 500 acres of SC, ST assigned lands were procured at a throw away price in Mangalagiri alone, causing “irreparable loss to the weaker sections”. “If Naidu is innocent, he should prove it by appearing for the CID examination,” Alla said. The CID cops say that the March 12 FIR on Naidu was registered, after a preliminary probe. Naidu, Narayana and other officials were booked under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989, AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act 1977 and various sections of the IPC dealing with offenses like criminal conspiracy, public servant disobeying laws with intent to save offenders. TDP leaders have termed the case as frivolous and the notices “a continuation of the political vendetta by Jagan.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amaravati-land-case-former-cm-chandrababu-naidu-challenges-cid-fir-on-him-in-andhra-high-court-963379.html
18-03-2021||South||Transwoman wants to inspire all after getting High Court nod to enroll in NCC||Hina Haneefa, a young transwoman who secured a historic verdict from the Kerala High Court this week for her community's right to join the National Cadet Corps (NCC), says she wants to be an inspiration for all, particularly those who are marginalised in society. Haneefa was born in a Muslim family in Malappuram district as a brother of three sisters. She faced a lot of problems after declaring her identity while doing plus-two course. Finally, Haneefa, still a practising Muslim but secular in views, left her family in 2017 to live her real life. Three years later, she underwent a sex reassignment surgery at the age of 20. Now 22, Haneefa is a first year B.A (History) student in a college in Thiruvananthapuram under Kerala University. She is living a happy life with her partner, a transman, in the state capital. "I was in the junior level NCC when I was a male student during my school days. But I faced legal hurdles in joining the NCC in college as I had undergone sex reassignment surgery. I was declined admission to the NCC unit on the ground that there is no provision for enrollment of transgender students. So, I decided to fight it legally," Haneefa told PTI in an interview. She said that the decision to not grant her admission was in violation of provisions of the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019. Haneefa, however, said barring the legal hurdles she did not face any sort of discomfort either from the authorities of the NCC or from the authorities of the college. "All of them were very supportive," she recalled. In its historic order on March 15, the high court allowed the petition moved by Haneefa seeking her admission into the NCC. "In view of the specific provisions in the 2019 Act by which a transgender person has a right to be recognised not only as a transgender but also a right to self-perceived gender identity, I am of the opinion that the petitioner who has opted for the female gender and has undergone sex reassignment surgeries for aiding her self-perception as a member of the said gender would definitely be entitled to enrollment in the NCC unit reckoning her as a transgender and further as a member of her self perceived gender, that is, the female gender," Justice Anu Sivaraman said in the order. Taking note of the pleadings and the materials on record, the court said that Haneefa is entitled to enrollment in the NCC senior girls' division and the rejection of the request of the petitioner for such enrollment is completely unsustainable. The court also gave directions to the respondents including the Central government to amend the enrollment criteria prescribed under Section 6 of the NCC Act, 1948 to include transgender community and to provide guidelines for enrolling transgender persons also in the NCC. "Appropriate steps shall be taken by the competent among the respondents without delay, at any rate, within six months from the date of receipt of a copy of this judgment," said the order dated March 15. In her plea, Haneefa had submitted that any provisions of the National Cadet Corps Act, 1948, or the absence of such provisions in so far as enrollment of transgenders are concerned, would have to be considered in the light of the authoritative pronouncement by the Apex Court and the provisions of the 2019 Act, since the enactment is clearly intended to do away with the social injustice meted out to persons like the petitioner and to ensure a life with human dignity to them. Elated by the court order, Haneefa said, "I want to become an inspiration for all." "Not only for my community but also for those people who are sidelined or marginalised due to various reasons. I want to prove that they can lead a dignified life in this society. My name should be recorded in history," she said. Haneefa also spoke about the difficulties she had faced from her family but they could be convinced with the help of counsellors in Kozhikode. "When I revealed my gender identity, I faced a lot of issues from my family. I was born as a brother to three sisters. They all were very upset. They were taken for counselling in Kozhikode. Now, they have snapped all the ties with me," she said. She said when she left home in 2017, she had decided not to give up. Before enrolling for the BA course, she had worked as a front office assistant at the Gender Park under the Social Justice Ministry in Thiruvananthapuram. "The money I had earned from that job is utilised for my education. Besides, I am also getting a scholarship for doing my graduation," she said. Haneefa said her ambition is to become an IPS officer. "To achieve that goal, I will join for civil service coaching next year," she said. "If I fail to get a chance in civil service, I will do hard work to get a posting in top rank in the state police," Haneefa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/transwoman-wants-to-inspire-all-after-getting-high-court-nod-to-enroll-in-ncc-963389.html
18-03-2021||South||Elephant hit by train on TN-Kerala border succumbs to injuries||A 25-year old elephant hit by an express train on the Tamil Nadu-Kerala Border succumbed to the injuries, Forest department sources said on Thursday. The death of the pachyderm on Wednesday night took the number number of elephants which have died so far this year to five in the district, the sources said. The elephant, which was moving on the railway track in Pudupathi village was hit from behind by the Thiruvanthapuram-Chennai Express train at 1.30 AM on Monday last, suffered multiple injuries and was under treatment at the Chadivayal elephant camp. The pachyderm's condition worsened on Wednesday evening and it died around 10.20 PM, Forest department sources said. A wild male elephant had died when it came into contact with a live wire in a farmland in Boluvampatti forest range on January 5, and a female elephant was found dead in Sirumugai range on January 28. Two deaths were reported on March 15, when the carcass of a female elephant was found in Pehikuttai and a male tusker was found dead in Valparai forest range coming under Anamalai Tiger Reserve, taking the toll to five in the district this year so far, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elephant-hit-by-train-on-tn-kerala-border-succumbs-to-injuries-963421.html
18-03-2021||South||Congress leader K Sudhakaran says he'll not contest against Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala Assembly elections||In a setback to the Congress in Kerala, senior party leader K Sudhakaran on Thursday said he would not contest against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadom constituency in northern Kannur district. He said he did not get enough time to make any fundamental preparation at the constituency, which was inevitable ahead of contesting and so he did not want to be a contender at the segment during the April 6 Assembly polls. Requesting the All Indian Congress Committee (AICC) and the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to exclude him from the list, Sudhakaran, also a Member of the Parliament, said even the district congress committee was not in favour of him contesting from the segment. Till Sudhakaran came up with his denial statement, senior Congress leaders including KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran had given enough indications that he would be the party nominee against the Chief Minister. Ramachandran said in the morning that the party wanted the Kannur MP to face off against Vijayan and the leadership was awaiting his nod. "The party leadership has asked me to contest from Dharmadom. I welcome it and express my gratitude. But, there is a special circumstance which is not favourable for me. I also have the responsibility of working for the party candidates' victory in five constituencies in Kannur," Sudhakaran told reporters here.  If preparations had begun much earlier, the party could have made significant progress in campaigning and achieve a thumping victory in Dharmadom, he claimed. The DCC here wanted to field its secretary C Reghunath from Dharmadom, the leader added. The Congress leadership's attempt to field a stronger candidate against Pinarayi Vijayan has received a blow with the backtracking of Sudhakaran. According to party sources, the candidate of Dharamadom would be announced from New Delhi soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leader-k-sudhakaran-says-hell-not-contest-against-pinarayi-vijayan-in-kerala-assembly-elections-963465.html
18-03-2021||South||Telangana Budget: Legislators to get Rs 5 crore each as constituency development fund||The K Chandrasekhar Rao government has enhanced the constituency development fund (CDF) for the state legislators with a proposed allocation of Rs 800 crore in the 2021-22 Budget. Under the scheme, each MLA and MLC would be provided Rs 5 crore in the next financial year, on par with the MPLADS allocation for the Parliament members. The fund is to be spent towards various developmental, public support activities in an MLA/MLC's constituency. The CDF was renewed last year with an allocation of Rs 480 crore, rendering Rs 3 crore per legislator. The fund is on the lines of Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) at the central level which has an allocation of Rs 5 crore per MP. However, in April last year, the Narendra Modi government suspended MPLADS for two years. Instead, the money would be utilised for managing public health and Covid-19's adverse impact on society, the centre said. The KCR government, which had earlier initiated the construction of offices for the members of the legislature in their respective constituencies, on Thursday, said that the building of such offices was completed in 89 constituencies. Rs 2.3 lakh crore outlay Telangana's 2021-22 Budget was presented on Thursday with an outlay of Rs 2.3 lakh crore. In the state's post-pandemic annual Budget, Finance Minister Harish Rao has made substantial allocations for agriculture and welfare activities. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had earlier said that Telangana has incurred a loss of about Rs 50,000 crore because of Covid-19 and that its overall estimated impact is to the tune of Rs 1 lakh crore. The Gross State Domestic Product in 2020-21 is estimated at Rs 9,78,373 crore. The virus and lockdown have adversely impacted the growth of GSDP, which declined from 13.5 per cent in 2019-20 to 1.3 per cent in 2020-21. The national GDP growth declined from 7.8 per cent to -3.8 per cent during the same time. Nevertheless, the economic activities have revived in recent months, the FM said, expecting “a significant improvement in the GSDP in the next financial year.” A new scheme named CM Dalit Empowerment Programme has been proposed with an allocation of Rs 1,000 crore. This year, Rs 14,800 crore has been allocated for Rythu Bandhu, the scheme offering Rs 10,000 incentive per acre to farmers for two crop seasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-budget-legislators-to-get-rs-5-crore-each-as-constituency-development-fund-963481.html
18-03-2021||South||BSc dropout to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister: A look at the rise of Edappadi K Palaniswami||Edappadi K Palaniswami was appointed as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu in 2017, following the death of erstwhile CM J Jayalalithaa. Starting into politics in 1974, Palanaswami's road to the state's helm has been a long one. Despite being associated with the M G Ramachandran-founded party All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) for nearly 40 years, the 66-year old was never a part of the party's top brass.    Palaniswami is believed to have joined politics in 1974 with the AIADMK. He won his election debut in the 1989 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, vying for the Edappadi seat. He won the 1991 Assembly polls as well from the same constituency but then lost the 1996 Tamil Nadu polls. Following the loss, EPS, as he is popularly known, contested the 1998 Lok Sabha elections from Tiruchengodu and won but subsequently lost the 1999 and 2004 General Elections from the same seat. EPS marked his return to Tamil Nadu politics albeit on a sour note, having lost from his home turf Eddapadi in 2006. He clawed back in the polls that followed in 2011 and 2016. Until ascending to the Chief Minister post in 2017, his most notable role was as the Minister of Highways and Minor Ports in 2011 and 2016 under the late Jayalilthaa's cabinet. Confidant of Jayalalithaa Palaniswami remains an influential figure, and his sway over the dominant Gounder community in Tamil Nadu will be key to his party's victory in the 2021 Assembly polls on April 6.  Tenure as CM so far Palaniswami's tenure as CM has been one rife with controversy. His handling of the protests against the Vedanta's Sterlite Copper Plant in Thoothukudi stands out as a blot in his four-year term. The incident, which took place in May 2018 saw police open fire at protesters, killing 13, and injuring many. EPS had defended the proceedings, saying that the cops fired at protesters in self defence.  In the political front, EPS has formally announced an alliance with the BJP, an act that Jayalalithaa or Amma was opposed to doing. However, EPS has managed to keep the AIADMK flock together and prevented a rise of factionalism in the party which had taken place while Jayalalithaa was hospitalised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bsc-dropout-to-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-a-look-at-the-rise-of-edappadi-k-palaniswami-963483.html
18-03-2021||South||Dharmadam Battleground: Congress leader C Raghunath to take on CM Pinarayi Vijayan in Kerala polls||The Congress in Kerala on Thursday ended the suspense over its candidate who'll take on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in battleground Dharmadam in the Kannur district.  Congress local leader C Raghunath filed nomination on Thursday at Dharmadam, which has been a stronghold of the CPM, even as a formal announcement regarding the candidate was awaited. Earlier, the Congress had indicated that a popular leader would be fielded against Vijayan to put up a strong fight. It has also suggested Forward Bloc leader G Devarajan, but he stayed away as it may have affected the alliance of the Left parties against the BJP. The suspense built up as the Congress announced candidates for all seats in Kerala, but Dharmadam until now. Congress senior leader and Lok Sabha MP K Sudhakaran’s name was also strongly doing the rounds. However, Sudhakaran himself announced on Thursday that the party district committee suggested Raghunath as a candidate. Sudhakaran, who is also working president of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), said that he has to campaign for the party in many parts and hence he'll not contest in the upcoming Kerala Assembly elections.  There were also reports that Congress may back the mother of minor sisters who died in suspicious circumstances after suffering sexual assaults at Walayar in Palakkad district. She was expected to contest as a mark of protest against the government for not initiating action against the police officials who allegedly scuttled the probe into the death of her daughters. Meanwhile, there have been protests from an action council formed for justice in the Walayar case against the decision of the mother of the victims to contest. The action council leaders alleged that the decision of the woman to contest was part of a ploy by vested interest groups. Sources said that the chances of Raghunath withdrawing his candidature and the Congress-led UDF backing the mother of the sexual assault victims could not be ruled out. In Dharmadam, Pinarayi Vijayan is seeking a mandate from the seat for a second consecutive term. Last time, he won with a majority of over 37,000 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dharmadam-battleground-congress-leader-c-raghunath-to-take-on-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-in-kerala-polls-963498.html
18-03-2021||South||When a candidate hopped on to her husband's auto-rickshaw||Candidates taking a ride on an auto-rickshaw during elections is quite common. But what made the auto-rickshaw ride of S K Ponnuthai, the CPI(M) candidate from Tirupparankundram in Madurai, special is it was none other than her better half – her husband Karunanidhi – who was at the wheels. The picture of the couple smiling at each other in their auto-rickshaw went viral on social media a few days back. “For many politicians, travelling in an auto-rickshaw is an advertisement. For me, it is the auto-rickshaw that got me three-square meals all through these years,” Ponnuthai told DH from Madurai. Ponnuthai is a full-time CPI(M) worker, while Karunanidhi ekes out a living by driving an auto-rickshaw. He has been doing so for the past 16 years. The two met while they were working for the party, and got married eventually – both wanted to spend the rest of their life only with another political worker. A grassroots worker, Ponnuthai has been at the forefront of several pro-people agitations and is popular among political circles in the temple town. In Tamil Nadu, where money flows like water during elections – the Election Commission has categorised the state as "expenditure sensitive" – the 46-year-old woman candidate is just banking on people's support to win the April 6 election. “I am being supported by comrades from our Left parties and friends from other alliance parties. My only hope is the people. I am sure they will vote for me. People want someone from among them to raise their voice in the Assembly,” she added. Ponnuthai is pitted against AIADMK's Madurai strong man, V V Rajan Chellappa, and AMMK's David Annadurai, son of late Assembly Speaker K Kalimuthu in the constituency known for its famed Lord Murugan temple.  Madurai has voted for very simple candidates from the Left parties in the past – P Mohan, Nanmaran, and incumbent MP Su Venkatesan. “The lifestyle of a comrade never changes even after coming to power. I will continue to lead a simple lifestyle even after winning the election. When people trust you, money is not needed,” Ponnuthai said. Karunanidhi said his wife is not new to electoral politics as she had worked for alliance candidates in the Tirupparankundram constituency in the past. “We are foot soldiers of the Communist party for long, and the nomination for my wife is a reward for all the hard work she put in for the past few years,” he said. On the auto-rickshaw ride, all he said was, “We usually go in the same auto-rickshaw almost every day. But since she is the candidate of CPI(M), the photo became a talking point.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/when-a-candidate-hopped-on-to-her-husbands-auto-rickshaw-963514.html
18-03-2021||South||As Covid-19 surges again, Tamil Nadu to expand vaccination centres, ramp up RT-PCR tests||With the number of persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus increasing steadily, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday has decided to increase the number of RT-PCR tests and expand Covid-19 vaccination facilities to ensure people eligible to get a jab are not left out. Tamil Nadu, which brought the spread of Covid-19 under control at the fag end of 2020, is witnessing an increase in the number of positive cases for the past few days. The number of people who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday stood at 989, of which 394 were from Chennai. The state has been conducting over 70,000 RT-PCR tests a day. At a review meeting chaired by Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan, the second in as many days, the government asked authorities to ensure that vaccination is done at mini-clinics and primary healthcare centres, and temporary hospitals or clinics are set up if needed. The Chief Secretary also told authorities to expand the network of private hospitals that provide vaccination to people. The government has taken strict measures to prevent the further spread of Covid-19 by asking authorities to impose a fine if someone is found not wearing a face mask. Districts like Chennai, Coimbatore, Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur, Tiruppur, and Kanchipuram have reported an increase in the number of people testing positive for the coronavirus. During the meeting, Ranjan also asked the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), and district collectors to increase the number of RT-PCR tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-surges-again-tamil-nadu-to-expand-vaccination-centres-ramp-up-rt-pcr-tests-963516.html
18-03-2021||South||TRS leads in two Telangana MLC seats||The ruling TRS candidates are leading in the two graduate MLC constituencies, where the counting of votes is underway. In the Hyderabad-Ranga Reddy-Mahbubnagar segment, TRS's candidate and former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao's daughter Surabhi Vani Devi took a lead of 4,444 votes over sitting MLC and BJP candidate Ramchander Rao, after completion of three rounds. As many as 93 contestants were in the fray in the constituency, needing a jumbo ballot paper. Veteran Congress leader and former minister Chinna Reddy is the Congress candidate, while former MLC and renowned political analyst Professor K Nageshwar is an independent. In the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat, TRS's sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is leading by over 15,000 votes over his nearest rival, after completion of four rounds of vote counting. TV presenter and independent candidate Naveen Kumar alias Teenmaar Mallanna, who regularly challenges the TRS establishment with his popular satirical videos on social media, is in the second position. Telangana Jana Samithi chief Prof M Kodandaram and BJP candidate Premender Reddy are in third and fourth positions. 71 candidates contested in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam constituency. The TRS and BJP were engaged in a fierce campaign fight for both constituencies. The unprecedented focus on the council seats has also resulted in a record voting percentage of about 72 per cent in the two constituencies put together. The MLC elections took place on Sunday. The counting process of the ballot papers began on Wednesday morning. Final results are expected on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-leads-in-two-telangana-mlc-seats-963527.html
18-03-2021||State||Karnataka govt to revoke quarry ban||The government said on Wednesday that it is ready to revoke the stay order so as to facilitate the resumption of quarrying and stone-crushing activities in the state. It was stalled in the aftermath of incidents of blasts in Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts.  Inaugurating ‘Safety Guidelines Awareness Campaign for Miners and Stone Crushers’ organised by the Federation of Karnataka Quarry and Stone Crushers Owners’ Association, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said that all the firms with a valid licence can resume activities.  ‘I don’t need money’ Nirani said, “If any officer or anybody demands money in the minister’s name, I will give you my e-mail ID and contact number. Please report that to me. I have a turnover of Rs 5,000 crore and I don’t need money collected from you all.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-revoke-quarry-ban-963547.html
18-03-2021||State||Covid surge dims chances of reopening for lower classes in Karnataka||It now seems unlikely that the government will reopen offline classes for primary grades this academic year, considering the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases across the state. As per the earlier announcement by the department of public instruction (DPI), Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar was supposed to have a meeting with the state technical advisory committee on  Covid-19 on February 24 and 25, to discuss reopening of primary grades. But the meeting has still not been conducted. According to sources from DPI, the technical advisory committee has not responded to the communication by the commissioner for public instruction, seeking permission to reopen offline classes for grades 1 to 5, at least under Vidyagama. “Now, looking at the number of cases being reported every day, we don’t think it is feasible to reopen classes for grades 1 to 5, considering the safety of children,” said a senior official from the department. The parents are also not in a mood to send their wards to school at this juncture. Speaking to DH, Sameeksha, the mother of a class 4 child, said, “The school is already conducting the assessments and the academic year has almost come to an end. Sending children to schools at this point is both risky and unnecessary.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-surge-dims-chances-of-reopening-for-lower-classes-in-karnataka-963549.html
18-03-2021||State||CD row: Young woman's kidnap case transferred to Bengaluru||A complaint by the father of the young woman, allegedly involved in a CD scandal with a former minister, stating that his daughter was kidnapped from Bengaluru and was being harassed filed with the APMC police station here, has been transferred to R T Nagar police station in Bengaluru. According to a source, in the complaint filed on Tuesday, the complainant had stated that his daughter was allegedly seen in the CD.  The city police had formed a special team to investigate the complaint. The team had also found some incriminating digital evidence, the source added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Dr Vikram Amathe had earlier refused to comment on whether the city police are transferring the case to Special Investigation Team, formed by the government to investigate the scandal.  Sources confirmed that the case has been transferred to R T Nagar police station in Bengaluru. Dr Amathe was not available for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-row-young-womans-kidnap-case-transferred-to-bengaluru-963567.html
18-03-2021||State||Daily Covid testing target raised to 1 lakh in Karnataka||To control the spread of the virus, the  Karnataka health department has revised the Covid testing targets to one lakh per day from the present 70,500 tests. Health Commissioner K V Trilok Chandra issued a circular to this effect to all districts here on March 17. The targets have been revised based on recommendations from the state’s Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee. According to the circular, 88,500 RT-PCR tests and 11,500 rapid antigen tests should be done every day. Bengaluru has a target of 40,000 tests a day, followed by 3,700 for Dharwad, 3,600 for Bagalkot, 3,500 for Tumakuru, 3,050 for Chikkaballapur and 3,000 for other districts, like Belagavi, Bidar, Dakshina Kannada and Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/daily-covid-testing-target-raised-to-1-lakh-in-karnataka-963568.html
18-03-2021||State||Unfermented sap product Kalparasa to enter Karnataka market shortly||Kalparasa Coconut and All Spices Producer Company, with an objective to increase the income of coconut growers, has plans to release ‘Kalparasa’ in the market soon, Company president Satyanarayana Udupa said. After procuring Kalparasa technology from CPCRI in Kasargod in 2019, Udupa said that the Company was keen on setting up a processing unit at Japti in Kundapura. An application for a licence was submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Excise for the processing and collection of Kalparasa. We will soon receive permission from the government for marketing Kalparasa, he added. Kalparasa is unfermented sap from coconut inflorescence. Udupi-based Kalparasa Coconut and All Spices Producer Company has 1,028 farmers as shareholders in the district. In five years, it is planning to reach out to 5,000 farmers. Initially, Kalparasa will be collected from eight coconut trees of each shareholder. As many as 14 experts have already undergone 45 days of training to collect Kalparasa, Udupa said. About two litres of Kalparasa can be collected from a coconut tree daily. On average, 600 litres of Kalparasa can be collected from a coconut tree per year. From eight trees, about 5,000 litres of Kalparasa can be collected. Udupa said farmers will be paid Rs 20 per litre. If a farmer collects Kalparasa himself, then he can earn up to Rs 2.5 lakh per year. The experts who collect Kalparasa will be paid Rs 30,000 per month with PF and ESI facilities. Tapping experts will be paid Rs 25 per tree. In the CPCRI technique of collecting sap, the entire device from the cut surface to the collection container is closed, he added. The insulated can will include ice cubes to store Kalparasa. Arrangements will be made for cold storage units to collect Kalparasa. The Kalparasa will be sold by keeping it in cold storage boxes. The company is planning to sell it for Rs 30 per 200 ml. There are plans to produce jaggery, sugar, honey, vinegar, chocolate and ice cream using the Kalparasa, Udupa said. Kalparasa needs to be stored in -3 to -4 Degree Celsius. It is high in carbohydrates, iron, vitamin, amino acids, vitamin c and others, and is even a safe drink for diabetic patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/unfermented-sap-product-kalparasa-to-enter-karnataka-market-shortly-963582.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||You can fly from Mumbai to Kalaburagi from March 25||Alliance Air will operate daily direct flights from Mumbai to Kalaburagi from March 25. The airline will deploy its 70-seater aircraft to connect the two cities. The airline is already connecting Kalaburagi and Bengaluru with daily flights. Flight (9I 665) will take off from Mumbai at 7.20 am and arrive in Kalaburagi at 9 am. The flight (9I 666) will take off at 9.25 am from Kalaburagi and arrive in Mumbai at 10.55 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/you-can-fly-from-mumbai-to-kalaburagi-from-march-25-963221.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Decision-making body of RSS to meet in Bengaluru||The Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the highest decision-making body of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent, will hold its 2-day meeting at Channenahalli on the outskirts of Bengaluru on Friday and Saturday. A new Sarkaryavah (general secretary) will be elected during the meeting. It remains to be seen if incumbent Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi will get another term or if Sah Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosabale, who hails from Karnataka, will be picked as per speculation.  The ABPS will also chalk out an action plan for the next three years, RSS’ national media cell chief Arun Kumar told reporters. “Our expansion plan is mainly geographical,” he said. “We should reach every family in every village. There are 60,000 mandals (each with 7-8 villages) and 60,000 colonies in urban areas with a population of 10,000. After reaching these mandals and colonies, we want to reach sub-colonies,” he explained.  In all, Kumar said there were 1.2 lakh mandals and colonies of which the RSS had reached about 60,000-65,000.  The ABPS was to be held in Bengaluru last year, but it was called off due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Usually we expect 1,500 people to attend. This time, we will have only 450 attendees,” Kumar said. “Also, it’ll be a 2-day meeting instead of three days.”  The ABPS will also pass resolutions during its meeting. Asked if the contentious farm Bills will be discussed, Kumar said: “There will be a discussion on contemporaryissues.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/decision-making-body-of-rss-to-meet-in-bengaluru-963223.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||All schemes for Hyderabad-Karnataka region dropped: Priyank Kharge||Congress MLA Priyank Kharge attacked the state government for dropping the Textile Park sanctioned to Kalaburagi district. "All projects sanctioned to Hyderabad-Karnataka region are withdrawn," he said, seeking explanation on why the Centre asked the state to refund the Rs 1.85 crore it had sanctioned. Responding to his query, Textiles Minister Shrimanth Patil said that he had met Union Minister Smriti Irani to review the project and allocate funds for it. "We will take measures to include the project in the new Textile policy," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/all-schemes-for-hyderabad-karnataka-region-dropped-priyank-kharge-963229.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt scraps Israel-model irrigation scheme||Agriculture Minister B C Patil came under fire from JD(S) MLAs for junking the Rs 150 crore Israel Model irrigation project in different taluks of the state. Patil’s reaction that he was unaware of where the funds went, prompted the legislators to question the accountability of his department in dealing with the funds. Some JD(S) legislators also stormed into the well of the House protesting the decision to scrap the project launched by former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy. Responding to a query by JD(S) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur (Gurmatkal) on the progress of the Israel Model project, Patil, in his written response said, “... (the) programme could not be implemented as the allocation was not provided in theBudget.” Patil added that though Rs 150 crore was allocated under the capital head in the 2018-19 budget, it was not transferred under the revenue head, due to which the project was not implemented. This enraged JD(S) legislator KM Shivalinge Gowda, who lashed out at the government for junking the scheme. “Where did the money go,” he asked. This was followed by a brief protest by JD(S) MLAs, who were soon convinced by Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi to return to their seats. Patil, replying to Gowda’s queries, said that he, too, was not aware under what head the funds were transferred elsewhere, noting that funds have not been allocated for the scheme in the last two budgets. The minister assured to take it up with the chief minister and discuss reviving the project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-scraps-israel-model-irrigation-scheme-963230.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sumalatha demands separate building to Mandya KV||Mandya MP Sumalatha on Wednesday urged the government to provide a new building for Kendriya Vidyalaya at Mandya. "Kendra Vidyalaya at Mandya is functioning in an old hospital building. Since the building is dilapidated, its roof was leaking during the rainy season. The government should take steps to construct a new building to accommodate schools," she said in Lok Sabha during Zero Hour. With more than 400 students studying in the school, the government must take steps to provide better facilities, she urged. During the discussion on Railway Ministry issues, she demanded to construct a new railway line between Hejjala and Chamarajnagar. The railway line was a long-standing demand of this region. Even though the project was announced more than two years ago, it was not started. Since BJP is in power both at the Centre and state, the government should take up initiatives to start the project, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sumalatha-demands-separate-building-to-mandya-kv-963231.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RTC workers pledge indefinite strike from April 7||Nearly three months after the road transport workers’ strike crippled bus services across Karnataka, a group of employees that led the movement has issued a call for an indefinite shutdown from April 7 onwards.  The Karnataka State Road Transport Employees’ League, a new association formed in December, sent letters to the chief minister, the transport minister and the heads of the KSRTC, the BMTC, the NEKRTC and the NWKRTC on Tuesday.  The letter, issued by farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar and others, read, “Despite repeated reminders, the government is not consulting us for making decisions on some of our pleas. The delay tactics in considering our main demand for the implementation of the sixth pay commission shows that the government and the corporations are not keen on fulfilling it.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rtc-workers-pledge-indefinite-strike-from-april-7-963243.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD row: SIT search house of woman who was allegedly kidnapped||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) investigating the case of the CD scandal conducted a search in the house of the woman who is alleged of being in the CD and video clippings uploaded on social media, also involving a former minister. The SIT officials team headed by assistant commissioner of police, HN Dharmendra searched the house on Wednesday night. Sources in SIT said that they have seized some valuables from her house including a SIM card, gadgets and some amount of cash. The father of the woman, seen in the alleged video, filed a complaint with the APMC police on Tuesday that his daughter was kidnapped from Bengaluru. The officials took a search warrant from the court before going to her rented house. They have also recorded the statement from the building owner.  Residences of the suspected kingpins who were working with regional news channels were searched and gadgets seized. The SIT team is in contact with the Belagavi police and the family members of the woman after they lodged a case of her kidnap. They are being asked about when was the last time they spoke to their daughter over the phone. On the other hand, a team is also making efforts to trace the woman and the alleged two kingpins who were allegedly together in Goa. They are changing the places for every one or two hours, according to SIT officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-row-sit-search-house-of-woman-who-was-allegedly-kidnapped-963344.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's ignominious rank: Fourth in India in Covid-19 vaccine wastage||Karnataka, which is among the top states when it comes to Covid-19 vaccination coverage for the health and frontline workers, also features on the top four states list of vaccine wastage. The state is ranked fourth in the nation with a 6.9% wastage of Covid-19 vaccines.  The acceptable rate of vaccine wastage is 10% in routine immunisation programmes owing to vaccine vial breakage or break in the temperature-controlled cold chain. Karnataka currently has a stock of 37 lakh doses of both brands of the Covid-19 vaccine - Covishield and Covaxin. Following a video conference with PM Modi, the Health Department held a meeting with private hospitals here instructing them to reduce vaccine wastage. An immunisation official from the Health Department told DH, “If eight elderly come to a PHC, should you vaccinate or send them back? We have vaccinated 18 lakh-plus people which is half of the doses we have received, which again is a good number. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is providing vials to private hospitals that would last for five days. So the unused vials cannot be taken back as they have already paid for it. Redistribution of vaccine vials to PHCs that are seeing more footfall is possible only in government facilities.” Dr Y L Rajashekar, secretary, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), who’s part of the meeting told DH, “We’ve been asked to increase the number of vaccination centres and cover more population. Hospitals have been instructed to not open vials till 10 beneficiaries arrive at the vaccination centre. Even now only Ayushman Bharat and CGHS empanelled hospitals are conducting vaccination drive.” The association has also asked for National Accreditation Board for Hospitals-accredited and DNB (Diplomate of National Board) teaching institutions to act as vaccination centres. Dr Prasanna H M, president, PHANA, told DH, “I have suggested to increase more private hospitals, including polyclinics, to act as vaccination centres, but they have a shortage of vaccine stock. Currently, it is not possible for all facilities registered under the Karnataka Private Medical Establishment Act (KPME) to act as vaccination centres,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-ignominious-rank-fourth-in-india-in-covid-19-vaccine-wastage-963345.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||One lakh women lost jobs due to Covid-19 pandemic: Karnataka Labour Minister||More than a lakh women employed at garment factories in Karnataka lost jobs as several units shut down because of the Covid-19 pandemic, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. As many as 2,86,747 women were employed in 983 garment factories of the state prior to the lockdown, according to the minister. Hebbar was responding to Tiptur MLA Nagesh BC during Question Hour. The MLA highlighted the poor state-of-affairs at garment factories. "The guidelines for the welfare of women employees at such factories issued by the government are not followed," Nagesh said. Factories are mandated by law to provide canteen facility, ambulance and paid leave for the women employed. However, they are not followed at all, Nagesh said. Hebbar acknowledged that the Labour Department was short of staff to monitor the implementation of all guidelines issued by the government. Despite the constraints, the minister said that notices were issued to 396 garment factories for not implementing government guidelines. The department, he said, will also write to the government to ensure that the staff shortage is addressed. Nagesh contended that several factories were even denying minimum wages to labourers. The government, Hebbar said, had taken cognisance of such instances and has acted against 239 people responsible for this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/one-lakh-women-lost-jobs-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-karnataka-labour-minister-963448.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Bypolls: JD(S) fields Muslim candidate from Basavakalyan, taunts Congress||The H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S) on Thursday picked a Muslim face for the upcoming Basavakalyan Assembly bypolls, a move the party hopes will reiterate its ‘secular’ credentials amid talk that it was growing closer to the BJP. JD(S) legislature party leader H D Kumaraswamy formally inducted Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri and announced him as the candidate for Basavakalyan. Syed was earlier with the Congress.Kumaraswamy also announced that his party would field a candidate in Maski, the other Assembly constituency facing bypolls. Addressing a news conference, Kumaraswamy said the Congress had projected the JD(S) as "being pally" with the BJP. “In the 2018 Assembly polls, we were winning 68-70 seats. But, the Congress hatched a conspiracy to project us as the BJP’s ‘B’ team, urging one particular section of society to not vote for us,” he said. “Even now, Congress leaders have been saying the JD(S) is getting closer to the BJP. I’ve taken this up as a challenge,” said Kumaraswamy. “I know what the Congress will do now. They will say the JD(S) fielded a Muslim candidate as part of an understanding with the BJP to cut Congress’s votes,” he said. “The Congress has pushed our party into a place where there's suspicion. So, I want to send a clear message to all 224 constituencies,” he added. According to Kumaraswamy, Syed has good ties with all sections of society in Basavakalyan. Apparently, he belongs to a family connected with a famous dargah there. “Basavakalyan is a JD(S) stronghold. Our candidate has won seven times here,” Kumaraswamy pointed out. “Even in Maski, we will put up a fight. The entire Raichur district, where Maski is located, has extreme potential for us to win five to six of the seven Assembly segments,” he said, adding that the party will finalise its Maski candidate on Friday. JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda had earlier announced that his party will not contest the bypolls. “But we decided to contest so that our party workers are not demoralised,” Kumaraswamy said. The party is undecided on fielding a candidate for the Belgaum bypolls. Kumaraswamy said he had enough experience in fighting bypolls. “Perhaps, I’m second after Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa in having conducted the highest number of bypolls,” he said. “We have taken the two Assembly bypolls seriously. We will rise above financial difficulties and crooked tactics to fight the bypolls.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bypolls-jds-fields-muslim-candidate-from-basavakalyan-taunts-congress-963490.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt plans to sterilise menacing monkeys||The state government said a sterilisation programme to control the menace caused by monkeys will be rolled out after legislators raised this issue in the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Thursday. The sterilisation programme is inspired by a similar initiative carried out in Himachal Pradesh. The government said this in response to a question by BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra in the Legislative Assembly, who highlighted the problems caused by monkeys in his constituency and sought to know the progress of the proposed Monkey Park, which was expected to come up near Sagar in Shivamogga district. "One-and-a-half years ago, the Monkey Park was announced at a cost of Rs 6 crore. It is still incomplete. Now, the government says it wants to preform sterilisation programme at a cost of Rs 25 lakh. Are you going to sterlise male or female monkeys," the BJP MLA asked, criticising the entire project as unscientific. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar - who was responding on behalf of Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali - said that a pilot sterilisation programme was carried out successfully in Himachal Pradesh and will be replicated here. "Male monkeys will be sterilised," he said, adding that government would take up construction of the Monkey Park on priority. JD(S) MLA Srinivas Gowda from Kolar said that the monkey menace was not restricted to Malnad districts. "In Kolar, they enter homes and are causing problems. The monkeys should be captured and released in a remote forest," he said. Meanwhile, legislators from Central Karnataka noted that wild boars and deers were behind extensive crop damages. They said the Forest Department, which was taking little action to prevent these damages, was also offering inadequate relief to cover it Shettar said that the government had sent a proposal to the Finance Department to revise the relief amount granted for crop loss caused by wild animals. He said that the relief amount was last revised in 2016, adding that a meeting will be conveyed shortly with representatives from all constituencies facing the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-plans-to-sterilise-menacing-monkeys-963493.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt orders probe into nursing colleges amid uproar||Amid an uproar in the Legislative Council, the Karnataka state government on Thursday ordered an inquiry into alleged irregularities in nursing colleges. The probe will include institutions running without requisite permission, lack of infrastructure and staff among other violation of norms.  Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said the government would conduct an inquiry and submit a report to the House within 90 days. "There are 650 nursing colleges in Karnataka. We will inspect all of them and take action against any institution found to be functioning without the requisite permission or adequate infrastructure. We will revoke their licenses," Sudhakar said.  However, a high drama ensued as JD(S) MLCs demanded a House committee and refused an inquiry by government officials. With the ruling party not yielding to this demand, the MLCs stood in the well of the House and shouted slogans against the government. Adding to the drama, Congress MLCs refused to engage with Sudhakar. "He is among the tainted ministers. Our party's stand is to not participate in this," Leader of the Opposition in the Council SR Patil said.  The debate began with BJP MLC N Ravikumar questioning the government about permission given to 62 new nursing colleges and 40 new allied health science colleges in the state, in spite of these institutions lacking basic infrastructure. "There are many nursing colleges in Karnataka operating without basic infrastructure. In Bidar alone, there are 20-30 colleges where students come only once a year to write their exams. This has dangerous implications on public safety," he contended. Agreeing with his view, JD(S) MLCs Marithibbe Gowda, Srikante Gowda, Appaji Gowda among others, insisted on a House committee.  However, Sudhakar said the government had approved institutions after thorough scrutiny. "There were 101 applications for nursing and 70 applications for allied sciences. We have forwarded only 47 of nursing and 45 of allied sciences for approval. Many were eliminated in the preliminary level for not meeting the requisite standards," he said.  The MLCs alleged that nursing colleges in Karnataka had become a money laundering venture.  With the JD(S) MLCs refusing to accept the government's assurances, Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti adjourned the House for 10 minutes in between. However, the stalemate continued even after the session was reconvened and the House was eventually adjourned until Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-orders-probe-into-nursing-colleges-amid-uproar-963520.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Set up Supreme Court bench in Bengaluru: Rajya Sabha MP||Rajya Sabha MP K C Ramamurthy on Thursday demanded the setting up of a Supreme Court bench in Bengaluru. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha, he raised the demand citing people of the southern region finding it difficult to commute to Delhi to attend their cases in the Supreme Court. On the line of different benches of High Courts, the government should take steps to set up a separate bench of the Supreme Court in southern state. Since Bengaluru has all other infrastructure, setting up of a Supreme Court bench would also help other southern states including Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/set-up-supreme-court-bench-in-bengaluru-rajya-sabha-mp-963532.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to sell gold coins embossed with state emblem||Karnataka is planning to sell gold coins bearing the state’s emblem and is in talks with the private sector to open retail jewellery outlets in Tier-1 cities, Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani said Thursday. The precious metal will be promoted with the ‘Brand Karnataka’ image, Nirani said after meeting the Jewellers’ Association and jewellery designers. Karnataka is home to India’s only active gold mines operated by the state-run Hutti Gold Mines Ltd. “The government is exploring the possibilities of opening jewellery retail outlets by tying up with private jewellers. The state will produce jewellery and operate shops with the participation of private entities,” Nirani said. “The idea of selling gold coins with the state’s emblem is aimed at attracting more customers since the yellow metal produced by the state will come with purity guarantee and there will be no question of pilferage,” the minister said. For gold, the government is keen to emulate the success of Mysore Silks (sarees) and Mysore Sandal soaps. “Since gold is one of the most popular investment choices of the people, the government’s venture is expected to achieve great success,” Nirani said. The government is also planning to set up a special economic zone exclusively for jewellery in the Kalyana Karnataka region, Nirani said. “The government is planning to set up a jewellery park in one of the locations in the Kalyana Karnataka region,” he added. The Hutti Gold Mines will be modernised as part of the government’s plan to increase gold production and open retail jewellery shops. “We’re planning to rename Hutti Gold Mines Ltd as Karnataka State (Hutti) Gold Mines Ltd. The production of gold in the mines will be increased from 1,700 kg to 5,000 kg,” Nirani said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-sell-gold-coins-embossed-with-state-emblem-963545.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Contact tracing hit as booth officers, teachers go back to work||Though the state government has mandated tracing and testing at least 20 contacts for every Covid positive case, the data shows that Covid positive patients in Haveri, Koppal, Raichur, and Vijayapura districts have zero contacts traced. These patients were detected over the past seven days. With respect to the new strains of the virus, both UK and South African, which are 40 per cent more contagious, contact tracing is of paramount importance for Covid containment. The district officials said booth-level officers (BLOs) and teachers were into contact tracing. But now, having gone back to their original work, the contact tracing has suffered. The BLOs are usually tasked with verifying and collecting details of electors by visiting and collecting their papers for any kind of services they require. There are more than a million BLOs across the country. Vijayapura has not traced a single contact for 44 Covid patients over the past week. Dr Mallanagouda Biradar, district surveillance officer, told DH, “BLOs generally do contact tracing. In our team, except me, an epidemiologist and a microbiologist, there is no one else. BLOs have left for their original jobs. In the video conference with the CM, we discussed this.” “For the past three months, since the cases were less, they have left and no contact tracing has been done. We have to rope in PHC officers and Asha workers,” he said. Raichur district health officer (DHO) Dr Ramakrishna H told DH, “We had roped in teachers to do contact tracing. But since schools have reopened partially, they have left for their original jobs. Our MBBS doctor finished contact tracing for nine cases. The rest has to be done by Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram officials.” Dr Alakananda, DHO, Koppal, clarified that though the state Covid-19 War Room data says 9 Covid-19 patients have had nil contacts traced over the past week, the district had finished tracing their contacts. Haveri district surveillance officer Dr Jagdish Patil said, “A Hirekerur patient is not cooperating. A Shiggaon patient’s two contacts were found. Auxiliary nurse midwives are doing contact tracing.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/contact-tracing-hit-as-booth-officers-teachers-go-back-to-work-963548.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to seek lower interest rate for housing scheme loans||The state government will petition the Centre to reduce the interest rate to 6% from the existing 6.5 per cent for loans availed by beneficiaries under various government housing schemes.  Housing Minister V Somanna said that the proposed benefit will be for loans worth Rs 2.25 lakh for houses being built under Pradhan Mantri Aawas Yojana (PMAY) by Karnataka Housing Board and Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. A total of 3.24 lakh housing units will be built under the scheme, he said. He said that the proposal to hand over rights of 3.13 lakh properties developed by Karnataka Slum Development Board was hit by a snag, after beneficiaries complained of high fees to claim RTCs. “We have requested the CM to decrease the fee. The issue will likely be taken up in the next Cabinet meeting,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-seek-lower-interest-rate-for-housing-scheme-loans-963559.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Brahmin grooms in ‘lesser’ careers break caste barriers||These days grooms from the Brahmin community who pursue traditional occupations like priesthood, cooking and farming face an acute shortage of brides. To address the issue, a number of grooms belonging to the community from Uttara Kannada district have tied the knot with girls from an orphanage at Ramanagar,  run by the Women and Child Development department, in the city. The marriage between Subraya Manjunath Bhatta of Kumta in the district and Sowmya K M, an inmate of the state home for women, is the latest example. Most girls in the Brahmin community want to marry software engineers working in big cities or settled overseas. They are not keen to marry men in traditional occupations. So, men from the community are showing interest to marry girls from orphanages, irrespective of their caste and region. Nagaratnamma, superintendent of the state home for women, told DH that 40 marriages were held at the home for women so far. Among them, more than 20 grooms belong to the Brahmin community from Sirsi, Gokarna and Kumta in Uttara Kannada district. She pointed out that men from other communities enquire about the caste and family background of the girls at the state home. But Brahmin grooms have never sought such details. They want girls who are physically and mentally fit. “We tell the men that they should never seek details like the family background of these brides even after marriage. Also, the wife has equal rights in the property of the husband,” Nagaratnamma said. As per norms, the officers regularly visit the residence of the couple to confirm whether the bride is treated well or not, between six months and three years after marriage. After three years, the money deposited in a bank in the name of the girl, before the marriage, is given to her, if all conditions are satisfied. Ma Sa Nanjundaswamy, the spokesperson of Akhila Karnataka Brahmana Mahasabha, told DH, “We have always encouraged inter-caste marriages. Men from the community who marry girls from the orphanage have the responsibility of conveying a strong message to the society that they would better the lives of these girls. The Mahasabha is ready to address issues in the marriage, if any.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/brahmin-grooms-in-lesser-careers-break-caste-barriers-963562.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Manu Samskruti' more dangerous than atom bomb: Former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar||Former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar on Thursday said the effects of Manu Samskruti were more "destructive and dangerous" than that of an atom bomb, during his hour-long speech on the Budget in the Karnataka Legisative Assembly.   "The question before us is, should we follow a people-based approach that is kriyasheela (active) or one that is kriyaheena (inactive)? The first one is Jana Samskruti and the other one is Manu Samskruti," Kumar said in a speech laced with poetic attacks on the BJP government.  "The ash of an atom bomb, its chemical effects are said to last 25,000 years. I went to Hiroshima and Nagasaki. You won't be able to handle yourself if you see that place. What's more destructive and dangerous is Manu Samskruti," he said.  Countering the government's new anti-cow slaughter law, Kumar said he had no problem with the cow being worshipped. "But think about it from the farmer's point-of-view. What if a cow gives birth to a (male) bull? What will he do? How will be take care of it," he asked. "Who will take the carcass of the dead cattle? Is it Ram Bhat, Venkatarao or Sripad Iyengar? It is that man whom we've kept out of our village who should come to pick up the body. Ironically, beef also happens to be his food," Kumar said.  Kumar also urged the government to improve schools, especially, by strengthening the public education system. "Today, the poor kids go to anganwadis and the rich ones go to kindergarten. We have two systems of education. We ourselves are sowing the seeds of inferiority in these little children. Can we expect them to build a healthy society?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/manu-samskruti-more-dangerous-than-atom-bomb-former-speaker-k-r-ramesh-kumar-963578.html
18-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka sees nearly 1.5K cases, eight new deaths as infections continue to rise||Karnataka reported 1,488 Covid cases here on Thursday. This is the third consecutive day on which the State reported over a 1,000 cases. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.59%. Munish Moudgil, head of the State Covid-19 war room said, "Positivity Rate is growing. The primary control is in the hands of individual citizens who must do the following: wear a mask whenever they step outside their homes, avoid undue contact and crowds, and always maintain six-feet distance, and sanitise hands regularly and not touch face or eyes." "All eligible persons must immediately and urgently get vaccinated. Present Covid cases' pattern seen is that whole families are testing positive. Reason: Inside the house, people are failing to isolate anyone with Covid or Covid-like symptoms -- a basic requirement, and Covid prevention behaviour is not being followed. Citizens control or spread Covid by their own individual behaviour," he added. The State reported eight Covid fatalities, taking the caseload to 9,65,102 and the toll to 12,415 on Thursday. The day also saw 341 patients getting discharged after recovery. Bengaluru Urban, with 925 cases, continued to top the state in the number of infections. Cumulatively, 9,41,309 have recovered in the State. Of the 11,359 active cases, 131 are in intensive care units. Bengaluru Urban reported seven of the eight deaths on Thursday, the other being in Bidar. Among districts, Dakshina Kannada reported 64 cases, Kalaburagi 59, Mysuru 49, and Vijayapura 46. A total of 2,01,01,442 samples have been tested so far, out of which 93,370 were tested on Thursday alone, which is 6,630 samples short of the one lakh testing target that the State currently has. The state has, so far, has vaccinated 19,97,005 people, with 76,018 being vaccinated on Wednesday alone. The State's vaccination target per day as announced by the CM is three lakh inoculations. Seventh AEFI death reported from Karnataka in Belagavi Seventh AEFI (Adverse Event Following Immunisation) death was reported from Karnataka here on Thursday. A 69-year-old gram panchayat member from Katakat village in Belagavi district was vaccinated with Covishield on March 15 at 4 pm. He was vaccinated at a primary health centre in Katakat. Post vaccination till 11.30 pm he was normal until he complained of abdominal discomfort, burning sensation, and uneasiness in the chest region and sweating. He is a chronic alcoholic according to the State health department. On March 16, at midnight, he vomited and an hour later died at home. Family members have refused post mortem. The district AEFI committee meeting concluded that this death is coincidental and not related to vaccination. The cause of death is due to Severe Acute Myocardial Infarction (heart attack). The most recent death occurred in Ramanagar district on Wednesday. The fifth death occurred in Bengaluru on February 28. A 71-year-old man died 18 days post first dose. The other four deaths took place in Ballari, Shivamogga, Belagavi and Chikkabalapur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-sees-nearly-15k-cases-eight-new-deaths-as-infections-continue-to-rise-963596.html
18-03-2021||West||Hiren's diatom test report suggests he was alive when he fell in water: Official||The diatom test report of businessman Mansukh Hiren, whose mysterious death is being probed by the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS), has suggested that he was alive when he fell into the water, although the report is not conclusive, an official said on Wednesday. Diatom test is an important tool in the diagnosis and confirmation of drowning deaths. "The diatom test report has suggested that Hiren was alive when he fell into the water. It identified the proportion of creek water into the lungs. We have now sent the diatom bone samples to a Haryana forensic science lab (FSL)," he said. "The investigators have received the diatom test report, but it is not conclusive," he said, adding that the reports of viscera, blood samples, nail clippings are also awaited. Shivdeep Lande, DIG of ATS confirmed thatthe diatom bone samples have been sent to the Haryana FSL, which has expertise in conducting such tests. "The ATS will record the statements of three doctors, who performed the post-mortem of Hirenat Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital in Kalwa," he said. Another official said that the probe team will also investigate why arrested assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was present at the hospital while performing the post mortem. An explosives-laden Scorpio was found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house on Carmichael Road in Mumbai on February 25. Hiren was found dead in a creek in the Thane district on March 5. Vaze, an "encounter specialist", has been facing heat in the murder case of Hiren, who was in possession of the Scorpio. The ATS is investigating the Hiren murder case. It had registered an FIR against unidentified person days after Hiren's body was found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hirens-diatom-test-report-suggests-he-was-alive-when-he-fell-in-water-official-963258.html
18-03-2021||West||Too much fruit? Make cake: Farmers try it all amid pandemic||Fruit growers in rural Maharashtra have started an innovative 'movement' to promote fresh fruit cakes as a healthier option, instead of the traditional bakery-made cakes, to celebrate birthdays and other special occasions. According to farmers and agrarian experts, the aim of this 'spontaneous' movement, which is gaining popularity on social media, is to encourage farmers and their families to increase the intake of fruits in their diet and to find a new way of selling their produce in the times of Covid-19. As part of the movement, farmers, their families and various organisations of cultivators are encouraging cakes made locally using fruits like watermelon, muskmelon, grapes, orange, pineapple and banana while celebrating special events. Deepak Chavan, a Pune-based agriculture analyst, told PTI that of late, the production of fruits in several regions of the state has increased, leading to a surplus supply in markets and causing a drop in the prices of fruits. Farmers have already suffered due to the lockdown and now due to surplus supply, traders are purchasing their produce at lower rates, he said. "As a solution, farmers have started this innovative movement on social media where cakes made of fresh fruits are being used to celebrate birthdays, marriage anniversaries and other events," Chavan said. Generally, it has been seen that fruit cultivators and their families do not consume adequate fruits as part of their diet, he said. "The movement is serving the right purpose as farmers and their families are now consuming fruits on different occasions in the form of fresh fruit cakes. These cakes are far better than the bakery-made cakes which have less nutritional value," he said. Chavan said the movement is currently restricted to farmers and their families, but he is hopeful it will become a sustainable solution for all fruit growers. 'Hoy Amhi Shetkari', a farmers' organisation, is holding a 'fresh fruits cake' competition on social media. Participants are supposed to make cakes using only locally available fruits. "As the fresh fruit cake movement is picking up steam, we decided to hold a competition and invited entries from people to send photos and videos of fresh fruits cakes," said Sangli-based farmer Amol Patil, who is a member of the group. He said they have so far received over 150 entries, with people and farmers sending pictures of their fresh fruit cakes. Patil said their organisation's social media platform wall is now abuzz with pictures of fresh fruit cakes sent by farmers, their families and other people. Some people are also using their decorative skills to make the cakes more attractive by using locally available fruits, he said. "The movement is at a nascent stage and professional and commercial touch is needed to make the endeavour more sustainable to support farmers and their produce," he said. Taking a cue from the movement and going a step ahead, Mahendra Tekade, proprietor of 'Bhaji Bazar', an Amravati- based fruit and vegetable delivery startup, said they are in the process of starting a fresh fruit cake outlet there. "We are into farming and horticulture for last several years. Since we are into the delivery of fresh agri-produce at the doorsteps of customers, we have a supply chain and the infrastructure, so we are now setting up an outlet where fresh fruit cakes will be made available to customers," said Tekade. To make the entire enterprise more professional, Tekade said they are in talks with some salad decorators to help them in designing trendy fruit cakes. "In a bid to attract children towards this initiative, we are also trying to carve out shapes of Micky Mouse, Barbie doll and other exciting designs on fruit cakes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/too-much-fruit-make-cake-farmers-try-it-all-amid-pandemic-963339.html
18-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb threat: Ranes launch attack on Uddhav Thackeray||Mounting a major offensive, the Rane father-son duo demanded the resignation of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of the planting of Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks near the home of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani and the mysterious death of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. The attack by BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Narayan Rane and his son and Kankavli MLA Nitesh Narayan Rane comes a day after Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis lashed out at the Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government over the entire episode. “The law and order has collapsed... Uddhav Thackeray must resign as Chief Minister….I feel that he is to be blamed for reinstating Sachin Vaze in the police force given the officer’s past record, the subsequent death of Mansukh Hiren and others… Hence, he must own up moral responsibility and resign,” he added. Meanwhile, the junior Rane has said that after Fadnavis’s statement it is now clear who is Vaze’s boss. “It’s loud and clear who is Vaze’s political boss!  Who asked for his reinstatement in the force during the last government! Who advocated for him during the current Vidhan Sabha and said he is not Osama bin Laden!  It’s “Uddhav Thackeray” !!,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-threat-ranes-launch-attack-on-uddhav-thackeray-963388.html
18-03-2021||West||Uproar in Gujarat Assembly over Nitin Patel's remark on Congress||The Gujarat Assembly was adjourned for 10 minutes on Thursday following an uproar over an objectionable remark by Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel on the Congress. Speaker Rajendra Trivedi later expunged the remark. When the House met again after 10 minutes, a heated debate continued between the BJP and the Congress as Patel sought an apology from the opposition party for "insulting" Hindutva ideologue V D Savarkar. Earlier, during Question Hour before the adjournment, Congress MLA Amit Chavda, who represents Anklav seat of Anand, alleged that Anand district is yet to get its own civil hospital, even as Patel performed its ground-breaking three years back. Patel, who holds charge of the health department, raised a strong objection, claiming Chavda was lying. He then made some remark which irked Congress MLAs. Though Speaker Trivedi expunged the remark, Congress MLAs rushed near the well of the House shouting slogans against the ruling BJP and Patel, and demanded an unconditional apology from the deputy CM. As chaos and sloganeering from both sides continued despite repeated warnings and requests, the Speaker adjourned the House for 10 minutes. When the House met again, Leader of the Opposition Paresh Dhanani sought an apology from Patel for his remark. In his defence, Patel said he was not referring to any person or Amit Chavda when he made the comment. When the issue settled, BJP's chief whip Pankaj Desai drew the Speaker's attention towards an objectionable remark made by Congress MLA Ritwik Makwana on Savarkar during a debate earlier in the day. Speaker Trivedi took note of the objection and expunged the remark. He even asked Makwana to prove his claim that Savarkar had worked for the British regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/uproar-in-gujarat-assembly-over-nitin-patels-remark-on-congress-963454.html
18-03-2021||West||Rajnish Seth takes additional charge as Maharashtra DGP||Senior IPS officer Rajnish Seth on Thursday took additional charge as Maharashtra's Director General of Police, replacing Hemant Nagrale. Seth, the 1988-batch officer, is currently serving as the director general of the state's Anti-Corruption Bureau. Under fire over the handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday transferred city Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh to the low-key Home Guard. Senior IPS officer Nagrale, who was holding additional charge of the state DGP's post since January this year, was appointed the new Mumbai Police Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajnish-seth-takes-additional-charge-as-maharashtra-dgp-963455.html
18-03-2021||West||In Jalgaon Mayor election, Shiv Sena deals major blow to BJP||In a major jolt to the BJP, the Shiv Sena on Thursday won the Mayor election in Jalgaon, the ‘Banana City’ of India, after a large chunk of corporators of the ruling national political party pledged support to the Uddhav Thackeray-led saffron party. Over the years, the BJP had been dominating politics in the Jalgaon Municipal Corporation (JMC), which came into existence in March 2013. Jalgaon is a big city of the Khandesh-North Maharashtra region. This comes as a blow to BJP’s trouble-shooter and former Water Resources Minister Girish Mahajan, who is a close confidante of Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis. In the elections, Shiv Sena’s Jayshree Mahajan was elected the Mayor, while BJP rebel Kulbhushan Patil was elected the Deputy Mayor. “We congratulate Jayshree tai and Kulbhushan ji,” said Shiv Sena leader and state’s Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray. जळगाव महानगरपालिकेच्या महापौरपदी निवड झालेल्या शिवसेनेच्या सौ. जयश्रीताई महाजन जी तसेच उपमहापौरपदी निवड झालेले श्री. कुलभूषण पाटील जी यांचे मनापासून अभिनंदन आणि पुढील वाटचालीसाठी शुभेच्छा! Shiv Sena leaders – Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde and Water Supply and Sanitation Minister Gulabrao Patil, who is the Guardian Minister of Jalgaon, changed the political equations in the JMC. Senior politician Khadse, who last year left the BJP to join the Sharad Pawar-led NCP, helped the Shiv Sena. In fact, recently, he had a meeting with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in which Shinde and Shiv Sena MP Vinayak Raut were present. The JMC has 75 seats of which 57 were with the BJP, 15 with Shiv Sena and three with AIMIM. Mahajan polled 15 votes from Shiv Sena corporators, two from AIMIM and 27 from BJP rebels. BJP nominee Pratibha Kapase polled 30 votes. Mahajan defeated Kapase by 15 votes. “BJP’s corporators were unhappy with Girish Mahajan and the party. The Shiv Sena and Khadse used this opportunity to teach them a lesson," a source said. It may be recalled that in February, an NCP candidate was elected Mayor of Sangli city after defeating a BJP candidate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/in-jalgaon-mayor-election-shiv-sena-deals-major-blow-to-bjp-963459.html
18-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh was removed as Mumbai police chief for free and fair probe: Anil Deshmukh||A day after Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh was removed from the position, the Maharashtra government said that it was done to ensure that there is a "free and fair" probe into Sachin Vaze's case. “Yes…it was not a routine administrative transfer…Param Bir Singh was removed as Mumbai Police Commissioner (and shifted as Director General of Home Guards and Civil Defence) to ensure that there is thorough, free and fair probe,” state Home Minister Anil Desmukh said. Mumbai's Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly parking a Scorpio that had gelatin stick and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Mumbai residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. This happened at a time when the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is probing the mysterious death of the Thane-based SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. “Two agencies are probing…the NIA and the ATS… both are reputed agencies and are carrying out the investigations professionally…some junior officer (Vaze) has made a mistake, such mistakes cannot be ignored….he (Singh) is the overall incharge…it is better that he is posted elsewhere so that there is impartial probe,” Deshmukh told media. “However small or big (official) he may be, he will not be spared,” said Deshmukh, a senior leader of Sharad Pawar-led NCP. Asked if any role of other police officers in the case have surfaced, Deshmukh said: “Two agencies (NIA and ATS) are probing….progress is being made in the investigations. New things are coming to light.”   However, the minister refused to elaborate. “The agencies (NIA or ATS) are free to call anyone for investigations,” he said. On the Sushant Singh Rajput case, Deshmukh said that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) must reveal the details. “Several months have passed since the CBI is investigating…they should tell whether it was a suicide or murder,” he said. On the repeated attacks on Mumbai Police, he said: “The Mumbai Police is considered next to Scotland Yard…the Mumbai Police and Maharashtra Police is respected everywhere….in fact, the Scorpio, which was parked nearly 300 metres away (from Antilia) was noticed first by the Mumbai Police.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-was-removed-as-mumbai-police-chief-for-free-and-fair-probe-anil-deshmukh-963479.html
18-03-2021||West||Schools, colleges shut in 8 districts of Gujarat till April 10 as Covid-19 surges again||With coronavirus cases surging again, the Gujarat government on Thursday declared shutting down of schools and colleges in eight municipal corporations till April 10. This comes nearly four months after the government permitted educational institutes to resume classes voluntarily. Education Minister Bhupendra Chudasama announced the decision in Gandhinagar where he said, "Schools and colleges in eight municipal corporations - Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Junagadh, Jamnagar and Bhavnagar - to be shut till April 10 in view of the rising case. All offline examinations stand cancelled." He added that in other regions of the state, schools are at liberty to open or shut schools and colleges. A day before, Gujarat reported 1,122 new cases, the biggest spike since December. On Thursday, the state reported 1,276 fresh positive cases, the highest since December. With 315 cases, Surat city is leading the chart in the state, followed by Ahmedabad 298 and Vadodara 111 cases. Earlier this week on Monday, spectators were banned from attending T20 matches between India and England at Narendra Modi Stadium at Motera in Ahmedabad. This decision was taken by Gujarat Cricket Association after it faced wide criticism for allowing large scale gathering of people in the stadium where mass violation of Covid-19 guidelines was reported. Similar restrictions have been announced in other cities. In Surat, the local authorities have made it mandatory for anyone coming from out of Gujarat to remain under quarantine for a week. On Tuesday, the state government extended the night curfew (between 12 AM and 6 AM) for another two weeks and increased the hours by two hours (From 10 PM to 6 AM) in four cities-Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has also shut parks, gardens, zoo, gaming zones and buses in the city. Rajya Sabha MP Parimal Nathwani criticised the move of taking the buses off the road. He tweeted, "AMTS/BRTS buses are the only way of transport for many ppl,specially who commute for earning their livelihood&for students. Suspending thm has created havoc in their lives&given chance to autowalas to loot them. @AmdavadAMC shld consider keeping services on with 50% cap."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/schools-colleges-shut-in-8-districts-of-gujarat-till-april-10-as-covid-19-surges-again-963484.html
18-03-2021||West||Resentment engulfs Mumbai police force after Param Bir Singh's removal as top cop||A day after the Maharashtra government removed Param Bir Singh as the Mumbai police chief, there appeared a major resentment among the top brass of the state’s police force. While Hemant Nagrale, an officer of the 1987-batch, who was state’s Director General of Police, was made the Mumbai Police Commissioner, an 1988-batch officer Rajneesh Seth – his junior was made the acting Maharashtra Police chief.  Seth was earlier the Director General of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). While Nagrale took charge on Wednesday, Seth took over on Thursday. Nagrale has replaced Param Bir Singh, who has been posted as Director General of Home Guards and Civil Defence. However, so far, he has not taken charge. Incidentally, Sanjay Pandey, who was DG of Home Guards and Civil Defence and was transferred as Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Maharashtra State Security Corporation Ltd, has gone on leave. Pandey has shot off a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, expressing resentment. In the latter, Pandey said: “You overlooked me for the post of DG-ACB which was given to a junior officer. In fact DG-ACB is given to a senior officer next to State-DGP. As CP Mumbai post became second seniormost post, when it became vacant, you overlooked me and gave it to a junior officer. When the post of DGP became vacant after Subodh Jaiswal left, you did not even consider to give additional charge to me and handed over the same to a junior officer.” He also pointed out that giving additional charge for acting DGP is illegal and against Supreme Court order in Prakash Singh case. “Now after the recent explosive case controversy in Mumbai, you again overlooked me and handed over additional charge of DGP to a still junior officer, much against Prakash Singh case,” he said. “I wish and pray that you will personally ensure that injustice done to me is corrected and I am given my rightful place in the police force as senior-most officer in the state,” Pandey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/resentment-engulfs-mumbai-police-force-after-param-bir-singhs-removal-as-top-cop-963512.html
18-03-2021||West||Night curfew timings increased by an hour in Ahmedabad amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Following a sudden surge in coronavirus cases, the authorities in Gujarat's Ahmedabad city have decided to increase the night curfew timings by an hour, an official said on Thursday. The Gujarat government had earlier increased the night curfew timings in four major cities, including Ahmedabad, by two hours to stem the spread of the virus. Night curfew timings earlier were from 12 am to 6 am, and then on Thursday, timings were revised to 10 pm to 6 am. With the detection of 298 new Covid-19 cases in the city on Thursday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation announced that instead of 10 pm, the night curfew in the city will begin from 9 pm and end at 6 am. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by senior IAS officer Rajiv Kumar Gupta, who has been appointed as the officer on special duty by the government to supervise the AMC's operations amid the pandemic. The new timing will come into effect from March 19, a release issued by the civic body stated. The AMC has also announced that all malls and cinema halls, where people gather in large numbers, will remain shut on weekends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-timings-increased-by-an-hour-in-ahmedabad-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-963537.html
18-03-2021||West||Maharashtra records highest-ever single-day Covid-19 spike with over 25,000 cases||In what rings alarm bells Maharashtra’s daily tally crossed the 25,000-mark on Thursday — a record high since the outbreak of the viral pandemic that is sweeping the globe. In the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), the cases crossed the 5,000 mark. On Thursday, the state recorded 25,833 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 23,96,340 and 53,138, respectively. The total number of active cases has climbed to 1,66,353. In Mumbai, the total cases reported were 2,877 while for the MMR, it was 5,019. The previous high was reported on September 11, 2020, when the state had 24,886 cases in a day. Meanwhile, 12,764 persons were discharged after treatment taking the total to 21,75,565. During the day, the number of cases reported from Pune city was 2,791, Nashik city — 1,675 cases, Aurangabad at 1,274 cases, Nagpur saw 2,026 cases. In Amravati city, where there is a lockdown, the number of cases has reduced to 204. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the vaccination programme in the state. As far as measures are concerned, both the Maharashtra government and the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation feels that the situation has not gone out of control in India’s financial capital. Mumbai City’s Guardian Minister Aslam Shaikh said that the state was reviewing the situation regularly. “There are various options for Mumbai…in the State, in some places there is night curfew (Pune and Nashik cities), while in some place market timings are being regulated…we also have total lockdown (Nagpur and Amravati cities) and have containment areas (like in Mumbai),” he said, adding that the decisions would be based on a review and needs of the state. Shaikh also said that the majority of cases in Mumbai are coming from large buildings and highrises and not slums — and the bulk of the cases are asymptomatic. Meanwhile, the BMC has kept its jumbo field hospitals in complete readiness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-ever-single-day-covid-19-spike-with-over-25000-cases-963543.html
