19-03-2021||First Edit||Why the sedition law must be scrapped||One good answer to the question why the sedition law should be scrapped from the penal book in India is that there is not more than one or two convictions under the law in the country every year. Another reason is the increase in the number of cases registered under the law every year which, read with the low conviction rate, shows that it is more an instrument of harassment than a legal measure to deal with an offence. Minister of State for Home Kishan Reddy told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that the number of sedition cases doubled in the five years of the Narendra Modi government’s reign. But it was pointed out by a member of the Opposition, Manish Tiwari, that most of them failed. There were 47 cases in 2014 and 93 in 2019, but there was only one conviction in both years. That makes it clear that the law was wrongly used against 92 out of 93 people. A law which is prone to so much misuse should have no place in the statute book. The kind of people against whom the law has been wielded also tells a story of misuse. They include a young climate activist who writes a WhatsApp message, students who protest against the government’s policies, poets, journalists, academics and generally those who disagree with the government. The minister said the Congress governments in the past have imprisoned leaders under other draconian laws. That whataboutery does not justify the imprisonment of people under a worse law. The minister said the Congress has no right to talk about the misuse of laws. But this is not about Congress, it’s about citizens whose rights are violated and who are harassed and persecuted for opposing the government. The minister’s shifting of responsibility to the states also cannot be accepted, because it is in the BJP-ruled states that almost all these cases are filed and the central government and the party support and defend their actions. Hardly any of these cases satisfy the Supreme Court’s criterion that no word or action of a citizen can be construed as sedition unless it incites violence or disturbs public order. It is a colonial law, which entered Indian statutes in 1860, and is against the spirit of democracy. Many democracies, including Britain where this law originated, have scrapped it. As long as it remains on the statute book, governments will be tempted to misuse it. Only this month the Supreme Court upheld citizens’ freedom of expression and declared that criticism is not sedition. Parliament should scrap it, and if it doesn’t, the Supreme Court can strike it down as it does not agree with the best principles of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/why-the-sedition-law-must-be-scrapped-963805.html
19-03-2021||In Perspective||Rich nations must accept waiver proposal||At a meeting held in London on March 9, the newly elected Director-General (DG) of the WTO, a Nigerian, called on the Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers to increase production in the developing countries. The DG’s statement is of significance as a decision is awaited on the TRIPS (Trade-related Intellectual Property Rights) waiver proposal made by India and South Africa in October 2020. The waiver proposal seeks to suspend standards concerning the availability, scope and use of Intellectual Property Rights under Articles 1, 4, 5, 7 and the related enforcement process under Part III of the TRIPS agreement. The waiver proposers, with support from many developing and under-developed countries and international organisations, intend to increase access to vaccination globally through temporary suspension of commercial rights of the creators, inventors, etc., engaged in the research and development of vaccines. However, the proposal has been strongly resisted by European Union and the US, among others, citing the detrimental effect this proposal would have on the interests of the investors and innovators in the pharmaceutical sector. The resistance by a few powerful members of the World Trade Organisation (WTO) can possibly lead to non-acceptance of the proposal by it. While the discussion on the waiver proposal continues, the DG, emphasising on the need to increase vaccine production, pointed out the need for “walking and chewing the gum at the same time” considering “the scarcity of Covid-19 vaccine supplies [which] had led to a situation in which around 75 countries are able to move ahead with vaccination while 115 countries wait as people die.” There have been instances where several nations have procured vaccines far more than needed. Rich nations hoarding vaccines will not resolve the public health crisis as diseases of a contagious nature can only be fought through mutual cooperation between nations in a globalised world. Hence, it is important that developing and under-developed nations also receive access to vaccines. In the current situation, countries such as the US have not only opposed the proposed waiver but have condemned countries like India, Indonesia, Egypt for taking the alternative route of compulsory licensing under Article 31 of TRIPS, alleging broad and arbitrary grant of such licences. Compulsory licensing allows the appropriate government authorities to grant licence of patents to third parties or government agencies without the consent of the inventor. Grant of such compulsory licensing takes place based on a case-by-case basis and pursuant to providing the inventor with adequate compensation. However, the solution of compulsory licensing is not without its own share of problems as national laws often fail to facilitate expeditious use of such provisions. Countries like Australia, Germany, Hungary had to amend their national laws to facilitate the use of compulsory licensing during the pandemic. Moreover, the implementation of compulsory licensing can be very expensive and time-consuming in terms of the compensation and determination of ‘case-by-case basis’ requirements. While these common challenges prevail, increasing production of the vaccines might seem like an achievable solution on the face of it. However, as the proposers of the waiver pointed out in a subsequent discussion held on 10-11 March, “existing vaccine manufacturing capacities in the developing world remained unutilised because of IP barriers, and hence insufficient amounts of vaccines were being produced to end the pandemic.” Thus, the proponents argue that an increase in the existing production would only be possible if barriers in the form of IP regulations are dealt away with. “The waiver proposal represents an open and expedited global solution to allow uninterrupted collaboration in the production and supply of health products and technologies required for an effective Covid-19 response.” According to reports, as of March 3, 400 million doses of vaccines had been manufactured globally, which represents 3% of the committed supply of 14 billion doses by all manufactures in the year 2021. The targeted supply can only be met if there is an increase in manufacturing capacity. Especially, a country like India with high manufacturing capacity could emerge as a major vaccine producer through additional production which would help in combating the pandemic around the world via vaccine exports.  The Deputy Directors-General of WTO called upon the members to “…work together towards making vaccines available to all. Moreover, the war against the pandemic can only be won when universal coverage in vaccination is achieved.” Amidst the pandemic and loss of lives, a delay in the decision on the waiver proposal could exacerbate the global public health situation. Increasing vaccine  production is an effective solution to the challenge, but that requires that the  stringent IP protection granted to the pharmaceutical sector be waived immediately for the purpose. Therefore, the proposal of India and South Africa must be speedily accepted by the WTO.  (The writer is Assistant Lecturer & Faculty Coordinator (Academic Affairs), Jindal Global Law School, OP Jindal Global University, Sonepat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/rich-nations-must-accept-waiver-proposal-963807.html
19-03-2021||In Perspective||India is slipping further on malnutrition, we must act now||A few years ago, I conducted ethnographic research in a tribal village in Rajasthan’s Udaipur district. The community members frequently came to me for all sorts of health problems, mistaking me for a healthcare provider. One day, during a visit to a remote hamlet, a young mother approached me. She worriedly said, “My son cannot see anything at night.” After investigations, we discovered that Ramlu suffered from acute malnourishment (low weight for height) accompanied by micronutrient deficiencies, such as of vitamin A. These tribal communities often live in remote/inaccessible villages. They lack access to clean water, adequate nutrition and medical care. Often, mothers have to leave infants under the supervision of the elder siblings or grandparents to work in the farms. Mothers and children living in remote hamlets also have limited access to health and nutritional intervention programmes like Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS). Dietary deficiencies among children like Ramlu go undetected due to a lack of proper monitoring and nutritional awareness among the families. A large proportion of Indian children suffer a similar fate. The recent National Family Health Survey of 2019-20 (NFHS-5) data for 17 states and 5 Union Territories, presents a grim picture. It shows worsening in nutrition indicators among children. Stunting in children below five years has increased drastically in several states, including in the more progressive ones like Kerala and Goa. Even the percentage of wasted children has gone up in most states surveyed; and the figures on underweight children look grim. These figures are undoubtedly a cause for alarm. The second phase of NFHS-5 was conducted after the Covid-19 pandemic and the lockdown. In all likelihood, the nutrition indicators would have worsened during Covid-19 due to lack of access to mid-day meals, hot cooked meals in Anganwadis (rural childcare) and loss of livelihoods. A rise in malnutrition numbers will have severe consequences for the country. Children with anthropometric evidence of malnutrition, such as Ramlu, are at risk of developing multiple nutrient deficiencies. These children are more susceptible to opportunistic infections, a significant cause of childhood mortality and morbidity globally. They are at an increased risk of developing stunting and various diseases, disorders, poor educational performance, and low productive life in the later years. Malnutrition is also a significant contributor to disease burden in India. It dramatically impedes the country’s socio-economic development and the potential to reduce poverty. India continues to have the largest share of the world’s undernourished population, and in the 2019 Global Hunger Index (GHI), the country ranked 102 among 117 countries. In the given circumstances, we will be far from attaining Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 2, which focus on ending hunger, achieving food security, improving nutrition and promoting sustainable agriculture. What are the causes of malnutrition in India? A host of interrelated factors are responsible for its occurrence and persistence. These include poverty, lack of access to healthcare, hunger, poor sanitation, women’s status, lack of awareness, and low quality and implementation of nutritional programmes and policies. A study by Harvard Chan School of Public Health identified five top risk factors responsible for two-thirds of India’s malnutrition problem: short maternal stature, extreme poverty, low dietary diversity, and lack of education among mothers. Despite the gamut of programmes and schemes, India still lags in combating malnutrition. There are many direct programmes, like Poshan Abhiyan, ICDS, PMMVY, and mid-day meals for addressing malnutrition. They suffer from underfunding and inadequacies. In 2017, the government launched Poshan Abhiyan, its flagship National Nutrition Mission, to improve nutrition among children, pregnant women, and lactating mothers to reduce stunting, underweight, anaemia and low birth weight by 2022. Looking at the recent NFHS data, it seems we are far from achieving our target of Kuposhan-mukt Bharat. We have to wait and see how the recently launched Poshan Mission 2.0 fares. Since ICDS is the heart of Poshan Abhiyan, we need to strengthen it. The ICDS scheme, one of the leading platforms for delivering nutrition interventions, suffers from numerous bottlenecks, such as inadequate supply of quality food and uniform distribution. Underpayment of Anganwadi workers and helpers, insufficient training and skills are other impediments in effectively implementing it. Lack of physical and social accessibility also impedes the utilisation of the scheme by the poor communities. The Mid-Day Meal Scheme, which aims to improve children’s overall health, is also afflicted with quality issues and social inequalities. I have witnessed tribal children being discriminated against by upper caste teachers in schools. Even the Public Distribution System (PDS), crucial in providing food security to marginalised populations, lags. There are problems like inaccurate identification of beneficiaries, leakages, inadequate storage capacity, and non-viability of Fair Price Shops. Since malnutrition has many causes, we need to formulate multiple and synergistic interventions embedded in proper multi-sectoral programmes by considering the varied nature of local-level challenges. Many simultaneous actions are required to address the problem. First, the allocated budgets for programmes and schemes like ICDS, Mid-Day Meal, PDS and Poshan Abhiyan have to be increased. Second, strong inter-ministerial coordination between ministries like rural development, public distribution and civil supplies, health and family welfare, women and child development, drinking water and sanitation, agriculture, as envisioned by Poshan Abhiyan, is crucial. Third, we need robust collection and monitoring of nutrition data in severely affected pockets. The ICDS-Common Application Software (CAS), if appropriately implemented, may prove useful in collecting data from the Anganwadi centres. Fourth, we need to invest in upskilling health workers, who are the backbone of schemes like ICDS and health programmes. Fifth, there is a need to spread awareness on malnutrition to target the information lag among vulnerable populations, such as tribal communities. Involving local bodies and women’s groups to deliver the right messages may prove useful. Even nutrition education about locally available protein- and micronutrient-rich plants/resources may prove helpful and sustainable. Lastly, we have to improve the earning capacity of people in the marginalised populations by investing in social security schemes. (The writer is a public health researcher, storyteller and children’s writer)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/india-is-slipping-further-on-malnutrition-we-must-act-now-963812.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 surveillance stepped up in Talapady near Karnataka-Kerala border amid case spike||Following an increase in Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the surveillance at the border area in Talapady has been stepped up. A team led by District Health Officer and Tahsildar have begun insisting on Covid-19 negative certificates from people arriving from Kerala. Even buses were stopped and passengers were asked to submit negative certificates. Officials also stopped a Kerala RTC bus and had sought negative certificates from the passengers, which created confusion and chaos for some time. Later, the officials allowed the bus to pass through the checkpost and enter Mangaluru after directing passengers to furnish negative certificates mandatorily from Saturday. Measures had been taken to collect swab samples from the passengers at Talapady.  DHO Dr Ramachandra Bayari, Tahsildar Guruprasad, taluk medical officer Dr Sujay Bhandary, Talapady PDO Keshav Poojary, Home Guards and police personnel from Ullal were seen checking the vehicles and passengers. Now Karnataka is asking for compulsary RT PCR test report submission before entering Karnataka from Kerala. Unfortunately we don't have sufficient Corona testing centres in Kasaragod & Manjeshwar. Sahayathri, a group of daily passengers to Mangaluru from Kerala, had tweeted; “Now Karnataka has sought compulsory RT PCR test reports before entering Karnataka. Unfortunately, we do not have sufficient Corona testing centres in Kasaragod and Manjeshwar.” Screening at airport The screening of passengers arriving from outside the state and foreign countries was increased at Mangalore International Airport. 362 passengers had tested positive for Covid-19 from December 28 to March 13. A Covid-19 negative certificate was also made mandatory for those arriving from outside the state and country. Arrangements were made to collect swabs from those arriving without negative certificates. A private firm from Bengaluru has set up a testing centre in the airport. The report is furnished within 24 hours. On Thursday, 13 cases were reported at the airport, officials from the health department told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-surveillance-stepped-up-in-talapady-near-karnataka-kerala-border-amid-case-spike-963978.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Somashekar gheraoed, seeking permission for Doddajatre in N’gud||Members of Srikanteshwara Bhakta Mandali picketed District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar, during his visit to Nanjangud town, on Friday, seeking permission to conduct Srikanteshwara Gauthama Rathotsava, as planned, on March 26. It may be mentioned that Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri had issued orders recently, cancelling Doddajatre at Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud. The members explained that the DC has given permission to conduct the festival in a symbolic manner, in a small chariot on the day. The festival is being cancelled for the second consecutive year, hurting religious sentiments of the people, they said. They suggested that the district administration can restrict the entry of devotees from other places, on the lines of Shivaratri Mahotsava at Male Mahadeshwara Hill Temple in Chamarajanagar, but permit Gauthama Rathotsava. The members of the Bhakta Mandali can be subject to Covid test and allowed to pull the chariot. We are ready, if policemen and Covid warriors pull the chariot, they said. Somashekar explained that the Covid guidelines are in force across the state and it is mandatory to follow them. However, he assured to discuss the issue with Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar and seek special permission. He visited the temple and interacted with the priests, enquiring if it is possible to pull the chariot with 500 people. Nagachandra Dikshit of the temple, said, “The other small chariots are ready for the jatra. I have told the minister, that in case special permission is given, 500 people are sufficient to pull the chariot.” Meanwhile, MLA B Harshavardhan has also written a letter to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, seeking permission for Srikanteshwara Doddjatra in Nanjangud on March 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/somashekar-gheraoed-seeking-permission-for-doddajatre-in-n-gud-963981.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Jarkiholi case: STS curious to know about 'Mahanayaka’||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that like other people in Karnataka, he also has a curiosity to know, who this ‘Mahanayaka’ is, in former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi CD case. Speaking to media persons here, on Friday, he said that the case of the CD, alleged to be that of  Ramesh Jarkiholi, is under the probe of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) and he too is curious to learn about this person, who has caused damage to family relationships. “His identity will soon be revealed by SIT. Don’t know why KPCC president D K Shivakumar is assuming that it is him? Now, there are mahanayakas or big leaders in all parties,” he said. Reacting to the Congress leaders resolve, not to accept answers from the six ministers, including Somashekar, who have sought injunction against publication of defamatory news, in the Legislature, Somashekar said, “There is no such bankruptcy, to take morality lessons from the Congress leaders. We have approached the court, only to check malicious news about us. Even in H Y Meti’s case, he was defamed with the release of a similar CD. But, three month’s later, the CD was proved to be fake. Can the damage be reversed?” He said, "The recent developments discourage from participating in the legislative sessions. The Opposition party leaders should bring burning issues of the state for discussion. But, they are spending more time on unnecessary issues.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jarkiholi-case-sts-curious-to-know-about-mahanayaka-963983.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister for steps to check spread of Covid-19||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that there are 269 active Covid-19 cases in Mysuru district on Friday, and thus, steps should be taken to ensure that this number does not increase. He was speaking during a review meeting on the Covid situation, with district and taluk-level officials, at the Zilla Panchayat Hall here, on Friday. “As it looks like a second wave of Covid spread, the team of officials, lead by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, has taken several steps to check it. The officials like Police Commissioner, Superintendent of Police, Mysuru City Corporation Commissioner, Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer and others should initiate strict measures, to keep the pandemic under control,” he said. “The situation looks like it was in last July. There is a threat of a second wave of Covid. To check this, tests, contact tracing, treatment and vaccination should be stressed,” said the DC. “A total of 3.5 lakh senior citizens have been identified in Mysuru district. But, only 10% of them have got the vaccination, so far. The Chief Secretary has given instructions to achieve 100% vaccination of senior citizens by March-end. Thus, each of the Panchayat Development Officers, bill collectors of Gram Panchayats, ASHA volunteers and Anganwadi volunteers have been asked to get at least 10 senior citizens for the vaccination,” she said. The Centre has identified three district as sensitive — Bengaluru, Bidar and Kalaburgi. Mysuru is not in the list. But, Mysuru is in the list of top five districts, where precautions are prescribed, she pointed out. Somashekar said, "As the summer has set in, the officials should take steps to ensure that there is no problem for drinking water in any part of Mysuru district." He reviewed taluk-wise situation of the water scenario. Project Director of District Urban Development Cell Ashad Sharif said so far, there is no complaint of water scarcity in the limits of any urban civic body, but MLA of T Narsipur Ashwin Kumar said that there is a problem in Bannur, right on the banks of River Cauvery. Officials said, "There is water problem in 10 villages of HD Kote taluk, 14 villages of Hunsur taluk, 16 villages of Mysuru taluk, 35 villages of Nanjangud taluk, 10 villages of Periyapatna taluk and 18 villages of T Narsipur taluk. Tanker water is supplied in only 23 villages. In the remaining villages, steps are taken to provide a permanent solution." Somashekar said, "A proposal for a separate board, for handling water supply for Mysuru city, or a different centralised body for the purpose is before the government. A decision on this will be taken after holding a discussion.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-for-steps-to-check-spread-of-covid-19-963984.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vaccination for beedi workers sought at Central hospital||Former corporator and secretary of Mysuru Beedi Workers' Association K C Showkath Pasha has appealed to the district administration, to start vaccination at the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers, on Mahadevapura Main Road in the city for the benefit of the people in the neighbourhood. In a letter addressed to Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri, Pasha has stated, “It is true that there are many primary health centers, and also private hospital, providing the service of vaccination, in Mysuru city. The Central Hospital for Beedi Workers is a huge facility, where thousands of beedi workers and their family members are registered. The daily out-patient reporting is around 350 persons. The hospital is situated amidst the thickly populated areas like Azeez Sait Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Srinagar, Sathagalli Layout, Rajiv Nagar, KSCB Colony, and Kalyangiri, that makes four or five wards of the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC).” “Already Covid tests, RT-PCR, are being conducted regularly in this hospital. There were also plans to convert it into a Covid Care Centre, earlier. Thus, administering the vaccines in the Central Hospital for Beedi Workers will be in the interest of economically weaker residents of the neighbourhood and also the general public,” the letter reads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vaccination-for-beedi-workers-sought-at-central-hospital-963987.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Joint team inspects Mahadayi works in Belagavi district||The members of the joint monitoring team of Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra inspected the Mahadayi project works at Kanakumbi in Khanapur taluk on Friday after Goa government moved the Supreme Court stating that Karnataka has diverted Mahadayi river water into river Malaprabha. The team is expected to submit its report to the apex court soon. The apex court, in its directions on February 22, had directed the formation of a joint inspection team comprising superintending engineers of the three states. The apex court has stated that the team should submit a report within four weeks on the allegations made by Goa.  The team members, upon arrival, inspected the project maps. Later, they visited the river Malaprabha’s birthplace near Mauli temple at Kanakumbi wherein a canal has been constructed and other places wherein works had been undertaken. They obtained information about the works from the officials.   Karnataka Neeravari Nigam officials, who did not want to be named, said that arrangements were made for the visit of the team and security was provided as per the directions of the apex court. None, including the media, were allowed to take pictures of or get near the team. The area had been cordoned off and people were not allowed to stand or assemble within one km distance wherein inspection had been scheduled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/joint-team-inspects-mahadayi-works-in-belagavi-district-963988.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister H T Krishnappa passes away||Former minister H T Krishnappa (91) passed away at his son’s residence in Bengaluru on Thursday night. Krishnappa served as president of Taluk Board initially. Later, he won the Assembly election from Nagamangala constituency as an Independent in 1978. He lost as a Congress candidate in 1983 to Chigarigowda, an Independent. Following the death of Chigarigowda, bypoll was held in 1984, and he won as an Independent. Chigarigowda’s wife Kempamma was the Janata Party candidate then. But, before he could take oath as an MLA, then chief minister Ramakrishna Hegde dissolved the Assembly. In 1985, Krishnappa won again as Janata Party candidate and served as Minister in Ramakrishna Hegde’s government. Krishnappa leaves behind his son Sudarshan, a cricketer. The last rites were conducted at his farm, near Nagamangala on Friday evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-minister-h-t-krishnappa-passes-away-963989.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi railway division not feasible: Piyush Goyal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday said that the Railway Board did not find it feasible to set up a separate railway division at Kalaburagi. The proposals made by three divisional managers were sent to the Board for a holistic view about the proposal of setting up a new division at  Kalaburagi with an all-India perspective. However the Board did not find it feasible in creating a new division, Goyal said in Rajya Sabha during Question Hour. Adding that the Minister said “The announcement was made without a detailed feasibility study of carving out a new division. Thereafter, since the announcement was made on the eve of elections and without any adequate study, it was necessary to have a study conducted. A very detailed study was conducted and it was found to be not feasible.”  He was replying to a question raised by Leader of Opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge about a proposal set up new railway division head-quartered at Kulbarga in Karnataka, However, Goyal also said that he will discuss the issue with Kharge separately. When Kharge was Railway Minister during UPA-II regime, he announced the plan to create a separate railway division headquartered at Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-railway-division-not-feasible-piyush-goyal-964013.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Anti-national forces thwarting farm laws resolution, says RSS||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent, has expressed concern in its annual report that “anti-national and anti-social forces” were preventing the resolution of the deadlock between agitating farmers and the Modi administration over the farm laws. “It is not in anyone’s interest for any kind of agitation to be prolonged for a long time...It is also a matter of concern that day-to-day life is affected due to agitations. The problem becomes more serious when anti-national and anti-social forces try to thwart the ongoing efforts towards a solution. The leadership of the present agitation should not allow such a situation to rise,” the RSS said in its report that was presented during the Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS). Farmers' groups have been protesting for over 100 days now on the borders of Delhi against the three farms laws, demanding that they be repealed even as several rounds of talks they had with the Centre have failed to end the impasse. The RSS report noted that the three agriculture Acts were passed by Parliament with a “majority” and that the intensity of the agitation “increased with time”. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has given a call for 'Sampurna Bharat Bandh' on March 26 and the agitators will, on March 28, burn copies of the three laws during Holika Dahan (Holi). “Discussions are a must, but with a view to finding a solution,” the report said. “It is possible that not all issues are agreed upon, but it is essential that some agreements must be reached upon.” The report pointed out that such “anti-national forces” tried to create “an environment of disturbance and instability” to meet their political ambitions. “We believe that there are no unsolvable problems. What is needed is sincere efforts. In a democracy, all have the freedom of expressing their views, but none can be given the right to create disturbance and instability in the country,” it added. The RSS is holding a 2-day meeting of the ABPS, its highest decision-making body. The meeting will conclude Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/anti-national-forces-thwarting-farm-laws-resolution-says-rss-963841.html
19-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Siddaramaiah blasts Karnataka govt's 'mismanagement' of Covid-19 situation amid spike in cases||Targeting the BJP government in the state for the spike in Covid-19 cases, Leader of Opposition in the Karnataka Assembly Siddaramaiah on Friday accused the government of mismanagement in containing the pandemic. Hitting out at Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, the Congress leader, in a series of tweets, said there was a vaccine now for the virus, but not a vaccine for the BJP government's alleged corruption. "Rapid increase in the Covid-19 cases is the proof for our allegation about the government's mismanagement in containing the infection. Chief Minister of Karnataka, had your government worked effectively, why is there an increase in cases?" Siddaramaiah asked. Noting that the Chief Minister had cited expenditure on Covid-19 as the reason for reduced expenditure for development, he questioned, "had the govt worried about the pandemic so much, why is there no control of the pandemic? What does CM have to say about this?" Karnataka has seen a spike in cases recently has been reporting over 1,000 cases for the last three consecutive days. As of March 18 evening, cumulatively 9,65,102 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed and they included 12,415 deaths and 9,41,309 people who were discharged. The total number of active cases stood at 11,359. Yediyurappa, in his budget speech, had informed that Rs 5,372 crore has been spent for management of the virus but the details of the spending were still hidden in his suitcase. The former Chief Minister asked, "Will the govt come out clean at least now and clear the doubts of people?" "There is a vaccine for Covid-19 now but where should we get the vaccine for the BJP government's corruption? I just hope the government will learn lessons from the first wave and effectively manage the second wave to save lives and livelihood of the people," he said. Siddaramaiah had last year alleged irregularities of Rs 2,200 crore in procurement of Covid-19 equipment and had demanded a probe by a sitting High Court judge to which the government denied. State Congress president D K Shivakumar, too, alleging misappropriation of money in connection with Covid-19, said, "There are reports that money has not reached the people and that corruption has increased. Our stand is that there should be a thorough inquiry."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/siddaramaiah-blasts-karnataka-govts-mismanagement-of-covid-19-situation-amid-spike-in-cases-963967.html
19-03-2021||Main Article||India dives into Quad waters||Several strands of strategic vectors may have been generated from the geostrategic moves signified by the first ever summit, albeit virtual, of the Quad leaders, Joe Biden, Narendra Modi, Yoshide Suga and Scott Morrison on March 12, 2020. In a first for the Quad, a joint statement was released that serves as a declaration broadly conveying the goals and areas of focus of the group. China is not mentioned and that silence is deafening. Words are the tools of strategic communications and the Joint Statement seems to be particularly careful in downplaying the narrative that the Quad is purely a security-oriented grouping aimed at China. But the attempt is weakened because the locus of geographic space for cooperation is mainly the Indo-Pacific, which happens to be the area where geopolitical contestations are presently hinged. Modi’s tweet -- “Reiterated India’s commitment to a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific in line with our vision of SAGAR -- Security and Growth for All in the Region” -- is indicative that India does not want to paint Quad as an exclusive club. China is unlikely to be convinced. One of China’s major political anxieties has always been that its strategic weakness -- the dearth of reliable partners -- would be exploited by its major adversary, the US, by building a partnership against it. China would view such a partnership as a collaboration aimed at slowing the growth of China’s power and triggering internal political, economic and social fault lines that may pose an existential threat to the Communist Party of China. The overriding requirement of the state of readiness to defend such a threat which can manifest in many forms, including a military one, has been China’s clarion call to its citizens and the party cadres for more than a decade. The tone of that call has been getting shriller and no longer attempts to hide the warning to its potential adversaries – “We are strong, do not mess with us.” For China, attempts at wooing partners has been a specific area of focus, in which it has achieved a certain degree of success, especially during the ‘America First’ approach of the Trump years. Its primary partners in global geopolitics now include Russia, Pakistan, Turkey and North Korea. Iran’s current proximity to China may be weakened if Biden’s efforts to return to the nuclear deal succeeds. Many others, medium and small powers, are more or less held hostage through China’s economic clout. With a changed approach wrought by Biden, such powers, especially in the Indo-Pacific, may now perceive the possibility of an alternative if the Quad measures up to its promise with the approach it proposes to adopt. The approach is interesting because the core group will flexibly incorporate other partners, depending on the issue being addressed. The main issues identified have the ability to flexibly group its partners to fulfil any intended cooperative purpose.   The Quad stands “committed to promoting a free, open rules-based order, rooted in international law, to advance security and prosperity and counter threats to both in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. We support the rule of law, freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity.” It has also pledged “to respond to the most pressing global challenges of economic and health impacts of Covid-19, combat climate change, and address shared challenges, including in cyber space, critical technologies, counterterrorism, quality infrastructure investment, and humanitarian-assistance and disaster relief as well as maritime domains.”  For the sake of argument, China can be part of the climate change agenda and even theoretically partner the Quad for ensuring a free and open Indo-Pacific. It should be obvious that for the theoretical proposition to be realised, it will require the evaporation of mutual fears regarding the other party disturbing the freedom of trade routes in the Indo-Pacific. China’s seizure of island territories and artificial island-building is unlikely to be rolled back, so if China has to be included in a free and open Indo-Pacific initiative, it will require the acceptance of the changed territorial and maritime status quo. Such expectations are non-starters. In essence, the core issue of the Quad as a cooperative venture for a free and open Indo-Pacific will remain, though supplemented by joint efforts with flexible geometry of partners in varied fields. It is not difficult to visualise that China’s strategic behaviour will be influenced as the Quad matures and evolves its combined capabilities. Efforts at driving a wedge between the Quad partners will be a major axis of China’s approach. Finally, India and Australia have both overcome their reservations about the Quad. The turning point for India has been China’s territorial aggression in Ladakh. For Australia, it has been economic coercion. Japan and Australia, unlike India, have treaty obligations with the US. The change in India’s stance on the Quad could have repercussions for its other multilateral dialogue platforms in the form of Russia-India-China (RIC), Brazil-Russia-India-China- South Africa (BRICS) and the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO). Delhi must be prepared for China unleashing its media to paint India in extremely negative terms. Politically, India must continue to preserve its strategic autonomy and be wary of being drawn into confrontations that are not within the ambit of mutual interest. Having taken the decision, there should be no turning back. India’s plunge into the hazy waters of the Quad is a significant foreign policy decision of the Modi government. It holds the promise of being a game-changer in global geopolitics that could possibly provide solutions to the problems arising from the growing anarchy in the international system. The reluctance to name China must not be viewed as pussyfooting. It is to be viewed as a diplomatic device that keeps open the doors of dialogue to resolve issues rather than depending on coercion to resolve what are essentially pervasive and perennial frictions generated by the human condition. (The writer is Director, Strategic Studies Programme, Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru, and former Military Adviser, National Security Council Secretariat)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/india-dives-into-quad-waters-963804.html
19-03-2021||National||Assam Assembly polls: 345 nominees in fray for 39 constituencies in phase 2||A total of 345 contestants, including four ministers and the deputy speaker, are in the fray for 39 constituencies going to polls in the second of the three-phased Assam Assembly elections on April 1. Altogether 649 nominations have been filed, out of which 30 of them were rejected and 33 withdrawn on the last date of withdrawal on Wednesday for the second phase, the state's Chief Electoral Officer said. Some candidates have submitted multiple nomination papers for the same constituency. Prominent candidates from the BJP include ministers Parimal Suklabaidya (Dholai), Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia), Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad) and Deputy Speaker Aminul Haque Laskar (Sonai). Former Deputy Speaker Dilip Kumar Paul, who resigned from the BJP after he was denied ticket, is contesting as an Independent from Silchar. The BJP earlier in the day expelled Paul and 14 other leaders from the party for six years with immediate effect for "anti-party activities". Meanwhile, for the first phase of elections on March 27, there are 267 contestants in 47 constituencies, including Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal (Majuli). Elections to the 126-member Assam Assembly will be held in three phases on March 27, April 1 and April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-assembly-polls-345-nominees-in-fray-for-39-constituencies-in-phase-2-963619.html
19-03-2021||National||Car used by Waze was parked outside Sena MLA's office: Rane||BJP MLA Nitesh Rane on Thursday alleged that one of the luxury cars used by arrested police official Sachin Waze was parked outside the office of a Shiv Sena MLA. The NIA, which is probing Waze's alleged role in the placing of an explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, has seized a total of five vehicles including two Mercedes cars. Speaking to reporters, Rane alleged that the day Waze was arrested by NIA, one of the Mercedes cars allegedly used by him was parked outside the office of a Sena MLA. "(Sena MP) Sanjay Raut had said that everyone has something to hide in politics. I want to tell him that he must be having something to hide, but it is not the case with us. We want truth to come out in this case," Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/car-used-by-waze-was-parked-outside-sena-mlas-office-rane-963622.html
19-03-2021||National||PM Modi 'avatar' of God who is taking nation in right direction: BJP's Arunachal MP||BJP MP from Arunachal Pradesh, Tapir Gao, on Thursday described Prime Minister Narendra Modi as an 'avatar' of God who is taking the country in the right direction. He said in Lok Sabha that Modi's work for tea plantation workers in West Bengal and Assam is like an 'avtar' of 'Bhagwan, Allah'. In a debate on supplementary demands for grants for Jammu and Kashmir, BJP's Jamyang Tsering Namgyal hailed the prime minister as a 'yug purush' (man of era) for realising the dream of BJP ideologue Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who had opposed the special status to Jammu and Kashmir. In a separate discussion, participating in the debate on the second and final batch of the supplementary demands for grants for 2020-21, Gao said the Modi government took several steps during the Covid-19 pandemic. He said India today supplies Covid-19 vaccines to 100 countries. "He (PM) is not a human being, he is an avatar of someone (wo kisike avatar hai) who has become the prime minister and is taking the nation in the right direction. We as Indians should be proud of it," Gao said. The Arunachal East MP listed out a series of steps taken by the Modi government for the infrastructure development of the northeast and his home state. Referring to allocation of Rs 1,000 crore for the welfare of tea plantation workers in Assam and West Bengal in the Union Budget 2021-22, Gao said through this Modi has instilled hopes in their lives. "Modi ji has done the work of driving away the problems of tea plantation workers in Assam and West Bengal. What Modi has done, it is some sort of work done by an avtar of God (Bhagwan, Allah)," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-avatar-of-god-who-is-taking-nation-in-right-direction-bjps-arunachal-mp-963625.html
19-03-2021||National||PM has set target of providing houses to all by 2022: Tomar||Union Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target of providing houses to all by 2022. He was speaking during a virtual house-warming ceremony of houses meant for 1.25 lakh families under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY)-Gramin for rural areas. "The prime minister has set a target of providing houses to all those not having one by 2022. As part of it, 2.95 crore houses will be built. So far, more than 1.32 crore houses have already been constructed under the scheme in the country," the Union Rural Development and Panhayati Raj Minister said. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan took part in the event from Dhar district headquarters. He dedicated over 10,000 community development works, including 6,000 community cleanliness campuses, 2,000 sports grounds, 2,000 Shantidham and 634 panchayat bhawans. On the occasion, he transferred Rs 2,000 crore in the accounts of five lakh beneficiaries of the PMAY-Gramin. Tomar praised Chouhan saying that under his leadership, Madhya Pradesh is progressing in an all-round manner. The minister said that during the UPA regime only six lakh houses were constructed in a year, while under the current government, 29 lakh houses are being built and provided to the beneficiaries every year. In Madhya Pradesh, 3.25 lakh houses are being constructed in a year after enhancement of funds under the scheme, and the state has secured second position in the country in implementing the PMAY scheme, he said. Speaking during the function, Chouhan said that the poor will now be able to live in pucca houses. "Today 1.25 lakh people have celebrated gruh pravesh (house warming ceremony) and earlier 1.75 lakh others got their pucca houses in the presence of the prime minister and Tomar in the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-has-set-target-of-providing-houses-to-all-by-2022-tomar-963648.html
19-03-2021||National||South Africa has world’s most dangerous roads; India in fourth place: Study||South Africa has been ranked as the world’s most dangerous country to drive in while India came in at fourth place, according to a research study undertaken by international driver education company Zutobi. Among the list of 56 countries in the study, Thailand came in second position and the US took up third spot. The safest roads in the world can be found in Norway, with its Scandinavian neighbour Sweden having the third safest roads while Japan took second place, according to the study. “We analysed each country on five factors, giving each one a normalised score out of ten for each factor, before taking an average final score across all five factors,” Zutobi said. These factors included estimates on the number of road traffic deaths per 100,000 population; the percentage of car occupants who use a seat-belt when travelling in the front of a vehicle; and the proportion of road traffic deaths that have been attributed to alcohol consumption over the national legal limit. These estimates were based on the World Health Organization’s Global Health Observatory data repository. The maximum speed limit on motorway and blood alcohol content restrictions in the various countries were also taken into account. But Zutobi’s findings have been challenged by the Justice Project SA (JPSA), an NGO that aims to improve road traffic laws and their enforcement in South Africa. JPSA Chairperson Howard Dembovsky, while agreeing that South Africans tended to be poor drivers, said that Zutobi had used outdated figures in its study. Dembovsky also queried why South Africa was the only African country in its list. “So to accuse us of being the worst in the world is a little bit unfair. If you are going to talk about the worst countries in the world, then you need to adopt a balanced approach,” Dembovsky said as he commented on poor driving in his country in an interview with radio station Cape Talk. “(South African drivers) do have a shocking road safety record. As much as I would not place much reliance on that so-called study, there is still plenty of evidence to show that South Africans are dangerous drivers and inconsiderate drivers and have very little regard for the safety of others on our roads,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south-africa-has-world-s-most-dangerous-roads-india-in-fourth-place-study-963674.html
19-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Train running in reverse déjà vu for PMO||As per reports, the pilot of the Purnagiri Jan Shatabdi Express had applied brakes to avoid collision with a cow that had strayed onto the tracks. Immediately, the driver lost control of the locomotive and the entire train started rolling backward.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-train-running-in-reverse-d-j-vu-for-pmo-963690.html
19-03-2021||National||Vast majority of protesters remained peaceful: US Senators ask Antony Blinken to raise farmers' issue with India||Two top Democratic senators have urged US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to raise with the Indian leaders the issue of treatment of peaceful farmer protesters and journalists even as they acknowledged that it is for the people and the Government of India to determine the path forward on its recently enacted farm laws. In a letter to Blinken, Senate Foreign Relations Committee Chairman Bob Menendez and Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer on Thursday urged the Biden administration to further engage with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government over its treatment of farmers in India who have been peacefully demonstrating against the passage of new farm laws. Farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at several Delhi border points, including Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur, since November 28, demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP) for their crops. The government has denied allegations that it was trying to put an end to the MSP and the mandi system. India has also emphasised that the protests by farmers must be seen in the context of India's democratic ethos and polity and the Ministry of External Affairs last month said that some vested interest groups have tried to mobilise international support against the country. In their joint letter to Blinken, Menendez and Schumer noted that India is a "long-term strategic partner with deep ties to the United States thanks to our many shared values and our large and valued Indian American community." "In light of these shared values and strong connections, we write with serious concern regarding the response of the Indian government to the farmer protests,” they said. In their letter, released to the press on Thursday, the two senators urged Blinken to raise the importance of freedom of speech and the right to peaceful protest in conversations with his Indian counterparts and to ensure that State Department officials at all levels do so as well. After becoming the Secretary of State, Blinken has spoken with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar multiple times. The readouts of the phone calls do not indicate that Blinken raised this issue, under pressure from his party leaders, with Jaishankar. The Biden administration has insisted that the two countries share democratic values. Schumer and Menendez said the months-long demonstrations have been met with orders from the central government and local authorities to shut off internet access in protest areas, cut off water and electricity supplies for the tens of thousands living in protest camps, and impede the work of journalists reporting on the protests. “India’s people and the government will determine the path forward on these laws, and peaceful dialogue and respect for the viewpoints of all peaceful actors should drive that decision," they said. "As the US pursues a more perfect union here at home, including efforts to bolster the rule of law and our democracy, those efforts reinforce the importance of addressing challenges to democracies abroad as well,” they wrote. The letter by Schumer and Menendez comes a day after the latter wrote a similar letter to Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin, who is visiting India this week. There has been no response from either Austin or Blinken if they plan to raise these issues with their Indian counterparts, especially when the Biden administration is going out of its way in its outreach with the Modi government given the serious challenge it is facing from China. Blinken and the US National Security Advisor have met their Chinese counterparts in Anchorage, Alaska. This is the first in-person meriting that the Biden administration is having with the Chinese leadership. In their letter, Menendez and Schumer said following the passage of new farm laws last fall, the farmers have engaged in over 100 days of peaceful demonstrations to express their opposition to certain policies. “While we do not take a position on internal Indian policy matters, we recognise and condemn that on January 26, a small faction of protesters engaged in unacceptable violence at the Red Fort in New Delhi, but protest leaders quickly condemned the violence and the vast majority of protesters remained peaceful. "However, Indian authorities at different levels of government have used that day’s events as a pretext to undertake a broader and sustained crackdown on peaceful protesters, journalists, and government critics,” they alleged. Noting that they are alarmed by the sedition charges against a leading Opposition politician and a 22-year-old climate activist related to the protests, the two senators said that the central government has repeatedly ordered Twitter to shut down accounts that relate to or report on the protests, including those of media organisations and journalists, and threatened to arrest Indian Twitter employees if the microblogging site fails to comply, as reported by CNN. “At the same time, Indian authorities have also sought to hinder the work of journalists reporting on the protests. Indian authorities have filed criminal complaints against at least 10 journalists for their reporting on the protests, including charges of sedition. "Reporters Without Borders said the accusations represent “a headlong assault on press freedom,” and Indian press freedom groups have characterised them as an intimidation tactic to stifle the media,” the senators wrote. In the past, both Schumer and Menendez have spoken about the important role that India has in the US' China policy. They have both called for a strong relationship with India. Both have been sponsors of some key legislations on the matter. Prominent among them include the Democracy Technology Partnership Act which says that the world’s major liberal-democratic nations must work together in a technology partnership to ensure that these technologies advance democratic institutions, norms, and values, contributing to global peace and prosperity. The Democracy Technology Partnership Act establishes an inter-agency office at the US Department of State to lead in the creation of a new partnership among the world’s tech-leading democracies. Multiple rounds of talks between the Indian government and farmer unions have not been able to resolve the deadlock over the new agri laws. The government has said it has shown the utmost respect for protests by farmers and has remained engaged in dialogue with them to address their concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vast-majority-of-protesters-remained-peaceful-us-senators-ask-antony-blinken-to-raise-farmers-issue-with-india-963692.html
19-03-2021||National||India adds nearly 40,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, biggest single-day jump in 3 months||India saw 39,726 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,14,331, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. Registering an increase for the ninth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,71,282, which now comprises 2.36 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.26 per cent, the data stated.  The daily rise in infections (39,726) was the highest recorded in 110 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,370 with 154 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  As many as 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 29. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,10,83,679, while the case fatality rate has further to 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,13,70,546 samples have been tested up to March 18 with 10,57,383 samples being tested on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-adds-nearly-40000-fresh-covid-19-cases-biggest-single-day-jump-in-3-months-963711.html
19-03-2021||National||After 35 years of first farmer suicide, Vidarbha remains a 'graveyard of farmers'||On March 19, 1986, a farmer, Sahebrao Karpe and his entire family comprising his wife and four minor children, ended their lives at Chilgavhan village of Yavatmal district in the Vidarbha region of Maharashtra. Incidentally, today marks the 35th anniversary of the first suicide by a farmer or a farmers’ family in India. Located in central India, the Vidarbha region that borders Madhya Pradesh to the north, Chhattisgarh to the east, Telangana to the south and Marathwada and Khandesh regions of Maharashtra to the west -- in the last three decades has become the suicide capital of the country. Although Karpe owned adequate land and a house, he was driven to take such an extreme step because of crop loss and the inability to repay his debt. “It was a sad incident and we have seen what happened thereafter. There was a spate of suicides by farmers in the Vidarbha region and then in other places across the country,” said Kishore Tiwari, the Yavatmal-based founder of Vidarbha Jan Andolan Samiti. Tiwari, who is also the chairman of the Maharashtra Government’s Vasantrao Naik Sheti Swavlamban Mission (VNSSM), said the crisis is deeply concerning and the government needs to take measures to ensure that the agrarian economy is intact. “Several people are observing a fast as a remembrance,” said Tiwari. Veteran Gandhian and peace activist Jatin Desai said: “Yavatmal and surrounding districts are known as ‘graveyard of farmers’. Karpe and his wife first poisoned their four kids and then took poison and died. In his suicide note, he had said -- "It is impossible to survive as a farmer." Since then, thousands of farmers have committed suicide for not getting remunerative prices for their product. "It is time MSP should be applied to all agricultural produce. The government of the day must talk to farmers and resolve their issues,” Desai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-35-years-of-first-farmer-suicide-vidarbha-remains-a-graveyard-of-farmers-963744.html
19-03-2021||National||TMC delegation meets EC over 'free & fair polls' in WB||TMC delegation comprising Saugata Roy, Mahua Moitra and Yashwant Sinha met the Election Commission to discuss issues related to 'free and fair elections in West Bengal' on Friday. "We met EC today and we raised 3 points- the rule under which they are proposing to put only central forces withing 100mtrs of the polling booth, only 5% of VVPAT checking as supposed to 100% & the incident involving CM on March 10," TMC MP Mahua Moitra said as the meeting concluded In a stern message to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, the Election Commission on Tuesday said it is not proper to belittle the institution by calling it as being close to the ruling party and asserted that it would not like to be repeatedly "put in the dock" with innuendos and averments. Despite meeting representatives of the TMC in Kolkata and the national capital in the recent past, "if it is stated by the CM that the Commission should meet political parties, it is only an attempt to belittle the institution of Commission with repeated innuendos and averments", the poll panel said in response to a letter from Banerjee to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora on March 14. Recently, the TMC had urged the panel to remove Jain as in charge of West Bengal and had questioned his neutrality. The commission had defended Jain by coming out with a press statement. If the chief minister "persists in creating and attempting to perpetuate this myth for reasons best known to her, it is singularly unfortunate", he said, and added that it was only for her to adjudge why she was doing so. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-delegation-meets-ec-over-free-fair-polls-in-wb-963746.html
19-03-2021||National||Delhi High Court refuses to stay summons issued to Mehbooba Mufti by ED in PMLA case||The Delhi High Court on Friday refused to stay the summons issued to former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti by the Enforcement Directorate in a money laundering case. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said they are not granting any relief to the PDP leader. The court asked the ED to file a short note of submission along with a compilation of judgments relied upon by them before the next date on April 16. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the ED, said Mufti just has to appear before the officials. The ED, which had earlier summoned Mufti for March 15, has now been issued summons for March 22. Senior advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, representing Mufti, urged the court to ask ED not to insist for her personal presence as was done earlier. To this, the bench said, "We are not giving any stay. We are not granting any relief."  Mufti has sought quashing of summons issued to her by the ED in a money laundering case. She has also sought to declare section 50 (power of ED officer to record statement) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act as void and inoperative, being unfairly discriminatory, bereft of safeguards, and violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution.  She has also sought an interim stay on the summons until the question of law in relation to the constitutionality of Section 50 of the Act is decided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-refuses-to-stay-summons-issued-to-mehbooba-mufti-by-ed-in-pmla-case-963750.html
19-03-2021||National||Supreme Court defers hearing plea against states passing resolution on Parliament laws||The Supreme Court on Friday deferred considering a plea raising question on legislative competence of different State Assemblies in adopting 'resolutions' against central statutes like CAA and farm laws which fall under the Union List of the Seventh Schedule. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian asked the advocate, appearing for petitioner 'Samta Andolan Samiti' to do more research on the subject. "Do some research on the other aspects, we will see, we don’t want to create more problems," the bench told the counsel, adjourning the matter for four weeks. The PIL raised a question of law as to whether within the Constitutional framework, more particularly under Article 213(2)(a) and Article 246(1), any State Legislature can adopt 'resolution' adversely criticising a central Statute which fell in List I of the Seventh Schedule. It contended that the legislative actions of four different State Legislative Assemblies of Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal have infringed upon the fundamental rights of all Indian citizens. The State Legislatures of Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal adopted resolutions condemning and adversely criticising the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 even after it was passed by both the Houses of the Parliament and received Presidential assent being duly notified in the Gazette of India, the petition stated. The Legislative Assembly of West Bengal also adopted a resolution against three Central Legislations (farm laws), plea added. Chief Minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal had torn the three farm laws in the Assembly. The plea stated that Rules of Procedure of these Legislative Assemblies framed under Article 208 contain chapters titled 'resolutions' which, apart from imposing a precondition upon the Speakers to decide the admissibility of the resolution before allowing the same to be placed in the Assembly, also prohibited subjects which were not primarily the concern of the state government and on which litigations are pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-defers-hearing-plea-against-states-passing-resolution-on-parliament-laws-963781.html
19-03-2021||National||Space Technology Incubation Centres opened at NIT Nagpur, Bhopal & Rourkela||Three Space Technology Incubation Centres (S-TIC) were inaugurated at National Institute of Technology (NIT) at Nagpur, Bhopal and Rourkela by the Chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) K Sivan. ISRO signed bilateral Memorandum of Understanding with Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology, Nagpur (for Western region), Maulana Azad National Institute of Technology, Bhopal (for Central region), and National Institute of Technology, Rourkela (for Eastern region). In an online programme on this occasion on Thursday, Sivan, also Secretary in the Department of Space (DoS), encouraged the students to explore their entrepreneurship skills in the space domain. The S-TIC concept is conceived with one selected major academic institute taking the lead role in a particular region and providing opportunities for final year graduate, post graduate and research scholars as "future budding entrepreneurs," Sivan was quoted as saying in an ISRO statement. Projects of practical relevance linked to the ongoing or future missions of ISRO will be made available to the students at STIC, and their research outcome will be translated into a Proof-of-Concept or prototype through industries within their region, the Bengaluru-headquartered ISRO said. ISRO Scientific Secretary R Umamaheswaran underlined the need for inter-disciplinary approach and close team work among various disciplines of Science and Technology for accomplishing the objectives of S-TIC. With the setting up of three new S-TICs, the goal of opening one such centre in each six region of the country has been accomplished by ISRO. S-TICs have already been functioning, at National Institute of Technology, Agartala (for North-Eastern region), Dr.B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology, Jalandhar (for Northern region) and National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli (for Southern region). Sivan also released'YUKTI-Sanchita 2021' (Youth Upgradation byKnowledgeTransformation through Incubators - Sanchita),a compilation of 108 product development / innovative project proposals from centres/ labs/units of DoS/ISRO. "It can be referred by the Academia, Industry and Start-ups to prepare a detailed proposal for execution of the projects. This is one of the major steps by DOS / ISRO to achieve the development and indigenisation of space grade components / products / processes in tandem with objectives of 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat'", ISRO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/space-technology-incubation-centres-opened-at-nit-nagpur-bhopal-rourkela-963795.html
19-03-2021||National||Centre urges Delhi HC to restrain WhatsApp from implementing new privacy policy||The Centre Friday urged the Delhi High Court to restrain Facebook-owned WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy and terms of service. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology made the statement in its affidavit filed in response to a petition challenging the new privacy policy of social networking platform WhatsApp. The petitioners, Seema Singh and Meghan Singh, have contended that the new privacy policy indicates the "fissures" in Indian data protection and privacy laws. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-urges-delhi-hc-to-restrain-whatsapp-from-implementing-new-privacy-policy-963801.html
19-03-2021||National||Five states witnessing surge, account for 80% of new daily Covid-19 cases||States like Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh are reporting a surge in the daily Covid-19 cases, accounting for over 80 per cent of the new infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The ministry also said that India's total active caseload has increased to 2,71,282 and comprises 2.82 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 18,918 cases have been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 25,833 which is 65 per cent of daily cases. It is followed by Punjab with 2,369 while Kerala reported 1,899 new cases, the ministry said. A total of 39,726 new daily cases were reported in a span of 24 hours. Eight states including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. The Centre is actively engaging with all state and UT governments, especially those showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases, the ministry said. The Union Government is regularly reviewing the status of Covid-19 containment and public health measures with them. States and UTs have been advised to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70 per cent), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the 'Test Track and Treat' strategy of the government.  They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. "It is also advised to focus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths.  "It has been advised that the states and UTs should also follow up on sending samples for genome testing to track virus variants of concern," the ministry said.  All states and UTs have been tagged to 10 national labs under the INSACOG consortium with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as the nodal institute.  They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, the ministry stated. Recently, the Centre had deputed high-level public health teams to Maharashtra and Punjab to assist in Covid-19 control and containment measures in view of recent spike in cases in these states.  The Central government had earlier deputed high-level teams to Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Punjab, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, and Jammu and Kashmir to support them in their fight against the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. The reports of central teams are shared with the states for further follow-up action. The follow-up and compliance on part of states is monitored by the Union Health Ministry. Besides, nearly 4 crore (3,93,39,817) vaccine doses have been administered through 6,47,480 sessions, as per the provisional report till Friday 7 am. These include 76,35,188 HCWs (1st dose),47,15,173 HCWs (2nd dose), 78,33,278 FLWs (1st dose)and21,98,414 FLWs (2nd Dose), 27,79,998 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose)and 1,41,77,766 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day-62 of the vaccination drive (18th March), more than 22 Lakh (22,02,861) vaccine doses were given.   Of these, 18,32,287 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 32,128 sessions for 1st dose and 3,70,574 HCWs and FLWs received the 2nd dose of vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries have sugred to 1,10,83,679. The ministry said that 16 states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Andhra Pradesh, Chandigarh, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh, Manipur, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-witnessing-surge-account-for-80-of-new-daily-covid-19-cases-963817.html
19-03-2021||National||Resilient systems needed for sustainable water use: India at UN||India has underlined the need to build resilient systems that provide long term solutions for the sustainable use of water, amidst increased global pressure on dwindling water resources. Addressing the high-level meeting on the “Implementation of the Water-Related Goals and Targets of the 2030 Agenda” convened by President of the General Assembly Volkan Bozkir, Minister of Jal Shakti (Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that there is no doubt that in the journey to achieve the 2030 Agenda, water supply and sanitation have to be the center of the global efforts. “Water being critical to life on earth also plays a seminal role in the social, economic, and environmental evaluation of the world towards a sustainable future. Nearly 1.1 billion people lack access to water, with 2.7 billion people facing water scarcity for at least one month every year,” Shekhawat said on Thursday. “We need to make water available to the most vulnerable. At the same time, we need to build resilient systems that provide long term solutions for sustainable use of water,” he said. Noting that water systems are becoming stressed and more than half of the world’s wetlands have disappeared, Shekhawat said climate change is altering the pattern of weather, all around causing droughts in some areas and floods in others. “Furthermore, water availability and distribution is changed by the limitation of geography, growing demand and pollution of water bodies. Water conservation, rain-water harvesting and water recycling have yielded synergistic results and we need to build on them,” he said, adding that there is a need to bridge the gap between accessibility and availability of water. The high-level meeting centred around the implementation of the water-related goals and targets of the 2030 Agenda, which is the blueprint for a better, more sustainable world. Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 6 specifically addresses access to water and sanitation. The UN General Assembly has declared 2018 to 2028, the Water Action Decade, which also addresses the increased global pressure on water resources, and exacerbated risk of droughts and floods. Bozkir told the high-level meeting that about 2.2 billion people – almost a third of the global population – continue to lack access to safely managed drinking water; 4.2 billion people – more than half of the planet’s population – live without safely managed sanitation and two billion people don’t have a decent toilet of their own. “If I may be candid: it is a moral failure that we live in a world with such high levels of technical innovation and success, but we continue to allow billions of people to exist without clean drinking water or the basic tools to wash their hands. And make no mistake, this is a global failure that has far-reaching implications for all of us,” Bozkir said. He called on the international community to provide greater financial and capacity-building support to water and sanitation-related activities, particularly through their support to Covid-19 recovery. Shekhawat added that with 17.7 per cent of the world’s population calling India as their home, water demand will outpace water availability by two times by 2030. He outlined efforts undertaken by India to achieve Sustainable Development Goal-6, particularly the establishment of the Ministry of Water Conservation and Management in 2019 to address all water-related issues. ‘The Clean India Mission’, launched in 2014 to achieve universal sanitation, became the world’s biggest sanitation campaign with the construction of 110 million toilets in only six years resulting in an open-defecation free India, he said. The campaign successfully affected a positive behavioural transformation by urging people to adopt better sanitation and hygiene standards, he said adding that experience showed that women’s role in the management of water and sanitation facilities is crucial in ensuring sustainability. India has also launched the ‘Water is Life Mission’ (Jal Jeevan), a $50 billion project to provide safe and piped drinking water to all households by 2024. Under the National River Conservation Plan, river Ganga is being cleaned, a “feat being accomplished by the abatement of pollution and conservation and rejuvenation of the river.” Shekhawat quoted Dr B.R. Ambedkar's words, “Water being the wealth of the people and its distribution being uncertain, the correct approach is not to complain against nature but to conserve water.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/resilient-systems-needed-for-sustainable-water-use-india-at-un-963821.html
19-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Malls, multiplexes to be shut in Gujarat on weekends||Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to shut malls and multiplexes on Saturdays and Sundays due to Covid-19. “We're very upset as multiplexes were shut for seven months and we'd just started to settle down. On Saturdays and Sundays, we expect most footfall," a movie theatre owner told ANI. Gujarat: Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation decides to shut malls & multiplexes on Saturdays-Sundays due to COVID. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-malls-multiplexes-to-be-shut-in-gujarat-on-weekends-963832.html
19-03-2021||National||Be careful, follow Covid-19 guidelines: Venkaiah Naidu tells MPs as cases rise||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu urged the Members of Parliament on Friday to remain extra careful and strictly follow the coronavirus-related guidelines in the wake of rise in the number of cases in some states. During the morning session, Naidu said while the severity has come down, reports are coming from certain states that the pandemic is spreading. "...all the members of Parliament, who are here, who are there in their respective fields, to be extra careful. I know that you are all public representatives, you can't live in isolation. But at the same time, while dealing with people, meeting them, or going to the constituencies or areas, be careful, follow strictly the advice given by the Health Ministry and Home Ministry, central government, as well as the guidelines issued by the state governments concerned from time to time and see to it that they are implemented," he said. Naidu further said MPs should take interest to see that common people too are guided properly. "One of the reasons, as we are seeing, though the severity has come down, but the cases are spreading here and there, is that people in those respective areas are not following the amount of discipline," he said, and added "we should not allow the situation to deteriorate". The Chairman also urged MPs and their family members, who are eligible, to get themselves vaccinated. Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi suggested that asthma and obesity too should be included in the list of comorbidities for vaccination, saying these two have emerged as a major cause of Covid-19 mortality. People of over 45 years with comorbidities are eligible for vaccination, along with senior citizens. Chaturvedi said she was a proponent of vaccine for all so that India could emerge out of Covid-19 sooner rather than later. G V L Narasimha (BJP) talked about the difficulties faced by exporters of spices regarding settlement of payments as some unscrupulous people in some countries create difficulties. "So they need at least in those cases where they have genuine difficulties, the Ministry of External Affairs and the Missions concerned in their respective countries should come forward to lend assistance to them by way of settling disputes, as per the local mechanism in their respective countries," he said. The BJP MP suggested that the government should set up a help desk in every Mission, where Indian exporters can go for redressal of their problems related to payments. Sujeet Kumar (BJD) raised the issue of rising cancer cases and demanded lowering of prices of cancer drugs. He said while the Government of India has taken several initiatives for the welfare of cancer patients, there is an urgent and clear need to lower cancer drug prices in the country to keep these life-saving drugs available and affordable to patients belonging to the poor segment of society, especially in this Covid-19 scenario. BJD leader Subhash Chandra Singh demanded the government that major trains should pass through Cuttack and Cuttack Railway station should be upgraded. BJP leader Hardwar Dubey urged the government to protect people working in the tourism sector in Uttar Pradesh as they are affected due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress leader Chhaya Verma expressed concern over delay in sanctioning a processing and cold storage unit for Chhattisgarh where farmers are not getting fair price for their horticultural crops. "The state government has written to the Centre for a processing and cold chain unit. But no action has been taken so far and as a result the state has not been able to benefit from the processing units," she said. After the Zero Hour, members made 'Special Mentions' on several issues including fuel price rise and milk adulteration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-careful-follow-covid-19-guidelines-venkaiah-naidu-tells-mps-as-cases-rise-963857.html
19-03-2021||National||Tejashwi Yadav tables ADR report in Bihar Assembly||Leader of opposition in Bihar assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav of the RJD on Friday tabled a report which said 18 out of 31 state ministers are facing serious criminal cases. With Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha's permission during Zero Hour in the assembly, the RJD leader referred to a report of the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) according to which the 18 ministers are facing criminal cases, including murder, kidnapping and robbery. "Let the ADR report be made part of the proceedings I want to table it on the floor of the House," he said, to which the Speaker replied, it is already in public domain and there is nothing new in it. The report even included cases relating to violation of the model code of conduct, Sinha said, adding that a 10-year-old case for violation of model code of conduct is also pending against him (Speaker). "There are many more people including you (Tejashwi) who may be facing such cases," he said while allowing him to table the ADR report in the assembly but refused to make it part of the House proceedings. Referring to his speech made during a debate on home departments budgetary demand in the House on Tuesday, the RJD leader had said that more than 64 per cent of ministers are facing criminal cases and "You (Speaker) had sought documentary proofs in support of my claim". Earlier in the day, the RJD leader informed the Speaker that he has brought the ADR report as proof, which he had been asked to furnish as evidence. The Speaker allowed him to raise the issue after Question Hour. Meanwhile, the ruling JD(U) came out with another list of the same report to counter the proof cited by the leader of the opposition in the House. Referring to the ADR report compiled after Bihar assembly polls in 2020, JD(U)'s chief whip in the assembly Shrawan Kumar said that 54 out of 74 RJD legislators- including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and his brother Tej Pratap Yadav- are facing criminal cases. He also said that 44 out of the 54 RJD MLAs are facing criminal cases of serious nature.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tejashwi-yadav-tables-adr-report-in-bihar-assembly-963858.html
19-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes bill to amend MMDR Act||Lok Sabha on Friday passed a bill to amend the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, with Union minister Pralhad Joshi saying the changes will help create employment opportunities and allow private sector with enhanced technology in mining activities. "The reform in the mining sector would generate 55 lakh direct and indirect employment. To enhance mining activity, we will allow private sector with enhanced technology in mineral exploration," Joshi said. The Lower House passed the Mines and Minerals Development (Amendment) Bill, 2021. According to the minister, India produces 95 minerals and has same potential like South Africa and Australia but still import minerals like gold and coal. "The reform in the mining sector would generate 55 lakh direct and indirect employment. To enhance mining activity, we will allow private sector with enhanced technology in mineral exploration," the minister said. According to the minister, the mining sector currently contributes 1.75 per cent to the country's GDP and through the reforms proposed in the bill the contribution will rise to 2.5 per cent and strengthen the economy. The bill seeks to amend the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957, and would bring in mega reforms in the sector with resolution in legacy issues, thereby making a large number of mines available for auctions. It will help strengthen the auction-only regime and boost transparency in the system. The reforms as part of the bill include removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines and introduction of an index-based mechanism by developing a National Mineral Index (NMI) for various statutory payments, among others. In order to boost exploration, there will be review of functioning of the National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET). NMET will be made an autonomous body. Private entities will also be engaged in exploration works now. Simplification of exploration regime will also be done to facilitate seamless transition from exploration to production. The major objective of the reforms is to generate huge employment opportunities, reduce imports and increase production by bringing large mineral blocks into auction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-amend-mmdr-act-963859.html
19-03-2021||National||Covid-19 vaccination drive to be extended in coming days: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the Covid-19 vaccination drive will be extended in the coming days and asserted that there should not be any misconceptions about the two Indian vaccines being administered in the country. During the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Vardhan said India has vaccinated 3.5 to 4 crore people so far and side effects of the vaccines has been recorded at 0.000432 per cent.  "Every vaccine doesn't require universal immunisation and all these priority groups whom we are vaccinating today like healthcare staff first and then senior citizens and people aged between 45 and 59 years, it will be extended in the coming days – all these are based on experts' opinion.           "Not only Indian experts, but we have also consulted WHO guidelines regarding priority groups," he said.  Serum Institute's Covishield and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin have been currently approved for restricted emergency use in India. Replying to a question by NCP MP Supriya Sule on whether the government is aiming at universal immunisation of Covid-19 vaccine, Vardhan said it is not scientifically necessary to administer the vaccine to each and every person in the country.           "Not each and every person in the world will be vaccinated. The prioritisation process is a dynamic process.  "The behaviour of the virus is also dynamic. All things are based on scientific facts, scrutiny and vision of the overall scientific and health community," he said.          The minister said under India's present universal immunization programme, free vaccines are provided against 12 vaccine-preventable diseases, including Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus, Polio, Measles, Rubella, severe form of Childhood Tuberculosis, Hepatitis B and Meningitis, among others.          Replying to a question by Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu about the fear in people that the Covid-19 vaccine will harm them in the future, Vardhan asserted that taking vaccines is the way to get rid of vaccine-preventable diseases.      "We got victory over polio and chicken pox due to the vaccination," he said.          There are detailed pre-clinical and clinical trials, which get thoroughly studied by the experts before a vaccine gets the nod, the minister said, adding that "There should not be any misconception regarding the Covid-19 vaccines and the people should avail the facilities given by the government get themselves vaccinated."  Vardhan further noted that there is a well-defined group of experts called the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVAC)).        "What you are seeing today is the hard work of the people in the ministry and this group, which was set up by the prime minister in August.  "Since then, they have been working closely regarding all scientific developments related to this," he said.          The minister also pointed out that the Subject Expert Committee has cleared two Indian vaccines (Covishield and Covaxin) after examining data provided by these companies.  Data provided by two Indian companies was also examined by the World Health Organisation, he added.  Replying to questions on Thalassemia, Vardhan, "Not a single thalassemia patient was deprived of blood during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he noted and said blood is provided free of cost to these patients. Thalassemia major and the severe form of Thalassemia Intermedia (TI) constitute the major burden of disease and both are commonly managed by regular lifelong blood transfusions and iron chelation.         These syndromes are caused by inheritance of abnormal (beta) thalassemia genes from both parents or abnormal beta-thalassemia gene from one parent and abnormal variant haemoglobin gene (HbE, HbD) from the other parent. The minister said in the last one year, 75 medical colleges have been sanctioned by the government. "A total of 30,000 Health and Wellness centres were opened under the Ayushman Bharat scheme in the last one year during the COVID-19 pandemic period," he said. Vardhan also said during the last six years 24,000 new postgraduate medical seats have been created.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-be-extended-in-coming-days-harsh-vardhan-963860.html
19-03-2021||National||Children below 14 years of age less affected by Covid-19: Harsh Vardhan in Lok Sabha||An analysis shows that children in the age group of 0-14 years are less affected by Covid-19, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. He said in a written reply that infection among children is mild and most of them remain asymptomatic. "Hence no specific action plan has been formulated in the current response phase to minimise the adverse effects of Covid-19 on such children," he said. Very rarely a severe illness, in form of multi-system inflammatory syndrome, has been identified, Vardhan said, adding this happens usually three to six weeks after the infection. The Department of Pediatrics, AIIMS, is documenting the long term effect of Covid-19 infection in children, he said.  The minister was responding to a question on whether the government had formulated any action plan to control and minimise the adverse effects of Covid-19 in children aged 0-14. For appropriate management of Covid-19 cases, a three-tier arrangement of health facilities has been implemented -- Covid Care Centre with isolation beds for mild or pre-symptomatic cases, Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) with oxygen supported isolation beds for moderate cases and Dedicated Covid Hospital (DCH) with ICU beds for severe cases, he said.  Guidelines on clinical management of Covid-19 have been issued, Vardhan said. They also provide for the management of complications. On whether the government has made any assessment of adverse effects of Covid-19 on mental health of children and has provided psychological support through healthcare professionals, Vardhan said the Ministry of Education has initiated a programme called 'manodarpan' covering a wide range of activities to provide psycho-social support to students, teachers and families for mental health and emotional wellbeing.  There is a national toll-free helpline 8448440632 to provide tele-counselling for students, parents and teachers to help cope with the situation, he said. The standard operating procedure for health and safety protocols for reopening of schools issued by the Ministry of Education has incorporated guidelines for promoting emotional well-being of students and teachers, the minister said.  The Ministry of Health set up a 24/7 helpline through NIMHANS, Bangalore, on March 29, 2020, to provide psycho-social support to the affected population, divided into different target groups, Vardhan said. Two central mental health institutions -- namely LGB Regional Institute of Mental Health, Tezpur and Central Institute of Psychiatry, Ranchi -- along with various states and UTs were also on-boarded to extend the services in regional and local languages.  He said guidelines and advisories on management of mental health issues, catering to different segments of the society, were issued. All the guidelines, advisories and advocacy material can be accessed on the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare website under 'Behavioural Health – Psycho-social helpline', Vardhan said. He further said that various media platforms were used for creative and audio-visual materials on managing stress and anxiety, and promoting an environment of support and care for all.  To address the burden of mental disorders, Government of India is implementing the National Mental Health Programme (NMHP), Vardhan said, adding the government is supporting implementation of the District Mental Health Programme (DMHP) under NMHP in 692 districts of the country. To generate awareness among masses about mental illnesses, Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities are an integral part of the NMHP, he said, and at the District level, funds up to Rs 4 lakh per annum are provided under the DMHP for awareness generation activities, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/children-below-14-years-of-age-less-affected-by-covid-19-harsh-vardhan-in-lok-sabha-963862.html
19-03-2021||National||US Secretary of Defence Lloyd Austin meets Ajit Doval, calls on PM Modi||China’s aggression along its disputed boundary with India as well as elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region came up for discussion as the United States Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval on Friday. Austin called on Modi and had a meeting with Doval shortly after arriving in New Delhi. He will have a meeting with his counterpart Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday. “Thrilled to be here in India. The breadth of cooperation between our two nations reflects the significance of our major defense (defence) partnership, as we work together to address the most pressing challenges facing the Indo-Pacific region,” the US Secretary of Defence posted on Twitter after landing in New Delhi. Austin is the first top US official to visit New Delhi after the change of guard at the White House in Washington DC. He arrived in New Delhi less than two months after Joe Biden took over as the US President, succeeding Donald Trump. His visit to New Delhi comes close on the heels of the historic first summit of the Quad, a coalition forged by India, Japan, Australia and the US to counter China in the Indo-Pacific. Sources told DH that Doval and Austin had discussed India-China military stand-off in eastern Ladakh. The National Security Advisor had apprised the US Secretary of Defence about the progress in India-China bilateral talks to resolve the stand-off. They had also discussed China’s belligerence in the disputed waters of South China Sea, East China Sea, Taiwan Strait and elsewhere in the Indo-Pacific region, sources added. The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) last month withdrew front-line troops from the northern and the southern banks of Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The mutual disengagement from both banks of the lake raised hope for an early end to the military stand-off, which had started in late April and early May in 2020 and had taken the bilateral relations to a new low over the past 11 months. The senior military commanders of the two sides started discussion for withdrawal of troops from other face-off points along the LAC, like Hot Springs, Depsang and Gogra Post, but could not yet work out a mutually acceptable plan. Austin earlier called on Modi, who stressed on the important role of bilateral defence cooperation in the relations of India and the US, according to a press-release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office after the meeting. The Prime Minister also noted during his discussion with the American Secretary of Defence that the “warm and close relationship” between India and the US was “rooted in shared values of democracy, pluralism and commitment to a rules-based order”. Austin reiterated the US Government’s continued commitment towards strengthening the bilateral defence relations between the two countries. He expressed the US's strong desire to further enhance the strategic partnership for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-secretary-of-defence-lloyd-austin-meets-ajit-doval-calls-on-pm-modi-963868.html
19-03-2021||National||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray puts lockdown back on table as Covid-19 surges||Amid a sudden zoom in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said that a “lockdown is an option in future” even as the government came with fresh restrictions with a 50 per cent attendance cap in private offices. “Lockdown is an option in future, as I can see, but I expect cooperation from people,” Thackeray told reporters in Nandurbar, where he reviewed the vaccination programme. According to him, those who have been vaccinated and those awaiting their turn would have to compulsorily wearing masks, maintain social distancing and ensure sanitization.  “It’s a year that we have been facing the pandemic, we had controlled it, but now there is a sudden increase…this is a matter of concern,” he said. Thackeray said that the vaccination programme is underway as per the categories announced by the Centre – but more people need to turn up. “The myths have to be dispelled,” he said. Meanwhile, the state government directed private offices to function at 50 per cent strength. The manufacturing sector can function in full strength. However, the government has advised to reduce staff strength on the production floor and ensure social distancing. The manufacturing sector can also alter the work timings. The new set of guidelines was issued on Friday by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. The government also asked drama halls/auditoriums to function at 50 per cent strength. “There would be no entry without masks and temperature screening. Besides, sanitisers have to kept at convenient locations,” the order said. Meanwhile, there are reports that the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation in Mumbai would make the Rapid Antigen Test facility to take samples for Coronavirus testing compulsory; however, an official confirmation is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-puts-lockdown-back-on-table-as-covid-19-surges-963873.html
19-03-2021||National||Railways infrastructure will never be privatised, assets to be monetised, says Piyush Goyal||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Friday informed Parliament that railways infrastructure will never be privatised but it plans to monetise its assets to generate resources to boost growth. Clarifying the government stand, Goyal said privatisation is different from asset monetisation. "When you privatise, you sell off the assets permanently and it no longer remains a part of the government ownership. In the railways, the plan is to monetise in terms of how it will generate resources, further investment and growth. The infrastructure of Indian Railways will never be privatised," Goyal said in Rajya Sabha during Question Hour. The Ministry of Railways plans to monetise assets including through Eastern and Western Dedicated Freight Corridors after commissioning, Goyal said adding that the freight corridor is a separate corporate entity and the railways is supporting it.  The freight corridors including railway tracks in the corridors are owned by the Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) and not railways, he said. He also said that passenger train operations taken up through Public Private Partnership (PPP) is targeted to bring a total investment of about Rs 30,000 crore. The minister said assets monetisation involves various transaction processes, and the investment expected depends on the outcome of bidding process open to public and private sectors. "Therefore, the actual investment expected from private and public sectors cannot be ascertained as of now," he added. "Similarly, if new rail tracks are laid and private people are invited and encouraged to operate there, it will be run by loco pilots, there will be caterers, so it will generate employment and not lead to job losses," he said. The Ministry of Railways is committed towards enhancing the pace of infrastructure development, which is vital for the national economy as a whole, he said. The railways would always be a key economic driver in the strategy of investment-led economic growth, he said. Goyal said modern train is the need of the day, and the railways has got historic Rs 2.15 lakh crore allotment under Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If a road is built, everyone uses it, similarly if a pipeline is built by GAIL and they only use it, it will be misused, he said. In reply to a supplementary raised by the leader of the opposition in the Upper House Mallikarjun Kharge about a proposal to merge three divisions of Gulbarga in Karnataka, Goyal said the Railways Board did not find it feasible. He said proposals made by Zonal Managers are sent to the Board for a holistic view with an all-India perspective. He, however, added that he will discuss the issue with Kharge separately. In a reply to another supplementary, he said for seven routes dedicated to semi-high speed passenger corridors, the government is talking to state governments and added that there has been good response from the Uttar Pradesh government which is cooperating on the Delhi-Varanasi route, mostly elevated along the highways. He said under PM Modi's leadership instead of just haphazard announcements, which he alleged used to be the case earlier, committed plans are being made and it is being ensured that the rail infra is augmented in the entire country instead of just a few places. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-infrastructure-will-never-be-privatised-assets-to-be-monetised-says-piyush-goyal-963878.html
19-03-2021||National||Govt departments under scanner as CBI conducts surprise checks at 100 locations||The CBI on Friday carried out preventive surprise checks at around 100 locations in over 15 states to identify central government offices where corrupt practices could be taking place, officials said. The operation is going on at the offices of railways and income tax department among others in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and other places, they said. The agency has coordinated with the vigilance teams of various departments to carry out the checks, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-departments-under-scanner-as-cbi-conducts-surprise-checks-at-100-locations-963879.html
19-03-2021||National||FIMI asks SC to do away with mandatory iron ore e-auction in Karnataka||Federation of Indian Mineral Industry, Southern Region has approached the Supreme Court for discontinuing e-auction mandated by the top court for sale and purchase of iron ore in Karnataka through a 2013 judgement. In an application, it said the interim arrangement mandated by the court in 'Samaj Parivartan Samudaya' case was no longer required as it created a dual regime in Karnataka vis-a-vis the rest of the country. Further, Karnataka's monitoring committee and the CEC had already agreed for doing away with e-auction. On Friday, senior advocate Krishnan Venugopal and advocate Rohit Sharma, mentioned the matter before a bench presided over by Justice N V Ramana for urgent hearing. The court, initially said the case would be taken up when physical hearings resume. However, when the counsel insisted the application can be considered in virtual hearing, the court, then said it would consider fixing a date. In its plea, the industry body asked the court to discontinue the compulsory sale of iron ore through e-auction and allow purchasers freedom to enter into contracts with lessees in Karnataka. The two-year period contemplated in the SC judgement has elapsed. The Central Empowered Committee has acknowledged in its report that e-auction has served its purpose to the extent that it had stopped illegal mining. In a report in 2019, the CEC has said the sale of iron ore through e-auction had no nexus with environmental damage, it said. The plea also claimed that the rigid condition of e-auction was hurting trade along with its cascading effect on the state exchequer. Moreover, there have been changes, including introduction of satellite-based real-time mining surveillance system (MSS), in a regulatory regime since 2013.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fimi-asks-sc-to-do-away-with-mandatory-iron-ore-e-auction-in-karnataka-963887.html
19-03-2021||National||Railways created 14.14 lakh man-days employment under Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan: Goyal||The railways generated 14.14 lakh man-days employment under the Centre's Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan in identified districts of six states to expeditiously re-start economic activities post-lockdown, Union minister Piyush Goyal told Rajya Sabha on Friday. In a written reply to a question on estimated job loss or work loss post-lockdown especially for those indirectly dependent on the Railways for their livelihoods, he said the Ministry has not undertaken any such study. "However, to expeditiously re-start economic activities after lifting of lockdown so as to provide employment opportunities to the contract workers engaged by contractors, Railways took a number of measures...Under the GKRA announced by Government on 20.06.2020 for 125 days, Railways generated 14,14,604 man-days employment in 140 projects," he said. He said employment was generated under the GKRA in identified districts across six states of Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha. Instructions were issued to release wages/payments to contractual staff directly engaged by the Railways and outsourced staff engaged through contractors, who could not attend duty during the lockdown period up to May 31, 2020, he said. The minister said measures were also taken to increase the cash flow of contractors so that they could expedite the execution of works which could then result in a corresponding increase in the engagement of contract workers on work sites. He said these steps included release of performance guarantee in ongoing contracts proportionate to progress of work and release of security deposit available with Railways to contractors against bank guarantee. In reply to a supplementary on death of railways employees due to Covid-19, Goyal said there is a provision for compassionate appointment to one eligible person in the family of the employee who died in the line of duty. He said the compensation amount has been increased after the implementation of 7th Pay Commission by the government, but added that many states including West Bengal have not implemented this, resulting in railway employees there not getting the increased amount in the event of any mishap. He said Railway Protection Force personnel on duty have been vaccinated and others will also be administered the jabs too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-created-1414-lakh-man-days-employment-under-garib-kalyan-rojgar-abhiyaan-goyal-963891.html
19-03-2021||National||Mayawati trashes 'tall claims' by UP, Uttarakhand, Punjab govts, says people want change||BSP chief Mayawati on Friday trashed claims made by the BJP in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and the Congress in Punjab on the achievements of their state governments as they complete four years in office, saying people there want change. The three state governments this week marked four years in office with Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath addressing a press conference on Friday morning, listing what his government has achieved so far as it prepares for the next assembly polls a year away. The Bahujan Samaj Party supremo termed it “tall claims”. “There is very little truth in the tall claims of achievements put forth by the BJP government in UP on completion of four years by issuing big advertisements, press conferences, etc in an extravagant manner,” she tweeted in Hindi. “It would have been better had their claims provided benefits to the poor people at the ground level,” she added. Mayawati made a similar comment on the BJP government in Uttarakhand, now led by Tirath Singh Rawat, and Amarinder Singh’s Congress government in Punjab. “Therefore, the unhappy and affected people of these three states are restless for change,” she said. In another tweet, the BSP chief condemned a comment made by Uttarakhand's new CM, saying it was “indecent and unnecessary”. “Instead, he should pay proper attention on the constitutional responsibility towards public interest and prosperity of his state. This is the BSP’s advice,” she said. Rawat had criticised women for wearing ripped jeans, his comment triggering a sharp reaction on social media and condemnation by opposition parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mayawati-trashes-tall-claims-by-up-uttarakhand-punjab-govts-says-people-want-change-963894.html
19-03-2021||National||BHEL supplies 100th space-grade battery to ISRO||State-owned engineering firm BHEL on Friday said it has achieved a milestone of supplying 100 space-grade battery to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for its Chandrayaan 3 mission. "Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has achieved the unique milestone of supplying its 100th battery to ISRO for its very important and critical mission, Chandrayaan 3," a company statement said. Over the last 16 years, BHEL has been supplying batteries to ISRO for its critical mission applications like INSAT, GSAT, IRNSS series and RISAT series. These are manufactured at the Electronic Systems Division (ESD) of BHEL in Bengaluru, with the highest standards of quality, reliability and safety. These batteries use various types of chemistry, including Nickel-Cadmium, Nickel-Hydrogen and Lithium-Ion. As part of this series, the 100th battery was handed over to ISRO by AK Jain, Executive Director, BHEL-EDN. The vehicle carrying this battery was flagged-off by M Sankaran, Deputy Director/CPA of Isro, Bengaluru at ESD, in the presence of senior officials of State-owned engineering firm on Friday said it has achieved a milestone of supplying 100 space-grade battery to the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) for its Chandrayaan 3 mission. "Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) has achieved the unique milestone of supplying its 100th battery to ISRO for its very important and critical mission, Chandrayaan 3," a company statement said. Over the last 16 years, BHEL has been supplying batteries to ISRO for its critical mission applications like INSAT, GSAT, IRNSS series and RISAT series. These are manufactured at the Electronic Systems Division (ESD) of BHEL in Bengaluru, with the highest standards of quality, reliability and safety. These batteries use various types of chemistry, including Nickel-Cadmium, Nickel-Hydrogen and Lithium-Ion. As part of this series, the 100th battery was handed over to ISRO by AK Jain, Executive Director, BHEL-EDN. The vehicle carrying this battery was flagged-off by M Sankaran, Deputy Director/CPA of Isro, Bengaluru at ESD, in the presence of senior officials of ISRO and BHEL. The BHEL’s ESD also fabricates and supplies space-grade solar panels for satellites of ISRO for the last two decades and more than 650 sq meters of BHEL-made panels are used in various satellites. Further, BHEL has completed testing of nearly 75,000 multi-junction solar cells at its premises, prior to use in the fabrication of panels. The company takes immense pride in its association with all of ISRO’s launch vehicles. and BHEL. The BHEL’s ESD also fabricates and supplies space-grade solar panels for satellites of ISRO for the last two decades and more than 650 sq meters of BHEL-made panels are used in various satellites. Further, BHEL has completed testing of nearly 75,000 multi-junction solar cells at its premises, prior to use in the fabrication of panels. The company takes immense pride in its association with all of ISRO’s launch vehicles.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhel-supplies-100th-space-grade-battery-to-isro-963902.html
19-03-2021||National||Devendra Fadnavis, Darekar get first Covid-19 vaccine shot||Maharashtra BJP leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar on Friday received the first dose of coronavirus vaccine at a hospital here. They were administered the vaccine at the government-run J J Hospital. After the vaccination, Fadnavis and Darekar, who are leaders of opposition in the state Legislative Assembly and Council, respectively, appealed to the people to get themselves vaccinated for protection against the virus. State Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and NCP president Sharad Pawar have received their vaccine doses recently.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/devendra-fadnavis-darekar-get-first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-963906.html
19-03-2021||National||Govt has taken number of steps to bring down pollution in Delhi: Javadekar||The government has taken a number of steps to address the issue of air pollution in Delhi, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday, and took a jibe at the AAP dispensation for taking credit for the work done by the Centre. Responding to a question on pollution in the national capital during the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Javadekar said air pollution in Delhi is the "most serious problem", and noted that the air quality along the Indo-Gangetic belt is poor. "The Centre has taken a number of steps to address the problem of Delhi's air pollution," he said. To address the issue of pollution in 100 cities, a National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was also launched and a plan has been made for every city, Javadekar said. Listing out the measures, he said the Badarpur power plant has been shut down. and the Centre has also constructed the Eastern and Western Express Peripheral Ways which were pending for the last 10 years. Nearly 50,000 trucks which would pass through Delhi and add to the pollution do not come to the national capital now, he said. By investing Rs 60,000 crore, less polluting fuel BS6 technology vehicles have been introduced, besides having electric two, three and four wheelers which are bringing down the pollution levels, he said. "Which is why the pollution level in Delhi is less than earlier years, states a new report," Javadekar said. A recent report by Swiss organisation, IQAir, in the form of the 'World Air Quality Report, 2020' states that 22 of the world's 30 most polluted cities are in India, with Delhi being ranked the most polluted capital city globally. The report, however, shows that Delhi's air quality improved by approximately 15 per cent from 2019 to 2020. Without naming Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Javadekar said, "There are some people in Delhi, who have no contribution towards it, (bringing down pollution levels) are running for credit and giving advertisements in newspapers that pollution has come down by 15 per cent." He said the Centre got Piped Natural Gas (PNG) for 3,000 industries in Delhi. It also transformed 3,000 brick kilns using zig-zag technology to bring down pollution levels, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-has-taken-number-of-steps-to-bring-down-pollution-in-delhi-javadekar-963907.html
19-03-2021||National||SC to consider plea against use of symbols in EVMs||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider a plea by BJP leader and lawyer, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, for directions to the Election Commission to use name, age, qualification and photograph of contesting candidates on EVM in place of political party symbol.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, refused for now to issue notice to the Union government and the Election Commission on his petition.  The court asked the petitioner to serve a copy of his petition on Attorney General K K Venugopal, a copy of his petition. It posted the matter for consideration after one week. The petition by Upadhyay contended that the party symbol was the root cause of corruption and criminalisation. He sought appropriate orders and or directions to use name, age, qualification and photograph of contesting candidates on Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) instead of political party symbol. Senior advocate, Vikas Singh, appearing for Upadhyay, told the court that he had checked and found that in Brazil, one just got numbers to contest and there was no symbol.  The bench, however, asked Singh, how a symbol can prejudice the electronic voting process in any way. To this, Singh said that the intrinsic value of the candidates can be taken and measured by the voters if details other than party symbols can be taken into consideration.  The CJI, however, said that the court would not issue a notice at this stage.  "You serve a copy on the Attorney General and then we will see. No notice now," the CJI Bobde told Singh.  The counsel also said that he had sent a letter to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and other authorities, but they didn't give any response in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-plea-against-use-of-symbols-in-evms-963911.html
19-03-2021||National||HC asks Centre to respond to PIL challenging FASTag rule for vehicles||The Bombay High Court on Friday directed the Union government to file an affidavit in response to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging the decision to make FASTag, the electronic toll collection chip, mandatory for all vehicles at toll plazas on national highways. A bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni asked the government if there was any law that said all toll plazas at national highways across the country will only have FASTag lanes. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by one Arjun Khanapure, challenging the decision of making FASTag compulsory. The plea also challenged the government's rule of imposing fines on vehicles flouting the FASTag rules. The petitioner's counsel Uday Warunjikar told the High Court that not all citizens were comfortable with technology. The Union government had given a short notice for vehicles to get FASTag chips fitted, he said, adding that vehicles that did not have FASTag, but entered the designated lane, were required to pay double the toll amount on national highways. However, the Union government did not have any valid power to impose such a fine, Warunjikar said. The court then sought to know from the Centre whether in light of the above provision on fines, some lanes on highways would be reserved for vehicles without FASTag, or if there had been any amendments to the Central Motor Vehicles Act or other existing laws to make all lanes FASTag ones. The Union government's counsel Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the court that the FASTag system had been implemented to prevent traffic jams at toll plazas across the country. Special booths had been set up and marshalls had been deployed at most toll plazas to help citizens get FASTag chips installed for their vehicles, he said. The High Court said it will consider all contentions in the next hearing on April 7, and directed the government to file its affidavit within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-asks-centre-to-respond-to-pil-challenging-fastag-rule-for-vehicles-963913.html
19-03-2021||National||No need to change Covaxin composition; effective against mutant variants of coronavirus: Centre||The need to change the composition of Covaxin has not been felt yet in view of the good efficacy of the vaccine against mutant variants, the government told Lok Sabha Friday. There are four mutations of the Covid-19 virus in India at present -- two UK variants and one South African and Brazilian variant each, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said. Providing details of the efficacy rate of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines against each of the mutations, he said there was no significant difference noted in the efficacy of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin against the UK and the Brazil strains. However, analysis of Covaxin's efficacy against South African strain is ongoing, he said. As for the Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, it has shown 74.6 per cent efficacy against the UK strain and has been shown to be effective against the Brazil strain. However, its efficacy against the South Africa strain is just 10 per cent, the minister stated. Continuous monitoring of evolution of mutations is being done by the Indian SARS- CoV-2 Genomics Surveillance Consortium (INSACOG), he said. Besides, National Institute of Virology (NIV) is continuously engaged in virus isolation of different SARS-CoV-2 strains for further research.  Strains from South Africa and Brazil have been detected in travellers coming to India from these countries. In order to curtail spread of these variants in India the government issued revised guidelines for international arrivals on February 17. As per the guidelines, screening of passengers coming from South Africa, Brazil and the UAE has been made very stringent to prevent spread of infection due to variants, Choubey said. On whether the government proposes to bring about changes in the existing vaccines available in the country to check the further spread of these two mutant strains, he said Oxford-AstraZeneca have initiated tweaking of the vaccine to make it efficacious against the mutant strains particularly the South African variant.  "The need to change composition of Covaxin has not been felt yet in view of good efficacy of the vaccine against variants," he said in the written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-need-to-change-covaxin-composition-effective-against-mutant-variants-of-coronavirus-centre-963914.html
19-03-2021||National||Don't want to create problems: SC defers plea against state Assemblies resolving CAA, farm laws||The Supreme Court on Friday said, "it does not want to create more problems" while hearing a plea against legislative competence of different State Assemblies in adopting 'resolutions' against central statutes like CAA and farm laws which fall under the Union List of the Seventh Schedule. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian deferred considering the plea raising question on resolutions by state Assemblies by telling senior advocate, Soumya Chakraborty, appearing for petitioner 'Samta Andolan Samiti' to do more research on the subject. "Do some research on the other aspects, we will see, we don’t want to create more problems," the bench told the counsel, adjourning the matter for four weeks. The PIL raised a question of law as to whether within the constitutional framework, more particularly under Article 213(2)(a) and Article 246(1), any State Legislature can adopt 'resolution' adversely criticising a central Statute which fell in List I of the Seventh Schedule. It contended that the legislative actions of four different state Legislative Assemblies of Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal have infringed upon the fundamental rights of all Indian citizens. The Legislatures of Rajasthan, Kerala, Punjab and West Bengal adopted resolutions condemning and adversely criticising the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 even after it was passed by both the Houses of the Parliament and received Presidential assent being duly notified in the Gazette of India, the petition stated. The Legislative Assembly of West Bengal also adopted a resolution against three Central Legislations (farm laws), plea added. Chief Minister of Delhi, Arvind Kejriwal had torn the three farm laws in the Assembly. The plea stated that Rules of Procedure of these Legislative Assemblies framed under Article 208 contain chapters titled 'resolutions' which, apart from imposing a precondition upon the Speakers to decide the admissibility of the resolution before allowing the same to be placed in the Assembly, also prohibited subjects which were not primarily the concern of the state government and on which litigations are pending.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-want-to-create-problems-sc-defers-plea-against-state-assemblies-resolving-caa-farm-laws-963929.html
19-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha nod to amend Tamil Nadu SC list ahead of polls||As campaigning for Tamil Nadu elections picked up the pace, the Lok Sabha on Friday passed a Bill to modify the scheduled castes list to include seven sub-castes clubbed into one as Devendrakula Vellalar. The AIADMK-BJP alliance is seeking to reap political benefits in the Assembly election by acceding to the decades-old demand that was ignored by chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi who feared that it would unsettle the caste matrix in the state. However, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced in December last year that the seven sub-sects—Devendrakulathan, Kudumban, Pannadi, Kaalaadi, Kadayan, Pallan and Patharian—will be called 'Devendrakula Vellalars' to ensure that the communities continue to enjoy the same reservation in education and jobs.  The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed by the Lok Sabha in the extended sitting of the House on Friday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during a visit to Tamil Nadu last month, had announced that the government had accepted the demand of the Devendrakula Vellalars and a Bill would be passed over this in the ongoing budget session. The seven sub-sects collectively constitute around 17.07% of the SC community in Tamil Nadu, as per the 2011 census. Replying to the discussion on the bill, Union Minister Thaawar Chand Gehlot said the provisions of the law dealing with atrocities on SCs and STs have been made stringent. Besides extending financial aid, legal assistance is also being extended to those affected.  BJP member Umesh Jadhav said the bill will give justice to about 30 to 40 lakh people who have been raising the demand for about the last 60-70 years. Shiv Sena member Rahul Shewale appreciated the central government’s move and sought similar favourable action in granting reservation to the Maratha community in Maharashtra.  BSP member Girish Chandra said that the discrimination against the SC and ST communities in Tamil Nadu is high which should end once for all. Earlier, CPI leader D Raja had said that the decision to bringing all sub-sects of the Devandrakula Vellalar community under one umbrella was an attempt to protect the caste system and establishing the BJP in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-nod-to-amend-tamil-nadu-sc-list-ahead-of-polls-963930.html
19-03-2021||National||SC agrees to examine plea on mandatory pre-litigation mediation||The Supreme Court on Friday agreed to consider a plea for a direction to the government and various High Courts to take appropriate measures to provide for mandatory ‘pre-litigation’ mediation.  The plea also sought guidelines or formulate a Standard Operating Procedure (SoP) to give immediate effect to the functioning of mandatory ‘pre-Litigation mediation’ pan India.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought appearance from law officer of the Union government. The court was also informed that the government was considering legislation on mediation. The bench posted the matter for consideration on March 25. A plea was filed by Youth Bar Association of India, citing the data issued by the National Judicial Data Grid (NJDG) that total number of cases pending before the courts is 32.45 million as on May 24, 2020, of which 32 percent cases are less than one year old.   As per the data issued by the NJDG out of total pending cases, 9.114 million are civil cases in which 34.25 per cent cases are one year old; about 44.76 per cent cases are 1-5 years old.  “The aggregate of cases that are 5-10 years old are 14.31 per cent. Disappointingly the category of cases which falls in the range of 20 to 30 years constitute 1.15 per cent of the pendency and 0.37 per cent case are waiting for their disposal for as much as thirty years," said the plea filed through advocate Ajit Sharma.  The petitioner emphasised mediation in general and ‘pre-litigative’ mediation in particular an alternative mode to settle the dispute amicably, and that too, at pre-litigative stage.  “Pre-institutional or to put it differently ‘Pre-litigation’ mediation is nothing but an attempt to resolve the dispute among the parties amicably with the help of neutral third party called Mediator before going to the court or even before filing litigation or sending a notice. It gives a chance to both the parties to end the dispute in a win-win position," the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-agrees-to-examine-plea-on-mandatory-pre-litigation-mediation-963940.html
19-03-2021||National||China says will ‘study’ mandatory Covid-19 vaccine rule to Indian students||China on Friday said it will “study” the applicability of its new rule of mandating vaccination by Chinese Covid-19 jabs to thousands of Indian students who were unable to re-join their universities in the country due to travel restrictions. In a notice on the Chinese Embassy website in India on March 15, China has made it mandatory for people coming from India and 19 other nations to get Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccines if they want to travel to the country. "For the purpose of resuming people-to-people exchanges in an orderly manner, starting from 15 March, 2021, the Chinese Embassies and Consulates in India will provide the persons having taken Chinese-made Covid-19 vaccine and holding the Certificates of Vaccination," a notice posted on the Chinese Embassy said. It mentioned that the rule is applicable to persons and their family members who want to travel to China to resume work and foreigners who are the family members of Chinese citizens or holders of Chinese Permanent Resident’s Permit. However, it was silent about thousands of Indian students who were stranded in India for over a year. The new rule created confusion as the Chinese Covid-19 vaccines are not available in India. Over 23,000 Indian students, mostly studying medicine, have been enrolled in Chinese universities and most of them could not return to China due to travel restrictions. Asked whether the new rule of the Chinese vaccination is applicable to the Indian students, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here “the Chinese government attaches high importance to protecting the rights and interests of foreign students in China.” “On the precondition of observing containment protocols, the Chinese authorities will study this matter in a coordinated manner and keep in communication with relevant parties,” he said. He termed “not accurate” a report quoting Chinese Embassy in New Delhi that China would make Chinese vaccines available in India for Indian travellers if the Indian government grants permission. “The report you mentioned is not accurate,” Zhao said in response to a question. “With regard to the visa facilitation measure, China provides visa facilitation to incoming foreigners who have received Chinese vaccines and hold a vaccination certificate with a view to resuming international travel in an orderly fashion. “As to the specific measures and the eligibility, I would refer you to notices on the website of the Chinese Embassy in India,” Zhao added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-says-will-study-mandatory-covid-19-vaccine-rule-to-indian-students-963941.html
19-03-2021||National||Rs 10 lakh raised for boy thrashed for drinking water inside temple, says crowdfunding platform||Around Rs 10 lakh has been raised for the boy who was allegedly thrashed for drinking water inside a Ghaziabad temple, online crowdfunding platform Ketto said Friday. The fundraiser was started to extend financial support to the boy's family and for his education by one of the co-founders of the fact-checking website Altnews, Ketto said in a statement. Through crowdfunding, around Rs 10 lakh has been raised in just two days with contributions from about 648 people, it said. Commenting on the fundraiser, the Altnews co-founder said the boy belongs to a poor family and wishes to study hard to change his family's fate. "Within 2 days we have raised around Rs 10 lakh on Ketto.org. The money raised on Ketto will support Asif to secure his future and get some financial stability," he said. The teenager was allegedly thrashed by a man, who was arrested after a video went viral showing him beating up the boy for drinking water inside a temple in Ghaziabad, police had said on Saturday. In the disturbing video, Shirangi Nanad Yadav was seen asking the boy his name, who said he was Asif. Yadav was then seen brutally thrashing him. The incident reportedly took place near Dasna Devi temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-10-lakh-raised-for-boy-thrashed-for-drinking-water-inside-temple-says-crowdfunding-platform-963943.html
19-03-2021||National||Opposition slams Centre for pushing amendments to insurance Bill||Congress-led Opposition on Friday slammed the Modi government for rushing a Bill allowing an increase in foreign direct investment in the insurance sector from 49% to 74%, ignoring their demands for referring it to a parliamentary committee. Addressing a press conference here with leaders of other Opposition parties, Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge claimed that the Insurance (Amendment) Bill had several discrepancies and accused the government of not allowing them to seek clarification on the legislation in the Rajya Sabha. The Rajya Sabha, late Thursday night, passed the Insurance (Amendment) Bill after repeated adjournments and amid a walkout by Opposition members. Kharge, the Leader of the Opposition in Rajya Sabha, claimed that the provisions in the Bill would allow foreign investors take ownership and control of insurance companies in the country after making investments in them. “We wanted the bill to be referred to a standing committee,” he said. Kharge was flanked by Shiv Sena leader Anil Desai, Jharna Das Baidya (CPI-M), Fouzia Khan (NCP), Binoy Biswan (CPI), T K S Elangovan (DMK), Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD). Kharge noted that the Insurance Act of 1938 was first amended during the tenure of Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who allowed 26% FDI in the sector.   “Later in 2015, the law was amended further to allow 49% FDI and now the amendment is for allowing 74%,” he added. The opposition, including the CPI(M), NCP, RJD, Shiv Sena, SP and DMK had demanded that the Bill be referred to a standing committee. Kharge alleged that the government had pushed the three farm Bills in Parliament last year without proper deliberation and forced the farmers to launch a long agitation to fight for their rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/opposition-slams-centre-for-pushing-amendments-to-insurance-bill-963944.html
19-03-2021||National||TCS to roll out salary hike for FY22; move to benefit all employees||Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) will hand out across-the-board salary increments for 2021-22, becoming the first IT services company to do so. The salary hike roll-out will benefit nearly 4.7 lakh employees of the company. The average increment band for offshore employees is expected to be 6-7 per cent as per norms, sources privy to the development told PTI. This would be the second salary hike within six months by TCS. When contacted, a TCS spokesperson confirmed that the company is on track to give increments to all associates across geographies effective April 2021, in line with its benchmarks. "We are extremely thankful to all our associates for demonstrating resilience, adaptability, and an innovative mindset to steer the company in these trying times. This step is a reflection of our steadfast commitment to our associates," the spokesperson added. The sources said that with the FY22 salary hike, TCS employees will get around 12-14 per cent average increment in six months' window. TCS was the first IT services company to announce a salary hike for all employees for FY21 in October last year. The sources noted that the Mumbai headquartered IT firm had given out a salary hike in line with industry norms in FY21, despite uncertainty due to COVID-19. TCS continues to offer promotions as per the regular promotion cycle. The salary hike announcement by the company marks a return to normal increment cycle, market watchers added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tcs-to-roll-out-salary-hike-for-fy22-move-to-benefit-all-employees-963945.html
19-03-2021||National||A chilling precedent: Ashoka University staff on 'troubling' exit of Pratap Bhanu Mehta||Students, faculty members of Ashoka University rallied behind Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta, who quit the private varsity claiming that his association with the university may be considered a political liability. The faculty of the university issued a statement saying Mehta's resignation was a direct consequence of his role as a public intellectual and critic of the government. “We are greatly troubled by the scenario. Even more troubling is the possibility that our university may have acceded to pressure to remove Professor Mehta or request, and accept his resignation,” the statement said. They said Mehta's exit would set a “chilling precedent for future removals of faculty, curtailing our sense of who we are as researchers and teachers”. Vice Chancellor of the varsity Malabika Sarkar, in a virtual town-hall meeting on Thursday evening, told students that Mehta was not ready to withdraw his resignation. Sarkar faced questions from the students and faculty members on the role of the trustees and founders of the university in Mehta's resignation, which also led to the exit of Arvind Subramanian, the former chief economic adviser, and professor in the department of economics at the varsity. The Vice Chancellor told the town hall that she was not a part of any conversation between Mehta and the trustees. “The trustees have categorically told me to convey on their behalf that they never asked Mehta to resign,” she said during the nearly two-hour-long meeting. The students of the university, in their campus newspaper, said that the town hall left many of them discontented and several questions still remained unanswered. Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram slammed the Modi government over the resignations of Mehta and Subramanian from the university. “What does it say of academic freedom in this country if two distinguished economists have to resign as Professors of Ashoka University? The people of India must rise to fiercely resist the attempt to impose one though all over the country,” he said. “'BJP Thought' or 'Modi Thought' will wreck the country and turn India into an autocracy,” the former finance minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-chilling-precedent-ashoka-university-staff-on-troubling-exit-of-pratap-bhanu-mehta-963948.html
19-03-2021||National||CBI files charge sheet against its own four officials in bribe-for-relief case||The CBI Friday filed a charge sheet against its four officials in a bribe-for-relief case involving the investigation against Frost International for allegedly committed a bank fraud of over Rs 4,300 crore, officials said. The agency has also arrested accused Sameer Kumar, its stenographer, in the case and he has been sent to judicial custody, they said. The CBI has booked its deputy superintendents of police -- R K Rishi and RK Sangwan -- and Inspector Kapil Dhankad along with an advocate in connection with an alleged bribery ring run by them within the agency to help companies accused of siphoning off bank loan funds, officials had said Wednesday. All three of them were arrested in January this year. They were booked for allegedly "compromising the integrity of investigation of certain cases on extraneous pecuniary considerations". The FIR also named Additional Director of Shree Shyam Pulp and Board Mills Mandeep Kaur Dhillon and directors of Frost International Sujay Desai and Uday Desai in the bribery case. It is alleged that Dhankad, a State Bank of India manager, who joined the agency on deputation as Inspector acted in collusion with Rishi and Sangwan and received regular payoffs to pass crucial information pertaining to cases against Shree Shyam Pulp facing probe in Rs 700 crore-loan default and Frost International in Rs 3,600 crore loan default, they said. “The CBI has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption be it other departments or within the organisation. The case is a result of strict vigil and action on any input which indicates involvement of our officials in corrupt practice," an official said after the FIR. Dhankad, posted in Banking Security and Fraud Cell of the agency, allegedly received at least Rs 10 lakh each from his superiors Sangwan and Rishi who were soliciting favours for Shree Shyam Pulp and Board Mills and Frost International respectively. DSP Rishi received Rs 15 lakh twice through advocates Malik and Gupta (having office in Defence Colony) to extend favours to a Chandigarh-based company against which a corruption case was being investigated by the CBI, the FIR alleged. It alleged Dhankad twice received Rs 2.5 lakh from Gupta for having brokered the deal through Rishi. “It has also been reliably learnt that the details of the investigation of many other cases including confidential notes and directions have been communicated by Sameer Kumar Singh, Steno, to Sangwan and Rishi on financial considerations to protect interests of the accused," the FIR has alleged. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-files-charge-sheet-against-its-own-four-officials-in-bribe-for-relief-case-963950.html
19-03-2021||National||Railways received over 40 lakh calls on its helpline numbers in 5 years: Govt||New Delhi, Mar 19 (PTI) The Indian Railways received more than 40 lakh complaints and requests for help on its helpline numbers in the last five years, the government informed Parliament on Friday. In a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said over the last five years, from 2016 to February 28, 2021, 40,90,589 such calls were received. According to the data provided by the minister, the most number (over 10 lakh) of calls were received in 2019, while the least number of calls (6.85 lakh) were received in 2017. In 2021, till February, 90,003 such calls have been received. While Goyal did not provide the details of the nature of such calls, passengers call the helpline numbers for a variety of reasons -- to know the status of trains, to register complaints over food, lost baggage and even medicines and other essentials. "Prior to 01.01.2020, no data was being maintained for average response time for emergency requests from moving trains. However, under the Digital India initiative and for the ease of living of customers, Railways merged all its helplines into RailMadad Helpline 139 with effect from January 2020. The 139 facility is available in 12 languages round the clock and can be accessed even by basic phone users," the minister said. He said the average response time for emergency assistance for medical and all security-related requests from moving trains has improved from 3:29 hours to 1:42 hours since January 2020 to February 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-received-over-40-lakh-calls-on-its-helpline-numbers-in-5-years-govt-963954.html
19-03-2021||National||Your next flight may be costlier — Here's why||Air travel will now become a little expensive as the government has decided to increase the lower limit on airfares by five per cent amid rising aviation turbine fuel (ATF) prices, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri on Friday. The upper limit on airfares will remain as it is for now. Just a month ago, the Centre had increased the lower and upper limits on domestic airfares by 10-30 per cent due to rising ATF prices. While announcing resumption of scheduled domestic flights in May last year, the Aviation Ministry had placed limits on airfares through seven bands classified on the basis of flight duration. The first band consists of flights having less than 40-minute duration and its lower limit has been increased to Rs 2,310 on Friday. The lower limit for the highest band of flights having duration of 180-210 minutes was further hiked to Rs 7,560. "There has been a continuous rise in price of ATF so it has been decided to increase the lower fare band by 5% keeping the upper fare band unchanged," Puri tweeted. "We may open the sector for 100% operations when daily passenger traffic crosses 3.5 lakhs on 3 occasions in a month." There has been a continuous rise in price of ATF so it has been decided to increase the lower fare band by 5% keeping the upper fare band unchanged. We may open the sector for 100% operations when daily passenger traffic crosses 3.5 lakhs on 3 occasions in a month. Currently, the airlines are permitted to operate not more than 80 per cent of their per-Covid-19 domestic flights. "Last few days have seen a decline in the number of air passengers largely due to restrictions & imposition of compulsory RT-PCR test by various states. Due to this we have decided to retain the permissible limit to 80% of schedule," Puri added. The government had taken the decision to impose lower and upper limits on airfares while resuming domestic services in May last year in order to ensure that the financially-hit airlines are able to survive as well as passengers are not charged exorbitantly. The aviation sector has been significantly impacted due to the travel restrictions imposed in India and other countries in view of the coronavirus pandemic. All Indian carriers last year took cost-cutting measures like pay cuts, leave without pay and firing of employees. Scheduled international passenger traffic continues to remain suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. However, special international flights have been operating since July 2020 under air bubble arrangements formed with various countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/your-next-flight-may-be-costlier-heres-why-963955.html
19-03-2021||National||People must rise, resist imposition of one thought: Chidambaram on resignation of two Ashoka University professors||After two professors of Ashoka University resigned, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram Friday asked what does this say of the "academic freedom" in the country and urged people to rise and resist the "imposition of one thought". He alleged that this "BJP thought" will "wreck" India and turn it into an autocracy. "What does it say of academic freedom in this country if two distinguished economists have to resign as Professors of Ashoka University," he asked on Twitter. "The people of India must rise to fiercely resist the attempt to impose one thought all over the country. 'BJP Thought' or 'Modi Thought' will wreck the country and turn India into an autocracy," he said. Faculty members, students and alumni of the Ashoka University in Sonipat have expressed anguish over noted political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta's resignation as a professor, saying his exit seems to be a direct consequence of his role as a public intellectual and critic of the government. While the faculty members have written to the vice chancellor (VC) and board members, saying Mehta's exit has set a "chilling precedent for future removals of faculty". Eminent economist Arvind Subramanian also resigned as a professor of the university on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-must-rise-resist-imposition-of-one-thought-chidambaram-on-resignation-of-two-ashoka-university-professors-963965.html
19-03-2021||National||Demand to include Kuruba and Koli communities in ST||Kuruba and Koli communities from Karnataka should be included in the Scheduled Tribe (ST) list,  Kalaburagi BJP MP Umesh Jadav said in Lok Sabha on Friday. People from these two communities have been holding protests all over Karnataka demanding them to include in the ST list, he said. These two communities' people are very backward both economically and socially. If they were included in the ST list, it would help them to get reservation benefits in both education and employment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-to-include-kuruba-and-koli-communities-in-st-963968.html
19-03-2021||National||No shortage of urea in any state: Sadananda Gowda||Fertiliser Minister D V Sadananda Gowda said in Parliament on Friday that there is no shortage of urea in any state of the country. The Centre has made available 388.10 lakh tonne of urea till February of 2020-21 fiscal, against the requirement of 337.95 lakh tonne for the same period. Out of which, 330.06 lakh tonne of urea has been sold till February this fiscal, Gowda said in his written reply to Rajya Sabha. The Centre allocates a sufficient quantity of fertilisers after assessment of the requirement from the states before the commencement of each cropping season. The minister said the movement of all subsidised fertilisers are being monitored throughout the country by an online web-based monitoring system called 'Integrated Fertiliser Monitory System (iFMS). Urea prices are fixed by the government and its maximum retail price is Rs 242 per bag of 45 kg. In the case of P&K fertilisers, the prices are fixed by the private companies. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-shortage-of-urea-in-any-state-sadananda-gowda-963970.html
19-03-2021||National||Massive fire breaks out at plastic factory in Ahmedabad||A massive fire broke out at a plastic factory in Vatva in Ahmedabad. Thirty-six fire tenders are present at the spot. Fire fighting operations are underway. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/massive-fire-breaks-out-at-plastic-factory-in-ahmedabad-963972.html
19-03-2021||National||Strongly desire to further boost Indo-US strategic ties: US Defence Secretary tells PM Modi||US Secretary of Defense Lloyd James Austin called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday and expressed his country's strong desire to further enhance the strategic partnership with India for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond. During the meeting, Modi outlined his vision for the strategic partnership between the two countries and emphasised the important role of bilateral defence cooperation in Indo-US ties, a PMO statement said, adding that he asked Austin to convey his best wishes to American President Joe Biden. The Prime Minister welcomed the warm and close relationship between the two countries which is rooted in shared values of democracy, pluralism and commitment to a rules-based order, the statement said. "Secretary Austin reiterated the US government's continued commitment towards strengthening the bilateral defence relations between the two countries. He expressed US' strong desire to further enhance the strategic partnership for peace, stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond," it said. On his first official visit to India as Defence Secretary, Austin, who arrived earlier in the day, also conveyed Biden's greetings to the Prime Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/strongly-desire-to-further-boost-indo-us-strategic-ties-us-defence-secretary-tells-pm-modi-963974.html
19-03-2021||National||Section 144 in Rajasthan extended till April 21 as Covid-19 cases surge||Section 144 of the CrPC imposed in Rajasthan has been extended till April 21 in the wake of Covid-19. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/section-144-in-rajasthan-extended-till-april-21-as-covid-19-cases-surge-963976.html
19-03-2021||National||Bharat Dynamics signs contract to make anti-tank missiles||Defence PSU Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL) on Friday signed a contract worth Rs 1,188 crore, including GST, with the Ministry of Defence to manufacture and supply MILAN 2T anti-tank guided missiles. The contract was signed by Dipti Mohil Chawla, Joint Secretary (AM & LS), on behalf of the Ministry of Defence and Acquisition Wing, and Commodore TN Kaul (retd), Executive Director (marketing), BDL, a defence press release said here. CMD of BDL Commodore Siddharth Mishra (retd) said the receipt of this order has given a boost to the existing order book of the company. The current order book position of the company with the current order received is over Rs 9,000 crore, the release said. In line with the Central governments initiative for creation of Atmanirbhar Bharat in the defence sector, many items have been exclusively earmarked for the Indian industry and a negative list of imports has been released by the Ministry of Defence, it said. BDLs products - short range surface-to-air missile and Astra air-to-air weapon system - are covered under this list and some more products of the company are expected to be brought into the subsequent list being released by the Ministry of Defence, it said. BDL is also working on export of weapon system to friendly foreign countries. The company has a well-established infrastructure and expertise to execute these orders and meet the customer delivery schedule, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-dynamics-signs-contract-to-make-anti-tank-missiles-963977.html
19-03-2021||National||New tourism policy in works, will take India to top ranking: Prahlad Singh Patel||India plans to unveil a new tourism policy soon, Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel announced in Rajya Sabha Friday, saying the country has embarked on a journey to achieve the top ranking in the sector by 2024 despite challenges. About a month ago, the Centre circulated a new proposed tourism policy among states for its finalisation. It focuses on developing medical, religious and other facets of tourism and offering new destinations other than the popular ones such as the Taj Mahal and the Qutub Minar. Replying to a discussion on the Ministry of Tourism, Patel said, "Our leadership is focused on developing the (tourism) sector. We have sent tourism policy to state governments. It has been one month. The policy…will enable us to reach the target (of higher ranking) set by the country." He informed the House that India was on the 65th position in 2014 and it reached to 34th in five years. "Our journey was to take the country to the first position but then this pandemic happened. I believe in the people of this country, on the culture and traditions, beliefs and leadership. The target which we have set for ourselves, we will achieve that in 2024. There are challenges but we will achieve our goal," he said. Patel also told the House that a decision was taken to use Chinese language at monuments where more than 1 lakh tourists visit but they are not comfortable in English and Hindi. He said Korean has also been put to use. Patel said that the government has started a tourist facilitator course in which 5,500 people have registered. He said that challenges before the country lie in handling foreign tourists if they visit places that are facing challenges in managing Covid-19 crisis. The minister said there were 3,772 registered monuments and over 10,000 large and magnificent temples in South India built Before Christ and this needs to be highlighted. Participating in the discussion, RJD member Manoj Jha suggested that a ‘freedom movement tourist circuit’ can be developed as the country is going to celebrate the 75th year of Independence. Earlier participating in the debate, SP member Jaya Bachchan, who was assigned four minutes to speak, abruptly cut short her speech in protest against the time allocated to her. "This is the reason I did not speak in the last session. Whatever I want to speak cannot be done in one minute. I absolutely protest and I will not speak. This is absolutely not correct and not fair," she said, when asked by the Chair to conclude her speech. Sasmit Patra, who was in the Chair at the time, responded by saying the timing is fixed by the PAC (Parliamentary Affairs Committee). During her speech, Bachchan said there was a time when foreign tourists used to throng Kashmir but unfortunately, now they do not. However, she said, domestic tourists have started returning to the valley and the image that there is a threat to life there and no security needs to be improved aggressively. "It is very important to improve the image of the country which at the moment is very-very poor. I am sorry for saying this, but that is the truth," Bachchan claimed. T K S Elangovan (DMK) said 5.5 crore jobs have been lost due to Covid-19 and the tourism sector needs to be revived through measures taken by the government. Elangovan said, "Don't say that this is new. Babri Masjid is not new. It has a history of at least 1,000 years old. If it is there, people will come and see that. The question is, don't attribute reason to demolish an ancient monument. That is very important, it should be preserved. Only in that way we can attract tourists the world over." K C Ramamurthy (BJP) said state-wise round-the-year tourism packages should be prepared and propagated. Ayodhya Rami Reddy (YSRCP) called upon the government to handhold the tourism sector through various policy interventions. He said the tourism industry was faced with a twin challenge -- of regaining its lost ground due to the pandemic and creating better facilities for the future. He said the Ministry of Tourism should come up with a Master Plan entailing the right models which can be emulated. Congress member G C Chandrashekhar said, "As per the Standing Committee of Tourism's report, March, 2021, the underutilised fund of Rs 1,239 crores has been surrendered to the Ministry of Finance without spending. Rs.1,239 crore is a huge amount....to promote domestic tourism, the government has introduced the PRASAD Scheme in 2015. But, only 11 out of 26 projects have been completed.” He proposed a regulatory body to monitor the products and services for the international and domestic tourists. He also proposed to have a single window process of permission to charter flights to ease the process. AIADMK’s S R Balasubramoniyan, said, "Design schemes with generous allocation of funds to make tourism and allied industries to not only survive, but also to thrive." TRS member K R Suresh Reddy said, "I would advise that instead of selling PSUs, instead of selling LIC, why don't you sell Indian tourism? That is where you will really get money. Convince the Prime Minister. Make him the face of tourism so that the Ministry can benefit." Other members including Shiv Pratap Shukla (BJP), Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (JDU), Narain Dass Gupta (AAP), Jharna Das Baidya (CPIM), A D Singh (RJD) and Sujit Kumar (BJD) also spoke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-tourism-policy-in-works-will-take-india-to-top-ranking-prahlad-singh-patel-963986.html
19-03-2021||National||Confusion over man's death, doctor questions whether he actually got Covid-19 vaccine||Confusion prevails over the death of a labourer in his 30s, two days after vaccination, with an official questioning whether he actually got a shot for Covid-19 as he was not eligible for it under current norms. The post-mortem report said the man died of brain haemorrhage and also had swelling in the liver and spleen. But, there are also doubts over how he could be vaccinated as he was only in his 30s. According to the existing government policy, apart from healthcare and frontline workers, people aged above 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with comorbid conditions are eligible to get vaccinated against the coronavirus. Lalmani, the labourer, died in this district two days allegedly after getting vaccinated against the coronavirus but doctors have not linked the death to the inoculation. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) P D Gupta on Friday said a probe will be conducted soon. "The age of the labourer is said to be around 35 to 38 years which does not come into any of the categories being inoculated against the coronavirus. It will be probed if it was actually the Covid-19 vaccine that was given to him or there is some confusion in this regard," CMO Gupta said. Meera, the wife of Lalmani, had said he was vaccinated at the government-run Lalganj primary health centre on Monday. She had claimed that he complained of body ache and lethargy after getting the shot and was rushed to hospital on Wednesday morning when his condition turned serious. He was given medicines there but he vomited and died, she said. "I have come to know that Lalmani, a labourer from Bahuti Basita village was given the injection on March 15. He had come complaining about some problems in the OPD of the hospital later on Wednesday where he was given some medicines. He came out and sat there for a while and died," the CMO said. Meera told newspersons that the age of her husband was 38 and claimed that she and some other villagers had also received the shots in the government hospital after an ASHA worker asked them to do so by taking their Aadhar cards. The body was sent for a post-mortem examination on Wednesday following Meera's allegations and the report received the same night. The opinion of the doctors who conducted the post-mortem was that excessive bleeding in the brain led to the death, the CMO had said in the statement issued on the post-mortem report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/confusion-over-mans-death-doctor-questions-whether-he-actually-got-covid-19-vaccine-963992.html
19-03-2021||National||For how many generations will reservations continue: Supreme Court||For how many generations would reservations in jobs and education continue, the Supreme Court sought to know during the Maratha quota case hearing on Friday and raised concerns over “resultant inequality” in case the overall 50 per cent limit was to be removed. A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was vehemently told by senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Maharashtra, that the Mandal judgement on capping the quota needed a re-look in changed circumstances. He said the courts should leave it to states to fix reservation quotas in view of the changed circumstances and the Mandal judgement was premised on census of 1931. Arguing in favour of the Maharashtra law granting quota to Marathas, Rohatgi referred to various aspects of the Mandal judgement, also known as Indra Sawhney case, and said the Centre's decision to grant 10 per cent quota to people from economically weaker section also breached the 50 per cent cap. “If there is no 50 per cent or no limit, as you are suggesting, what is the concept of equality then. We will ultimately have to deal with it. What is your reflection on that... What about the resultant inequality. How many generations will you continue,” observed the bench, which also comprised Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat. Rohatgi said there were many reasons for the re-look of the Mandal judgment which was premised on the census of 1931 and moreover, the population has increased many fold and reached to 135 crore. The bench said 70 years have passed since independence and the states have been carrying on so many beneficial schemes and “can we accept that no development has taken place, that no backward caste has moved forward”. It also observed that the purpose of reviewing the Mandal judgement was that those who have come out from backwardness must be eliminated. “Yes, we have moved forward. But it is not that backward classes have gone down from 50 to 20 per cent. We still have starvation deaths in this country... I am not trying to say that Indra Sawhney is completely wrong, throw it in the dustbin. I am raising issues that 30 years have gone by, the law has changed, the population has grown, backward persons may also have increased,” Rohatgi said. He referred to amendments made in the Constitution and said they are the indicators that the country has not reached “anywhere near the emancipation” it required for its backwards classes. “The fact of the matter is Parliament should know what is going on in the country. If Parliament knows it is more than 50 per cent and has given 10 per cent to a class of economically backward section, no warrant from court should say it cannot go over 50 per cent,” he argued. When a number of states have reservations exceeding 50 per cent and in this situation, it cannot be said that this is not “a burning issue” and does not require a relook after 30 years, he said. The arguments in the case remained inconclusive and would resume on Monday. On Thursday, Attorney General K K Venugopal had told the apex court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) and conferring benefits on them. The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list. On Wednesday, the top court was told that Marathas have been dominant “socially and politically” as almost 40 per cent of MPs and MLAs of Maharashtra are from this community and the entire hypothesis that they have been left behind, faced historical injustice is completely flawed. The top court has been hearing a clutch of cases challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which upheld the grant of quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-how-many-generations-will-reservations-continue-supreme-court-963996.html
19-03-2021||National||India administers over 4-crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines||India has scaled a landmark peak in its fight against Covid-19 with the total doses administered in the country having crossed the 4-crore mark till Friday evening, the Union health ministry said. A total of 4,11,55,978 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till Friday 7 pm. As many as 18,16,161 people were vaccinated during the day. The total figure includes 76,86,920 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 47,69,469 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 79,10,529 frontline workers (FLWs) who have been administered the first dose and 23,16,922 FLWs who have been given the second dose. Besides, 1,53,78,622 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 30,93,516 individuals aged 45 to 60 with specific co-morbidities have taken the first dose. "Total 18,16,161 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Friday, the sixty-third day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. "Out of which 16,43,357 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,72,804 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said adding final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The 16,43,357 figure includes 12,00,856 beneficiaries aged above 60 and 3,13,518 individuals aged 45-60 with comorbidities. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-over-4-crore-doses-of-covid-19-vaccines-964017.html
19-03-2021||National||AICTE's move not to make Maths, Physics mandatory for engineering courses 'disastrous': V K Saraswat||The AICTE's decision not to make Mathematics and Physics mandatory for students who want to enrol for engineering courses will be "disastrous" and further "deteriorate" the standard of education, Niti Aayog member V K Saraswat said on Friday. He said both these subjects are the major building blocks for any engineering education. "Even engineering disciplines like biomedical engineering and biotechnology also need the knowledge of Maths and Physics. In the name of flexibility to reduce the standards of students entering the engineering field would be disastrous because then the students will not be able to pick up the basic engineering education," the senior scientist told PTI. The AICTE last week said Physics, Chemistry and Maths will continue to be important subjects in engineering courses and it is not mandatory for state governments or institutions to offer these courses to students who have not studied them in class 12. It said students opting for streams like Biotechnology, Textile or Agriculture Engineering will have an option to not study these subjects in class 12. "The decision taken by the AICTE will further deteriorate the standards of education," Saraswat, who is a Member (Science) in the Niti Aayog, said. Earlier, he was also the Chairman of the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO). "Decision to make Physics and Maths education not essential for entrance in engineering streams will very adversely impact the already dwindling standards of engineering education in the country. Need for a rethink and due diligence at wider platform @AICTE_INDIA @PMOIndia @MHRD," Saraswat had earlier tweeted. He said that he has conveyed his concerns to Principal Scientific Advisor K VijayRaghavan. The AICTE's move met with criticism from several quarters. In response, AICTE chairperson Anil Sahasrabudhe said it was in receipt of many representations from the industry as well as student community to give an option to pursue technical courses such as Agriculture, Biotechnology, Information Technology, Electronics to students who did not have prior electives of Physics and Maths at class-level but had studied relevant portions of the same to a certain desired extent. Considering the need to develop a multi-disciplinary outlook amongst the students, it was imperative to redefine the entry barriers for pursuing higher education in the domains of Engineering and Technology, he said. "This is totally in line with the philosophy of the new National Education Policy (NEP) in terms of flexibility and multi-disciplinary courses, innovation. "Hence, the Council reiterates and hereby also places on record that it has neither diluted nor removed the elementary subjects of Mathematics, Physics or Chemistry for pursuing the technical programmes under Engineering and Technology domain, which inter-alia shall continue to be academically delivered while undergoing the curriculum," he said. Sahasrabudhe was also imperative to mention that it is an option given by the Council, which is not binding on the states or universities, and for various entrance exams such as Joint Entrance Examination, CET, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) said. He added that they may continue to hold the entrance exams in Physics, Chemistry and Maths as is being done now and gradually decide to conduct exam in other subjects later after discussing and taking decisions in the university senates, academic councils and state level committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aictes-move-not-to-make-maths-physics-mandatory-for-engineering-courses-disastrous-v-k-saraswat-964020.html
19-03-2021||National||Protests held at several 'mandis' against FCI's proposed new procurement norms: SKM||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Friday claimed that protests were held at several 'mandis' against the new quality specifications and procurement norms proposed by the Food Corporation of India. The Morcha, which is leading the agitation against the Centre's new agri laws, said the new specifications and norms are a direct attack on the procurement regime and the ongoing protests. "In addition to being unresponsive to protesting farmers' legitimate demands, the Government of India's Food Corporation of India has brought in new quality specifications and procurement norms in a direct attack on the procurement regime and the ongoing protests". According to reports, the FCI is deliberating strong quality controls and is proposing revision of specifications for food grains procurement. The SKM claimed that memorandums were submitted all over the country. "In Punjab, farmer unions joined hands with representatives of Arhtiya Association at several places during their protest today. At many locations like Sangrur, Barnala, Jagraon, Rampura and other places, protest meetings were organised against the new FCI guidelines. "Memorandums were also submitted to Deputy Commissioners. Similarly, in Kurukshetra and Sirsa in Haryana, 'mandi' secretaries received memoranda addressed to the prime minister. Reports are coming in about such protests in Uttar Pradesh also," the SKM said in a statement. Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delh's borders points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws and make a new one that would ensure legal guarantee on the MSP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protests-held-at-several-mandis-against-fcis-proposed-new-procurement-norms-skm-964026.html
19-03-2021||National||Inclusive, fairer society being built under Modi govt: Jaishankar||Union External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said that under the Narendra Modi government, an "inclusive, fairer society" with greater capabilities is being built. The response to the Covid-19 pandemic too has shown how the country has progressed in the last seven years, he said. The Union minister was addressing a session on "Development Dialog The India Way" organized by the International Center, Goa, here. "It's been now seven years of Modi government. I think in the most sweeping way, I can see revolution in the making as I can see inclusive, fairer society being built with much greater strength and capabilities," he said. The fact that during the pandemic, the number of people in whose acccounts money was deposited by the government was larger than the population of the US was testament to India's progress, Jaishankar said. "Can you even imagine the idea of healthcare coverage ten years ago. You look at Ayushman Bharat, you look at digital connectivity," he said. As a rising power, Indians should know who they are, and what is their heritage and culture, Jaishankar said. "You don't necessarily look abroad for ideas. People in India must understand the value of their own tradition and heritage. It is time for us to be us," he added. `Atmanirbhar' (self-reliant) was not only an economic term, it was also a "thought process", the minister said. In every field, more and more people from small towns, those who are "comfortable in their mother tongue" are coming up, and this was the success of democratic practices over 70 years, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inclusive-fairer-society-being-built-under-modi-govt-jaishankar-964029.html
19-03-2021||National||Govt gets Rs 747 cr from GAIL share buyback||The government has received Rs 747 crore from share buyback by oil GAIL, DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said on Friday. "GAIL Buyback of shares fully subscribed. The government received Rs 747 cr out of total buyback size of Rs 1046 cr," Pandey tweeted. Government holding in the company stands at 51.45 per cent. Under, a company buys its own outstanding shares to reduce the number of shares available in the open market. Companies buy back shares for a number of reasons such as to increase the value of remaining shares available by reducing the supply or to return surplus cash to shareholders. The government wants public sector undertakings to either meet their targets for capital expenditure or "reward the shareholder in the form of a dividend" or share buyback.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-gets-rs-747-cr-from-gail-share-buyback-964036.html
19-03-2021||National||BJP seeks EC's action against Mamata for her 'smear campaign' against Shah||The BJP Friday urged the Election Commission to take legal action against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for her allegation that Union Home Minister Amit Shah may be influencing the poll watchdog and accused her of running a "smear campaign" against him. A BJP delegation made a representation to the EC in which it submitted a part of her speech at a rally in Bankura in March 16 in which she had lashed out at Shah saying, "Who is running the election commission, Amit Shah, are you running the election commission?" She had alleged that he had been hatching conspiracies sitting in Kolkata, the BJP noted. "The above-mentioned instances are false, fraudulent, derogatory allegations and are made without any basis in law or in fact. A smear campaign is being run to tarnish the image & reputation of Shri Amit Shah ji and other senior leaders of BJP, with the intent to spread misinformation and thereby influence the voters in a wrongful manner," it said while sharing more details of her speech. In absence of any fear of punitive or corrective action by the EC, the political discourse and the language used by Banerjee has not only vitiated the electoral atmosphere but has also encouraged Trinamool Congress workers in further lowering the levels of propriety by resorting to both verbal and physical violence, the BJP alleged. "That we request the Election Commission to intervene urgently by taking appropriate legal action against Ms. Mamata Banerjee for her continued fraudulent, baseless and abusive practice and to pass a prohibitory order, otherwise it might spoil the electoral environment, where abusing and spreading false news will become inevitable and the norm. "That you are requested to kindly immediately censure Ms Mamata Banerjee, from further speeches. Further, take appropriate legal action her for her present and past conduct in gross contempt of & in blatant violation of mode! code of conduct and electoral laws as elucidated above," the BJP representation said. The BJP delegation, which included Union ministers Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and Debasree Chaudhuri besides senior party leaders Bhupender Yadav and Anil Baluni, also demanded deployment of central forces along with presiding and polling officers inside polling booths in the upcoming state assembly elections. They should also be assigned the responsibility of voters' verifications and be directed to conduct patrolling on the day of polling for control of any large scale political violence on polling days, the BJP said. "This would not only impede bogus voting, control political violence and killing of political workers but also reaffirm the electorates' faith in the Indian electoral system," it said. The BJP and the TMC are engaged in a bitter political campaign ahead of the eight-phase assembly polls beginning from March 27, with both parties petitioning the EC frequently against each other.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-seeks-ecs-action-against-mamata-for-her-smear-campaign-against-shah-964049.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Oh my god!: Priyanka Gandhi hits back at Uttarakhand CM over 'ripped jeans' remark||Tirath Singh Rawat, the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand came under fire for making offensive remarks at an event on March 16. At the event, he questioned how women wearing ripped jeans would be able to impart values to their children. He linked young women following fashion trends such as 'ripped jeans' to lack of values, drawing heavy criticism from the Opposition. Among Congress leaders to hit back at the new CM was Priyanka Gandhi. "Oh my God!!! Their knees are showing", she tweeted, using photographs of RSS workers including a young Narendra Modi clad in khaki shorts above the knee. ''These days ripped jeans are very popular with the women... Is it our culture?,'' Rawat said while speaking at a function at Dehradun. Rawat earlier narrated an experience of how he once sat on a flight beside a woman with two children, wearing boots, ripped jeans, and bangles. The woman had introduced herself as a social worker. ''I wondered what kind of social service must she be doing when she herself wears such clothes... The situation was not the same during our times'', he said. Surendra Singh, BJP MLA from Bairia in Uttar Pradesh, backed him up saying men and women should wear 'decent clothes', emphasising 'women' and 'daughters'. The MLA said women were the family's 'prestige' and must behave in a 'dignified manner'. Soon after, Congress leaders such as Kapil Sibal started expressing 'shock' at the comments from Rawat, the latter's wife unsuccessfully tried explaining how the remarks were being taken out of context.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/oh-my-god-priyanka-gandhi-hits-back-at-uttarakhand-cm-over-ripped-jeans-remark-963733.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Unplanned Covid-19 lockdown still haunts India: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday alleged that lakhs of families have suffered pain due to the government's "incompetence and myopia" as the unplanned lockdown continues to haunt the country. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 24 last year to curb the spread of coronavirus. Gandhi has been attacking the government for the lockdown, saying the poor and migrants have suffered due to it. "The unplanned lockdown disaster continues to haunt the country," he said on Twitter. "Condolences to the lakhs of families being punished with indescribable pain for GOI's incompetence and myopia," he added. The unplanned lockdown disaster continues to haunt the country. Gandhi also cited a media report quoting a UNICEF study that due to Covid-19, India is likely to see the highest rise in child mortality and maternal deaths among the six most populous South Asian countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/unplanned-covid-19-lockdown-still-haunts-india-rahul-gandhi-963755.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Cultural nationalism, controlling crimes major achievements of UP govt: Yogi Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath cited the emergence of 'cultural nationalism' in the state as one his major achievements along with controlling crimes, creating a favourable climate for investment and encouraging 'govansh rakshak' (those rearing cows) during his four-year stint. Adityanath, who completed four years in office on Friday, told reporters that the state had not witnessed any communal riots in the past four years and had become one of the biggest economies in the country. The chief minister claimed that the crime rate had registered a decline in the state. ''The incidents of robberies, murders and rapes have sharply declined under the current dispensation,'' he said. Adityanath, who also released a letter to the people of the state, said that during his regime the flame of 'cultural nationalism' was lit in the hearts of everyone, who followed the 'sanatan dharma' (Hinduism). ''The flame of cultural nationalism has delighted the hearts of everyone, who believe in sanatan dharma,'' he said in the letter. The chief minister cited laying of the foundation stone of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Ganga Yatra, developmental schemes for religious towns to buttress his contention on cultural nationalism. While Adityanath claimed that UP was on the path of development, Opposition leaders termed his four-year tenure as a ''complete failure''. ''UP has turned into a lawless state, it has done nothing except target Opposition leaders and implicating them in false cases, the incidents of crimes against women have risen sharply under this regime,'' Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav said. A Congress leader also said that the BJP government had failed to instil confidence among the people, especially women. The state government has come under attack over its alleged failure to ensure the safety of the women and killing of 'criminals' in 'fake encounters'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cultural-nationalism-controlling-crimes-major-achievements-of-up-govt-yogi-adityanath-963789.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Saradha scam: TMC leader Madan Mitra deposes before ED||TMC assembly poll candidates Madan Mitra and Vivek Gupta on Friday deposed before Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials here in connection with the probe into Saradha chit fund scam. Mitra, who has been fielded by the party from Kamarhati assembly constituency, was, in the past, arrested by the CBI for his alleged involvement in the case, and later granted bail. "I was asked by the ED to appear before its officials today. I will continue to cooperate with the investigation," the former state minister said. Gupta, who is contesting the elections from Jorasanko seat, admitted that he knew Sudipto Sen, the owner of the blacklisted firm, and said he visited the ED office to submit income tax details. The agency, probing the money-laundering aspect of the multi-crore Saradha scam, has also sent notices to former IPS officers Surajit Kar Purkayashtha and Rajat Majumdar Sources in the ED said both of them have been asked to depose before the agency officials next week. Majumdar, the former DGP of West Bengal, was earlier apprehended by the CBI in the chit fund case. The Calcutta High Court later granted him bail. Purkayastha, currently the state security adviser in West Bengal, had apparently attended several meetings organised by the now-defunct company. The Saradha group is said to have defrauded thousands of investors by means of fraudulent schemes floated by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/saradha-scam-tmc-leader-madan-mitra-deposes-before-ed-963823.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||With 'tilak' on forehead, BJP carries out attack: Mamata slams BJP for 'stabbing from behind'||Taking potshots at the BJP for fielding several Trinamool Congress (TMC) turncoats in the West Bengal Assembly elections, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said that she was glad that the “traitors” are gone but the BJP old-timers were crying for being overlooked as candidates. “BJP has fielded these turncoats overlooking long-time party workers and leaders which has left them demoralised and sulking,” said Mamata. She was speaking at a rally at Egra in East Medinipur district. Without directly mentioning Mukul Roy and Suvendu Adhikari, the Chief Minister said that the traitors have become BJP candidates to the dismay of long time BJP workers. “Mirjafars and Gaddars (traitors) have become BJP candidates now. This has left the old-timers in BJP crying,” said Mamata. Reiterating her "outsider" jibe against the saffron party, the TMC supremo urged the people to keep a vigil on outsiders entering their localities. “They only know the politics of riot and murder. Keep an eye on outsiders entering your localities,” said Mamata. She further alleged that the BJP “chants Hari Hari in front and stabs people in the back. They attack people with tilak on their head and chewing Pan Parag.” Pointing out that the TMC turncoats were given a lot of crucial responsibilities when they were in her party, Mamata said that from now on she will monitor every state Government project to ensure that it reaches eligible beneficiaries. She also said that the people of Bengal should not only reject the BJP in the Assembly elections but also not vote for the CPI(M) and the Congress as they were colluding with the saffron party.  The TMC supremo urged the people to keep an eye on counting centres where EVMs will be kept after polling and said that they should not leave the place until the Central forces or the state police tell them to do so. “When an EVM malfunctions, you have to ensure that the one replacing it is properly tested,” said Mamata. As for her decision of contesting from Nandigram, Mamata said that she is often asked “why I decided to contest from Nandigram instead of a seat in Kolkata. I am contesting from Nandigram as the land agitation there along with Singur played a key role (in Bengal’s political history).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/with-tilak-on-forehead-bjp-carries-out-attack-mamata-slams-bjp-for-stabbing-from-behind-963829.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||There is a growing curiosity to know about RSS: Gen Secy Manmohan Vaidya at ABPS meet||There is a growing curiosity to know about RSS, its Sah Sarkaryavah (Joint General Secretary) Manmohan Vaidya said on Friday, as the two-day annual meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the Sangh's highest decision-making body began in Bengaluru. Service during coronavirus pandemic and Ram Mandir Abhiyan showcased the resilience and cultural unity of the Bharatiya society, he said, adding the ABPS will pass resolutions thanking the society for responding positively during the pandemic, and for unity expressed in the country during the Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan. "Extensive public contact has happened during the coronavirus and Ram Mandir campaign and it has come to notice that there is a growing curiosity to know about RSS," Vaidya said. Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of ABPS here, he said, there is an increase in the number of those who want to associate with the Sangh. "All may not join the Sangh, but they are ready and eager to work with Sangh. The way to engage and involve such people in building a better society along with expanding and planning Sangh work in the next 3 years will be discussed at the ABPS this time," he added. RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and its incumbent Sarkaryawah (General Secretary) Suresh 'Bhaiyyaji' Joshi were present at the inaugural of two-day ABPS meet, during which deliberations will take place regarding the year gone by and plan for the next three years. The meet attended by about 450 delegates will also see the process of electing the Sarkaryavaha on Saturday. For Joshi, aged 73 years, the current Sarkaryawah, this is fourth term in office, with each term having three years. There is speculation that if Joshi doesn't seek another term, Sah-Sarakaryavah (Joint General Secretary) Dattatreya Hosabale, who hails from Karnataka may be picked, during the election, which is usually by unanimous vote. Noting that due to the pandemic, RSS Shakhas and other Sangh events had completely stopped between March to June last year, but Shakas gradually resumed in July, Vidya said, however, RSS Swayamsevaks were active from day one in all states of the country in serving the society and helping mitigate the situation caused by lockdown and amelioration lives of those affected. The Swayamsevaks through Seva Bharati were actively involved in various activities during the lockdown, he said, 5,70,000 RSS Karyakartas served at 92,656 locations in the country. Among other things, ration was distributed to around 73 lakh needy and food packets were distributed to 4.5 crore people. Noting that the Sangh shakhas are present in all districts in about 6,495 taluks/khands and among this, shakhas have become active again in 85 per cent khands, Vaidya said, below the Tehsil level, Mandals comprising 10-12 villages have been formed. There are 58,500 such Mandals in the country among which active shakhas are present in 40 per cent of Mandals and contact has been established in 20 per cent of them. Hence, 60 per cent of the Mandals have been covered either through shakhas or by establishing contacts, he said. "The Sangh network is expanding throughout the country and in the next 3 years, Sangh aims to reach all the Mandals in the country," he further said, there are 3 categories of Shakas- students, those who are earning but below the age of 40 and those who are above 40. "Eleven per cent of the shakhas are of a last category, which means that nearly 90 per cent of the shakhas comprise the youth. 60 per cent of these shakhas are of students, more youth and students are becoming part of Sangh shakhas and activities," he added. Speaking about the Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan campaign, Vaidya said, Ram Mandir is not just a temple as Ram is the representative of the cultural ethos of the country. Swayamsevaks were actively involved in this campaign and the focus of the campaign was on reaching out to maximum people and families in the country, he said, 5,45,737 locations were reached by approximately 20 lakh Karyakartas and were able to contact 12,47,21,000 people. The resolutions that will be passed during the ABPS will be to acknowledge and thank the society which responded positively during the pandemic and the way India helped other countries in mitigating the situation, Vaidya said, another resolution will be on the unity expressed in the country during the Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan. Answering a question on the allegations of houses being marked during Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan, he clarified that there is no such practice and the allegations are unfounded. "Such marking is not our system...we consider everyone as our own, whether they give donation or not," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/there-is-a-growing-curiosity-to-know-about-rss-gen-secy-manmohan-vaidya-at-abps-meet-963875.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Government flagged concerns with Welthungerhilfe on accuracy of data on India's hunger level: Tomar||The government has flagged its concerns with German organisation Welthungerhilfe on "appropriateness, accuracy and representativeness of data" used to calculate the level of hunger in India, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday. Tomar, during Question Hour in the Rajya Sabha, said the Global Hunger Index (GHI) Report 2020 -- published jointly by Concern Worldwide and Welthungerhilfe -- has given a score of 27.2 for India and ranked the country at 94 out of 107. Whereas in the GHI Report 2019, India had scored 30.3 and was ranked 102 out of 117. "This shows improvement towards reducing hunger in the country as the GHI score has reduced from 30.3 to 27.2 during the period 2019 to 2020," the minister said. However, the government has "raised concerns of the country with Welthungerhilfe regarding appropriateness, accuracy and representativeness of data used for calculation of the level of hunger in India," he said. Tomar mentioned that the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey (CNNS) conducted in 2017-28 showed an improvement in indicators -- wasting, stunting and undernutrition -- when compared to data enumerated from National Family Survey 4 (NFHS-4) in 2015-16. These three indicators are used at the national level for measurement of the prevalence of undernourishment, he added. The minister also highlighted several measures, including Mission Poshan, National Food Security Act, among others, that are being taken to address hunger and malnutrition in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-flagged-concerns-with-welthungerhilfe-on-accuracy-of-data-on-indias-hunger-level-tomar-963886.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat apologises but says wearing torn jeans not right||Facing flak over his "ripped jeans" comment, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday said he apologises for the remark if it has hurt anybody. But at the same time, he repeated his objection to ripped jeans, saying he has no problem with jeans with but wearing "torn" ones are "not right". Referring to his remark made earlier this week, Rawat told the media that he had commented that nowadays children bring a costly jean home and then cut it with a scissor. He had only talked about the environment at home and this applies to him as well, Rawat said. If we inculcate good values and discipline in children, they will never fail in future, the CM added, stressing that he had made the comment at a programme held to keep the children away from intoxicants and other evils. Describing himself as a man from a rural background, Rawat on Friday said whenever his pant was torn in schooldays, he feared that his teacher would scold him. Due to discipline and values, we used cover it with a patch, he said. Rawat had drawn flak after at an event earlier this week he said youngsters follow strange fashion trends due to a lack of values and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees. Women also follow such trends. Rawat then went on to describe the attire of a woman who sat next to him on a flight. He described her as wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees, bangles in her hands and with two children travelling with her. He also said she runs an NGO, goes out in society and has two children and wondered what values she would give them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-apologises-but-says-wearing-torn-jeans-not-right-963958.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||EC's partisanship, bias coming in way of free and fair election in West Bengal, alleges TMC||The Trinamool Congress on Friday alleged that the “partisan and biased approach” taken by the Election Commission was coming in the way of conducting “free, fair and transparent” Assembly polls in West Bengal. The Election Commission, however, dismissed the Trinamool Congress’s allegation that it had banned the deployment of state police within 100 metres of polling stations in West Bengal. The commission, according to sources, would soon write to the Trinamool Congress, clarifying that it had only banned the deployment of personnel of the civic police and green police raised by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s government to help West Bengal police control traffic and maintain order. The EC recently wrote to the Chief Electoral Officer of West Bengal, stating that civic police, green police and student police personnel would not be allowed to perform any duty wearing uniforms during the 72 hours ahead of the day of polling, on the day of polling as well as the day after. The personnel of civic police, green police and student police in West Bengal do not have any legal power to arrest or search, but they are paid by the state government to help the regular cops, primarily to control traffic and to maintain order. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) had earlier demanded that the EC should bar deployment of the civic police, green police or student police personnel during the polling in West Bengal, as they allegedly owe their allegiance to the ruling Trinamool Congress in the state. Banerjee’s party on Friday submitted a memorandum to the EC, stressing that the combined forces of state police and central paramilitary forces should be deployed within 100 metres of each polling booth. The Trinamool Congress also criticised the EC’s decision to tally the digital vote data retrieved from the Electronic Voting Machines with the number of slips generated by the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) devices in five polling stations in every Assembly constituency. Banerjee’s party had earlier demanded that the EC should tally the vote-counts on the EVMs and the VVPATs in all the polling stations. The EC, however, cited the Supreme Court’s April 2019 order to justify its decision not to tally the EVM-VVPAT vote-counts in all the polling stations. The Trinamool Congress, however, argued that the Supreme Court’s 2019 order was applicable only to the Lok Sabha elections held that year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ecs-partisanship-bias-coming-in-way-of-free-and-fair-election-in-west-bengal-alleges-tmc-963966.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Congress most communal party, corruption born from its womb: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union minister and BJP leader Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday accused the Congress of being the most communal party in India and alleged that corruption was born in the country from its womb. The Congress has forged alliances with "communal forces" in Assam, West Bengal and Kerala, Tomar claimed while addressing a press conference in Guwahati. "I am telling you that corruption was born in India from the womb of the Congress and there is no political party more communal than the Congress on the soil of this country," the Union agriculture minister said. On the communalism allegedly practised by the Congress, he claimed that the party talks about secularism on one hand and makes people fight among themselves on the other. He alleged that the Congress has forged an electoral tie-up with a communal party in West Bengal despite opposition from its workers. The CPI(M)-led Left Front, Congress and the newly formed Indian Secular Front (ISF), headed by an influential Muslim cleric, have forged an alliance in West Bengal. "The Congress also has an alliance with the Muslim League (in Kerala). In Assam, it has an alliance with (AIUDF president) Badruddin Ajmal who is synonymous with communalism," he said. The Congress has joined hands with Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the Left parties and others to take on the ruling BJP-led NDA in the upcoming election in Assam. Thus, the Congress has lost the right to talk about secularism, said the BJP leader who came to Assam to campaign for the saffron party. Tomar claimed that the Congress is not highlighting its alliance with the AIUDF in areas where it thinks the tie- up may affect its poll prospects. "The Congress thinks that the people of Assam do not understand it, but they do. And the party will come to know about it when the (election) result will come out, he said. People will repose their faith in the BJP for ensuring peace, security and development in Assam during the last five years here, he claimed. Former prime minister Manmohan Singh represented Assam in the Rajya Sabha for two terms but he did not work for the welfare of the state and the Northeastern region, Tomar alleged. To a query on the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), he said, "The BJP does not need to give certificate on its policies. The Bill has been brought and the Act has been formulated. Further discussion on it is not necessary." The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to people of minority communities Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, who had come to India till December 31, 2014 due to religious persecution in these countries. The state witnessed violent protests against the CAA in 2019 and five persons lost their lives. The protestors saw the law as a threat to their cultural identity and livelihood. To another question on influx of illegal immigrants, Tomar said that the BJP will continue to fight the problem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-most-communal-party-corruption-born-from-its-womb-narendra-singh-tomar-963971.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||BJP failed to check soaring food prices in Assam, Congress will arrest inflation: Alka Lamba||Congress leader Alka Lamba on Friday alleged that the BJP-led government in Assam has failed to check the soaring food prices and promised that her party will arrest inflation if voted to power in the state. She accused the saffron party of not listening to people's demand for checking price rise. "The double CM, the double-engine government seems to be adding double misery to the people of Assam. "While the focus should have been on increasing disposable income in the hands of the people of Assam, this indifferent government, coupled with the Centre, has dealt a blow to the pockets of the common man," she told reporters. An exorbitant rise in fuel and food prices has forced the people of Assam to cut down food consumption, which will have a lasting impact on the health of children as lakhs of people are forced to consume food low on nutrition and protein, she said. "What the double engine has done is that when one engine withdraws the additional cess of 25 per cent imposed during Covid-19, the other engine hikes petrol and diesel prices. The passenger suffers, because she/he ends up reaching nowhere," Lamba said. The country's retail inflation rose from 4.06 per cent in January this year to 5.03 per cent in February, while Assam's inflation rate on food and beverages increased by 150 per cent between 2016-17 and 2019-20, from 2.1 per cent to 5.5 per cent, she said. AICC spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said the fuel prices haven't increased since the announcement of election dates on February 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-failed-to-check-soaring-food-prices-in-assam-congress-will-arrest-inflation-alka-lamba-964006.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||Farmers' stir: Anti-national forces thwarting solution, says RSS||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent, has expressed concern in its annual report that “anti-national and anti-social forces” were preventing the resolution of the deadlock between agitating farmers and the Modi administration over the Farm Bills.  “It is not in anyone’s interest for any kind of agitation to be prolonged for a long time...It is also a matter of concern that day-to-day life is affected due to agitations. The problem becomes more serious when anti-national and anti-social forces try to thwart the ongoing efforts towards a solution,” the RSS said in its report that was presented during the Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS) here on Friday. The RSS is holding a 2-day meeting of the ABPS, its highest decision-making body. It will conclude Saturday.  “The leadership of the present agitation should not allow such a situation to rise,” it added.  Farmers groups have been protesting for over 100 days now on the borders of Delhi against the three farm laws, demanding that they be repealed even as several rounds of talks they had with the Centre have failed to end the impasse. The RSS report noted that the Bills were passed by Parliament with a “majority” and the intensity of the agitation “increased with time”.  The Samyukt Kisan Morcha has called for a Bharat Bandh on March 26 and the agitators will, on March 28, burn copies of the laws during Holi. “Discussions are a must, but with a view to finding a solution,” the report said. “It is possible that not all issues are agreed upon, but it is essential that some agreements must be reached upon.”  The report pointed out that such “anti-national forces” tried to create “disturbance and instability” to meet their political ambitions. “We believe that there are no unsolvable problems. What is needed is sincere efforts. In a democracy, all have the freedom of expressing their views, but none can be given the right to create disturbance and instability in the country,” it added.  The RSS report stated that the concept of ‘one nation - one society’ was seen during the mass contact campaign to collect funds for the Ram Mandir. “Karyakartas reached villages and homes and collected Samarpan Nidhi. Over the last 30-35 years, the entire society has been associated with the movements for freeing Shri Ram Janmabhoomi. The same reverence was witnessed after a long time,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-stir-anti-national-forces-thwarting-solution-says-rss-964010.html
19-03-2021||National Politics||2 Kerala Congress MLAs quit outgoing Assembly, file nominations for April 6 polls||Kerala Congress leaders P J Joseph and Mons Joseph resigned as MLAs on Friday ahead of filing their nomination papers for the April 6 assembly elections in the state, party sources said here. The move came two days after the Kerala Congress faction led by P J Joseph, a constituent of the Congress-led UDF, merged with the Kerala Congress headed by former Union Minister P C Thomas which had quit the BJP-led NDA. While P J Joseph represented Thodupuzha seat in the Assembly, Mons was elected from Kaduthuruthy in the 2016 polls. Sources said Both Joseph and Mons took the decision to resign as MLAs to avoid possible legal complications since they had won the previous polls as members of Kerala Congress (M), which is currently a constituent of the CPI(M)-led LDF. Earlier, the P J Joseph faction had lost its election symbol "two leaves" and recognition following its split with the Jose K Mani-led Kerala Congress (M). On Monday, the Supreme Court had rejected an appeal filed by P J Joseph challenging the Election Commission's order recognising the Jose K Mani faction as the official Kerala Congress (M) and allotting the party's symbol to it. The Congress-led UDF has allocated ten seats to the P J Joseph-headed Kerala Congress and they all filed nomination papers from their respective constituencies on Friday, sources said. Since the Kerala Congress headed by Thomas was a registered party, the merger on March 17 has helped Joseph-led faction to retain the name Kerala Congress. However, the Election Commission refused to grant the party a common symbol citing that the time has lapsed for moving the application for it, party sources said. They said the party candidates in their nomination papers have applied for three symbols and it was hopeful that the EC would allocate a common symbol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/2-kerala-congress-mlas-quit-outgoing-assembly-file-nominations-for-april-6-polls-964034.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||US Defence Secretary urged to convey human rights concerns to India during visit to New Delhi||As American Defence Secretary, Lloyd J Austin, is set to commence his first visit to New Delhi on Friday, a United States Senator, Robert Menendez, has urged him to convey concerns over the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government dealt with farmers' protest in India. Menendez wrote to Austin, requesting him to convey to his counterpart, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, the concerns of the United States over India’s decision to purchase S-400 missile systems from Russia. Austin is the first top US official to visit New Delhi after the change of guard at the White House in Washington DC. Apart from meeting Defence Minister, he will also hold talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. He is likely to call on the Prime Minister, too. “The Indian government’s ongoing crackdown on farmers peacefully protesting new farming laws and corresponding intimidation of journalists and government critics only underscores the deteriorating situation of democracy in India,” Menendez, a Senator of the Democratic Party, wrote to Austin. He also expressed concern over “rising anti-Muslim sentiment and related government actions like the Citizenship Amendment Act, the suppression of political dialogue and arrest of political opponents following the abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir, and the use of sedition laws to persecute political opponents”. He noted that the US human rights group, Freedom House, of late stripped India of its ‘Free’ status in its yearly global survey. He urged the US Defence Secretary to raise “democracy and human rights concerns” in his discussions with the government of India. He noted that while he would like to see the US-India partnership grow, it must be acknowledged that the partnership was the strongest when based on shared democratic values and the government of India had been trending away from those values. Menendez also urged Austin to raise the opposition of US President Joe Biden’s administration to India’s reportedly planned purchase of the Russian S-400 missile defence system. He said that New Delhi’s S-400 missile deal with Moscow would threaten future US-India defence cooperation and puts India at risk of sanctions under Section 231 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). The US in December 2020 imposed the CAATSA sanctions on Turkey for the $ 2.5 billion deal President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan’s Government clinched with Russia for procuring the S-400 Triumf air defence systems. The US move against its NATO-ally Turkey triggered concerns in New Delhi, where many saw in it a not-so-subtle warning to India, which too in October 2018 inked a $ 5.4 billion deal to buy five S-400 Triumf long-range surface-to-air missile systems from Almaz-Antey Corporation of Russia and is expecting the delivery to start in 2021. The US not only imposed sanctions on Turkey, but also asked “other countries” to take note and avoid acquisition of military hardware from Russia. The US Congress in July 2017 passed the CAATSA to impose sanctions on Russia, Iran and North Korea. Trump signed it into law in August 2017 and its scope was further expanded in October 2017. The Section 231 of the CAATSA mandated secondary sanctions to any nation entering into high-value deals to procure military hardware from Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/us-defence-secretary-urged-to-convey-human-rights-concerns-to-india-during-visit-to-new-delhi-963608.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Ask Kejriwal why no woman minister in his govt: Delhi BJP to DCW chief||Appreciating DCW Chairperson Swati Maliwal for issuing a notice to Delhi Police over the lack of woman SHO in the force, the Delhi BJP on Thursday said she should also question Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal why there was no women minister in his government. The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) had recently issued a notice to the city police, seeking reasons for no female station house officer (SHO) at any police station. In a letter to Maliwal, Delhi BJP vice president Virendra Sachdeva appreciated her concern and said she should also send a notice to Kejriwal asking him the reason for not including any woman in his cabinet. Every government in Delhi from 1993 till 2014, had women ministers. However, the Kejriwal government discontinued this tradition despite having several women MLAs in his party, Sachdeva said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ask-kejriwal-why-no-woman-minister-in-his-govt-delhi-bjp-to-dcw-chief-963618.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Woman who turned 100 during pandemic gets first Covid shot in Delhi||Sindh-born Kamla Das who turned 100 during the height of the pandemic in Delhi last September, got her first shot of Covid-19 vaccine here on Thursday, her daughter said. The centenarian woman, wife of late Maj Gen (retd) Chand N Das, was born on September 3, 1920, and said the jab was "totally painless". "My mother turned 100 during the pandemic and we held a three-day celebration from September 2-4 to allow guests to come, as large gatherings were not allowed then. My siblings were fearful that she could contract Covid-19, but we thought she has lived a good life and not everyone gets to see their 100th birthday. So, we made it a special one for her," her youngest daughter Jyotica Sikand told PTI. Resident of south Delhi, she was administered the vaccine at BLK Hospital, a day after Brij Prakash Gupta, also born in 1920, had received his first shot of Covieshield vaccine at the same facility, a spokesperson of the hospital said. Sikand, 72, said, "We allowed her to live a very normal life even during the entire pandemic last year. And, she's fine and today also got her shot." "She told me that the shot was so painless, she doesn't recall which hand it was administered in," the daughter said in a lighter vein. Sikand remembered her father, Maj Gen Das, who had served in the Second World War and retired from the Army in 1965, and also authored many books on the armed forces. "He was born in Lahore and educated at Government College, Lahore and received his military training at Royal Military College, Sandhurst in England, and Staff College, Quetta (now in Pakistan). He was commissioned in the British Indian Army in 1933 and posted as a Subaltern with the Lancashire Fusiliers. He joined the 5 Battalion of the Rajputana Rifles in North West Frontier Province in 1934. "During his 32 years of service with the Army, he held both command and staff appointments at many levels. During World War II, he served in Hong Kong, Burma, Italy and Greece and was awarded the Officer Class of the Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (OBE) in recognition of his distinguished service," according to information shared by his daughter. She said her mother's father was in the railways and the family lived mainly in Lahore. "My mother, who has so many stories and memories, was born in Sukkur in Sindh province (now in Pakistan). She went to Sacred Heart School and Kinnaird College, both in Lahore. None in my family migrated, and my father just happened to be posted in Delhi when the partition happened," Sikand said. "My father was born in 1911 and died in 2006, aged 95. When my mother turned 100 last year, defence personnel had come from the Rajputana Rifles regiment to honour my mother with a ceremonial gesture on September 4. And, later a small event was held at Raj Rif here to mark her 100th birthday. The Indian Army is truly a family. Such a touching gesture it was," the daughter recalled. Sikand said his father was very interested in military history and books authored by him include "Traditions & Customs of the Indian Armed Forces" and "Hours of Glory (Famous Battles of the Indian Army 1801-1971)". Many centenarians have been vaccinated in the past few days. On March 15, 107-year-old Kewal Krishan, who was just five-years-old during the deadly Spanish Flu, and later became part of the drafting committee of the Constituent Assembly of India, received his first shot of Covid-19 vaccine at a private facility here. Tulsi Das Chawla, 104, who was born a few months before the outbreak of the Spanish Flu, had received his first shot of Covid-19 vaccine at a private hospital here on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-who-turned-100-during-pandemic-gets-first-covid-shot-in-delhi-963629.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Women feeling unsafe under BJP govt in UP: Akhilesh||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday alleged that women were feeling unsafe under the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh. He said the Hathras incident has moved the entire world but no worthwhile step has been taken by the state government for the safety and security of women. While talking to reporters in Vrindavan, Yadav said the state government has "failed" to launch any new work in its four-year tenure. The projects launched during the SP regime are being re-inaugurated by the UP government, he alleged. The former chief minister criticised the government for insulting the farmers by calling them "terrorists". Yadav slammed the BJP government for the "ruthless" imposition of the Covid-19 lockdown last year and not providing any transport to migrant workers for their journey to their hometown even though the dispensation had a fleet of 90,000 buses. The SP chief claimed that his party has provided financial relief of Rs 1 lakh to each of the bereaved families who lost someone during the COVID-19 crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/women-feeling-unsafe-under-bjp-govt-in-up-akhilesh-963636.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||'Ripped jeans' remark not being presented in full context: Uttarakhand CM's wife||Amid uproar over Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat's ripped jeans remark, his wife defended his statement on Thursday, saying his words were not being presented in full context. In a statement through a video here, Rawat's wife Rashmi Tyagi said that the entire context in which he made the comment is not being described. "He (Tirath Singh Rawat) said that women's participation is unprecedented in building the society and the country. It is the responsibility of the women of our country to save our cultural heritage, save our identity, save our costumes," Rashmi, who has been Miss Meerut, clarified.   At an event on Tuesday, Rawat criticised women for wearing ripped jeans and wondered what values they will impart to their children, triggering a protest from opposition parties. The Uttarakhand chief minister said due to a lack of values, youngsters these days follow strange fashion trends and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees, while women also follow such trends. He said youngsters go to the market to buy ripped jeans and if they do not find one, they cut their jeans using scissors. Rawat went on to describe the attire of a woman, who once sat next to him on a flight. He said the woman was wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees and several bangles in her hands with two children travelling with her. "She runs an NGO, goes out in the society and has two children, but she wears jeans ripped at the knees. What values will she impart?" he asked. Senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal said he was "shocked" by Rawat's statement. In a statement, Uttarakhand Congress chief Pritam Singh termed Rawat's remarks "shameful" and demanded that he apologise to women. State Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni added that it doesn't behove a chief minister to make a derogatory remark about someone's sartorial choices and said such comments can hurt public sentiment. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) slammed Rawat over his "distasteful" remarks. Rawat did find support in his party colleague, Surendra Singh, MLA from Bairia in Uttar Pradesh. Men and women, he said, need to wear "decent clothes" and women, especially daughters, are the family's "prestige" and must behave in a dignified manner. In a reply to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's tweet congratulating Rawat on his oath ceremony as Uttarakhand CM, RJD leader Rabri Devi blasted the ruling party for trying to define identity and culture through one's clothes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ripped-jeans-remark-not-being-presented-in-full-context-uttarakhand-cms-wife-963706.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Services delayed on Delhi Metro's Blue Line section due to track maintenance work: DMRC||Services on a section of the Delhi Metro's Blue Line were affected on Friday morning due to train speed restriction imposed on that segment due to overnight track maintenance work. The DMRC took to Twitter to inform commuters about the delay: “Blue Line Update Delay in service between Rajouri Garden and Kirti Nagar. Normal service on all other lines”.   Blue Line Update Delay in service between Rajouri Garden and Kirti Nagar. Normal service on all other lines.   A spokesperson of the Delhi Metro said, “Track maintenance work was carried out in that stretch last night, so trains are running at a restricted speed in that section, leading to bunching, and hence delay”. He said that there was “no technical sang” and passengers will be updated through social media. Blue Line connects Dwarka in Delhi to Electronic City in Noida.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/services-delayed-on-delhi-metros-blue-line-section-due-to-track-maintenance-work-dmrc-963742.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||No party symbol in EVMs: SC directs serving copy of PIL to A-G||The Supreme Court on Friday asked BJP leader and lawyer, Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, to serve Attorney General K K Venugopal, a copy of his petition seeking directions to use the name, age, qualification and photograph of contesting candidates on Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) in place of political party symbol. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, however, for now, has refused to issue a notice to the Union government and the Election Commission on his petition. The petition by Upadhyay contended that the party symbol was the root cause of corruption and criminalisation. He sought appropriate orders and or directions to use the name, age, qualification and photograph of contesting candidates on EVMsinstead of political party symbol. Senior advocate, Vikas Singh, appearing for Upadhyay, today told the court that he had checked and found that in Brazil, one just got numbers to contest and no symbols.  The bench, however, asked Singh, how a symbol can prejudice the electronic voting process in any way. To this, Singh said that the intrinsic value of the candidates can be taken and measured by the voters if details other than party symbols can be taken into consideration.  The CJI, however, said that the court would not issue a notice at this stage.  "You serve a copy to the Attorney General and then we will see. No notice now," the CJI Bobde told Singh.  The counsel also said that he had sent a letter to the Election Commission of India (ECI) and other authorities, but they didn't give any response in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-party-symbol-in-evms-sc-directs-serving-copy-of-pil-to-a-g-963752.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir HC refers Abdullah’s plea challenging ED jurisdiction to division bench||A single-judge bench of Jammu and Kashmir High Court has referred National Conference (NC) president and MP Farooq Abdullah’s plea challenging the jurisdiction of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to attach his properties to the division bench. On December 19 last year, the ED had attached three houses and a commercial building belonging to octogenarian Abdullah in Srinagar, Baramulla and Jammu under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Besides, houses and a commercial building, land belonging to the NC leader had also been attached at four places in J&K. On March 6, Abdullah challenged the jurisdiction of the ED in the High Court. On March 18, the bench of Justice Dhiraj Singh Thakur referred the case to the division bench after observing that the genesis of the proceedings against the petitioner Abdullah and a former treasurer of Jammu and Kashmir Cricket Association (JKCA) Ahsan Ahmad Mirza lie in the case which is pending trial before the designated court. Abdullah in his plea has submitted that his attached properties are admittedly unrelated to the alleged criminal activity mentioned in the Final Report/FIR and is a “continuing violation of his fundamental rights.” “All properties attached by the ED are either ancestral or acquired by the petitioner prior to the date of the alleged offences. The attached properties were acquired prior to the alleged commission of the offences, and hence were not involved in any alleged money-laundering or related criminal activity,” the petition reads. The JKCA had received Rs 109.78 crore from the BCCI from 2005 to 2011 for the promotion of cricket in the erstwhile state. The ED probe reveals that from 2006 to 2012, when Abdullah was President of the JKCA, he misused his position and clout by illegal appointments of office bearers to whom he gave financial powers for the purpose of laundering of the JKCA funds. “Investigation clearly brings out that Abdullah was instrumental as well as beneficiary of the laundered funds of the JKCA,” the ED probe reveals. It further says the JKCA funds to the tune of more than Rs 45 crores has been siphoned, which includes heavy cash withdrawals of around Rs 25 crores, "with no corresponding justification.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-hc-refers-abdullah-s-plea-challenging-ed-jurisdiction-to-division-bench-963764.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab shuts schools, colleges, issues curbs amid Covid-19 surge||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases in Punjab, Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has ordered a slew of restrictions beginning Saturday which include closing of all educational institutions till month-end and curbs on cinema and mall capacities. In the 11 worst-hit districts, a complete ban has been ordered on all social gatherings, except for funerals and weddings, which will be allowed with only 20 persons in attendance. This will be enforced from Sunday. The chief minister also appealed to people to keep social activity in their homes to the bare minimum for the next two weeks to break the transmission chain, according to an official statement. Not more than 10 visitors should be entertained in homes, he urged chairing a meeting of the COVID task force here. The chief minister also ordered compulsory wearing of face mask, directing police and the health authorities to take all those loitering in public areas without it to the nearest testing facility to ensure that they are not asymptomatic cases. The situation will be reviewed after two weeks, said the chief minister. Dr K K Talwar, who heads the state government's expert team on coronavirus, told the chief minister that the surge in cases appeared to be the result of the opening of schools and colleges, with young asymptomatic people appearing to be spreading the virus. "All educational institutions, other than medical and nursing colleges, will remain closed till March 31," the statement said. In the wake of the spike in cases, the Department of School Education had last week declared preparatory leave for students of all classes. Restriction of 50 per cent capacity will be there in cinema halls and not more than 100 persons in a mall at any time. In the worst-hit districts, the chief minister has ordered cinemas, multiplexes, restaurants and malls to remain closed on Sundays though home deliveries will be allowed subject to night curfew. The Punjab Congress too will not hold any political gathering for the next two weeks. The CM appealed to other political parties to keep their gatherings within the prescribed numbers—50 per cent of capacity, subject to maximum of 100 in closed and 200 in open spaces. No political gatherings should take place in the most affected districts, he said. Industries and essential services shall be allowed to function. Barring these, all restrictions shall be strictly enforced, the chief minister directed. Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told the CM that the procurement of crops will start from April 10, instead of April 1, as the department needed more time to make arrangements to ensure safe procurement. The CM also asked the Amritsar Deputy Commissioner to talk to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbhandak Committee (SGPC) and the management of the Durgiana temple to encourage devotees to wear masks inside the shrines. The rise in cases is a matter of serious concern, particularly in rural areas which had seen much fewer cases last year, said the Chief Minister, directing the departments concerned to launch awareness campaigns in villages. Health and Family Welfare Minister Balbir Sidhu said told the CM that unlike previously when there were more cases in cities, now infection numbers were almost equally divided between urban and rural areas. In the 11 worst-affected districts of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur, Kapurthala, SBS Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Ropar and Moga, the chief minister ordered restrictions on in-person public dealings in government offices with people to be encouraged to visit offices only for essential services. Amarinder Singh directed officials to encourage online modes for grievance redressal. Starting next week, one hour of silence will be observed across the state every Saturday, from 11 am to 12 noon, in memory of those who lost their lives to COVID-19.   Directing health officials to ramp up testing to 35,000 per day, the chief minister said special focus should be on super spreaders, government employees and teachers in educational institutions. Rapid antigen testing should be stepped up along with the RT-PCR testing, he ordered while directing contact tracing and testing to be taken up to 30 per positive person. Dr K K Talwar said there is no evidence as of now to show that the spike is due to mutants as only two cases of new strains have been found in Punjab. The state currently has almost 40 per cent cases from under 30 population, he added. As of Thursday, Punjab's infection tally was 2,05,418 while the total fatalities stood at 6,204, according to a medical bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-shuts-schools-colleges-issues-curbs-amid-covid-19-surge-963766.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Congress seeks probe into death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma||The opposition Congress in Himachal Pradesh on Friday sought a high-level probe into the death of BJP MP Ram Swaroop Sharma, who was found hanging from the ceiling at his official residence in New Delhi.   Raising the issue soon after Question Hour in the Himachal Pradesh Assembly, Leader of Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri stated that the people of the state in general and of his Mandi segment in particular wanted to know the exact cause of his "mysterious death".  If a CBI inquiry can be initiated into Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput's death, why cannot a high level inquiry into Sharma's death may be ordered, he asked. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that Delhi Police is already investigating the incident. Postmortem report is also awaited, he added. Thakur said they should wait for the outcome of the investigation.  Prima facie, it seems that his deteriorating health led him to take the step, he said, adding Sharma was suffering from prostate enlargement and getting blood in urine.  Stating that there was no need to do politics over his death, Thakur, without naming anyone, noted that some persons uploaded Facebook posts demanding a CBI probe into his death. Sharma was elected to the 16th and 17th Lok Sabha from Mandi parliamentary constituency in 2014 and 2019, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-seeks-probe-into-death-of-bjp-mp-ram-swaroop-sharma-963839.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Congress, Gandhi family ‘ruined’ Amethi: UP Minister Mohsin Raza||Uttar Pradesh minister Mohsin Raza on Friday accused the Congress and Gandhi family of “ruining” Amethi and then leaving for Wayanad in Kerala. Congress general secretary Rahul Gandhi had represented the Amethi constituency of Uttar Pradesh in the Lok Sabha since 2004 but contested from the Wayanad seat in Kerala simultaneously in the 2019 general elections. Although he lost Amethi to Smriti Irani of the BJP, he won from the Congress bastion in Kerala. Raza, who is the Minister of State for Minority Welfare, Muslim Waqf and Haj in Uttar Pradesh, said the Gandhi family “cheated” the people of Amethi for several decades and failed to ensure any development in the area. After serving their selfish motives, they left for Wayanad, Raza said at a press conference on the sidelines of a programme in Gauriganj to mark completion of four years of the BJP government in the state. Last month, Rahul Gandhi came under fire from opposition parties especially the BJP over his speech comparing politics in north and south India. Raza, who is also the minister in-charge of Amethi, targeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra saying, she has nothing to do with the people of Amethi and alleged that the leader does not even visit the constituency anymore. Raza claimed, Rs 800 crore were spent on development works in Amethi due to the efforts of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Irani. The Narendra Modi government at the centre and the Adityanath regime in the state have always been working for the development of Amethi. Several projects are underway in fields like education, medicine, rail and road, etc. he said. Raza said that the establishment of a medical college and a Kendriya Vidyalaya in Amethi indicate that the constituency is now marching on the path of development. He also released a booklet on the development work being done in Amethi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-gandhi-family-ruined-amethi-up-minister-mohsin-raza-963850.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Revised Covid-19 vaccination timings from March 22, adequate manpower to be deployed: Delhi govt||Vaccination centres in the national capital will operate till 9 pm starting March 22, according to an official order. A copy of the order issued by the city government's health department was shared by Health Minister Satyendar Jain in a tweet on Friday. "Taking cognisance of the sudden surge in the Covid cases, all Delhi Govt hospitals will hereby operate vaccination sites in their premises till at least 9pm. Adequate man power will be deployed to ensure the same. I request Delhiites to follow proper protocols and stay safe!," he tweeted. Taking cognisance of the sudden surge in the covid cases, all Delhi Govt hospitals will hereby operate vaccination sites in their premises till atleast 9pm. Adequate man power will be deployed to ensure the same. The decision was announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Acknowledging that coronavirus cases in Delhi have been rising in the last few days, Kejriwal, at a virtual press conference, had asserted it was not a matter to be worried about even as he announced that the capacity of daily inoculation in Delhi would be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He had also said the number of vaccination centres will be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities. The closing time for vaccination would be extended from 9 am to 5 pm currently to 9 am to 9 pm. Delhi on Thursday recorded 607 new Covid-19 cases, the highest in over two-and-a-half months, while one more fatality pushed the death toll to 10,949, the Health Department said. The number of active cases rose to 2,924 from 2,702 a day ago, according to the health bulletin. The 607 new cases took the infection tally to 6,45,632 while 6.31 lakh people have recovered so far. The positivity rate rose to 0.76 per cent from 0.66 per cent on Wednesday, the bulletin said. Delhi had recorded 536 cases on Wednesday and 425 on Tuesday, with a positivity rate of 0.61 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/revised-covid-19-vaccination-timings-from-march-22-adequate-manpower-to-be-deployed-delhi-govt-963854.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||3 dead, 4 injured in Rajasthan after roof collapses due to LPG cylinder blast||Three people were killed and four injured when the roof of their house collapsed after an LPG cylinder exploded in Rajasthan's Chittorgarh district on Friday, police said.  The incident took place in Meetharam Kheda area of the district when the cylinder caught fire. The deceased were identified as Purushottam Bhambhi (40), his wife Jamuna Bai (38) and his mother Sanjani Bai (60), Station House Officer (SHO) Darshan Singh said. Their bodies were handed over to their family members after postmortem, he added. The injured, including Bhambhi's three children, were referred to Udaipur for treatment, the SHO said, adding the fourth person wounded in the accident was also related to the family.  Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot express his condolences over the incident. "The death of three persons in cylinder blast at a house in Meetharam ji ka Kheda village of Chittorgarh is sad and unfortunate. My condolences are with the bereaved family," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-dead-4-injured-in-rajasthan-after-roof-collapses-due-to-lpg-cylinder-blast-963874.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi HC asks authorities to consider plea seeking dedicated lane for emergency vehicles||The Delhi High Court Friday directed the authorities to treat as representation a plea seeking a reserved lane for unrestricted movement of emergency vehicles round the clock. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said a policy decision is required in this matter and the court does not see any reason to issue a direction to the authorities in this regard. "It all depends on the width of a road and traffic on the road. We direct the respondents to treat the petition as a representation and decide it in accordance with rules, law and policy applicable in the facts of the case," the bench said and disposed of the plea. The court was hearing a petition filed by Vinay Kumar seeking direction to the Delhi government's Transport Department and Delhi Police to provide a dedicated reserved lane for unrestricted use of emergency services 24 hours, 7 days a week.  The plea, filed through advocate Ankit Sharma, also sought a direction to Delhi Police to ensure immediate compliance, implementation and enforcement of the law and issue direction to Delhi Disaster Management Authority to provide the requisite support, framework and infrastructure and resources for Implementation of the dedicated reserved lanes.  The petitioner said that in case of emergencies, people will have the benefit of reaching the hospitals quickly if dedicate lanes are provided by the government. The plea also said that as per a report, Delhi has 56 per cent traffic congestion, while 190 hours are lost in traffic congestion on average. It said that at present, the response time of emergency services like police and fire services has increased due to the huge daily traffic congestions on road.  "As it is the fundamental duty of the state to provide timely medical aid to every citizen, it is of utmost importance that such infrastructure is created that emergency services are provided free unrestricted passage, 24 hours and 7 days a week so as to ensure that they can respond timely to the emergency situations and save lives," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-asks-authorities-to-consider-plea-seeking-dedicated-lane-for-emergency-vehicles-963897.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh dog ownership dispute resolved as DNA test report arrives||The dispute between two people in Madhya Pradesh over ownership of a Labrador dog that went missing in August last year has been resolved post DNA testing, police said on Friday. After Coco went missing, local journalist Shadab Khan came forward stating that the canine was his pet, while a person named Kartik Shivhare also laid claim to being the owner, Hoshangabad police station in-charge Anoop Singh Nain said. In order to resolve the issue, the then police station in-charge, Hemant Shrivastava, convinced Khan and Shivhare that the dog be subjected to a DNA test, he said. The DNA test, which was conducted in Hyderabad in Telangana after samples were sent in December, was on the basis of Khan's claim that he had bought the dog from a person in Pachmari hill station here, the official said. The DNA report, which arrived on Thursday, confirmed Khan's claim after which Coco was handed over to him, Nain informed. "I spent Rs 50,000 in the process as I had to take veterinarians to Pachmari and then make arrangements for sending the sample with the help of police to Hyderabad for DNA tests. Thankfully, Coco is home and my family is very happy," Khan said. Shivhare could not be contacted despite several attempts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-dog-ownership-dispute-resolved-as-dna-test-report-arrives-963899.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Back your rhetoric on peace with solid action: Punjab CM to Pakistan Army chief||Reacting to Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa’s remarks that it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward", Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said he should back his rhetoric on peace with solid action. Bajwa's statement had come on Thursday, a day after Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan made similar overtures following an unexpected ceasefire announcement by the militaries of the two countries weeks ago. Addressing a session of the first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue, General Bajwa had said the potential for regional peace and development always remained hostage to the issues between Pakistan and India--the two "nuclear-armed neighbours". Terming the Islamabad-sponsored terrorism as "the biggest hurdle to normalising relations between the two nations", Amarinder Singh said Bajwa should first control his ISI and then talk about stability in the India-Pakistan relations. General Bajwa “should back his rhetoric on peace with solid action”, the CM said in a statement, adding that India cannot afford to go soft with Pakistan “till they walk the talk and prove their sincerity with concrete actions”. “Infiltration into India from across the border is still happening, Indian soldiers are being killed at the borders every day. They (Pakistan) are dropping arms and heroin into Punjab via drones every other day. Efforts to create trouble in my state continue to take place. All this should stop first, only then we can talk peace," the Punjab CM said. "For India to trust Pakistan, the latter will have to do much more than offer an olive branch," said the chief minister, citing his own experience of 1964 as ADC to the General Officer Commanding-in-C, Western Command. "We used to receive daily reports of firing and trouble from the western border as we continue to do now," said Amarinder Singh. It is important for not just Bajwa but the entire Pakistan military apparatus to be on board with the idea of burying the past and paving the way for peace with India, said Amarinder Singh on Friday, adding that it is not New Delhi but Islamabad which has obstructed the path of peace between the two countries. “Are they all of the same view as shared by General Bajwa? Are they withdrawing all support to terror groups immediately? Have they asked the ISI to back off and leave India alone,” asked the chief minister. “India is all for peace, all Indians stand for peace, but India cannot compromise on its security and integrity,” he stressed, adding that peace cannot be conditional. Given the way the situation has evolved over the past few months, Pakistan's increasing collusion with China, which has been causing a whole lot of trouble for India on the other border, is a matter of concern, the chief minister said. “If Islamabad seriously wants peace with New Delhi, they should send out the message to Beijing, loud and clear, that Pakistan is not with them in the dangerous escapades at the Line of Actual Control (LAC)”, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/back-your-rhetoric-on-peace-with-solid-action-punjab-cm-to-pakistan-army-chief-963903.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti reacts to Pak Army chief's peace remark, says 'good opportunity' to solve Kashmir crisis||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Friday said Pakistan Army Chief's statement calling for better ties with India has provided a "good opportunity" for the two nations to set aside hostilities and find a lasting solution to the Kashmir problem. "A good opportunity for India & Pakistan to set aside hostilities & find a long lasting solution vis-a-vis Kashmir," Mehbooba said in a tweet. She was reacting to Pakistan Army Chief General Qamar Jawad Bajwa's statement that India and Pakistan should bury the past and move forward. "Both countries have huge military budgets to outdo each other when the same resources can instead be used on common challenges like poverty, education & healthcare," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-reacts-to-pak-army-chiefs-peace-remark-says-good-opportunity-to-solve-kashmir-crisis-963905.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA's son alleges rampant corruption in UP, asks CM Yogi to intervene||A BJP MLA's son has alleged corruption in Uttar Pradesh and asked Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to get an inquiry done to ascertain the charge, in an embarrassment to the party's government as it completes four years in office. "For the past four years, I have been watching that from lekhpal (revenue officer) to SDM in tehsils, no one is doing any work without taking money," Neeraj Verma, son of Powayan BJP MLA Chet Ram, said on social media. In a Facebook live video on Friday, Verma also asked the chief minister to "check corruption in the administrative set up before it is too late". "Similarly at police stations, inspectors are openly taking bribes," he said in the video. "If Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath Maharaj wants, he can get an inquiry conducted to see that money is being taken everywhere. Even for issuing a character certificate, the lekhpal is taking a bribe of Rs 2,000 and senior officers of the districts are working with the mentality of the SP and the BSP," he said, referring to the two political parties who are in the Opposition in UP. BJP district unit president Hari Prakash Verma told PTI over the phone that he has not yet watched the video of MLA's son, which is going viral on social media, but he has got information in this regard. "Action will definitely be taken after watching the video if anything wrong is found," Hari Prakash Verma said. Neeraj Verma also claimed that officers are not even listening to MLAs and due to it the work of poor people is getting hampered. "I am fed up with this system," he said. "Maharaj ji, one year of the government is still left and all senior ministers and the chief minister can pay attention (to issue of corruption) and control the officers, otherwise it will be a disaster," the BJP MLA's son suggested. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Adityanath addressed a press conference on Friday morning, listing what his government has achieved so far as it prepares for the next assembly polls a year away.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mlas-son-alleges-rampant-corruption-in-up-asks-cm-yogi-to-intervene-963909.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Centre has stopped doorstep delivery of ration scheme, Delhi government sources say||Days after the GNCTD (Amendment) Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha, Delhi government sources on Friday claimed that the Centre has "stopped" its doorstep delivery of ration scheme scheduled to roll out later this month. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was scheduled to launch the scheme with doorstep delivery of ration to 100 households in Seemapuri area on March 25. "The Centre has stopped Delhi government's doorstep delivery of ration scheme," a source claimed without divulging further details. The Centre on Monday introduced the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 in Lok Sabha that seeks to give overarching powers to the Lieutenant Governor. The ruling AAP has vociferously opposed the Bill, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that struggle against the legislation will continue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centre-has-stopped-doorstep-delivery-of-ration-scheme-delhi-government-sources-say-963910.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Maharashtra, Punjab issue fresh guidelines amid fears of Covid-19 second wave||Maharashtra and Punjab issue new rules to curb the spread of Covid-19 after fears of a second wave of the pandemic. The Centre urged the Delhi High Court to restrain Facebook-owned WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy and terms of service.  India's economy is likely to grow by 12 per cent in 2021 following a 7.1 per cent contraction last year, as near-term prospects have turned more favourable, Moody's Analytics said.  Here is the top news of March 19, 2021: Maharashtra issued fresh guidelines amid rising coronavirus cases in the state. All private offices will function at 50 per cent strength. However, manufacturing industries and essential services remain unaffected. Covid protocols must be followed. Violation of the rules will result in the closure of manufacturing until the pandemic is notified as a disaster by the Centre. Punjab will keep all schools and colleges shut till March 31 after a review meeting took place. Night curfew from 9 pm will be announced in 11 districts where Covid-19 cases are rising. Only medical colleges to remain open. India on Friday reported its highest Covid-19 spike since late November with nearly 40,000 cases. The Centre urged the Delhi High Court to restrain Facebook-owned WhatsApp from implementing its new privacy policy and terms of service. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology made the statement in its affidavit filed in response to a petition challenging the new privacy policy of social networking platform WhatsApp. Under the new policy, users can either accept it or exit the app, but they cannot opt not to share their data with other Facebook-owned or third party apps. The first high-level US-China talks of the Biden administration got off to a fiery start, with both sides leveling sharp rebukes of the others' policies in a rare public display that underscored the level of bilateral tension. The run-up to the meeting in Anchorage, Alaska, which followed visits by US officials to allies Japan and South Korea, was marked by a flurry of moves by Washington that showed it was taking a tough stance, and blunt talk from Beijing. India's economy is likely to grow by 12 per cent in 2021 following a 7.1 per cent contraction last year, as near-term prospects have turned more favourable, Moody's Analytics said.A stronger than expected December quarter GDP growth of 0.4 per cent following a 7.5 per cent contraction in the previous three months has turned India's near-term prospects more favourable, it said. Domestic and external demand has been on the mend since the easing of restrictions, which has led to improved manufacturing output in recent months. The demand for Covid-19 ICU beds has risen sharply since last Friday, according to officials from the state health department and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).As per the data, a statewide increase in ICU usage started to be noticed from March 12 and has so far continued to March 18, when the number of ICU patients in total in the state rose to 127 on any given day, up from the average of 114 patients which had been registered in the previous 11 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-maharashtra-punjab-issue-fresh-guidelines-amid-fears-of-covid-19-second-wave-963915.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Opposition parties say Yogi govt’s claim of decline in crimes far from truth||On the completion of the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government's four years in office, opposition parties in Uttar Pradesh on Friday termed its claims of achievements as far from truth and alleged crimes especially those against women have increased in the state. Addressing a press conference on completion of four years of his government earlier in the day, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said his government's zero-tolerance policy towards crime and criminals has shown positive results in the past four years. In a tweet in Hindi, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) chief Mayawati said, “There is very little truth in the tall claims of achievements put forth by the BJP government of UP on completion of four years by issuing big advertisements, holing press conferences etc. in an extravagant manner. It would have been better had their claims benefitted the poor people at the ground level.” Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav retweeted a party activist’s tweet carrying a newspaper cutting which claimed that violence against women had doubled in Uttar Pradesh in the last four years. Earlier, Yadav in a tweet had said, "Today, the call of Haldhar Balarama will be raised from the land of Krishna, the mahapanchayat of farmers will change the history of our country" referring to the farmers’ mahapanchayat organised in Mathura on Friday. At the state headquarters of the Congress party, senior leaders including Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee President Ajay Kumar Lallu, Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhana Mishra and party leader in Legislative Council Deepak Singh released a booklet on the “inefficiency of the BJP government”. In a tweet, Lallu said, “Hatred, unemployment, suicides, destruction of small industries, betrayal of farmers… this is what the BJP government of Uttar Pradesh has given in the last four years”. “Today, a booklet has been released on the inefficiency of the BJP government. The situation in UP has worsened in the last four years. Uttar Pradesh is at the number one spot in terms of farmer suicides and crime against women,” Lallu said. The state unit of the CPI (M-L), in a statement, said during the four years of the Yogi government, maximum damage has been done to civil liberties and constitutional democracy in the state. CPI (M-L) state secretary Sudhakar Yadav said, "The Yogi government has made the entire state an encounter state by considering every encounter as its achievement”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-parties-say-yogi-govt-s-claim-of-decline-in-crimes-far-from-truth-963922.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Provide Covid-19 vaccine services at least 8 hours a day: Amarinder Singh to Punjab hospitals||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday asked all private and government hospitals to offer hassle-free vaccination services for at least eight hours daily till March 31. There should be no requirement of a separate certificate if an eligible person aged 45 and above brings a medical record regarding co-morbidities, he directed. The directions were given at a review meeting chaired by the chief minister, in which he took note of the low vaccination numbers in the state. According to an official statement, he expressed concern that of 1,291 registered private facilities, 891 have reportedly not administered a single dose. He asked the district administration to come down heavily on such hospitals, stressing that private health facilities need to join the government battle against coronavirus. Charges for a coronavirus vaccine in private health care institutions must be publicised and overcharging should not be permitted, he directed the Health Department. He asked all elected and local leaders to make efforts to reach out to the public and address vaccination hesitancy. The CM directed the Health Department to ensure the coverage of all frontline workers. This must include all those who provided essential services or were on Covid-19 duty during the curfew and the lockdown, he added. The chief minister said the state has consistently remained at the 18th position among all states in India in terms of the Covid-19 numbers. Though the death rate has been a matter of concern, at 206 deaths per million population, Punjab compares well against Delhi at 542 and Maharashtra at 431, he added. However, it is a matter of concern, said the chief minister, that after bringing the problem under control by the end of the last year, the state is again seeing a surge for the last one month. From a low of around 200 cases daily and deaths in single digits, Punjab has gone to around 2,000 cases per day and the deaths are also increasing, he noted. “We have to be prepared for this second surge,” said Amarinder, pointing out that the 1918 Spanish flu had four spikes. “We have to be prepared for a long battle,” he warned. The chief minister, however, said his government is fully prepared to deal with the second wave. In the meeting, Deputy Commissioner Jalandhar said the district administration was making it mandatory for chemists and private practitioners to report people who come for treatment with flu symptoms. He urged the chief minister to empower the Transport Department to issue challans in case of mask violation. Pointing to a five per cent positivity rate in the district this month, the Patiala deputy commissioner said more cases were being reported from the Patiala civic body area. The district administration will increase sampling to 4,000 a day in the next couple of days, he said, adding that the next two weeks are critical. DCs of Mohali and other districts also updated the chief minister on the situation as well as the measures being taken to check the coronavirus spread.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/provide-covid-19-vaccine-services-at-least-8-hours-a-day-amarinder-singh-to-punjab-hospitals-963936.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Polling agents should be assembly seat voters: Rajasthan poll officer||Rajasthan Chief Electoral Officer Praveen Gupta said the polling agent to be appointed by the candidate at the polling stations in the assembly by-elections should be voters of either the same or the nearest polling station. Gupta has written a letter to all recognised national political parties, state parties and registered and unrecognised political parties of Rajasthan unit in this regard. He said according to the instructions of the Election Commission, if the voter of the same polling station or the nearest polling station was not available for polling agent, then the candidate can appoint any polling agent of the same constituency. He informed that other instructions issued by the commission regarding the appointment of polling agent will remain unchanged. Voting for bypolls to the Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand seats will be held on April 17, while the election date for Vallabhnagar (Udaipur) has not been announced yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/polling-agents-should-be-assembly-seat-voters-rajasthan-poll-officer-963949.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||IMD forecasts rain, snowfall in parts of hill states from March 22-23||Isolated parts in the hill states of north India are likely to receive heavy rainfall and snowfall from March 22-23, while the plains are likely to receive light precipitation from March 21-24, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Friday. It said no significant heatwave conditions are likely over the country during next one week. "Under the influence of an intense western disturbance, scattered to widespread rainfall likely over the western Himalayan region and isolated to scattered light to moderate rainfall over adjoining plains of northwest India during March 21-24. Isolated heavy rainfall/snowfall also likely over the western Himalayan region on March 23-24, 2021. Western Disturbance is a normal phenomenon that can be observed over western Himalayas and north Indians plain from October to March. Isolated to scattered rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning and gusty winds with a speed reaching 30-40 kilometres per hour are very likely over Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha (Maharashtra) and Chhattisgarh till March 21, the IMD said. Isolated hailstorm is also very likely over west Madhya Pradesh and Vidarbha on March 18 and 19 over east Madhya Pradesh on March 19, over Marathawada and Telangana on March 19-20.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/imd-forecasts-rain-snowfall-in-parts-of-hill-states-from-march-22-23-963962.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Major police reshuffle in J&K as 25 officers transferred, 14 districts get new SSPs||The Jammu and Kashmir government Friday effected a major police department reshuffle, transferring 25 officers which led to 14 districts getting new police chiefs, days after a similar rejig in the administrative setup. The police and administrative changes come ahead of the summer season that usually sees increased militant activities and law and order problems in the union territory. As many as 10 IPS officers were among the 25 senior personnel transferred which resulted in 14 districts -- seven each in the Kashmir Valley and the Jammu region -- and three police districts in the valley getting new police bosses, officials said. These changes come close on the heels of the Jammu and Kashmir administration transferring 34 administrative officials including 21 IAS officers Tuesday night. Srinagar and Jammu districts have got new senior superintendent of police (SSPs), while four zones of Srinagar have also got new SPs. Principal Secretary (Home) Shaleen Kabra said in an order that Anantnag SP Sandeep Choudhary (IPS) has been transferred and now posted as the Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Srinagar. For the 35-year-old J&K-cadre IPS officer of the 2012-batch, it will be his third assignment as the head of a district police in Kashmir. As Pulwama SP, he shot to fame by providing free guidance and coaching to youngsters, helping them qualify for competitive exams. In the summer capital city of Srinagar, Tanushree (IPS), Perbeet Singh, Mubasher Hussain and Irshad Hussain Rather have been posted as the new SPs of East, West, North and Hazratbal zones respectively. Rajouri SP Chandan Kohli (IPS) has now been posted as the SSP Jammu, the statement said. IPS officers Rayees Mohammad Bhat, Vinod Kumar, G V Sundeep Chakravarthy, Sheema Nabi Qasba and P D Nitya have been posted as the SPs of Baramulla, Poonch, Kupwara, Rajouri and Ramban districts. IPS officers Sudhanshu Verma and Sandeep Gupta have been posted as the SPs of Sopore and Handwara police districts. Kashmir Police Service officers Suhail Munawar Mir, Shailendra Singh, Imtiyaz Hussain Mir, Tahir Saleem Khan, Mohammad Zaid, Ramesh Chander Kotwal, Shafqat Hussain have been posted as new SPs of Ganderbal, Reasi, Anantnag, Budgam, Bandipore, Kathua and Kishtwar districts, the order said. Mohd Yousuf has been posted as the SP of Awantipora police district. Sheikh Zulfikar Azad, SP Security, J&K will hold the additional charge of SSP Security, Kashmir, the order said. Paramvir Singh, awaiting orders, is posted as Additional Secretary (Technical) on deputation to Road Safety Council, while R K Bhat, who shall, pending investigation in FIR registered against him, remain attached in the Home Department. Shahzad Ahmad Salaria, SP West, Srinagar has been transferred and now posted as SP APCR, Jammu. Shailendra Mishra (IPS), Rahul Malik (IPS), Shridhar Patil (IPS), Ambarkar Shriram Dinkar (IPS), Amod Nagpure (IPS), Mohd Haseeb Mughal, Haseeb ur-Rehman, Abdul Qayoom, Rashmi Wazir, Ramesh Kumar Angral, Harmeet Singh, Javid Iqbal and Poswal have been asked to report to the police headquarter and await further posting orders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/major-police-reshuffle-in-jk-as-25-officers-transferred-14-districts-get-new-ssps-963963.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||716 new Covid cases in Delhi, highest this year||Delhi recorded 716 new coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest daily count this year, while four more people died from the pathogen, the Health Department said. The number of active cases rose to 3,165 from 2,924 a day ago and 6.32 lakh people have recovered so far. The positivity rate jumped to 0.93 per cent from 0.76 per cent, according to a bulletin. The 716 new cases took the tally to 6,46,348, while the toll rose to 10,953 with four more deaths, the bulletin said. Delhi had reported 607 and 536 cases on Thursday and Wednesday respectively. The daily count was 425 on Tuesday. A total of 77,352 tests, including 47,078 RT-PCR, were conducted on Thursday and the number of people under home isolation rose to 1,624, it said. Health experts and doctors have attributed the surge in cases to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in cases was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced on Thursday that the number of people vaccinated in Delhi each day would be raised from around 40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He added that the Delhi government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/716-new-covid-cases-in-delhi-highest-this-year-964018.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Kamal Nath govt's fall: Speaker says people have given mandate||A year after 22 Congress MLAs switched over to the BJP and brought down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, state Assembly Speaker Girish Gautam on Friday said people have already given their mandate on the episode, a reference to the BJP's good performance in the bypolls. The state Congress plans to take out a 'Loktantra Samman Diwas' and a Tricolour march on Saturday in protest against what it claimed was an unconstitutional chain of events that saw the BJP come back to power in the state after being defeated in the 2018 Assembly polls. Queried on the Congress protest, Gautam said, "In a democracy, all parties have the freedom to take out such yatras." He pointed out to the BJP's good performance in the bypolls that were necessitated due to the Congress MLAs jumping ship and said "people have given their decision on what is right and what is wrong".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kamal-nath-govts-fall-speaker-says-people-have-given-mandate-964031.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Two sisters shot dead in Punjab's Moga||Two sisters were shot dead by a son of a sarpach at a village in Punjab's Moga, police said on Friday. The accused, identified as Gurvir Singh (30), has been arrested, Nihal Singh Wala police station SHO Gurpreet Singh said over the phone, adding that he is being interrogated to ascertain the crime motive. The victims, aged 18 and 24, were shot from a point-blank range with a .32 bore revolver on Thursday evening. They were rushed to a hospital at Faridkot where they succumbed to their injuries, he said. The victims’ father told police that Gurvir used to harass his daughters. He alleged that on Thursday the accused asked them to accompany him in his car and shot them when they refused. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condemned the killings and directed the state DGP to ensure speedy investigation in the incident. “Horrific incident of killing of two young girls in Moga. Have directed@DGP Punjab Police to ensure speedy investigation into the unfortunate incident and to bring the culprits to justice. Such offenders will be sternly dealt with,” Amarinder said in a tweet. Hitting out at the ruling Congress over the incident, Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has failed to tackle the law and order situation. The glaring example of cold blooded murder of two sisters in Moga is a result of the patronage being given to the goons by the state government, a SAD statement said with party demanding that the chief minister step down on moral grounds. SAD senior leader Daljit Singh Cheema said this was not the first time such an incident had occurred in the state. "The state police department's inability to take action against goons had emboldened them and was resulting in the frequent occurrence of such gruesome incidents," Cheema said. He alleged the gangsters were running all sorts of rackets from jails and no attempt was being made to curb them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-sisters-shot-dead-in-punjabs-moga-964039.html
19-03-2021||North and Central||Lucknow district admin issues orders for strict compliance of Covid-19 norms||The daily infection count of over 50 for the second day in a row in this Uttar Pradesh district has set the alarm bells ringing, with the DM directing the officials on Friday to ensure strict compliance of the coronavirus-related guidelines. Recording details of all visitors to different establishments and workplaces in the district is among the guidelines issued by the district magistrate on Friday. Lucknow recorded 77 new cases in the last 24 hours -- the highest in the state. There are a total of 381 active novel coronavirus patients in the district, according to official data. The administration issued these guidelines after Lucknow witnessed more than 50 cases for the second consecutive day after two months. On Wednesday, 54 new cases were detected. The death toll from the pandemic stands at 1,190 in Lucknow, with four deaths in recorded in the last two weeks. Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash also said in the guidelines that in view of the increase in the number of coronavirus cases again, it is necessary to strictly follow the instructions issued earlier for the proper management of Covid-19. The DM said lack of clear details of people visiting some establishments and workplaces was creating a problem. Earlier instructions were issued that all managers of establishments and workplaces would register the names, addresses and mobile numbers so as to ensure effective action to break the virus chain. The DM gave instructions to strictly follow this system and warned that its violation would be considered as a punishable offence. Uttar Pradesh's Additional Chief Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad, in a statement, said prevention of the infection is important and stressed on maintaining necessary caution for breaking the chain of the coronavirus. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has already issued instructions to increase the number of testings for the detection of Covid-19 to prevent the spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lucknow-district-admin-issues-orders-for-strict-compliance-of-covid-19-norms-964048.html
19-03-2021||Oasis||Why work is more than work||There is a certain joy in doing quality work, completing it on time and making people happy. Not to forget the satisfaction it brings to oneself. Not for nothing has it been said that work is worship. Sadly, many people don’t seem to realize or appreciate this. One’s attitude to work can reveal a whole lot about the person. Are they meticulous, do they pay attention to detail, are they thorough? When cooking a meal--for instance--which is something that we all do fairly routinely as of now, care shows in every step of the process. How well you cleaned the ingredients, whether or not you work neatly and hygienically and take care not to contaminate surfaces, if you have factored in food restrictions and special requirements and so on? Even if it is a drudge job like spring cleaning and dusting your personal space doing it thoroughly raises the energies. Once you have done it you can feel the change it brings about in you. The current trend is such that most people fail to deliver on time,  disappear from your radar or do a slipshod job necessitating more damage control thereafter. Small projects or big, time and quality are precious commodities and deadlines are often time-critical. Or have sentimental significance. Take the vaccine rollout for instance. Our scientists worked overtime, without compromising on quality or trials and delivered vaccines that made the world a lot safer in a matter of months. Whether it is something as mammoth as that or helping to keep supplies going in an industry or making sure wedding or house moving plans or even someone’s daily schedule is kept up, the same rules apply. If everyone works according to their own convenience what kind of order would there be? Doesn’t the sunrise and set when it is supposed to, subject to seasonal variations. Delivering and exceeding expectations on work undertaken engenders trust and hope, earns goodwill and maintains order. These are indeed more precious than we can imagine. Which is why a reverential attitude towards work is advocated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/why-work-is-more-than-work-963813.html
19-03-2021||Opinion||As Biden and Xi begin a careful dance, a new US policy takes shape||By David E Sanger and Michael Crowley US President Joe Biden is engineering a sharp shift in policy toward China, focused on gathering allies to counter Beijing’s coercive diplomacy around the world and ensuring that China does not gain a permanent advantage in critical technologies. At first glance, it seems to adopt much of the Trump administration’s conviction that the world’s two biggest powers are veering dangerously toward confrontation, a clear change in tone from the Obama years. But the emerging strategy more directly repudiates the prevailing view of the last quarter-century that deep economic interdependence could be counted on to temper fundamental conflicts on issues like China’s military buildup, its territorial ambitions and human rights. It focuses anew on competing more aggressively with Beijing on technologies vital to long-term economic and military power, after concluding that President Donald Trump’s approach — a mix of expensive tariffs, efforts to ban Huawei and TikTok, and accusations about sending the “China virus” to American shores — had failed to change President Xi Jinping’s course. The result, as Jake Sullivan, Biden’s national security adviser, put it during the campaign last year, is an approach that “should put less focus on trying to slow China down and more emphasis on trying to run faster ourselves” through increased government investment in research and technologies like semiconductors, artificial intelligence and energy. Sullivan and Secretary of State Antony Blinken will road-test the new approach in what promises to be a tense first encounter Thursday with their Chinese counterparts in Anchorage, Alaska. It is a meeting they delayed until they could reach the outlines of a common strategy with allies — notably Japan, South Korea, India and Australia — and one they insisted had to take place on American soil. But it will also be a first demonstration of Beijing’s determination to stand up to the new administration, and a chance for its diplomats to deliver a litany of complaints about Washington’s “evil” interference in China’s affairs, as a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman put it Wednesday. The United States imposed sanctions on 24 Chinese officials Wednesday for undermining Hong Kong’s democratic freedoms, an action whose timing was pointed and clearly intentional. Blinken said in Tokyo this week that “we will push back if necessary when China uses coercion or aggression to get its way.” And that is happening almost daily, he conceded, including Beijing’s efforts to terminate Hong Kong’s autonomy, intimidate Australia and Taiwan, and move ahead, despite international condemnation, with what Blinken has said is a “genocide” aimed at China’s Uyghur minority. It is all part of the initial resetting of the relationship that has marked Biden’s renewed, if now far more tense, encounters with Xi. Back when Biden was vice president and Xi was consolidating power on his way to becoming China’s most powerful leader in decades, the two men met in China and the United States and offered public assurances that confrontation was not inevitable. The intelligence assessment inside the American government at the time was that Xi would proceed cautiously, focus on economic development at home and avoid direct confrontation with the United States. But in their years out of power, the aides who are now managing Biden’s new approach concluded that the earlier assessment badly misjudged Xi’s intentions and aggressiveness. And the new approach — a mix of promises to cooperate in areas of mutual concern like climate change while taking China on more directly in technology and military competition in space and cyberspace — is gradually becoming clear. Its outlines were reflected, aides said, during a two-hour telephone conversation last month between Biden and Xi whose contents have been tightly held by both sides. Biden, the aides reported, warned Xi not to believe China’s own narrative that the United States is a declining power, consumed by the political divisions that were on full display in the Jan. 6 riot at the Capitol. Shortly after the conversation, though, Xi reportedly told local officials in northwest China that “the biggest source of chaos in the present-day world is the United States,” which he also described as “the biggest threat to our country’s development and security.” Sullivan and Blinken are betting that Xi’s declaration reveals a pang of Chinese insecurity, a fear that, for all the country’s bluster about new weapons systems and advances in artificial intelligence, it is vulnerable to “choke points” where the United States remains in control of foundational technology. The result is that both nations are racing to secure their own supply chains and to reduce dependency on each other — a reversal of 40 years of economic integration. But more broadly it reflects the end of a post-Cold War construct that assumed the interests of the two powers were inextricably intertwined. At the heart of the Biden administration’s critique of the Trump administration’s approach to China was the absence of a competitive strategy. Trump and his secretary of state, Mike Pompeo, threatened allies that were negotiating to install Huawei’s 5G communications network, telling them they could be cut off from US intelligence because Washington could not risk having critical data diverted to the Chinese. But there was no American alternative to offer them, since US companies had largely exited the field. Biden’s team promises a different approach — one that is exploring, for example, ways of organizing Western democracies to draw on American open-source software and European-made switching gear from Nokia and Ericsson to offer a more secure, Western-made alternative to Huawei. But putting together such combinations requires a level of government and private-sector cooperation that is rare in peacetime, and can take years to assemble. Elements of Trump’s approach remain, of course, including punishing tariffs on Chinese imports, which one Biden official briefing reporters last month called a source of “leverage.” But Biden has walked away from Pompeo’s declaration that with enough pressure, the Communist Party in China will collapse. Last month Graham Allison, a political scientist at Harvard, and Fred Hu, a prominent investor, argued that for now there is no choice but to deal with China as it is. “Preventing military crises, combating climate change, containing future pandemics, preventing nuclear proliferation, fighting terrorism, managing financial crises,” they wrote, “none of this can be done without accepting the reality that the autocratic regime in Beijing runs China now and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/as-biden-and-xi-begin-a-careful-dance-a-new-us-policy-takes-shape-963810.html
19-03-2021||Panorama||Use EVMs to decriminalise politics||The criminalisation of politics is against the ethos of free and fair elections. Politicians with criminal background do pollute the process of election. In spite of the various directions given by the Supreme Court from time to time, no political party is taking measures towards the elimination of criminal elements from their fold. Over the last three general elections, there has been an alarming increase in the incidence of criminals in politics. According to the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) report 2019, out of the 7,928 candidates analysed in Lok Sabha elections in 2019, 1,500 (19%) candidates had declared criminals cases against them. Out of 8,205 candidates analysed during the Lok Sabha elections in 2014, 1,404 (17%) candidates had declared criminal cases against them. Out of 7,810 candidates analysed during the Lok Sabha elections in 2009, 1,158 (15%) candidates had declared criminal cases against them . A candidate in an election is required to file an affidavit called Form 26 along with the nomination paper that furnishes information on his/her assets, liabilities, educational qualifications, criminal antecedents (convictions and all pending cases) and public dues, if any. Moreover, in a recent judgment passed by the Supreme Court, political parties have been directed to publish criminal antecedents of contesting candidates on their website and social media platforms along with reasons for fielding each one of these candidates, notwithstanding their ‘winnability’ and the contesting candidates have been directed to publish such antecedents in newspapers and television at least three times before polls. However, various survey reports show that these measures are not sufficient to make all the voters aware of the antecedents of contesting candidates taking into account the factors like high illiteracy rate, lack of access to communication media to many voters and unawareness. According to the survey report on ‘governance issues and voting behaviour’ conducted by Association for Democratic Reforms in 2018, although 97.86% voters felt that candidates with criminal background should not be in Parliament or State Assembly, only 35.20% of voters knew that they could get information on criminal records of the candidates. In relation to voting candidates with criminal antecedents, the maximum number of voters (36.67%) felt that people vote for such candidates because they are unaware of his/her criminal records. Each and every voter has access to the electronic voting machine (EVM) and hence it could be used as an effective tool to make voters aware of the candidates with criminal antecedents. The Election Commission of India prints the ballot papers used in the balloting units of EVMs for Lok Sabha elections in white colour and that for assembly elections in pink colour. If the panels (name, photo and election symbol) of the candidates with declared criminal cases against them are printed in red colour on ballot papers, then voters could identify such candidates and thereby make an informed choice. Red is the traditional colour of warning. Printing their panels in red will help illiterate adults and other voters encountering difficulties in accessing the details of the criminal antecedents of the contesting candidates make a careful decision and discourage political parties from fielding such candidates in elections. A copy of the list of contesting candidates is displayed prominently outside each polling station. Election Commission should also display a copy of the summarised version of affidavits of contesting candidates along with it. It will help voters to check the antecedents of contesting candidates before entering the polling station. Therefore, in order to help voters exercise their right to vote in an informed manner and discourage political parties from fielding candidates with criminal antecedents in elections, the election commission of India should print the panels of the candidates with declared criminal cases against themselves in red colour on ballot papers and display a copy of the summarised version of affidavits of contesting candidates prominently outside each polling station. (The writer is a good governance researcher)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/use-evms-to-decriminalise-politics-963814.html
19-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Age is just a number||Last month, I celebrated my 60th birthday which ushered me into the much-coveted category of being a `senior citizen’. No longer would I be relegated to being a footloose and immature youngster but instead, I would have a new accorded respect due to my age and experience.  When one gets on in years, there are both pros and cons. One distinct advantage is that there are a lot of discounts, privileges and freebies thrown in for the seniors. On the flip side, however, one is constantly on the receiving end of what a nuisance and burdens the senior citizens have become. They are often the butt of all jokes and jibes as the world has always been partial to young blood and juveniles. To prove that double standards between men and women are in play, I will recount to you an incident. I went to my dentist for a root canal treatment and there I happened to see on one of the clinic rooms a nameplate with the dentist’s name. I remembered the name as it was the same name as one of my school classmates. Could it be the same person? I was curious to find out.  So, when my name was called, I went to the new dentist’s room and then was in for a shock. There was a decidedly old man, his hair chalk white in colour, his teeth in braces and he was wearing a hearing aid to boot! After recovering from the initial shock, I asked him, “Were you a student in this school in grade 10 in the 1975 batch?” “I sure was,” he replied. Nervously, and with trepidation, I asked, “Well, do you remember me? I was there in 1975.” He looked totally expressionless when he shot back, “Which subjects did you teach?” But the joke of all jokes was when I accompanied my Aunt Kamala for a Silver Surfers’ Meet. My aunt was a good 20 years older than me and was a widow. Aunt Kamala was an enthusiastic person with a bold, loquacious and sassy persona, it was impossible not to like her. Once there, she met a widower and the two of them hit it off, both of them took a liking to each other. To such an extent that at the evening dinner, he proposed to her. However, the next day morning, he called and asked to speak to my Aunt as he really wanted to know whether this proposal thing was for real. It just seemed too good to be true. Immediately, my Aunt spoke up, “Yes! I remember yesterday being the proposal day! I also recollect saying ‘Yes’. The only thing is I forgot who asked me”!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/age-is-just-a-number-963809.html
19-03-2021||Second Edit||Boost millets for health and climate||The UN’s declaration that 2023 will be the International Year of Millets will hopefully give a boost to the production and consumption of these neglected but beneficial food crops. The resolution in the General Assembly was sponsored by India and was unanimously adopted. Millets are high on nutrition and have many advantages over wheat and rice, which are the most commonly consumed food grains. They were staple diets in many parts of the world but have now been largely pushed out of the farm and the kitchen. They are widely considered to be the poor man’s food. There is a wide variety of millets across the world, some of which have gone out of cultivation or are produced in small pockets. The main surviving millets are pearl millet (bajra), sorghum (jowar), finger millet (ragi) and barley. There are other lesser known varieties, too. Millets need to be promoted for their high nutritional and ecological value. Malnutrition is a serious problem in many parts of the world, especially in poor and developing countries, including India. It is now agreed that millets should have a bigger role in fighting malnutrition, which causes stunting and other problems for children. They have high fibre, minerals and vitamin contents. Many of these are absent or deficient in food grains like rice and wheat. They are also known to possess properties that help to control diabetes and reduce the risk of many diseases. Because of their nutritional value, they have been named as nutri-cereals. Millets were popular in India, but their production and consumption shrank after the Green Revolution, which was about rice and wheat. Government policies also worked against millets. While rice and wheat had minimum support prices and were procured by government agencies and distributed through the public distribution system, millets went out of favour because they did not have such support. Millet cultivation has many merits. While rice and wheat are water-intensive crops and their intensive cultivation has resulted in the lowering of the water table, millets need less water, are drought-tolerant and more resistant to heat, pests and diseases. They are more efficient in using solar energy and have an ecological advantage. They absorb carbon from the atmosphere while the rice crop releases greenhouse gases. So, they are most useful in the fight against climate change. Governments should frame policies that will lead to a millet revolution. Cultivation of millets should become more remunerative, and their advantages publicised widely. It will, of course, be a major challenge because tastes, practices and habits, culture and economy are all involved in it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/boost-millets-for-health-and-climate-963806.html
19-03-2021||South||Technocrat to politician: 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan's journey||Speaking at the first convocation of Indira Gandhi Delhi Technical University for Women in December 2018, 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan had pitched that the future of the country lies in the hands of engineers and technocrats and not politicians. Today, as the 88-year-old kick starts his political career as Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) chief ministerial face for the Kerala Assembly elections 2021, he has put forth 'development' on the table, with the aim of leading the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) to victory in the southern state. Native to Karukaputhur taluk of Kerala's Palakkad, Sreedharan is contesting from the same district with the NDA ticket with hopes that people will vote for him because of his "selfless" work for the good of the society in the past. However, Kerala, which will be holding a single-phase election on April 6, is not the only state where the technocrat-turned-politician enjoys the status of a public figure as the 'Metro Man'. Sreedharan's relentless work in transforming public transport in India, particularly his work with Delhi and Konkan Metro, led to his identification as the 'Metro Man'.  With humble beginnings in the early 1970s, when he was in charge of the implementation  of India's first-ever  metro Kolkata  metro, Sreedharan's career took off when he was appointed the  managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in 1997.      The Jawaharlal-Nehru-Technological-University alumna helmed both Kolkata  and Delhi Metro projects and later went on  to become an advisor for the Kochi and Lucknow Metro Projects. Even before he showed an inclination towards joining politics, Sreedharan, over the past few years, has been been known to promote BJP's political agenda.      In 2019, while he was serving the role of the principal advisor to the DMRC, the 'Metro Man' had alleged that the Delhi government's proposal of free travel for women is an "election gimmick". Following which, AAP member Atishi had urged the technocrat to not get involved in politics as he was merely being used by BJP to convey its message.  A retired Indian Engineering Service (IES) officer, Sreedharan served as the M-D of Delhi Metro till 2012 and later assumed the role of principal advisor. He was appointed as the head of a committee to lay down standards for metro rail systems in the country in 2018. Approved by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the committee is in charge of recommending indigenous benchmarks on layout of platforms, size of tunnels and disaster management system.  Embarking on his political career, he had to end his 24-year-long career  with the DMRC and also had to give up his "state icon" title in Kerala as the Election Commission poster boy to create awareness among people about their voting rights. But he is interestingly using his image as the 'Metro Man' to campaign with promises of infrastructure development in the state. On several occasions, after being inducted into the BJP, he has put forth the agenda to make Palakkad — where BJP was the runner-up in the 2016 elections — the best constituency in two years' time. Sitting MLA Shafi Parambil of the Congress and CPI(M)'s C P Pramod are his main rivals in the election. Taking a dig at Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sreedharan recently said, "He is a good chief minister for his party but not for the state." Nevertheless, the rift between incumbent Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan and Sreedharan dates back to 2018 when the then DMRC advisor was supported by the opposition parties. The Congress-led UDF and BJP opposition had alleged that the ruling LDF was trying to keep away 'Metro Man' from the Light Metro projects of the state.  With everything seeming right for NDA candidate, what could possibly go wrong?  Recipient of both the Padma Vibhushan and the Padma Shri award, Sreedharan has not sparked any major controversy like other politicians. However, in his recent interviews, while commenting on the issues of 'Love Jihad', Jammu and Kashmir lockdown and the ban on meat, he has invited a war of words by the opposition. The BJP leader reportedly said that he is a "very very strict vegetarian" and doesn't even eat eggs. "Certainly I don't like anybody eating meat," he added. Referring to the issue of 'Love Jihad', Sreedharan said, "... I see what has happened in Kerala. How Hindus are being tricked in a marriage and how they suffer... not only Hindus, Muslim, the Christian girls are being tricked in a marriage. Now that sort of a thing I certainly will oppose."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/technocrat-to-politician-metro-man-e-sreedharans-journey-963729.html
19-03-2021||South||Kamal Haasan releases MNM manifesto, assures income for women by developing their skills, says 'no' to doles||Makkal Needhi Maiam chief and actor Kamal Haasan unveiled his party's manifesto here on Friday and promised income for housewives by honing their skills. By initiatives like skill development, women could earn as much as Rs 10,000 to Rs 15,000 per month and "that is what we call payment to housewives and not doles to them." Haasan was the first to promise what he called in December last 'payment' to homemakers for their work. The major parties of Tamil Nadu, the ruling AIADMK and main opposition DMK days ago promised Rs 1,500 and Rs 1,000 assistance to women family heads in their manifestos. Outlining his party's manifesto, Haasan said facilitation is proposed to be made for homemakers to get suitable opportunities to earn and it does not mean doles from government treasury. Through such initiatives, the government would also not be burdened financially and at the same time women could get fair remuneration, commensurate with their skill and work, he said. Government departments like the electricity generation and distribution corporation, state-run transport entities were facing losses, he said, touching on economy. By making employees of transport corporations 'shareholders' the government run enterprises could be made profitable, he said. Self-sufficient villages in all the 234 constituencies, support to Micro Small and Medium Enterprises by initiatives like supply of raw materials were among the other features of the manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-releases-mnm-manifesto-assures-income-for-women-by-developing-their-skills-says-no-to-doles-963756.html
19-03-2021||South||Election department officials seize Rs 2 crore from vehicle in Puducherry||Election flying squad officials seized Rs two crore cash being transported in a vehicle while set-top boxes also worth Rs two crores were recovered from a house in poll-bound Puducherry. Officials of the Flying Squad of Kadirkamam, Thattanchavady and Indira Nagar Assembly segments in the Puducherry region on Thursday intercepted a vehicle in Thanthai Periyar Nagar during a surprise check and seized the cash being transported in it. Puducherry Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Shurbir Singh said in a release that though the people carrying the cash in the vehicle disclosed during enquiry that it was from a bank they could not present valid documents to show the destination it was being taken to. He said suspicion arose that the cash was intended for "illegal distribution to the voters while the Model Code of Conduct for Assembly polls is in force." Shurbir Singh said the cash was in the denominations of Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100, adding the vehicle in which it was being transported was a private van normally used by banks. He said the cash was handed over to Income Tax department for further investigation. The CEO also said in another instance the flying squad of Embalam, Nettapakkam and Bahoor segments in Puducherry region acted on a tip-off and seized around 30,000 set top boxes worth about Rs two crores from a house. Also, over 3,600 litres of arrack kept in the backyard of an arrack shop in Karaikal were seized, taking the total quantity seized so far to 18,500 litres.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/election-department-officials-seize-rs-2-crore-from-vehicle-in-puducherry-963770.html
19-03-2021||South||I-T recovers Rs 11.50 crore in raids at premises of MNM Treasurer||The Income Tax Department has recovered Rs 11.50 crore in cash and detected unaccounted income to the tune of Rs 80 crore during searches at the premises belonging to a Tiruppur-based businessman, who is also treasurer of actor Kamal Haasan's Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) Sleuths from the Income Tax department conducted searches at premises belonging to A Chandrasekaran, who is a leading businessman in Tiruppur, on Wednesday and Thursday. Searches were conducted in Tiruppur, Dharapuram, Chennai and five other locations. I-T officials said the searches conducted at the offices of Chandrasekaran revealed that the firm he owns is engaged in the practice of suppressing profit by inflating purchases and other expenses. The unaccounted income generated is utilized for making investments in land and expansion of business, the officials added. “The search resulted in seizure of unaccounted cash of Rs 11.50 crore and total unaccounted income detected so far is Rs 80 crore. Further investigations are in progress,” the I-T Department said on Friday. The seizure of cash and detection of unaccounted income from firms belonging to its treasurer has come as a major embarrassment for MNM, which has made corruption its main plank for the April 6 assembly elections. Responding to the raids, Kamal Haasan said it was an “intimidation tactic” as his party was an “honest one.” The I-T also seized Rs 5.32 crore during the course of election surveillance being carried out for the April 6 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. It said seizure of large unaccounted cash will reduce the possibility of its utilisation for electoral purposes and will aid the objective of free and fair poll in Tamil Nadu. The development comes two days after enforcement agencies seized unaccounted cash and materials, including gift items, worth Rs 127 crore in Tamil Nadu just 20 days after the Model Code of Conduct came into force on February 26. Cash to the tune of Rs 50.86 crore, liquor worth Rs 1.32 crore, “freebies” with the value of 14.06 crore, and “precious metals” worth Rs 61.04 crore were seized in Tamil Nadu alone till Match 16. The total worth of the seized or recovered items is Rs 127.64 crore. The recovery comes as no surprise as political observers and poll watchers say the 2021 assembly elections will be the “most expensive election” in Tamil Nadu's history. The state has had a chequered history on illegal spending by political parties and candidates – it also has the ignominy of witnessing elections being rescinded for rampant use of money power to buy votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-t-recovers-rs-1150-crore-in-raids-at-premises-of-mnm-treasurer-963775.html
19-03-2021||South||Puducherry Assembly elections: CPI(M) announces R Saravanan as candidate for one seat||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has named its candidate for the Muthialpet seat in the April 6 Puducherry Assembly elections while announcing that it would support the Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) in other constituencies. The party announced R Saravanan, an advocate, as its candidate from the Muthialpet seat. CPI(M) Puducherry unit secretary R Rajangam told reporters here on Thursday that the party, a constituent of the Congress-led SDA, was not earmarked any seat but had decided to contest from Muthialpet. "We have therefore fielded our nominee in Muthialpet," Rajangam said, adding the CPI(M) would however, seek the voters' support for the SDA in other segments where the Congress, DMK and other allies have fielded candidates. The Congress has fielded its nominees in 14 segments out of the 15 seats allotted to it through an accord with the DMK recently. While the DMK has fielded its candidates in 13 segments, the CPI and VCK, the other constituents of SDA, have been earmarked one seat each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-assembly-elections-cpim-announces-r-saravanan-as-candidate-for-one-seat-963792.html
19-03-2021||South||All India NR Congress announces candidates for Puducherry assembly elections||All Indian NR Congress on Friday released their list of candidates for the Puducherry Assembly elections.  Former CM N Rangasamy is set to contest from Thattanchavady and Yanam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-india-nr-congress-announces-candidates-for-puducherry-assembly-elections-963793.html
19-03-2021||South||DGP-rank IPS officer in Tamil Nadu facing sexual harassment probe suspended||A former special DGP level official, charged with sexually harassing a woman subordinate officer, has been placed under suspension, days after the Madras High Court made a recommendation in this connection, official sources said on Friday. He was suspended by the government in concurrence with the Election Commission and the order to this effect was issued late on Thursday, they said. The officer, against whom the Madras High Court has taken up a case on its own, besides monitoring the probe by the Crime Branch-CID (CB-CID), had been earlier placed under 'compulsory wait'. The CB-CID had registered an FIR against the former Special DGP over sexual harassment allegations, levelled by a subordinate woman IPS officer. The Election Commission had earlier ordered the suspension of a then Superintendent of Police, whose name also figures in the FIR. He allegedly prevented the woman officer from proceeding to the city to file a complaint against her senior. Earlier, the State government had also constituted an Internal Complaints Committee, days after the woman filed the complaint accusing the top IPS officer of sexual harassment when they were deputed on duty during a recent tour of the Chief Minister. The Madras High Court, which is monitoring the probe, had strongly recommended to the State government to suspend the official, saying such a move "will bring in more confidence in the perception of the general public that the issue has been taken up with all seriousness and the investigation will progress in a free and fair manner." Initiation of disciplinary proceedings such as suspension from service must be done to ensure that the delinquent officer does not misuse his official position and the investigation can be carried out in a free and fair manner, the court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dgp-rank-ips-officer-in-tamil-nadu-facing-sexual-harassment-probe-suspended-963811.html
19-03-2021||South||Kerala police book ED officials over Swapna's deposition against CM in gold smuggling case||The Kerala police have registered a case against the Enforcement Directorate (ED) officials for allegedly forcing Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold smuggling case, to give statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The case was registered two days ago on the basis of a report filed by the Crime Branch team which has been probing the leak of a voice clip, purportedly belonging to Suresh, police said. ED sources told PTI that they have no information about registration of the case and would anyhow face it legally. According to the FIR, the ED officials who had questioned Suresh on August 12 and 13 last year allegedly forced her to give 'false' statements against the chief minister in order to make fake evidence. "...the ED officials, probing the gold smuggling case while questioning an accused named Swapna Prabha Suresh on August 12 and 13, 2020, have forced her to give false statements against the state chief minister in order to make fake evidence...," the FIR read. The Crime Branch case has been registered under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence) among others of the Indian Penal Code.  Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate here, is the prime accused in the case relating to the smuggling of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic baggage and now under judicial custody since her arrest. In a voice clip purported to be of Suresh, circulated a few months ago it was alleged that some ED officials had threatened her while being interrogated at the agency office in Kochi in August last year to give statements against Vijayan and some ministers. Later two women civil police officers, who had been with Sureshwhen she was interrogated by the ED, had also reportedly claimed that they had heard the ED officials forcing her to name Vijayan. Besides the ED, the Customs and the National Investigation Agency are also probing the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel. Vijayan has been accusing the Central agencies of targeting his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-book-ed-officials-over-swapnas-deposition-against-cm-in-gold-smuggling-case-963816.html
19-03-2021||South||TRS candidates maintain lead over rivals in Telengana MLC poll||The ruling TRS candidates, including former PM P V Narasimha Rao's daughter S Vani Devi, were ahead of their rivals as the counting of votes continued on Friday in the election to Telangana Legislative Council from two Graduates constituencies. Vani Devi, TRS nominee from Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy- Hyderabad Graduates' constituency, was leading over her nearest BJP rival and sitting MLC N Ramachander Rao by 7,626 votes after the completion of six rounds of counting, official sources said. Meanwhile, TRS nominee and sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy was leading in the Khammam-Warangal-Nalgonda Graduates constituency. The process of counting of votes began on Wednesday but is expected to conclude on Friday or even later as newspaper-sized ballot papers were used for polling in view of the large number of candidates in the fray and also because the voters exercised their franchise in a preferential method. Polling was held on March 14 for the two Graduates' constituencies. The total number of voters in the two constituencies is over 10 lakh. As many as 93 candidates were in the fray from Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency, while 71 nominees contested from the Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda constituency. The votes of the Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad constituency are counted in the state capital. Having suffered setbacks in the Dubbak assembly constituency bypoll and Hyderabad civic polls late last year, the TRS made a determined bid to win the two seats, while the BJP sought to continue the momentum following its impressive performance in the Dubbak bye-election and Hyderabad civic election. The Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad seat is witnessing a close contest as G Chinna Reddy of Congress, TDP''s Telangana unit president L Ramana and former MLC K Nageshwar, a journalism professor and prominent analyst, are in the fray. The main candidates from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat are sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy of TRS, G Premender Reddy (BJP), Ramulu Naik (Congress) and Telangana Jana Samiti (TJS) leader M Kodandaram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/trs-candidates-maintain-lead-over-rivals-in-telengana-mlc-poll-963837.html
19-03-2021||South||Sabarimala temple issue: Pinarayi Vijayan says everything going on smooth now||With the opposition parties in Kerala continuing to target the ruling LDF on the Sabarimala issue, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday maintained that as of now everything was going on smoothly at the hill shrine and the matter would come up only when the Supreme Court delivers the final verdict. Asking why the party should be worried about it now, he told reporters in Pattambi in Palakkad district if any issue crops up after the final verdict it would be discussed with all sections of society. "Now, the matter will come up only when the final verdict is issued by the constitution bench of the apex court. Our stand is that when the final verdict comes out, and if any issue crops up at that time, we will discuss the matter with every section of the society. Why are we worried about it now?" he asked. The state had witnessed widespread violent protests led by a section of devotees led by BJP and other right wing outfits against the state government decision to implement the Supreme Court order allowing entry to women of all ages into the hilltop shrine. He also said the ruling Left front would have more seats in the Assembly after the April 6 elections. "There is no doubt that we will get more seats than the last time," Vijayan said in response to a question onthe number of seats expected by the Left Front. Vijayan attacked the BJP and the Congress-led UDF and said the infamous "Co-Le-B alliance" is now a public deal and was an attempt to weaken the Left movement in the state. He also said the Left doesn't need the support of communal parties to gain acceptance among the people and asked "those who want to protect secularism in the country to observe" the Kerala-level alliance of the "Congress-League-BJP (Co-Le-B)". Vijayan was responding to the statements of the lone BJP legislator in Kerala, O Rajagopal, that there were "adjustments" between UDF partners Congress and IUML and his party in past elections in order to defeat the CPI(M). The chief minister said both the BJP and Rajagopal benefited from that alliance and received the Congress votes at Nemom. "Now it is public that the Congress had ties with the BJP earlier also. They are trying to forge the same alliance in this election too. People have to be careful. Those who want to protect secularism in the country need to observe these matters carefully," he added. He said, earlier this "adjustment between these parties" was not in the open but now certain UDF candidates have publicly announced that those who voted for BJP last time will vote for them in this election. "Now it's not a secret deal but an open adjustment. The people are watching," he said. Asked about Palakkad BJP candidate E Sreedharan's recent comment reported by some media that apart from the Palarivattom project, the state government was not cooperative in developing infrastructure in Kerala, Vijayan said "even experts who join BJP, tend to show that party's traits". "He (Sreedharan) is a major technocrat in our country. Even experts who join BJP, tend to show that party's traits. So he too may have reached a certain point where he would end up saying anything," the Chief Minister said. Referring to the recent decision of the central government to "sell hundreds of public sector undertakings", Vijayan attacked the Congress and the BJP saying "both the parties share the same policy of globalisation and privatisation". He said Congress was the "proponent" of this policy and cited the example of Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor backing the handover of the International Airport in the state capital to Adani Group. "Now the BJP-ruled central government has decided to sell around hundred public sector undertakings in the country. Have they (Congress or UDF) raised any objection towards this? No. Because it's the Congress who are the real proponents of this policy. "It was decided to privatise the Trivandrum International Airport. The Left government here opposed but the Lok Sabha memberfromThiruvananthapuram supported it. The globalisation policy was initiated by the Congress," Vijayan said. He said Kerala has been opposing the globalisation policy and "implementing an alternate model". "Those who are opposing the globalisation and privatisation including the farmers and others are looking towards Kerala with hope. We have put forward an alternative policy," he said. The lone Communist chief minister saidthe country was keenly observing the steps taken by the Left government to protect secularism in the state and with a "Kerala-level understanding, the Congress, the UDF and the BJP" are trying to weaken the Left movement in the state". He said there are attempts to attack the secular values and the Constitution of the country andpeople rejecting or returning awards are also a form of protest against destroying the secular fabric of the nation. "Secularism can be protected only by taking a strong stand against communalism and only the Left parties have been opposing the anti-secular forces. There are conscious efforts to destroy secularism and the Constitution of this country. The country is keenly observing the steps taken by the Left government to protect secularism in the state," he said. Vijayan is touring the districts of the state as part of the election campaigning for the Assembly elections scheduled on April 6. The results will be out on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-temple-issue-pinarayi-vijayan-says-everything-going-on-smooth-now-963855.html
19-03-2021||South||Amaravati land case: HC stays probe against Chandrababu Naidu||In a huge respite for the former chief minister, the Andhra Pradesh High Court has on Friday stayed the state police probe against Chandrababu Naidu for four weeks in the Amaravati land scam case. The Opposition leader was booked by the Crime Investigation Department and was summoned for questioning at the CID Vijayawada office on March 23. P Narayana, the municipal administration and urban development minister in Naidu's cabinet, and co-accused in the case, also received the relief. The CID had registered the case against Naidu based on a complaint by a ruling YSRCP MLA alleging that SC, ST-assigned lands in the Amaravati capital region were procured deceitfully by persons close to the then TDP government. Mangalagiri MLA Alla Rama Krishna Reddy has charged that government orders were modified later, causing “irreparable loss to the weaker sections.” An FIR was filed on March 12 naming Naidu as the prime accused under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989, AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act 1977 and various IPC sections. CID's Tuesday summons gave one week's time to Naidu, stating that he is liable for arrest under Section 41 A of CrPC, for failure to attend/comply with the terms of the notice. A similar notice was issued to Narayana asking him to appear before the CID a day before Naidu. Terming the FIR against him as a case of political vendetta by the Jaganmohan Reddy government, Naidu moved the High Court on Thursday with a quash petition challenging the CID's proceedings. Hearing the arguments on Friday, the High Court sought the grounds on which the FIR was lodged. Advocates representing the CID reportedly stated that details cannot be disclosed at the initial stage and asked permission for further probe. “As there was no prima facie evidence against Naidu and Narayana, the HC opined that an FIR at this stage is not in accordance with law,” advocate Shravan Kumar told reporters, representing Naidu's side. TDP leaders stated the High Court's order was a testament “that false, frivolous cases would not stand judicial scrutiny.” Meanwhile, the CID sleuths, on Friday, questioned Cherukuri Sreedhar who acted as the AP Capital Region Development Authority commissioner during Naidu's term. In 2015, about 33,000 acres of agricultural land was pooled by the Naidu government from the farmers of 29 villages in Amaravati for the construction of “a world-class mega capital,” in partnership with Singapore. Soon after becoming the Chief Minister in 2019, Reddy stalled the capital works, alleging that Naidu's family, benamis and other TDP leaders have benefited enormously from surreptitious land deals executed before the December 2014 declaration of Amaravati in Guntur district as AP's new capital region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amaravati-land-case-hc-stays-probe-against-chandrababu-naidu-963866.html
19-03-2021||South||Pension for homemakers, jobs for youth in LDF's Assembly election 2021 manifesto||The Ruling CPI(M) led LDF on Friday released its manifesto for the April 6 assembly elections promising to create 40 lakh new jobs for the youth and "pension for all housewives". The manifesto was released at the AKG centre here, by CPI(M) state secretary in charge A Vijayaraghavan, CPI Secretary, Kannan Rajendran and other leaders of the Left Democratic Front (LDF), which is seeking a second straight term. A Rs 5,000 crore package for coastal area development to protect the shores from erosion, increasing the minimum support price for the rubber to Rs 250 per kg, attaining self-sufficiency in production of eggs, milk and vegetables are among assurances in the manifesto. In his address on the occasion, Vijayaraghavan said pension would be given to all housewives but did not elaborate further. The social security pension would be increased to Rs 2,500 in phases, he added. Apart from more houses under the LIFE Mission project for the poor, the poll document also assures dwelling units will be constructed for all members of tribal and Scheduled Caste communities, he added. He claimed that "the biggest achievement" of the LDF government headed by Pinarayi Vijayan was "corruption-free" governance and said the manifesto has been drawn up keeping in mind its aim to retain power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pension-for-homemakers-jobs-for-youth-in-ldfs-assembly-election-2021-manifesto-963888.html
19-03-2021||South||Don't be overconfident, ensure YSRC's victory in Tirupati LS seat bypoll: Jagan to party leaders||Cautioning the party rank and file against being overconfident, YSR Congress president and Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday asked them to spare no effort to secure victory for their candidate M Gurumurthy in the April 17 by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat. A minister and an additional MLA would be appointed as in-charges for each of the seven assembly segments under the reserved (Scheduled Caste) constituency to work for the YSRCs win in the bypoll, he told a meeting of ministers, legislators and senior party leaders at his camp office. Jagan Reddy asked his party leaders to remind every voter of the various "good deeds" of his government and "seek their blessings" for Gurumurthy, the Chief Ministers Office said in an official release here. "By Gods grace we secured good results in the recent urban local bodies elections. Now the entire country will look to the Tirupati by-election. Party leaders should not be overconfident. All of you should work in close coordination and ensure Gurumurthys victory by a good margin. The margin of victory should be our message (to the nation)," the chief minister said. Gurumurthy, 36, is a physiotherapist, who accompanied the YSRC chief in his 3,600-km-long paadayatra (foot march) criss crossing the state in 2017-19 and tended to the latter. He also wanted an action plan prepared to make the whole country look towards Andhra Pradesh and asked the leaders to visit each house and assure voters that the welfare agenda of the government would continue in the coming days. The YSRC won the Tirupati Lok constituency in 2014 and again in 2019, improving its vote share from 47.84 per cent to 55.03 per cent. Ministers P R C Reddy, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Perni Venkataramaiah, YSRC general secretaries V Vijayasai Reddy, S R K Reddy, MP V Prabhakar Reddy, former MP and YSRC leader Y V Subba Reddy, now Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams Chairman, MLAs and other leaders attended the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-be-overconfident-ensure-ysrcs-victory-in-tirupati-ls-seat-bypoll-jagan-to-party-leaders-963901.html
19-03-2021||South||Kerala elections: BJP shows strength in Manjeshwar but worries about minority consolidation||The BJP seems to be making its presence felt more than that of opposite camps in the Assembly election campaign at Manjeshwar at Kasargod in Kerala, the saffron party is concerned about minority consolidation in the constituency that shares borders with Karnataka. Being a constituency with a sizable Kannadiga population, all candidates are prominently using the Kannada language for the campaigns. But the issues of the linguistic minorities could not be heard projected by any parties. The BJP is showing its strength in the constituency with huge participation of party workers, including women, in the election rallies and campaign meetings. Party state president K Surendran, who lost by just 89 votes in 2016, is contesting from the constituency with high hopes of a victory. The BJP is accusing the Congress-led UDF and CPM-led Left Democratic Front for the lack of development in the constituency apart from triggering the Sabarimala women entry issue While the CPM candidates V V Rameshan is highlighting Pinarayi Vijayan government’s welfare measures like free ration supply, Indian Union Muslim Leagues A K M Ashraf, who is the UDF candidate alleges of lack of development in the constituency over the last five years of LDF rule. Closure of border roads by the BJP government at the centre is being used both by the LDF and UDF against the BJP, the BJP is hitting back with lack of development in Kasargod and interventions of BJP local leaders to resolve the border restriction issues. The border issue is still remaining relevant as Karnataka has imposed fresh restrictions on entry from Kerala. The travel restriction was mainly affecting the scores of patients depending on hospitals in Mangaluru for routine treatment. Dr. Y S Mohankummar, a Kannadiga in Kasargod, said that the Kannadigas in Kasargod were not able to meet their immediate relatives across the border owing to the restrictions in the border. A rally organised by the BJP as part of the filing of nomination by Surendran on Friday turned out to be a show of strength of the saffron party. BJP local leader Harish Chandra Manjeshwar said that right from the initial days of the campaign the party was receiving good acceptance from the people and hence the victory of Surendran was quite certain. However, sources in the party said that the chances of a minority vote consolidation in favour of the IUML candidate to prevent the victory of the saffron party could not be ruled out. The party is not able to make inroads into the Muslim community voters who constitute a major chunk of the voters. The Indian National League, which is a coalition partner of the LDF, may favour the IUML to prevent BJP’s victory. Such a trend was suspected in the previous elections also. In 2016, Surendran gained high votes as there were a split in the minority community votes. While Surendran got 56,781 and lost to IUML by 89 votes in 2016, Raveesha Thantri who contested as BJP candidate in 2019 by-polls at Manjeshwar got 57,484 but lost to IUML by 7,923. This was mainly due to a drop in the votes polled by the LDF. While the cheating cases against sitting MLA M C Kamaruddin of IUML is also casting shadow over the prospects of the present IUML candidate also, BJP camps are concerned whether Surendran’s decision to contest from Konni in Pathanamthitta district, apart from Manjeshwar may cast a shadow over his victory chances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-elections-bjp-shows-strength-in-manjeshwar-but-worries-about-minority-consolidation-963935.html
19-03-2021||South||Madras HC upholds EC disqualification of NTK functionary||The Madras High Court on Friday upheld the Election Commission's 2018 disqualification of a man from contesting polls for three years, after he had failed to submit details of expenses incurred in the 2016 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. The order passed by the EC in 2018, which disqualified S F Mohammed Gaddafee of Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK) from contesting in the election to the State Assembly and the Lok Sabha for three years, was upheld by the first bench of Chief Justice Sandib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy. Gaddafee was disqualified by July 26, 2018, EC order for failing to submit his account for the expenses incurred during the 2016 polls. He had contested from the Muthukulathur Assembly constituency in Ramanathapuram district, under the Seeman-led NTK. Apprehending that the EC might reject his nomination for Harbour Assembly constituency in the April 6 election because of the disqualification order which is in force, Gaddafi moved the High Court. When the petition came up for hearing on Friday, the counsel representing the EC submitted that the petitioner did not utilise the opportunity to challenge the disqualification order by way of an appeal before the Commission. He cannot move the High Court now after a lapse of three years, he added. The bench said that while Gaddafee was disqualified three years ago, he had approached the court only today, on the last date for filing of nominations for the April 6 assembly polls in the state. Any positive order at this stage would render the EC's disqualification order ineffective, the judges said and disposed of the petition with a direction to the petitioner to move the EC questioning his disqualification, within two weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-upholds-ec-disqualification-of-ntk-functionary-963961.html
19-03-2021||South||Stalin knows nothing about farming: Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi Palaniswami backs farm laws||In a spirited defence of the Centre's farm laws during his campaign for the April 6 Tamil Nadu assembly polls, AIADMK top leader and Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Friday said his party opposed aspects like cess and levy for farmers but the DMK 'supported' them. Hitting out at DMK chief M K Stalin who has been focusing on the farm laws and opposing them in his election propaganda, Palaniswami said the former does not know anything about farming and the AIADMK would be the first party to resist any move if farmers were to be affected. Canvassing votes for Selvi Ramajayam, AIADMK nominee in Kurinjipadi, an agrarian constituency here, he said the protest in north India against farm laws was 'instigated' by intermediaries but Stalin could not even explain it. The AIADMK leader pointed to price volatility in farm markets to buttress his point. During sowing, tomato's market price may be Rs 40 per kilo but at the stage of harvest, the price could fall to even Rs 2 or 3 per kilo, he said. Considering scenarios such as this, the new laws facilitate purchase of farm produce at prevailing market rates though prices, after ruling high initially could have fallen at the time of harvest, he said. Also, farmers would get a share if the produce was sold at a higher price. "What is wrong in it,"? he asked and listed levies and cess (to be borne by farmers including in markets) to the tune of about 8.5 per cent in northern regions of the country. Seeking to know if it was correct to burden ryots with such taxes, he said while his party opposed taxing farmers, Stalin supported it. "Stalin does not know anything about farming. Guarding farmers during price fall is the AIADMK government's intention," he said supporting the farm laws, against which a large number of farmers, especially from Punjab and Haryana, are protesting at the borders of Delhi for nearly four months. While the AIADMK government enacted the Tamil Nadu Protected Agricultural Zone Development Act, 2020, the DMK ushered in the hydrocarbon project by 'usurping' farmers lands, Palaniswami alleged. "Stalin is trying to hoodwink people and somehow capture power," he added. Blaming DMK over issues including Cauvery, he accused Stalin of keeping in mind the interests of of his family alone and not that of the people. He also listed his government's initiatives like 2,000 Amma Clinics and 7.5 per cent reservation to government school students in medical admissions, who clear National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test. At another campaign location, he mocked at Stalin for collecting petitions from the public and placing it in a box in this e-age when the government had already been implementing effective grievance redressal mechanisms. By calling toll free number --1100-- people could lodge their complaints from anywhere. Also, authorities have addressed grievances flagged in 5.22 lakh petitions out of 9.77 lakh received by ministers, MLAs, and district collectors, he said. Alleging that the DMK was an unruly outfit, the CM said it would not allow anyone to live in peace. Seeking votes for party candidate fielded from Cuddalore constituency, M C Sampath (Industries Minister), he said "after Amma's government is formed again," every household would get a washing machine and the 100-day rural employment scheme shall be increased to 150 days. Commodities distributed through Public Distribution Outlets would be door-delivered and every family shall get financial assistance of Rs 1,500 per month, he said, highlighting the key assurances in the AIADMK manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-knows-nothing-about-farming-tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-palaniswami-backs-farm-laws-963964.html
19-03-2021||South||Not an inch of elephant corridor should be spared to encroachments: Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Friday said not an inch of land in the elephant corridors in the Western Ghats should be allowed to be encroached upon. The First Bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observation while disposing of a public interest writ petition (PIL) from a city-based animal activist Murugavel. According to the petitioner, the forest officials were taking steps to capture a 40-year-old tusker called 'Rivaldo' roaming in the forests of Masinagudi in Nilgiris district and take it the elephant rejuvenation camp. He sought to restrain the department from doing so. When the PIL came up today, the government counsel told the judges that Rivaldo did not turn violent and cause damage to property or injury to humans. After necessary treatment for injuries of the pachyderm at the camp, the animal should be released in the wild, he added. The Bench noted that the number of elephants in captivity in Tamil Nadu appears to be beyond what can be ignored. Establishments of human habitations along elephant corridors were also on the rise, it noted and hoped that the officials would not allow even an inch of forest land to be encroached upon and to remove the existing encroachments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/not-an-inch-of-elephant-corridor-should-be-spared-to-encroachments-madras-hc-963980.html
19-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh received highest-ever outlay for railways: Piyush Goyal||A highest-ever outlay of Rs 5,812 crore has been provisioned in the 2021-22 Union Budget for railway projects in Andhra Pradesh, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on Friday. Replying to a question from Rajya Sabha member Parimal Nathwani, the Railway Minister said 32 projects (16 doubling and 16 new lines) worth Rs 64,429 crore, covering a total length of 5,704 km, were under various stages of planning, approval and execution in the state. Of these, 336 km length of works were already completed at an expenditure of Rs 10,455 crore and commissioned, Nathwani said here in a press release quoting the Union Ministers reply. Goyal said the average annual budgetary allocation for rail infrastructure projects and safety works during 2014-19 increased to Rs 2,830 crore from a meager Rs 880 crore in the preceding five years. In 2019-20, the allocation was raised to Rs 3,885 crore and in 2020-21 to Rs 4,910 crore. Also, the Minister informed the Member of Parliament that in the last three financial years four double-line and five railway electrification projects falling partly or fully have been included in the budget, subject to requisite approvals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-received-highest-ever-outlay-for-railways-piyush-goyal-964042.html
19-03-2021||South||BJP candidate offers tributes at Left's Punnapara memorial, triggers row||A controversy erupted in Kerala on Friday after a BJP candidate paid floral tributes at the famous Punnapra Vayalar Smriti memorial, jointly managed by the CPI(M) and the CPI, ahead of filing his nomination papers from Alappuzha assembly seat for the April 6 polls. The memorial at Valiya Chudukadu here was built in memory of Communists killed during their movement against the 'misrule' of Sir C P Ramaswami Iyer, the prime minister of erstwhile Princely state of Travancore in 1946. Sandeep Vachaspati, the BJP nominee, paid floral tributes and allegedly raised "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan at the place. The Left parties condemned Vachaspati's act, accusing him of 'trespassing' into the memorial and aiming to 'humiliate' hundreds of Communist party members martyred during the uprising, while a police complaint was lodged against him by the CPI disitrict secretary. Vachaspati defended his act and alleged the memorial was the symbol of "biggest betrayal by the Communist leaders who had fled the scene after putting their innocent followers belonging to the Scheduled Castes and backward communities to face the guns of the Army. The BJP candidate said he visited the place to pay tributes to those "innocent souls" before filing his nomination. Condemning the incident, CPI(M) candidate from Alappuzha constituency P P Chittaranjan said the monument was a symbol of greatest martyrdom of people who had laid down their lives for the freedom of the nation and the "deliberate act" of the BJP candidate was "aimed at subotaging the peaceful electioneering process." He said the Punnapra Vayalar uprising was part of India's freedom struggle and the BJP candidate "humiliated" the martyrs. Hitting out at Vachaspati, the CPI(M) leader alleged the BJP candidate was "following the footstpes of RSS, which had no role in India's freedom struggle". CPI District Secretary T J Anjalose filed a complaint with the police against Vachaspati for "trespassing" the memorial. The movement, started under the leadership of undivided Communist Party of India (CPI), is named after two of the places involved--Punnapra and Vayalar--two villages in Alappuzha district. C P Ramaswamy Iyer, who had opposed Travancore joining the Indian union, was forced to leave the kingdom as a result of the uprising in Punnapra Vayalar. The Communists have said that hundreds were massacred by the military and henchmen of Travancore rulers in alliance with British imperialists in Punnapra Vayalar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-candidate-offers-tributes-at-lefts-punnapara-memorial-triggers-row-964043.html
19-03-2021||State||Karnataka to file original suit in SC against Tamil Nadu river project||Karnataka will soon file an original suit in the Supreme Court against Tamil Nadu's river-linking project, Home and Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Thursday.  The minister was responding to a question on the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river-linking project raised by Congress' M Narayanaswamy in the Legislative Council. The project proposes to use excess water in the Cauvery basin and channel it to arid regions within its borders. "We have decided to take legal recourse against it. We have taken suggestions from experts. We will ensure that our state's interests are not compromised," Bommai assured the Council.  The surplus water use requires the permission of all states. The state government has stated its objections to the Centre and the Central Water Commission, the minister added.  Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol, too, reiterated that the project did not have the Karnataka government's approval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-file-original-suit-in-sc-against-tamil-nadu-river-project-963614.html
19-03-2021||State||5,000 MIT students staying in hostels to undergo RT-PCR test||Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha said that he has directed the MAHE (Manipal Academy of Higher Education) administration to ensure that swab samples of all students staying on the MIT campus were tested. The DC told media persons that the health department officials will conduct RT-PCR tests for about 5,000 students, who are staying in the hostels located on the campus. He added that the Covid-19 cases were increasing in the district since March. But a majority of the cases were from the MIT campus. Jagadeesha said that the situation had made it inevitable for the district administration to adopt strict measures. The Covid-19 positive cases that had reduced in the district have increased again with the onset of summer season. The sudden spike of the cases in the MIT campus has worsened the situation, he rued. Out of 33 Covid-19 positive cases reported in Udupi district on Tuesday, 27 were from the MIT, Manipal and MAHE campus. Out of 42 Covid-19 positive cases reported in the district on Wednesday, 26 were students from the MIT, Manipal. Thus MIT, Manipal campus was declared as a ‘containment zone’ on Wednesday, he added.  The MIT, MAHE has taken a decision to conduct online classes only. The practical sessions and scheduled exams were postponed indefinitely, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/5000-mit-students-staying-in-hostels-to-undergo-rt-pcr-test-963635.html
19-03-2021||State||Set up SC bench in Bengaluru, says Rajya Sabha MP K C Ramamurthy||Rajya Sabha MP K C Ramamurthy on Thursday demanded that a bench of the Supreme Court be set up in Bengaluru.  This would help people in the southern region who face a lot of difficulty in commuting to Delhi for their cases in the Supreme Court, said Ramamurthy, raising the issue during Zero Hour in the Rajya Sabha. He added that it should be on the line of the different benches of the high courts.  Since Bengaluru has the necessary infrastructure, setting up the bench in the city would also help other southern states, including Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/set-up-sc-bench-in-bengaluru-says-rajya-sabha-mp-k-c-ramamurthy-963642.html
19-03-2021||State||Cases against impersonators involved in KSRP exam||Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda said that cases have been filed against three people on charges of impersonation and cheating the officials during the KSRP (Karnataka State Reserve Police) recruitment exam for constables. Two cases have been filed at Badavane police station and one at Shantigrama police station. It is alleged that an aspirant from Gokak was involved in cheating by sending another person for the physical fitness test held at the district stadium on January 29. Cases have been filed against the aspirant and the impersonator. A case has been filed against another youth for replacing the passport-size photo in the hall ticket to the entrance exam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cases-against-impersonators-involved-in-ksrp-exam-963697.html
19-03-2021||State||Former Karnataka minister H T Krishnappa dead||Former Minister H T Krishnappa died at his residence here following a cardiac arrest, his family said on Friday. The 91-year-old leader breathed his last on Thursday. He was the Minister for Health and Family Welfare in the Ramakrishna Hegde government in 1986. Condoling the death, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Krishappa had toiled hard to improve the health scenario in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/former-karnataka-minister-h-t-krishnappa-dead-963956.html
19-03-2021||State||NLSIU students win Batten simulation contest||Students representing Institute of Public Policy National Law School India University (NLSIU) Bengaluru emerged as the winners of the Batten Student Simulation Competition organised by the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA) and the University of Virginia Frank Batten School of Leadership and Public Policy.  Anirudh Jaiswal and Subham Prakash of fourth and fifth teams in Asia Zone respectively emerged as the winners, said an official communication shared by the NLSIU.  This year, over 400 students from 120 universities across 30 countries took part in the NASPAA-Batten Student Simulation Competition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nlsiu-students-win-batten-simulation-contest-963994.html
19-03-2021||State||Karnataka schools charge 'exorbitant' fees to offset losses||The government’s order to slash school fees is proving costly for parents looking to get admissions for their children for next year.  Several private unaided schools in the state have increased fees by 30% to 50%, though they are allowed to increase the fees by only 15% every year. Some of the parents who approached the schools seeking admissions for the next academic year, especially for kindergarten and class 1, were shocked by the exorbitant fees. “We approached at least six schools in Bengaluru South and were shocked to know the fees have been increased by 40% compared to the previous academic year,” said Girisha G R, a parent. Asha B Raju, another parent, said, “We sought admission to kindergarten for our younger child in the same school where his brother is studying. The fee structure was shocking as it has gone up by almost 50%.” The parents are worried as the committees formed by the department of public instruction to address complaints on fees are not taking complaints pertaining to the next academic year.  B A Yogananda, general secretary of RTE Students Parents Association, said, “the government should release the calendar for the next academic year and direct schools not to increase the fees beyond 15%.” “School managements are trying to recover 30% fee cut this academic year in the next year’s fees. Some schools are openly telling this to parents,” Yogananda said. The schools are charging more for maintenance than tuition fees. D Shashi Kumar, general secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said, “The school managements are allowed to increase the fee by 15% every year and if it is beyond that, parents can take a call.” The government recently issued an order reducing the tuition fees by 30% for the current academic year, considering the pandemic situation and financial crisis of parents. This decision did not go down well with school management and they have approached the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-schools-charge-exorbitant-fees-to-offset-losses-964005.html
19-03-2021||State||COMEDK UGET to be held on June 20||The undergraduate entrance test for engineering courses conducted by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental Colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK UGET 2021) will be held on June 20. The test will be conducted in 150 cities across the nation with 400 test centres in online mode. The organisers expect around 80,000 registrations this year as against the 63,000 during 2020. Last year, the entrance test was postponed thrice and the number of candidates registered came down, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "This year too, we are following all the necessary precautions and Covid-19 protocols while conducting the test," said D Kumar, executive secretary COMEDK. Those who seek to appear for the test can register at www.comedk.org or www.unigauge.com and the application process will open from March 22 to May 20. Through the test, students can get admissions in 180 private engineering colleges in Karnataka, who are members of the COMEDK. Along with it, even 30 PAN India universities who are associated with Uni-Gauge will also consider the ranks secured. Considering the delay in conducting the counseling by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) and to avoid many COMEDK seats going vacant, the COMEDK has decided to go with the schedule announced, while signing the consensual agreement with the government. "We understand that the KEA is working under pressure, but this is impacting our admissions and we are losing seats. This year, we have decided to stick to the timeline as mentioned in the consensual agreement and go ahead with our counselling process," said Dr Kumar. The authorities of COMEDK explained that during 2020-21 admissions, of the total 21,000 engineering seats, about 15,000 were left vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/comedk-uget-to-be-held-on-june-20-964007.html
19-03-2021||State||Carcass of ‘man-eater’ tiger found in Kodagu||A male tiger, aged about 10 years, was found dead with bullet injury in Ponnampete taluk of Kodagu on Friday. The carcass was found in a trench at Lakkunda forest on the periphery of Nagarahole National Park. The big cat, suspected to have died four days back, was found in a decomposed state.  The forest officials claimed that the tiger had died in the gunshot fired by the operation team at Hysodluru a week ago and it is the same 10-year-old male tiger that is suspected to have claimed three lives including two boys.  According to the officials, three rounds of bullets were fired at the tiger and one bullet had hit the tiger. However, they could not trace the body of the tiger even after a week. The stripes on the body of the tiger, which was caught on the CCTV camera, and the dead tiger, have matched. The tiger was named as U-285, a DCF said. Conservator of Forests (in-charge) Takat Singh Ranaut said that along with the stripes of the dead tiger, the tooth marks were also matching with that of the suspected tiger that had claimed three lives.  However, the farmers have refused to believe the claim of forest officials as a tiger had killed a cow in the region two days ago.  An autopsy of the tiger has been carried out. The samples from the dead tiger and the bullets will be sent for testing for final confirmation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/carcass-of-man-eater-tiger-found-in-kodagu-964008.html
19-03-2021||State||Stalemate continues in Karnataka Legislative Council over nursing colleges||A heated debate ensued in the Legislative Council for the second consecutive day Friday over irregularities in nursing colleges in the state.  The stalemate continued as JD(S) MLCs were firm on a House Committee to probe the irregularities while the ruling BJP refused to yield to this demand.  The session began on a note of protest by the JD(S) leaders. MLC Srikante Gowda said there were several House Committees constituted in the past to probe issues of public interest, demanding a similar one for nursing colleges. “The government has now assured an inquiry led by department officials. The issue cannot be solved this way. We need a House Committee,” he insisted.  BJP’s floor leader Kota Srinivas Poojary, the Muzrai Minister, said House Committees can be constituted only if departmental inquiries are not satisfactory. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar reiterated that there was already a department-led High Power Committee looking into applications from the nursing colleges. On top of it the government has now assured another inquiry. There’s no need for a House Committee, he added.  With the stalemate continuing, Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti adjourned the session briefly. As the situation did not ease even after the MLCs came back, the session was adjourned till Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/stalemate-continues-in-karnataka-legislative-council-over-nursing-colleges-964009.html
19-03-2021||State||Headmaster accused of misbehaviour with girls suspended||A head master of a government school in the taluk has been suspended on the charge of misbehaving with girls. Some girls had made a complaint to the block education officer (BEO) alleging that the said headmaster was sexually abusing them. The BEO had constituted a three-member committee to look into the complaint. The committee submitted a report stating that the HM misbehaved with girls and accordingly, the BEO had recommended disciplinary action against him. The deputy director of public instruction suspended the HM with retrospective effect from March 17.  The headmaster was booked under Pocso Act while he was serving in Kudligi taluk, but was found not guilty in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/headmaster-accused-of-misbehaviour-with-girls-suspended-964021.html
19-03-2021||State||80% stakeholders want Karnataka schools to reopen: Survey||A majority of parents and other stakeholders in Karnataka have demanded the state government to reopen offline classes for all grades, including primary classes.  A survey, conducted by the 'Makkala Nade Shaaleya Kade' initiative, has revealed that 80 per cent of the stakeholders demanded the reopening of schools for all grades and also the supply of midday meals and milk under the Ksheera Bhagya scheme. 'Makkala Nade Shaaleya Kade' is led by Prof V P Niranjanaradhya of Fellow Centre for Child and the Law National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bengaluru, and others, involving Dr Srinivas Kakkilaya and Guru Kashinath. The report stated that of the 2,973 people were contacted for the survey, 2,443 (about 80%) urged the government to reopen the school for all grades.  Of the 2,973 people who participated in the survey, 1,823 are from rural areas and 1,034 are from urban places. According to survey findings, people in rural areas, are keen on reopening of schools for primary grades. Niranjanaradhya said, "We are stressing on reopening of the schools for all grades and importance of midday meal since the beginning. But the government has not considered it."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/80-stakeholders-want-karnataka-schools-to-reopen-survey-964025.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||COMEDK Undergraduate Entrance Test 2021 to be held on June 20||The undergraduate entrance test for engineering courses conducted by the Consortium of Medical Engineering and Dental colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK UGET 2021) will be held on June 20. The test will be conducted in 150 cities across the nation with 400 test centres in online mode. The organisers expect around 80,000 registrations this year as against the 63,000 registered during 2020. Last year, the entrance test was postponed thrice and the number of candidates registered came down due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "This year too, we are following all the necessary precautions and Covid-19 protocols while conducting the test," said D Kumar, Executive Secretary COMEDK. Those who seek to appear for COMEDK UGET can register at www.comedk.org or www.unigauge.com and the application process will open from March 22 to May 20. Through the test, students can get admissions at 180 private engineering colleges in Karnataka that are members of the COMEDK. Along with it, even 30 pan-India universities who are associated with Uni-Gauge will also consider the ranks secured. Fear of seats remaining vacant Considering the delay in conducting the counselling by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) and to avoid many COMEDK seats going vacant, the COMEDK has decided to go with the schedule announced while signing the consensual agreement with the government. "We understand that KEA is working under pressure, but this is impacting our admissions and we are losing the seats. This year, we have decided to stick to the timeline as mentioned in the consensual agreement and go ahead with our counselling process," said Dr Kumar. The authorities of COMEDK explained that, during 2020-21 admissions, around 21,000 engineering seats were left vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/comedk-undergraduate-entrance-test-2021-to-be-held-on-june-20-963882.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Bengaluru reports over 1,000 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year||Bengaluru accounted for 65 per cent of the 1,587 Covid cases reported in Karnataka on Friday. The city reported more than 1,000 new cases (1,037) after four months. It had reported 1,039 cases on November 22.  “This is a clear indication of a second wave,” said epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu.   “There are large super spreader events that continue to happen even today. There is no restriction on anything. There is a feeling that these events can be managed. Earlier, there was the fear factor to mitigate an adverse event. In the last four days, cases have increased rapidly.”  Dr Babu called for minimising gatherings in closed spaces and giving no relaxations. “We’ve made the environment too conducive for the virus spread. I’m also for not imposing a lockdown but the alternative should be stricter restrictions. With neither happening, it is difficult to contain the spread,” he explained.  Dr C N Manjunath, a member of the Covid Technical Advisory Committee, said that the positivity rate in Karnataka stood at 1.7 per cent as nearly 1,600 cases were reported out of 92,000 tests done. Two weeks ago, it was 0.7 per cent. Within 14 days, it has jumped by one full percent. “The incidence is going up. The same pattern was observed in England, Italy and France,” he stated.  “Once the cases came down, after a gap of four to five months, they spiked again. Religious festivals and temple fairs scheduled for March and April have to be disallowed. This will be a major source of infection in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. If we fall back on contact-tracing and don’t quarantine the family members of positive patients, it will be difficult to contain the virus,” he added.  With 10 deaths, the death toll has risen to 12,425. Among the 10 deaths, six were from Bengaluru Urban, two from Mysuru and one each from Bidar and Dharwad. The total infections stand at 9,66,689. Out of 12,067 active cases, 131 are in the ICU. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Kalaburagi reported 61, Tumakuru 50, Mysuru 49, and Dakshina Kannada 47 followed by others.  The day saw 869 patients getting discharged after recovery. The recoveries have reached 9,42,178.  A total of 2,01,93,326 samples have been tested so far, out of which 91,884 were tested on Friday, including 6,209 rapid antigen tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bengaluru-reports-over-1000-covid-19-cases-for-the-first-time-this-year-963919.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre's refusal for on-site jab leaves old-age homes seething||The Centre’s decision to reject a proposal by the state to hold vaccination drives in old-age homes, long-term care facilities and other locations has left some seething. On Thursday, the state government made public a letter by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in New Delhi, which rejected a proposal to “allow Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) beyond health facilities (such as old-age homes, long term care facilities, apartment complexes and polling booths)... to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination coverage among the elderly.” The chief minister had sought permission from the Centre to take up vaccination in large apartment complexes and old-age homes during the video conference with the Prime Minister.  Officially, an expansion of vaccination centre was rejected because it was determined that such locations lack four certain requirements, such as adequate space for vaccination (waiting area room, vaccination room and observation room), adequate cold chain arrangements for vaccine storage, adequate number of vaccinators, and adequate arrangements for the management of adverse event following immunization (AEFI). In recompense, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued guidelines for sub-health centres to be turned into Covid vaccination centres (CVC), in a bid to improve accessibility for senior citizens. Private health facilities empanelled under AB-PMJAY/CGHS/State health schemes can also be designated as CVCs. However, this has not gone down well among old-age homes. Dr Radha S Murthy, the Managing Trustee of Nightingales Medical Trust, said that the decision does not properly consider the implications on the lives of more than 2 lakh elders residing in old-age homes in India. “There are 4,000 long-term eldercare facilities and old-age homes in India. Many live with comorbidities, dementia, mental disorders and are bedridden. Globally, about one-third of deaths due to Covid were from such care facilities. The sub-health centres are not an option because there are not only logistical challenges but also serious health concerns to such elders if they have to visit hospitals for vaccination. Since there are two shots required, this will be highly impossible,” Dr Radha said. It was a view echoed by other old-age homes that DH contacted. Sudharshan, the owner of a centre in Kumaraswamy Layout said that on-site vaccinations would have been effective as the attenders of many senior citizens are reluctant to see them leave the homes, even for vaccinations. “Many attenders feel their relatives are insulated from the virus in old-age homes,” he said. The requirement of cold chain infrastructure at the on-site locations was also criticized. “Vaccines such as DPT, BCG, measles, which also need to be kept at the temperature of 2-8 degrees Celsius are administered successfully at village level by nurses. If this could be possible, the same can be replicated for Covishield or Covaxin,” Dr Radha said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centres-refusal-for-on-site-jab-leaves-old-age-homes-seething-963995.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Amending KTPP will open floodgates of corruption, activists fear||The Cabinet decision to amend the law to exempt the state-run Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd (KRIDL) from the tender process for works up to Rs 2 crore will open floodgates of corruption, anti-graft activists argue. The amendment, according to sources, was to circumvent a High Court order that stayed handing over projects to KRIDL. The exemption will also affect reservation offered to SC/ST contractors in projects below Rs 50 lakh. DH was the first to report the proposal to amend the law. Speaking to DH, G R Anil Kumar, social activist who has filed a petition in High Court over works taken by KRIDL, alleged that the amendment to Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act raises suspicions that it was done only for the benefit of elected representatives and officials. “It is surprising that the same BJP leaders who had opposed any proposal to amend KTPP Act for the benefit of KRIDL or Nirmiti Kendra, are now mooting the amendment,” he said. The amendment, he said, was to bypass a High Court order which stayed sanctioning works to KRIDL by exempting them under the provisions of KTPP Act. “Earlier, works were entrusted to KRIDL, even though the agency did not have the resources to take up works. They even sub-contracted projects in violation of guidelines,” he said. Previously, the SC/ST Contractors Association under its president N Mahadevaswamy had petitioned the government against any move to amend KTPP to help KRIDL. “Not only does the amendment violate transparency initiatives, it also robs SC/ST contractors of projects that are reserved for them,” Mahadevaswamy had said in a petition. Meanwhile, according to a reply for an unstarred question by Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa in the Legislative Assembly, KRIDL has written to the government to increase the exemption limit from Rs 2 crore to Rs 5 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/amending-ktpp-will-open-floodgates-of-corruption-activists-fear-963997.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ministers went to Court to fight false conspiracy: BJP's Arun Singh||Arun Singh, BJP National General Secretary of Karnataka, on Friday defended the six ministers who moved the court for an injunction, saying they did so to “avert a false conspiracy against the state government”. Singh, who arrived in the city to take part in the BJP core committee meeting to be held on Saturday, attacked the Congress and accused it of misleading the people of the state on various issues, including the CD scandal.  “If the ministers have approached court seeking (injunction), (it’s) to prevent a false conspiracy against us. It should not be a problem for anyone,” Singh said. Reacting to the resignation of Ramesh Jarkiholi in the wake of the CD scandal, Singh said that it was only possible in the BJP that the minister resigned on moral grounds even before the Opposition demanded it. Singh accused the Congress of “sowing confusion” among people and working on conspiracies to mislead the general public. Singh would participate in the BJP core committee meeting to finalise the list of candidates for the upcoming bypolls - Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies. The core committee would also discuss election strategy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ministers-went-to-court-to-fight-false-conspiracy-bjps-arun-singh-964001.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Congress presses for probe into Covid-19 expenses||The Congress on Friday reiterated its demand for a probe into alleged irregularities in Covid-19 management.  “The CM, in his budget speech, had informed that Rs 5,372 crore has been spent for Covid-19 management, but the details of the spending are still hidden in B S Yediyurappa’s suitcase. Will the government come out clean at least now and clear the doubts of people,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah asked in a series of Tweets.  “There is a vaccine for Covid-19 now, but where should we get the vaccine for the BJP government’s corruption? I just hope the government will learn lessons from the first wave and effectively manage the second wave to save lives and livelihoods of people,” he said. Siddaramaiah said the “rapid increase” in Covid-19 cases is “proof for our allegation about the government’s mismanagement” and sought Yediyurappa’s explanation on the new spike. “Had your government worked effectively, why is there an increase in cases?” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar sought a “comprehensive” probe into the government’s Covid-19 expenses. “Money has been misused much, it didn’t reach people and corruption has increased. Our demand is for a comprehensive probe into the prices at which we procured (equipment) vis-a-vis other states,” he said.  Meeting today Senior Congress leaders will meet today to discuss the April 17 bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly seats. The party is yet to announce its candidate for the Belgaum seat amid speculation that it will field its working president Satish Jarkiholi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/congress-presses-for-probe-into-covid-19-expenses-964003.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More people want to associate with Sangh: Manmohan Vaidya||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) is planning to expand its network over the next three years as more and more people are looking to associate with it, the organisation’s joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya said on Friday. Vaidya, the Sah Sarkaryavah, was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the RSS’ highest decision-making body that started its two-day meeting here on Friday.  RSS Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat and other senior leaders inaugurated the meeting.  Vaidya said there was an increase in the number of people wanting to associate with the Sangh. “Not all may join the Sangh. But they are ready and eager to work with the Sangh,” he said, adding that the ABPS meet would chalk out the expansion plan for the next three years.  “There is a growing curiosity about the RSS,” Vaidya said, attributing this to “extensive public contact” during Covid-19 and Ram Mandir campaigns.  Noting that RSS shakhas were in 6,495 taluks, Vaidya said 85% of them had become active after Covid-19 regulations were eased. He said the mandals, comprising 10-12 villages, had been formed. “There are 58,500 such mandals in the country of which active shakhas were present in 40% and contact had been established in 20%,” he said, adding that the Sangh wanted to reach all the mandals in the next three years.  Vaidya said the ABPS would pass resolutions to express thanks to the society that responded positively during the Covid-19 pandemic and the Ram Mandir donation drive.  Asked about allegations that homes were being marked during the Ram Mandir donation drive, Vaidya said no such practice was followed. “Such marking is not our system. We consider everyone as our own, whether they donate or not,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-people-want-to-associate-with-sangh-manmohan-vaidya-964004.html
19-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid impacted more people than WWII: WHO Chief Scientist||The Covid-19 pandemic was the most impactful event to happen on the planet since World War II, said World Health Organisation (WHO) Chief Scientist Sowmya Swaminathan adding that the outbreak highlighted critical social issues, such as mental health and disinformation. Speaking on Friday at the fifth edition of Knowledge Factory, an annual conference that is geared towards college students and aims to produce intelligent, well-rounded citizens, Dr Swaminathan said the impact of the outbreak could be measured in the scale of disruption on ordinary lives. The WHO official added that the extended bouts of social distancing and lockdown highlighted the plights of underprivileged “invisible people,” and also mental health in people in general. “The whole question of equity has come to me, front and center,” Dr Swaminathan said. “Then there is the impact on families that have lost people and the impact due to physical distancing. Humans are social animals, we need contact and interaction. This is particularly relevant for young children who are deprived of peer interaction having been out of school for so long. According to psychologists and neuropsychologists, there are long lasting impacts on the cognitive and mental health of children and young people,” she added. The scientist also raised the matter of disinformation. “Many scientific papers are very badly planned and that has caused a lot of confusion because sometimes journalists pick up those stories and put it on the front pages when normally could never pass a benchmark of quality,” she said. Employment, gender issues While much of the two-day event focused on women’s rights, entrepreneurship and innovation, the event’s central theme was how cultural shifts are required to allow India to retain its momentum into the 21st century. This means triggering attitudinal changes in young people, said the musician T M Krishna. Young people were called on to reinvent how they see the world. Ravi Venkatesan, the founder of Global Alliance for Mass Entrepreneurship (Game), acknowledged that most people are preoccupied with thoughts of jobs and promotions, which he described as obsolete vestiges of the 20th century.  “Instead think about your life as a series of projects. That’s far more sensible and the faster you can find a way to become self-employed and stand on your own feet,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-impacted-more-people-than-wwii-who-chief-scientist-964019.html
19-03-2021||West||Maharashtra ranks second in Covid-19 vaccination in country: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the state is at the second position in Covid-19 vaccination, next only to Rajasthan. "The state has ranked second at the national level in Covid-19 vaccination. Rajasthan is ahead of us," he said in a tweet. "The state is also low on vaccine going waste. It is six per cent in Maharashtra as against some states in the country where the figure is as high as 20 per cent. We are trying to achieve zero wastage of vaccines and steps are being taken in this direction," Tope said. As many as 36,39,989 people have been vaccinated in Maharashtra since the drive commenced on January 16. As per the data compiled on Thursday, over 2.7 lakh people received Covid-19 vaccine shots on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-ranks-second-in-covid-19-vaccination-in-country-tope-963632.html
19-03-2021||West||Haffkine can produce 22 crore coronavirus vaccine doses a year: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope||Pushing for Covid-19 vaccine production at the Mumbai-based Haffkine Institute yet again, the Maharashtra government has pointed out that annually, the facility can roll out 22 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses. The Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Training is located in the Parel area of Mumbai. On Wednesday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray during the video-conferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed that in the Haffkine Institute, vaccines can be produced by way of technology transfer or fill-and-finish basis. On Thursday, the state's Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said that the facility needs to be utilized. “The Haffkine Institute has the capacity to roll out 22 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses in a year,” he said, adding that the institute can start the production immediately. “The vaccines produced here can be supplied in Maharashtra and other states,” he said. The Maharashtra government wants Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin, to enter into an agreement with the state to enhance vaccine production. The Centre is yet to revert to the state's proposal.  Haffkine Institute was established in 1899 and is named after the legendary scientist Dr. Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. The first-ever Phase-I clinical trial in India was perhaps conducted by the founder of the Haffkine Institute in 1899, when he injected himself with the plague vaccine he developed for evaluating its safety and efficacy. In the first half of the twentieth century, the Institute extended its scope against various other common infectious diseases – like Cholera, Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis and Rabies. The institute also developed and manufactured Anti-rabies serum and anti-snake-venom serum. Later on, it undertook the production of the Oral Polio Vaccine. The current research areas in the Haffkine Institute include studies of infections occurring in AIDS patients, surveillance and microbiological analysis of brucellosis, leptospira, the prevalence of drug resistance in bacteria, and continuous development of newer chemotherapeutic agents to combat microbial and zoonotic infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/haffkine-can-produce-22-crore-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-a-year-maharashtra-health-minister-rajesh-tope-963712.html
19-03-2021||West||Shiv Sena defends Param Bir Singh||At a time when Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh admit “serious and unpardonable mistakes” vis-à-vis the Antilia-Scorpio planting case and mysterious death of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren, the Shiv Sena seems to be defending IPS officer Param Bir Singh who has been shunted out as Mumbai Police chief. “Param Bir Singh was replaced in the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner, which doesn't mean he is guilty,” stated an editorial in Saamana, Shiv Sena mouthpiece, on Friday. The editorial comes a day after Deshmukh spoke out on the issue. “Two agencies are probing… the NIA and the ATS… both reputed agencies are carrying out the investigations professionally… some junior officers (Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze) has made mistakes which are serious and unforgivable, such mistakes cannot be ignored… he (Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh) is the overall in charge… it is better that he is posted elsewhere so that there is impartial probe.” After the conclusion of the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said: “'Sachin Vaze is not Osama Bin Laden. It is not right to target a person and hang him and then investigate." The Saamana editorial further pointed out that the Maharashtra government has to do the rejig in police under certain specific circumstances. "He (Param Bir Singh) took the command of the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner during very difficult times," it added. Meanwhile, senior Congressman Sanjay Nirupam, who is known for his anti-Shiv Sena stance, said, “The Shiv Sena is hailing Param Bir Singh. The Home Minister says he (Mumbai CP) was at fault… this statement (of Shiv Sena) would go against the (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government...”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/shiv-sena-defends-param-bir-singh-963730.html
19-03-2021||West||India's first offline sex store shuts after a month||The shop was located in Calungate, an area frequently visited by tourists. It was a joint venture started by KamaKart, a popular chain of sexual wellness stores in South India and Mumbai-based Gizmoswala. The signage of the store has been taken down. Talking to Indian Express, the Calangute Sarpanch Dinesh Simepuruskar said: “We had received oral complaints from many people about the shop and they did not have a trade license. So we have shut it down." He also added that they did not "allow such activities" and that they would not have allowed the opening of such a shop, however, they only found out about the presence of the store through Whatsapp and people posting about it on social media. CEO of KamaKart and a partner at Kama Gizmos, Prawin Ganeshan said that they were an "easy target" on account of not being locals.  “Our trade license application is under process but we were advised by the people working with the Panchayat that we can open the store and the license would be issued in a few days. On Saturday (March 13), the Panchayat told us not to open the shop for some days so we kept it closed. We were under a lot of pressure from the local authority,” he said. He further added that they were not doing anything illegal and that stores of Kama Kart in South India have not faced this much backlash. Where he thinks the backlash was stemming from was that they were distributing fliers for marketing research at the beach, and some people may have felt offended. He specified that the sexual wellness store was set up for "pleasure and protection, with doctor consultation." He said that customers can continue to purchase products online and they will be delivered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indias-first-offline-sex-store-shuts-after-a-month-963731.html
19-03-2021||West||BMC makes negative Covid-19 report mandatory for entering Mumbai malls||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has mandated that malls can only allow those with a negative Covid-19 report and Rapid Antigen Testing facilities will be compulsory in shopping malls across Mumbai. According to reports, this will come into effect from March 22. Maharashtra’s daily tally crossed the 25,000-mark on Thursday — a record high since the outbreak of the viral pandemic that is sweeping the globe. In the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR), the cases crossed the 5,000 mark. On Thursday, the state recorded 25,833 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 23,96,340 and 53,138, respectively. The total number of active cases has climbed to 1,66,353. In Mumbai, the total cases reported were 2,877 while for the MMR, it was 5,019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bmc-makes-negative-covid-19-report-mandatory-for-entering-mumbai-malls-963740.html
19-03-2021||West||MBBS book linking Tablighi event to Covid-19 outbreak withdrawn||A reference book for the second- year MBBS students in Maharashtra has been withdrawn after objections were raised over some part its contents that allegedly linked the Tablighi Jamaat's congregation in New Delhi last year to the outbreak of coronavirus, an official said on Friday. The authors of the third edition of the book titled 'Essentials of Medical Microbiology' also tendered an apology in this connection. The Students Islamic Organisation had raised objections over the book's claim. The organisation said there is no epidemiological study that establishes Covid-19 spread was accelerated because of the congregation of Tablighi Jamaat. After the objections, the book's authors - Dr Apurba Sastry and Dr Sandhya Bhat - apologised "if they inadvertently hurt the sentiments of a group of people". The authors have also assured that necessary changes will be made in the new edition. A government official confirmed that the book has been withdrawn. The organisation welcomed the decision to withdraw the reference book. The Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held at Nizamuddin Markaz in the national capital in March last year. Several people, who attended the event, had contracted Covid-19. Several attendees were later arrested and faced legal action. However, the court had later dismissed the cases saying there was no evidence behind the allegations of these members being coronavirus spreaders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mbbs-book-linking-tablighi-event-to-covid-19-outbreak-withdrawn-963754.html
19-03-2021||West||Pramod Sawant completes two years in office as Goa Chief Minister, thanks people||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who completes two years in office on Friday, thanked the people of the state for supporting his government during Covid-19 pandemic. Sawant had taken over as the state's chief minister after the death of Manohar Parrikar on March 17, 2019. "Today as I complete 2 years as the Chief Minister of the state of Goa, I wish to express my heartfelt thanks to the loving people who have placed their trust in me. I am deeply honoured with the support I have felt through a difficult phase of the pandemic to make Goa strong again," he said on Twitter. "I truly appreciate everyone's efforts and commitments to make this journey a beautiful one. With your continued trust, I will work tirelessly towards making Goa Swayampurna and address every challenge that comes our way," he said in another tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pramod-sawant-completes-two-years-in-office-as-goa-chief-minister-thanks-people-963769.html
19-03-2021||West||Mumbai logs 2,877 new Covid-19 cases, most since start of pandemic||Maharashtra and its capital Mumbai recorded on Friday the most daily coronavirus cases since the pandemic began, stoking a new nationwide wave. Earlier this month, India was overtaken by Brazil as the country with the second most infections after cases dipped in December and January. But recent weeks have seen an uptick, particularly in Maharashtra which on Friday reported a record 25,833 new cases, with financial capital Mumbai logging 2,877. In total, India recorded almost 40,000 new Covid-19 cases -- almost double the rate of a week earlier -- although still less than half the peak of almost 100,000 seen in September. Several badly hit states including Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have imposed fresh restrictions such as curbs on movement and public gatherings in some cities. However, major nationwide restrictions imposed during a months-long lockdown last year have mostly been lifted, with immense religious and political gatherings taking place. "There is going to be no lockdown in the state," Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Thursday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi told regional leaders earlier this week to step up efforts to contain the pandemic and to ramp up testing. "We have to stop the emerging second peak of the pandemic through quick and decisive steps," Modi told the virtual meeting. "In recent weeks, some 70 districts have witnessed a more than 150 per cent increase in the number of cases and if we do not stop the pandemic right now, it could lead to a nationwide outbreak." India has so far administered almost 40 million Covid-19 vaccines, with the aim of inoculating 300 million people by the end of July. In total the country has recorded more than 11.5 million cases and almost 160,000 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-logs-2877-new-covid-19-cases-most-since-start-of-pandemic-963778.html
19-03-2021||West||Antilia probe: Pune forensic team visits NIA's Mumbai office||A six-member team of Pune's forensic science laboratory (FSL) on Friday reached the National Investigation Agency's (NIA) office in Mumbai in connection with the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, a police official said. The forensic experts from Pune reached the NIA office in two cars, he said. However, the exact reason behind their visit is not yet clear. The FSL based in Mumbai's Kalina is already examining the Scorpio car in which explosives were found near Ambani's multi-storey house on February 25. The same lab is also analysing the viscera samples of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was in possession of that SUV. Hiren was found dead in a creek on March 5. Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze has been arrested by the NIA in the explosives-laden SUV case. Following his arrest last Saturday, the state government has suspended him. The NIA has so far seized five vehicles -- the Scorpio, an Innova, two Mercedes cars and a Toyota Land Cruiser Prado. Waze, an "encounter specialist", has also been facing heat in the murder case of Hiren, which is being probed by the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS). Hiren's wife has accused Waze of involvement in her husband's suspicious death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-probe-pune-forensic-team-visits-nias-mumbai-office-963782.html
19-03-2021||West||Covid-19: Night curfew timing in Surat increased by an hour||With over 300 new coronavirus cases emerging in Surat city of Gujarat, the civic body has now decided to increase the night curfew timing by one hour. Instead of 10 pm, the night curfew will now start from 9 pm and end at 6 am, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said on Friday. The new timing will come into effect from Friday night, it said. Moreover, people coming from other states and wanting to stay in hotels or guest-houses in Surat city will be required to produce their negative RT-PCR test report, the civic body said in a release. Of the total number of 1,276 new Covid-19 cases that emerged in Gujarat on Thursday, as many as 324 cases, the highest in the state on that day, were registered in Surat city alone. Three days back, the Gujarat government had increased the night curfew timings in four major cities, including Ahmedabad and Surat, by two hours to stem the spread of the virus. Earlier, the timing was from 12 am to 6 am. From last Tuesday, the night curfew timing was revised to 10 pm till 6 am. The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation had on Thursday took a similar step and increased the curfew timing by one hour - from 9 pm to 6 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-night-curfew-timing-in-surat-increased-by-an-hour-963785.html
19-03-2021||West||Maharashtra issues new curbs as coronavirus raises alarm||With the Covid-19 situation in India’s financial capital of Mumbai and elsewhere in Maharashtra soaring to a record high, the Uddhav Thackeray-government on Friday directed private offices to function at 50 per cent strength. The manufacturing sector can function in full strength, however, the government advised to reduce staff strength on the production floor and ensure social distancing.  The manufacturing sector can also alter the work timings. The new set of guidelines was issued on Friday by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. The government also asked drama halls/auditoriums to function at 50 per cent strength. “There would be no entry without masks and temperature screening. Besides, sanitizers have to be kept at convenient locations,” the order said. The order will be in place till March 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-issues-new-curbs-as-coronavirus-raises-alarm-963791.html
19-03-2021||West||Maharashtra Covid-19 strain needs to be analysed: Dr Avinash Bhondwe||The Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra changed in just a matter of 45 days and the possibility of state-specific mutant variation need to be examined besides micro-planning future arrangements and strategies to combat the viral pandemic, according to Pune-based family physician Dr Avinash Bhondwe. “On 1 February, we had around 1,900 cases in a day while on 18 March, we had over 25,000 cases in a day... this is an exponential increase and a major challenge,” said Dr Bhondwe, the President of Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State. “This is an alarming situation… we cannot shy away from admitting it… total lockdown may not be the correct option as you need to carry out lockdown more than what is doubling rate… around 150 to 170 days, we cannot afford that… what we need is micro-planning to deal with the situation,” he told DH on Friday. According to Dr Bhonwde, the majority of the patients are of the age group of  20 to 45; and 90 per cent plus patients are asymptomatic or mild-symptomatic. “It's one year of Covid-19 in the state… we peaked in September-October, 2020, and, after that, we saw a flattening of the curve,” he said, pointing out that post-Diwali people started slowing going back to normal in November. “People not wearing masks was an issue then also, now also… plus we had gram panchayat elections, marriages and crowing in shopping areas… this was happening for December-January… but we saw a downward movement full January,” he said. Dr Bhondwe further pointed out that in February cases increased slowly and then jumped. “We have admitted that this is the second wave… it will peak further, very fast,” he said, pointing out that this leads to the fact that there is a possibility of a mutant strain. “We have seen mutant strains in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil,” he said, noting that these strains of Maharashtra, which is the epicentre of Covid-19 in India, needs to be analysed in detail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-covid-19-strain-needs-to-be-analysed-dr-avinash-bhondwe-963794.html
19-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren's death case: Sachin Vaze's pre-arrest bail plea hearing deferred||The Thane sessions court on Friday adjourned till March 30 the hearing of an anticipatory bail application filed by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze in connection with the death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. Vaze had moved the Thane court on March 12, the day before he was arrested by the NIA in connection with the Scorpio with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad is probing the related case of Hiran's death. On Friday, prosecutor Sanjay Londe submitted reply by the ATS on the application. Vaze's lawyers sought time to study the reply, so District Judge Shailendra Tambe posted the hearing for March 30. A family member of Vaze also filed an application, complaining that the media was harassing the family. The court directed the local Rabodi police to look into the complaint. Earlier, the court had denied Vaze interim bail in the Hiran case, noting that there was prima facie evidence against him. The court had noted that on February 27 and 28, 2021, Hiran was with Vaze in Mumbai. Hiran's wife had made direct allegations against the police officer, it added. Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV found near Ambani's house, had claimed that it had been stolen a week earlier, but the case got murky when Hiran himself was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. Hiran's wife had claimed that her husband had given the SUV to Vaze in November, which the officer returned in the first week of February.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hirens-death-case-sachin-vazes-pre-arrest-bail-plea-hearing-deferred-963822.html
19-03-2021||West||Mumbai's Mantralaya faces power outage for few minutes||Mantralaya, Maharashtra's state administrative headquarters in Mumbai, suffered a power outage shortly before noon on Friday, which lasted for around seven minutes, officials of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) said. "The power supply to Mantralaya, Foreshore Road and Maharshi Karve Road was affected at 11.55 am due to a fault in the feeder. BEST engineers and technicians restored the power supply in just seven minutes," BEST's public relations officer Manoj Varade said. BEST undertaking supplies power to nearly 10 lakh consumers in the island city area of the country's financial capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-mantralaya-faces-power-outage-for-few-minutes-963834.html
19-03-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh meets Sharad Pawar, briefs him on Sachin Vaze case||Facing the heat in the Antilia-Scorpio bomb planting case and the death of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren, Maharashtra’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday air-dashed to New Delhi to meet NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. The development comes a day after Deshmukh admitted “serious and unpardonable mistakes” by Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze that led to the transfer of Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh. After the meeting with Pawar, Deshmukh said, “I met Sharad Pawar ji at his residence in Delhi and had discussions on the Antilia case. I also informed him that the State Government is extending full cooperation to NIA and lawful actions will be taken based on the findings.” Meanwhile, the Shiv Sena continued to defend Singh, who has been transferred as Director General of Home Guards and Civil Defence. “Param Bir Singh was replaced in the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner, which doesn't mean he is guilty,” Sena said in its editorial Saamana on Friday. The Saamana editorial comes a day after Deshmukh spoke out on the issue. “Two agencies, the NIA and the ATS, are probing... Both reputed agencies are carrying out the investigations professionally… Some junior officers (Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze) has made mistakes which are serious and unforgivable, such mistakes cannot be ignored…He (Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh) is the overall in charge, it is better that he is posted elsewhere so that there is an impartial probe.” It may be mentioned that the Shiv Sena is constantly under fire from the Opposition BJP for defending Vaze. After the conclusion of the Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had said, “'Sachin Vaze is not Osama Bin Laden. It is not right to target a person and hang him and then investigate”. The Saamana editorial further points out, “The government has to do the rejig in police under certain specific circumstances….he took the command of the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner during very difficult times.”  Meanwhile, senior Congressman Sanjay Nirupam, who is known for his anti-Shiv Sena stance, said, “The Shiv Sena is hailing Param Bir Singh. The Home Minister says he (Mumbai CP) was at fault… This statement (of Shiv Sena) would go against the (Maha Vikas Aghadi) government. The Sachin Vaze episode seems to be an extortion racket… its strings attached to Shiv Sena?”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-meets-sharad-pawar-briefs-him-on-sachin-vaze-case-963870.html
19-03-2021||West||Kanjurmarg plot better suited for Metro car shed: MMRDA to HC||The Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA) told the Bombay High Court on Friday that the decision to construct a Metro car shed at Kanjurmarg had been taken after due deliberations and detailed studies conducted by experts. Appearing for the MMRDA, senior advocate Darius Khambata told a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni that the Kanjurmarg plot was better suited than the earlier plot in the Aarey area of the city. The Union government had no reason to object to where the state chose to construct the car shed, Khambata said. "An expert committee conducted a detailed study and due deliberations were done to finalise the new plot. The Kanjurmarg plot is better suited for the car shed and related activities," he said. The plot in Aarey was smaller, meant just for the car shed for one Metro line, while the one in Kanjurmarg can accommodate car sheds for three to four Metro lines, he said. "Besides, why should the Union of India be concerned with where we are making the car shed?" he said. Khambata was responding to a plea filed last year by the Union government challenging the October 1, 2020 order passed by the Mumbai suburban district collector allotting the Kanjurmarg land for construction of the car shed. The Union government said the land belonged to its salt department. Following the plea, in December 2020, the High Court had stayed the collector's order, after which the MMRDA moved the court in March, seeking that the stay on the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed work be vacated. The High Court is hearing the final arguments on the pleas filed by the Union government, the MMRDA, and an intervention application filed by activist Zoey Bhatena, in support of the state's decision to construct the car shed at Kanjurmarg. The High Court will continue hearing the arguments on April 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kanjurmarg-plot-better-suited-for-metro-car-shed-mmrda-to-hc-963883.html
19-03-2021||West||Jignesh Mevani suspended from Gujarat Assembly for a day over indiscipline||Gujarat's Independent MLA Jignesh Mevani was on Friday suspended from the state Assembly for a day for "indiscipline" after he raised the issue of a Dalit man's murder without the Speaker's permission. He was evicted from the House on the orders of Speaker Rajendra Trivedi over the issue. Mevani had been evicted from the Assembly for the same reason on Thursday as well. As soon as the Question Hour came to an end, Mevani, who represents the Vadgam Assembly constituency, suddenly raised a poster that carried the picture of the Dalit man killed on March 2 by a mob allegedly in the presence of a policeman. The poster read: "Why you are not arresting the culprits?" He was referring to the incident, in which one Amrabhai Boricha (50), a resident of Sanodar in Ghogha taluka of Bhavnagar, was allegedly killed in the presence of a local police sub-inspector. As Mevani's mic was turned off, he started shouting and asked why the BJP government in the state has not arrested the PSI yet. He asked the government to clarify if the Minister of State for Home Pradeepsinh Jadeja was related to the PSI. The speaker then asked Mevani not to indulge in "indiscipline" and sit down. Trivedi told the MLA that he should first seek permission from him if he wanted to raise any issue. When Mevani did not sit down despite repeated requests, Trivedi asked the sergeants to take the MLA out of the House. Trivedi also suspended the MLA for the day for "indiscipline". Mevani was then escorted out by the sergeants without using much force.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jignesh-mevani-suspended-from-gujarat-assembly-for-a-day-over-indiscipline-963884.html
19-03-2021||West||Corona Quilt Project and IIFL Wealth & Asset Management partner for art installation in Mumbai||The Corona Quilt Project and IIFL Wealth & Asset Management have partnered in a unique initiative to create an installation at Mumbai’s BMC School in Worli.  The quilting project, which involves a method of stitching layers of material together, was conceived during the initial weeks of the pandemic to bring a community together in the face of a shared struggle. Over twelve thousand people found a way to spark hope and harmony through the Corona Quilt Project in one of the darkest periods of human history. Founded by Neha Modi and Dia Bhupal, the Corona Quilt Project has managed to unite people through the pandemic by stitching together their stories. “On the Rise”, the presentation on Worli Seaface supported by IIFL Wealth & Asset Management (IIFL WAM), wraps around the facade of the Worli Seaface Mumbai Public English School which is a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) school, with over 5000 individual narratives coming together. The presentation spreads a message of hope through the city of Mumbai, where IIFL Wealth is headquartered. Yatin Shah, co-founder and Joint CEO of IIFL Wealth said, “We at IIFL Wealth & Asset Management are pleased to do our part in spreading these stories of hope far and wide. The installation showcases a diversity of experiences, celebrating the strength and the resilience of humans.  The connecting theme between the presentation is Rise, symbolising hope and positivity through a dark time. Neha Modi, a cofounder of the Corona Quilt Project, said, “We are excited to be collaborating with IIFL Wealth for the Worli School in Mumbai. Their values of inclusivity and growth resonate with the Project as we create an installation focused on empowering the community.” Each square is created by children and adults from various communities locally and internationally. The squares explore themes of home, safety, nature, the environments, and the pandemic; each made through unique forms of mixed media and material. The scale of this project allowed Dia Mehhta Bhupal, a Mumbai/Hyderabad-based interdisciplinary artist to present the full range of depth, diversity and ingenuity of the squares collected. Bhupal’s presentation incorporates a transformative journey symbolically coming together in natural motifs such as the sun, the ocean and butterflies. The artist’s intention is to create a healing space within the city that is both restorative and inspiring. For the installation supported by IIFL WAM at Worli Seaface, Bhupal created a modern quilt entitled “Still Rising”. “Still Rising” wraps around the facade of the building with over 5000 individual narratives coming together as one. It draws a parallel from the butterfly- a symbol of transformation, evolution and resurrection. This has been a time of monumental and purposeful metamorphosis. “My intention is to inspire optimism, hope, gratitude and a belief that we recover collectively and emerge stronger,” says Bhupal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/corona-quilt-project-and-iifl-wealth-asset-management-partner-for-art-installation-in-mumbai-963893.html
19-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh transfer: BJP leader flays 'contradictions'||Maharashtra BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Friday said the Uddhav Thackeray government in the state was "full of contradictions" as constituents were talking in different voices over the arrest of assistant inspector Sachin Vaze and the transfer of Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Waze was held by the NIA in connection with the case involving an explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence, and on Wednesday Singh was transferred to the state police's home-guards wing. "The government is full of contradictions. Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut has claimed all is well in the state. However, state home minister Anil Deshmukh has said there were some grave mistakes leading to the transfer of Param Bir Singh," Darekar said. The leader of opposition in the Legislative Council said the statement of Deshmukh, as head of the state's home department, was crucial and asked who Raut was trying to shield and why. The Sena had defended Singh saying his transfer did not make him a criminal, and alleged a "particular lobby in Delhi" was upset with him as the TRP scam came to light during his tenure. Speaking on a television channel on Thursday, minister Deshmukh said, "This is not an administrative transfer (of Singh). Some things have come to light in probes conducted by the NIA and the ATS." "Some colleagues of the (former) Mumbai police chief (Singh) committed serious mistakes. Those are unforgivable mistakes. Hence, he was transferred. Further action will be taken based on the probe report," Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, had added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-transfer-bjp-leader-flays-contradictions-963896.html
19-03-2021||West||Bombay HC allows woman's plea contesting father's 2nd marriage||The Bombay High Court has held that a daughter can question in court the validity of her father's second marriage. In a judgement pronounced on Wednesday, a bench of Justices RD Dhanuka and VG Bisht allowed the plea filed by a 66-year-old woman challenging a family court order that held only parties to a marriage could challenge the validity of the marriage. As per the judgement, the woman filed a plea in the family court in 2016, challenging the validity of her late father's second marriage. In the plea, she said her father had remarried after her mother's death in 2003, but it was in 2016, after her father's death, that she realised her father's second wife was yet to finalise her divorce from her previous marriage. Her father's second marriage, therefore, could not be considered as valid, the woman said in her plea. The second wife, however, argued before the family court that the petitioner had no locus standi in the matter as only the two parties to a marriage, that is the husband and the wife, could challenge its validity in court. The HC, however, held that the petitioner discovered the truth about the woman's divorce much after her father's death and that she had approached the family court as soon as she learned of the discrepancy. Since her father was dead, it was for her to bring the discrepancy forward and challenge the validity of such a marriage, the court said. The bench said the family court was wrong in holding that the daughter was barred from questioning the validity of her father's marriage. It sent the plea back to the family court to decide afresh. "We cannot concur with the reasoning and conclusion arrived at by the learned Family Court which wrongly dismissed the appellant's petition," the HC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hc-allows-womans-plea-contesting-fathers-2nd-marriage-963900.html
19-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb case: Vaze, Hiren seen meeting on day Scorpio was 'stolen'||CCTV footage shows that suspended police officer Sachin Vaze and deceased businessman Mansukh Hiren had met on February 17, the day a Scorpio in Hiren's possession was `stolen', an official of the Maharashtra ATS said on Friday. The same Scorpio was found with gelatin sticks inside near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house on February 25. The Anti-Terrorism Squad, which is probing Hiren's suspicious death, has recovered CCTV footage of a spot near Chhhatrapti Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) in south Mumbai which showed Vaze and Hiren sitting in a Mercedes, the official said. Incidentally, the NIA, which is probing the recovery of the explosives-laden SUV, seized the same Mercedes car, allegedly being used by Vaze, after arresting him. The CCTV footage showed that Hiren and Vaze were in the car for about 10 minutes. Hiren had claimed that on February 17 while he was heading for south Mumbai from his house in Thane, the steering of the Scorpio jammed, so he left it on Mulund-Airoli road and proceeded in a cab. Next day he found the SUV was missing, he said. The CCTV footage showed Vaze leaving in Mercedes from police commissioner's office. Hiren is seen walking towards the car when it is parked outside CSMT. Both sit inside and ten minutes later Hiren steps out and walks away while Vaze drives back to the commissioner's office. The ATS suspects that Hiren handed over the keys of Scorpio to Vaze during this meeting, sources said. On February 25, the Scorpio was found parked near Ambani's residence `Antilia' with gelatin sticks and a threat letter. Vaze was arrested by the NIA on March 13 for his alleged role in parking the SUV near Ambani's residence. The NIA had earlier this week seized a black Mercedes car from a parking lot near CSMT and seized Rs 5 lakh in cash, note-counting machine and some `incriminating' documents. Hiren was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5. His family alleged that Vaze had a role in his death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-case-vaze-hiren-seen-meeting-on-day-scorpio-was-stolen-963920.html
19-03-2021||West||Antilia probe: NIA team meets new Mumbai Police chief||On a day of hectic developments, a team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) met newly appointed Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale to take its investigations ahead into the Antilia-Scorpio planting case. Meanwhile, the Thane Sessions Court posted the hearing of anticipatory bail plea of suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze till March 30 in connection with the case registered by the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) into the suspected murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren. The ATS has filed its reply in the matter, and has opposed the bail plea and is expected to seek his custody. Two NIA officials — Inspector General of Police Anil Shukla and Superintendent of Police Vikram Khalate — met Nagrale, during which Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detection) Akbar Pathan were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/antilia-probe-nia-team-meets-new-mumbai-police-chief-963927.html
19-03-2021||West||With 3,063 infections, Mumbai reports biggest-ever spike in daily Covid-19 cases||Mumbai’s single-day spike in Covid-19 infections jumped past the 3,000 mark for the first time since the outbreak of the viral pandemic even as Maharashtra posted a 25,000-plus figure for the second consecutive day on Friday. In the last 24-hours, Maharashtra reported 25,681 cases and 70 deaths, taking the progressive total to 24,22,021 and 53,208, respectively. During the same period, Mumbai reported 3,063 cases and 10 deaths pushing up the progressive total to 3,55,914 and 11,569, respectively. On the other hand, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) which includes Mumbai, recorded 5,737 cases and 19 deaths, taking the total to 7,82,316 and 20,028. The active total cases in the state stand at 1,77,560, according to the figures released by the Public Health Department. Currently, 8,67,333 people are in home quarantine, while 7,848 are in institutional quarantine. During the day, 14,400 patients were discharged taking the total to 21,89,965. The state’s case fatality rate is 2.20 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-3063-infections-mumbai-reports-biggest-ever-spike-in-daily-covid-19-cases-963932.html
19-03-2021||West||Tiger seen in Guatala Autramghat sanctuary after 81 years||A tiger has been spotted in Guatala Autramghat Wildlife Sanctuary for the first time since 1940, with officials on Friday stating the big cat has strayed from Tipeshwar Sanctuary in Yavatmal, some 330 kilometres from here, in search of prey. The tiger was native to this region but vanished in 1940, though leopards have flourished with the current numbers being 25, Divisional Forest Officer Vijay Satpute told PTI. "This tiger, which is a fully grown male, came to the sanctuary around March 11-12 and was spotted in a forest camera on March 15. It belongs to Tipeshwar area and we have confirmed it through its stripes. The route the tiger took to reach here has not been confirmed as it is not collared," Satpute said. "We have formed seven teams to keep a watch on this tiger. Gautala has good prey base, which may be the reason why it is here. We have found that the tiger has hunted wild boar," he said. Maharashtra State Wildlife Board member Yadav Tarte Patil said the tiger may have come through Pandharkawda, Umarkhed, some parts of Telangana, Akola, Dnyanganga (Buldhana), Hingoli, and reached Gautala from Ajanta mountain ranges. "The tiger's journey may be close to 2,000 kilometres. Such corridors should be declared as critical tiger habitat and best wildlife management practices must be implemented to protect such routes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/tiger-seen-in-guatala-autramghat-sanctuary-after-81-years-963939.html
19-03-2021||West||After court order, Gujarat industrialist booked for allegedly raping foreign national||After a court order, the Gujarat CID (Crime) has registered charge of rape against a former employer of a 29-year-old foreign national, who has been running from pillar to post to get her case investigated. The Venezuelan national has alleged that she was raped by her employer in the office in Bhavnagar on August 27 and two weeks later she was terminated from the job where she had worked for nearly six years. On March 17, additional sessions judge Sita I Tarani allowed the victim's application and ordered the investigating agency to insert section 376 (rape) and 506 (2) (criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) in the FIR. The victim's lawyer Rahil Jain said that after the court's order, the CID added the sections in the FIR, which the local police had filed on January 15, 2021, against Bipin Tamboli and his son Vaibhav Tamboli, of Tamboli Castings Limited, under section 354 (c) (voyeurism) of Indian Penal Code and 67 and 67 (A) of Information Technology Act at Vartej police station in Bhavnagar. She had first approached the police in December by filing a complaint on the e-portal of CID (crime), where she disclosed alleged rape and sexual assault by Vaibhav Tamboli. Then, she physically filed a complaint with the CID (Crime), Gandhinagar on January 4. The FIR was registered against the father-son duo after they allegedly circulated intimate photos of the victim on social media. The victim approached Director General of Police Ashish Bhatia requesting for investigation and lodging rape charges against Vaibhav. The DGP transferred her FIR with the CID (crime) for investigation. According to case details, the victim's statement was recorded by a magistrate in connection with the FIR (voyeurism) where also she mentioned her rape. However, her complaint of rape was not allowed against which she moved a sessions court. The sessions court allowed her plea and ordered to include sections of rape and criminal intimidation. Her lawyer, Jain, said that the victim was raped on August 27 by Vaibhav in his office chamber. The victim went into depression and was treated by the doctors. Barely two weeks later, Jain said, she was terminated from the job on the pretext that her "services were no longer needed." The Venezuelan national came to Bhavnagar-based Timboli Castings Ltd as an intern in 2014, where she was offered a job after completion of her two years internship. Incidentally, on August 30, 2020, the company was in the news when it was reported that Vaibhav was allegedly stabbed by his brother Mehul during the company's board meeting. It was reported that Mehul was unhappy with the proposal of removing him from the board.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-court-order-gujarat-industrialist-booked-for-allegedly-raping-foreign-national-963979.html
19-03-2021||West||Goa CM should protest Karnataka's intimidation of Water Resources Minister: Opposition leader||Chief Minister Pramod Sawant should call up his counterpart BS Yeddyurappa in Karnataka and register formal protest against the alleged intimidation of Goa government's Water Resources department officials by Karnataka police officials, during a visit to the Kalsa-Banduri canal site, along the Mahadayi river, for a joint inspection. "We condemn this attack and insult by Karnataka Police on our WRD Officials and (an) environmentalist. If little shame is left in Pramod Sawant, he should immediately call up his counterpart in Karnataka and register protest,” Goa Forward party president Kiran Kandolkar tweeted late on Friday. The tweet follows an alleged altercation earlier on Friday, when officials of the Goa government's Water Resources department, environmentalist Rajendra Kerkar and some media persons who turned away from the joint inspection of the controversial Kalsa-Banduri canal by Karnataka police officials. Last month, the Supreme Court had directed a joint inspection of the controversial Kalsa water diversion project along the Mhadei river basin by officials of the southern state, Goa and Maharashtra. The direction had followed a contempt petition filed by the Goa government against Karnataka, in which the latter has been accused of acting in contempt of the SC, by diverting the waters of the Mahadayi river, when the matter was pending in the apex court. Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra are battling out a two-decade-long dispute over the sharing of the Mhadei waters. The Goa government has filed a contempt petition accusing Karnataka of diverting the river's water on the basis of the provisions of the Tribunal's award, which have also been challenged in the apex court by the Goa government through a special leave petition. Goa has accused Karnataka of diverting water from the Mhadei river, through a recently built canal in Kalsa village, to the water deficit basin of the Malaprabha river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-cm-should-protest-karnatakas-intimidation-of-water-resources-minister-opposition-leader-963998.html
19-03-2021||West||Bombay HC's Aurangabad bench halts physical hearings till April 4||Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court will halt all physical hearings till April 4, and hear matters only through video-conferencing, an official said on Friday. As per a notice issued by the HC registrar, the Aurangabad bench will only hear urgent matters during this period, and all these matters will be heard video-conferencing between March 22 and April 4. The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay HC Bar Association had written to the court earlier in the day urging it to revert to virtual court proceedings till Covid-19 cases in the region came down. Earlier this month, the Nagpur bench had also suspended physical hearings and began conducting virtual hearings for urgent matters. In December last year, all benches of the Bombay High Court and all subordinate courts in Maharashtra except Pune, had resumed physical hearings. Since the coronavirus pandemic began, the courts had been conducting hearings online, through video interface. The principal bench of the High Court in the city currently conducts physical hearings on all working days in a week. A few designated benches conduct virtual hearings on Fridays only for cases in which lawyers or parties are based outside Mumbai, or are unable to attend physical hearings due to specific reasons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-hcs-aurangabad-bench-halts-physical-hearings-till-april-4-964011.html
19-03-2021||West||Gujarat: Gandhinagar civic polls to be held on April 18||Elections to the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation will be held on April 18, and counting of votes will take place on April 20, the Gujarat State Election Commission declared on Friday. The SEC said notification of the elections will be issued on March 27, the last date of filing of forms will be April 1, while last date of withdrawal of forms will be April 5. "The model code of conduct has come into force in Gandhinagar now. A delimitation exercise has been carried out and it was also decided on rotation of posts as per rules for GMC. The final electoral rolls for the GMC election were published on March 4 this month," it said. The GMC was formed in 2010 and the first election to the 32-member body was held in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-gandhinagar-civic-polls-to-be-held-on-april-18-964030.html
