20-03-2021||In Perspective||Making our own passenger airplane||When Laura Tyson, economist and Bill Clinton’s adviser, wrote that a dollar worth of shoes is not the same as a dollar worth of computers, she meant the effect technology and manufacturing will have on jobs, economic multipliers, and trade. India’s space vehicle and combat aircraft development have shown great technology spinoffs and have been economic multipliers. But space vehicles or combat aircraft are not civil aircraft. The first cousin to a civil aircraft is a military transport aircraft as these, too, are certified to civil aircraft regulations. But the commonality ends there. Civil aircraft development is to be seen in terms of hard, cold numbers of ownership, fuel and maintenance costs. The internet is strewn with stories of failures of manufacturers and airlines who lost sight of this.  Global 20-year forecasts show that the fleet sizes for single-aisle aircraft (A320 and B737) is around 32,000, widebodies around 8,000, and of regional aircraft, about 5,000. Over 75% of the market is held by single-aisle aircraft because they represent the middle of the market, have scale and are versatile to be deployed on most networks that see cyclic demand. These aircraft have eaten into the widebody market, especially in Covid times. Regional aircraft have always faced a challenge, buffeted by competition between surface transport and single-aisle aircraft. The Indian market represents a sweet spot. The present reduction in demand from Covid is just a blip. New route networks into Tier-I cities by Indigo and SpiceJet have been stable and price elastic. The government’s ‘Udan’ has done what the Essential Air Services in the US did not. It will aid the growth of India’s smaller cities and create a more even economic-geography. Even in India, single-aisle aircraft play a predominant role (over 75% of the fleet), while regional aircraft are route development aircraft, till the single-aisle aircraft take over. India has had its experiments with civil aircraft development and manufacturing. The HS-748 (Avro) was part of Indian Airlines, till the airline turned into an all-jet fleet in the 1980s. Vayudoot used the Dornier-228 as its mainstay, till the airline collapsed. Both these aircraft are now military transports, still used extensively by the IAF and Indian Navy, and one needs to give them credit for that. HAL, NAL and private companies have had their tryst with civil aircraft development, but the challenges are— among others— international certification and economies of scale. Frequently, Brazil and China are cited as case studies. The Brazilian company Embraer was born during the Cold War, when Brazil was the non-Communist bulwark for the US, in the times of Castro of Cuba and Allende of Chile. It got help and a bit of the US market for its small aircraft, and there was no looking back. Equally, China was cultivated during Richard Nixon’s time and Deng Xiaoping used China’s market potential, offsets and low labour costs to encourage civil-aircraft parts manufacturing for global companies. The country now manufactures a regional jet and a single-aisle aircraft which is close to Chinese certification and has an assembly line for the A320. We are at the cusp of a dramatic technology revolution in civil aircraft. Electric propulsion, or even hydrogen, could be a reality sooner than we think. In India, the government plans a hydrogen mission and is focused on electric vehicles. The unmanned air-taxi revolution, with dedicated airspace and certification to carry passengers, will impact regional air mobility. So, smaller conventional aircraft will see competition from a new source. Much of this will come from startups, with unmatched energy to innovate, and it is wise to give them the space. But, even as things change, some challenges remain the same: international safety certification, scale and operating economics. India, with its post-Covid geopolitical status and its market, stands a chance like never before, if its policymakers take pragmatic decisions involving the size of aircraft they would support, the technologies that can be developed or co-developed, and the countries to align with. This could further integrate India into the global supply chain and give China a run for its money. Lastly, experience has shown that it is not easy to achieve viability or financial closure on civil aircraft projects. An imaginative combination of financial instruments that securitises and values spinoffs, economic multipliers, trade and offsets, private sector and international participation is required. Technology pragmatism and cold operating economics are what one needs to go by. More than anything else, it is the strategic plan to harness the energy of the startups, the wisdom of the private sector in market understanding and delivery, and the utilisation of public technology infrastructure that will be vital. Policymakers should consider the unprecedented opportunity to push for new technologies that will have spinoffs across the board while recognising the coming revolution in regional air mobility and partnering to manufacture a right-sized aircraft. (The writer is a former Programme Director (Civil Aircraft) at NAL and has served on various committees on aviation policy and the CII National Committee on Civil Aviation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/making-our-own-passenger-airplane-964211.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police directed to contain activities of Shiv Sena: R Ashoka||Revenue Minister R Ashoka said that the Police Department has been directed to contain activities of the Shiv Sena which has been creating a rift among communities and that it poses threat to the law and order situation here. Speaking to reporters at the airport here on Saturday, Ashoka said, "Marathi speaking people residing in the border areas want peace, but some elements were attempting the otherwise. Shiv Sena is a political party, hence we need to know if there was scope to get it banned as per laws. There is a demand to ban Sena and Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti." Regarding the selection of the candidate for the by-election of Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency, Ashoka said that he has made his opinion known to BJP State Incharge Arun Singh. There were many aspirants for the seat as Belgaum is a stronghold of the BJP. "Late union minister Suresh Angadi's family has been associated with BJP for long. The state unit will finalise three names and send them to the central core committee that will select and announce the candidate for the by-election," he stated. The 'village stay' programme aims at taking the Revenue Department to the doorsteps of the people. Grievances would be heard and efforts will be made to resolve them during the 24 hours stay. MLA's could attend the programme from 3 pm to 6 pm," Ashok stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-directed-to-contain-activities-of-shiv-sena-r-ashoka-964200.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Nanjangud bandh successful||Nanjangud bandh called to oppose orders cancelling the Panchamaharathotsava (Dodda Jatre), scheduled on March 26, at Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud, evoked good response, on Saturday. The streets wore a deserted looks as shops, film theatres, business establishments, remain closed for the day. Even the footfall to Srikanteshwara temple was very less. With Covid cases on rise, the Nanjangud rathotsava has been cancelled as per the recommendations of the Technical Advisory Committee. As scheduled, the puja and religious rituals in connection with the festival to be held from March 19 to 30, will be held in a simple manner, as per the tradition, within the temple premises in the presence of priests, temple employees, with Covid guidelines in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nanjangud-bandh-successful-964420.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Will fight to vacate injunction order: Mulali||Activist Rajashekar Mulali on Saturday said that he would launch legal battle against the six-ministers, who obtained temporary injunction order against newspapers and TV channels from publishing anything defamatory against them, for making him as one of the respondent in the case. Mulali is one of the respondents among the 67 media houses, social media outlets in the case. In a press conference here, Mulali said, “I don’t own any media house,  but my name has been taken out in the case. The incident damaged my image and I will file an application requesting the court to vacate the injunction.” “The ministers might be afraid of me and thus, named me as a respondent. I have never told I have CDs of other politicians, but media created it. I am ready to move Supreme Court, if the real victim comes to me without any selfishness, business and hatred,” he said. It has to be noted that after the CD in which former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly seen with a woman, was released, six ministers, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Health and Family Welfare, and Medical Education minister K Sudhakar, Municipal Administration minister K C Narayan Gowda and Urban Development Minister Bhyrati Basavaraj approached court seeking injunction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/will-fight-to-vacate-injunction-order-mulali-964421.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||ZP members indulge in verbal duel||The Zilla Panchayat members indulged in verbal spat over political rivalry in general meeting held at ZP, here on Saturday.    The meeting was held after a gap of 18 months due to political rivalry among the JD(S) members. A group of JD(S) members were against ZP president Nagarathna Swamy of JD(S) as she failed to follow the directions of the party leaders. The party leaders had directed the president to resign for the post, but she has been denying it from several months. The JD(S) leaders, who were against the president, raised voice against her over distribution of funds and another group came in support of her. Even the Congress members extended supported to the president. Even though the ZP Chief Executive Officer Zulfikar Ulla requested the members not to create nuisance, the members continued verbal spat. A score of JD(S) members took the president to task for not conducting meeting from last 18 months. However, the Congress members backed the president and charged the JD(S) members for not attending the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zp-members-indulge-in-verbal-duel-964422.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Niranthara Ranga Utsava from March 24||Mysuru-based Niranthara Foundation has organised ‘Niranthara Ranga Utsava’ at Ramagovinda Rangamandira, Ramakrishna Nagar in the city, from March 24 to 28. In a press conference here, Foundation managing director Prasad Kundur said, "The event will be inaugurated at 6.15 pm on March 24. Activist Pa Mallesh, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner D B Natesh and Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) Chairman L R Mahdevaswamy will attend the inaugural ceremony. Play ‘Kudalasangama’, directed by M M Suguna, will be staged at 7 pm." On March 25, ‘Kudure Bantu Kudure’, directed by R Bykadi, will be staged and ‘Seeta Swayamvaram’ directed by Jeevan Kumar Heggodu will be staged on March 26. ‘Koovigondu Kannadaka’ directed by Venkatesh Prasad, will be staged on March 27 and ‘Kantu’, directed by Manjunath L Badiger, on March 28. The plays will start at 7 pm every day. The valedictory ceremony of the utsava will be held on March 28 at 6.30 pm. Commissioner for Income Tax, Chennai, Jayaram Raipura and Deputy Commissioner of Police A N Prakash Gowda will attend the event. Wildlife photographer Lokesh Mosle released the poster of the utsava. Photojournalist Netra Raju and Niranthara Foundation chairman M M Suguna were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/niranthara-ranga-utsava-from-march-24-964424.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Minister assures permanent solution to elephant menace||District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah assured that he will take a delegation, including MLAs, former MLAs, planters and others, to Delhi, seeking a permanent solution for the wild elephant menace in the region. Addressing a gathering of ‘Coffee Krishi Mela’ and Coffee Growers’ Association annual meeting here, on Saturday, the minister said that he will take the delegation after the bypolls scheduled for April 17. Forest Minister Aravinda Limbavali is well aware of the menace and the state government has decided to come up with a permanent solution for the menace. “Thus, the delegation will approach the Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) Prakash Javadekar. We will also try to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi,” Gopalaiah said. He said that he will urge Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda to offer subsidy to chemical fertilisers as the prices have gone up. “There are plans to adopt Kerala model to resolve the issue of encroachment of lands,” he said. MLA H K Kumaraswamy said, “Sakleshpur taluk suffered 90% damages of properties due to floods, but more compensation was given to Hassan and other taluks. It is injustice and cannot be tolerated.”    Former MLA H M Vishwanath said, “The government should announce a special grant of Rs 150 crore, under Yetthinahole Drinking Water Project, for the development of basic infrastructure in Sakleshpur taluk.” Coffee Board Chairman M S Bojegowda and State Coffee Growers’ Okkutta president H T Mohan Kumar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/minister-assures-permanent-solution-to-elephant-menace-964425.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||This doctor dissects history, proud about Ganga dynasty||Highly-qualified is an inadequate description of Dr B N Raveesh, professor and head of department of Psychiatry, Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMC and RI), in Mysuru. Besides his education, experience and research related to his speciality, Dr Raveesh is an expert in law, human rights, forensics and hospital administration, related to his medical profession and advocacy. Earlier, he also served as the director of Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences. His exact degrees, institutions and nations, where he, both, studied and worked, is a long list. Of late, he has donned the robes of a cultural activist and turned into a historian. His first book should have been ideally on medicine or psychiatry, but ‘Ganga Samrata Sripurusha’, related to history, was released recently. It tries to trace and revive his ethnicity and the pride of Gangas, especially Sripurusha, whose memorial was traced and restored last year. DH: As a medical doctor, who specialises in psychiatry, studying and researching psychiatry, psychology, human rights, forensic law, law and hospital administration would not have looked strange. What was the motivation to dig into history? BNR: In 2019, the late T N Dasegowda of Talakad had organised a felicitation to achievers of T Narsipur taluk. In that function, a few persons ridiculed me, for not having chosen a foreign nation, to match my education, research and experience. Then, Dasegowda made me proud with his knowledge on history of Bannur, my birthplace. He said, Sripurusha, one of the great Ganga rulers, was from Bannur and most of the people in the region, including me, could be his ancestors. This evoked pride in me, about my birthplace and the Gangas. You would have studied History up to 10th standard in school. After becoming a medical professional, you studied history again. Had history fascinated you during school days? I studied up to seventh standard in Christ the King Convent, where we had a physical training teacher, who used to engage theory classes, whenever we could not play, due to rain or hot climate. He used to tell us history of the places in the neighbourhood. Besides, my maternal grandmother Sannamma used to narrate the legends about temples we used to visit. She explained how Kodandaramaswamy temple in Bannur turned into a fort, for defence purpose. When I changed school to Marimallappa’s, names of our groups were from history — Chalukya, Kadamba, Wadiyar and Ganga. Once I was in Ganga group and tried to trace their emblem, from a book. When we changed groups in rotation, we used to study about the dynasties, their noteworthy kings and their achievements. How do you relate your childhood with your present fascination for history? My maternal great-grandfather Musuvegowdara Kalegowda was a wrestler in the court of then maharaja Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar. My maternal grandfather K Kalegowda was a farmer, who owned two rice mills in Bannur. In memory of his father, he used to conduct wrestling championships. I used to watch the wrestling bouts and feel proud about my heredity. My father B M Nanjegowda, who retired as deputy chief engineer of Irrigation department, is from Bevinahalli, bordering Bannur. As we were put up in Mysuru, our visits to Bannur, Bevinahalli and neighbouring villages, with my mother K Pramila, was frequent. Thus, my connect with my native place and its neighbourhood is strong. How did you go about the research on Gangas? In the function, when I was felicitated in 2019, I was introduced to Talakad Chikkarangegowda, who has good knowledge on legends and places of T Narsipur taluk. Even though Gangas are contemporaries of Kadambas, with Dadiga or Kongunivarma founding the dynasty in AD 325, Kadambas get the credit as the first Kannada rulers. For some reasons, Gangas, who ruled the southern parts of the present Karnataka for over 700 years as kings and also for another 200 years as chieftains of Hoysalas and Vijayanagar empire, do not find a prominent place in history books. Although, present Gangadikar Vokkaligas take pride in their ancestry of Gangas, Ganga rulers are not limited one faith or caste. Despite their first spiritual guide being a Jain Muni, they continued as Vaishnavas for a few generations. Then they became Jains. Again, they were back as Shaivas and also Vaishnavas for a couple of generations. They are the pioneers in farming, by cutting forests. Then they became warriors and returned to farming. The Halmidi inscription of Kadambas have some Sanskrit words, Gangas are the ones who gave the first Kannada inscription. What are your plans now? My book ‘Ganga Samrata Sripurusha’ is getting good, positive response. So far, I have referred 13 major books. There is a need for more research. Its English translation, with more inputs, will be released shortly. An enlarged and edited version in Kannada is in the pipeline. We formed Sripurusha Samskruthika Samudhaya in 2019 and conducted Sripurushothsava in 2020 and this year. We have identified the 1200-year-old memorial of Sripurusha at Mudukuthore near Talakad. It has to be conserved and developed. In 2020, we took out a motorbike rally from Bannur to Mudukuthore, to evoke the Ganga pride among the people of the villages on the route. We plan to hold lectures on Gangas in schools, by eminent scholars like IRS officer Jayaram Raipura. We plan more books, plays, television serials and movies on Gangas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-doctor-dissects-history-proud-about-ganga-dynasty-964426.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MUDA: Surplus budget presented||Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) Commissioner D B Natesh presented a surplus budget of Rs 38.57 crore for the year 2021-22, in the presence of MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev, on Saturday. However, no new layouts are announced. The commissioner announced multi-storey group housing schemes, rejuvenation of lakes, establishments of sports complexes among the others. A few members raised objection for not announcing new layouts even though there is demand for 80,000 sites and not taking measures to ensure sufficient drinking water. MUDA expected a revenue of Rs 84.90 crore from approval of layouts, plan fee, taxes on house and sites, khatha and other fee. Major revenue of Rs 936.42 crore is expected from distribution and auctioning of sites and houses, Civic Amenities sites. In addition, Rs 27.96 crore revenue is expected from fixed deposits in various banks. The commissioner proposed spending of Rs 674 crore for developmental works in the existing layouts. MLC K T Srikantegowda suggested investing on needy projects rather than unnecessary works. MLA B Harshavardahn, MLC R Dharmasena, MUDA Member Naveen, Lakshmi Devi, Madesh, MUDA Secretary M K Savitha and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muda-surplus-budget-presented-964427.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Road works at the expense of Hampi monuments||The Vijayanagara monuments are crumbling, courtesy of official apathy and unplanned civic works. A week after a portion of a fort near Kamal Mahal came crumbling due to unabated construction activities, extraction of mud for road works has damaged yet another fort of medieval times near Shiva Temple in Talavara Ghatta on Saturday. The region, which lies under the Hampi core zone, saw use of heavy machines and earthmovers to extract mud bringing down a portion of the fort. The mud extraction also poses a threat to the Shiva temple which is just 25 metres away. Two back-to-back incidents have left the heritage activists fuming. Vishwanath Malagi, president, Vijayanagara Smaraka Samskruti Samrakshana Sene, told DH, “In a similar activity a fort near Kamal Mahal got damaged. It seems, the authorities have learned no lessons... Indiscriminate mud extraction at the site close to Shiva Temple, laced with huge stone boulders, has damaged the fort. The temple is also facing threat from the precariously placed stones. This apart, the region is home for sloth bears and leopards. Unabated construction activity will have an adverse impact on the animals endemic to the region.” The Archaeological Survey of India should take immediate steps to stop construction activity and use of heavy machines in the core zone, Malagi of the citizen forum fighting for restoration of Vijayanagara monuments urged. When contacted, P Kalimuthu, Deputy Superintendent, ASI (Hampi Circle) said, “No damage was done to the fort. Mud is being extracted and transported for road works. The activity will not hurt any monument.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/road-works-at-the-expense-of-hampi-monuments-964436.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srinivas Gowda is back with a new record in Kambala||Kambala jockey Srinivas Gowda, who had grabbed the national attention as Kambala’s Usain Bolt, scripted a new record by completing 100 metres in just 8.96 seconds, in ‘Soorya Chandra Jodukere’ Kambala organised at Venoor-Permuda in Belthangady taluk on Saturday. Gowda had earlier covered 125 metre-long Kambala track in 11.21 seconds. On calculating the speed versus distance, he covered 100 metres in just 8.96 seconds and broke his own previous records. A year ago, he had created a record by covering a 100-metre track in 9.55 seconds. Later, Bajagoli Nishanth Shetty went on to break the record by covering 100 metres in 9.52 seconds at Venoor Kambala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srinivas-gowda-is-back-with-a-new-record-in-kambala-964437.html
20-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress's graph is down in Karnataka, party will be wiped out, says BJP leader Arun Singh||The Congress graph in Karnataka is down and it would soon be wiped out in the state as their leaders do not work at the ground level, unlike those of the BJP, senior party leader Arun Singh said here on Friday. "...Congress is wiped out across the country...in Karnataka also their graph is down and they will be wiped out because their leaders don't do the groundwork on the ground," Singh, National General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka told reporters here. He alleged that Congress leaders are engaged in conspiracy, corruption, and creating confusion and also spreading lies, which can't go on for long. "BJP and its workers are working at the ground level for the welfare of the poor and large sections of society and farmers," he added. Singh is in the city to attend the party's core committee meeting tomorrow to discuss the candidates for the April 17 bypolls for Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments, party sources said. To a question on six Ministers getting an injunction against the telecast or publication of any defamatory material against them, he said, "If they have gone to court and got the stay (injunction), so there is no false conspiracy against them, why should anyone have an objection to it?" "I'm unable to understand why Congress has an objection. It is because Congress believes in conspiracy, creating confusion and misleading the people," he added. The Congress has decided not to pose any questions to these six Ministers during the ongoing budget session of the Karnataka legislature, labeling them as "immoral". On the purported sex video allegedly involving former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, he said, "It is only possible in the BJP that after the allegation, within 24 hours, even before demand from the Congress, he resigned on moral grounds." Jarkiholi had resigned as a minister earlier this month amid allegations of sexual harassment after the emergence of a purported sex video allegedly involving him, which he has termed as "fake".||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congresss-graph-is-down-in-karnataka-party-will-be-wiped-out-says-bjp-leader-arun-singh-964077.html
20-03-2021||National||No IVF babies for same-sex or live-in couples: House panel||Same-sex and live-in couples should not be allowed to have babies born through in vitro fertilisation (IVF) technology because of the complexities in the Indian family system, a panel of lawmakers said on Friday. “Given Indian family structure and social milieu and norms, it will not be very easy to accept a child whose parents are together but not legally married. The committee feels that keeping the best interest of that child born through ART services and other parentage issues in case of their separation, it would not be appropriate to allow live-in couples and same-sex couples to avail the facility of ART,” they said in a report tabled in Parliament. In the report, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health that reviewed the Assisted Reproductive Technology (Regulation), 2020 Bill, took a view that was similar to an idea taken by another panel of the Parliamentarians who examined the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill 2019. The Select Committee that scrutinised the Bill excluded people in live-in relation and same-sex couples from availing surrogacy services. Taken together, the two Bills seek to regulate hundreds of fertility clinics that mushroomed all over the country offering expensive IVF services to childless couples. The panel also recommends that not more than three embryos may be placed in the uterus of a woman and the gametes should be preserved for a maximum period of 10 years for use. Once enacted, the Bill seeks to create a national board to govern the fertility industry by determining the minimum standards of physical infrastructure, laboratory, diagnostic equipment and expert manpower to be employed by ART clinics and banks besides implementing a code of conduct for those in the IVF sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-ivf-babies-for-same-sex-or-live-in-couples-house-panel-964065.html
20-03-2021||National||CBI conducts surprise checks at govt dept offices across country in anti-corruption drive||The CBI Friday conducted joint surprise checks with the vigilance department of 30 Central government departments in 25 states and union territories to identify areas prone to corruption as part of its special drive, officials said. The agency covered offices of Railways, Food Corporation of India (FCI), CSD (Canteen Stores Department) Godown, Ordnance Factory, Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), and North MCD among others. "The documents and records obtained in Joint Surprise Checks are being scrutinised for further necessary action," CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said. "These joint surprise checks are being conducted to unearth any wrongdoing at places which are prone to corruptible practices while rendering services or implementing projects of the government of India, at the cutting edge level," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-conducts-surprise-checks-at-govt-dept-offices-across-country-in-anti-corruption-drive-964095.html
20-03-2021||National||Pak’s delegation to visit India next week for talks on water-related issues||Pakistan on Friday said that its delegation of water experts would visit India next week to attend the meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission and discuss various water-related issues. The 116th meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission will be held in New Delhi on March 23 and 24, Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhry said at the weekly briefing here. “A host of issues under the treaty, including our objections on the designs of Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai Hydroelectric Plants, supply of information on new Indian projects on the western rivers and supply of flood data by India, will be discussed,” he said. Pakistan’s Commissioner for Indus Waters Syed Muhammad Meher Ali Shah will lead the delegation. The Indian delegation will be led by India's Indus Commissioner P K Saxena with his advisors from the Central Water Commission, Central Electricity Authority and National Hydroelectric Power Corporation. This will be the annual meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission. Under the provisions of the Indus Water Treaty, both the commissioners are required to meet at least once a year alternately in India and Pakistan. This will also be the first meeting between the two commissioners after the nullification of special provisions under Article 370 that gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The state was later carved into two union territories -- Ladakh, and Jammu and Kashmir. Since then, India has cleared several hydropower projects in Ladakh. They are Durbuk Shyok (19 MW), Shankoo (18.5 MW), Nimu Chilling (24 MW), Rongdo (12 MW), Ratan Nag (10.5 MW) for Leh, while Mangdum Sangra (19 MW), Kargil Hunderman (25 MW) and Tamasha (12 MW) have been cleared for Kargil. India had conveyed the projects to Pakistan and the issue is expected to come for discussion during the meeting. Last year''s meeting, which was earlier scheduled to be held in New Delhi in March 2020, was cancelled for the first time since the signing of the Treaty, in view of the pandemic situation. India in July 2020 had proposed to Pakistan that the meeting to discuss pending issues pertaining to the Indus Water Treaty be held virtually in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, but Pakistan insisted on holding the talks at the Attari check post. However, India said it was not conducive to hold the meeting at the Attari Joint Check Post due to the pandemic. The meeting will take place after a gap of nearly two-and-half years. The last meeting took place in Lahore in August 2018. Meanwhile, asked about Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s comments that the onus to create a conducive environment is on Islamabad, Foreign Office spokesperson Chaudhry said: “Such statements are not helpful in resolution of the disputes which are a hurdle in the way of peace and stability in the region.” “Our desire for regional peace was clearly spelled out by Prime Minister Imran Khan when he stated that ‘if India takes one step towards peace, Pakistan will take two’. “The onus is, therefore, on India to create the enabling environment necessary for a meaningful engagement,” Chaudhry said. He said Pakistan has always underscored the need for a meaningful dialogue and peaceful resolution of all outstanding disputes with India, including the core issue of Jammu and Kashmir. The current situation in Kashmir is “neither tenable nor acceptable” and India needs to take corrective measures in Kashmir to move forward, Chaudhry said, adding that there is no change in Pakistan’s principled position on the issue of Kashmir that remains anchored in the relevant UN Security Council Resolutions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-s-delegation-to-visit-india-next-week-for-talks-on-water-related-issues-964102.html
20-03-2021||National||World Happiness Report 2021: India ranks 139 out of 149, Finland tops||India has been ranked 139 out of 149 countries in the list of UN World Happiness Report 2021 released on Friday which is topped by Finland. The World Happiness Report 2021, issued by the UN Sustainable Development Solutions Network, focuses on the effects of Covid-19 and how people all over the world have fared. It ranks the world's 149 countries on "how happy their citizens perceive themselves to be". “Our aim was two-fold, first to focus on the effects of Covid-19 on the structure and quality of people’s lives, and second to describe and evaluate how governments all over the world have dealt with the pandemic. In particular, we try to explain why some countries have done so much better than others,” it said in a statement. It said that India is on the 139th spot in the list. In 2019, India was ranked 140th. “There have been both in-person and telephone samples for India, with the in-person responses being lower than telephone responses, while significantly higher than in-person responses in 2019. Hence the reversal in 2020 of the longer term slide in Indian life evaluations was not attributable to mode effects,” it said. Finland has been ranked as the happiest country in the world. The Nordic nation is followed by Iceland, Denmark, Switzerland, The Netherlands, Sweden, Germany and Norway. Pakistan is on 105th, Bangladesh on 101st and China on 84th, according to the report. People in war-torn Afghanistan are the most unhappy with their lives, followed by Zimbabwe (148), Rwanda (147), Botswana (146) and Lesotho (145). The happiness study ranks the countries of the world on the basis of questions from the Gallup World Poll. The results are then correlated with other factors, including GDP and social security. The United States ranks at 19th place for happiness, despite being one of the richest countries in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-happiness-report-2021-india-ranks-139-out-of-149-finland-tops-964108.html
20-03-2021||National||Centre asks states to ensure that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour||The Centre asked the states and Union territories on Friday to ensure that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing of face masks, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing in view of a sudden spike in the number of coronavirus cases in parts of the country. In a communication to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said the states and UTs have been mandated to take all necessary measures to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour and ensure that people wear face masks, maintain hand hygiene and social distancing. Further, these measures are also included in the National Directives for Covid-19 Management, which have to be strictly followed throughout the country. "After a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases for about five months, for the last few weeks, the number is showing an increasing trend in several parts of the country. "It has been observed that it is largely due to laxity in the observance of Covid-appropriate behaviour by people, especially at crowded places," Bhalla said. He said keeping in view the fresh spike in the number of cases and the upcoming festivals, it will be important to ensure compliance of the guidelines and strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing of face masks, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing among people. "I would, therefore, urge you to take the necessary measures for creating awareness among people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and simultaneously take the necessary action for its strict enforcement, so as to fully overcome the pandemic," the home secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-ensure-that-people-follow-covid-appropriate-behaviour-964122.html
20-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Of ripped jeans and its link with culture||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat, who took charge of the state a few days back, courted controversy after he said that 'ripped' jeans worn by the women spoiled the children. ''These days ripped jeans are very popular with the women... Is it our culture?,'' Rawat said while speaking at a function at Dehradun, the capital of the state, about 500 kilometres from here, on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-of-ripped-jeans-and-its-link-with-culture-964167.html
20-03-2021||National||US Secretary of Defence Llyod Austin meets PM Modi, NSA Doval||US Secretary of Defence Gen Lloyd J Austin on Friday commended India’s leadership role in the Indo-Pacific region as he called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held discussions with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval initiating the high-level engagements with the Joe Biden Administration. “Secretary Austin commended India’s leadership role in the Indo-Pacific and growing engagement with like-minded partners across the region to promote shared goals,” said a readout issued by the US Embassy. “The two sides reaffirmed their commitment to promote a free and open regional order. Both sides exchanged perspectives on shared challenges confronting the region and committed to further strengthen their broad ranging and robust defence cooperation.” On Saturday, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh would be holding ministerial talks with Gen Austin focussing on bilateral relations and regional security. The Sino-Indian border tension and Afghan peace processes are likely to be discussed in the bilateral meeting. Soon after his meeting with Gen Austin, Prime Minister Modi tweeted, “Pleasure to meet US @SecDef Lloyd Austin today. Conveyed my best wishes to @POTUS @JoeBiden India and US are committed to our strategic partnership that is a force for global good.” Gen Austin’s visit came days after the top leadership of the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia vowed to expand their cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. Sources said India's plan to procure 30 Predator combat UAVs from the US at an estimated cost of over $ 3 billion might come up in the talks. The medium-altitude long-endurance armed drones, manufactured by General Atomics, are capable of remaining airborne for 35 hours and can hunt down targets at land and sea. The US eyes India's plan to acquire 114 fighter jets at a cost of around $ 18 billion with keen interest as two US aviation majors – Boeing and Lockheed Martin – have participated in the global tender to manufacture these jets in India. A thorny issue, however, is India’s procurement of the Russian S-400 missile defence system ignoring a warning from the Donald Trump administration that had warned that going ahead with the contract might invite US sanctions. In October 2018, India signed a $ 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-secretary-of-defence-llyod-austin-meets-pm-modi-nsa-doval-964173.html
20-03-2021||National||Amid second wave scare, India reports over 40,000 new Covid-19 cases||India saw 40,953 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded in 111 days, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,55,284, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering an increase for the tenth day in a row, the total active caseload has reached 2,88,394, which now comprises 2.49 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 96.12 per cent, the data stated. The daily rise in infections (40,953) was the highest recorded in 111 days, while the death toll increased to 1,59,558 with 188 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On November 29, 41,810 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,07,332, while the case fatality rate stood at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 23,24,31,517 samples have been tested up to March 19 with 10,60,971 samples being tested on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-second-wave-scare-india-reports-over-40000-new-covid-19-cases-964181.html
20-03-2021||National||Parliamentary Panel wants law to vest more power to CBI||With eights states, including one ruled by an NDA ally, withdrawing general consent for the CBI to investigating cases and the agency expressing concern, a Parliamentary Standing Committee has asked the government to explore the need for amending the laws or bringing a new legislation to "vest more powers" on investigators. The recommendation by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice headed by senior BJP MP Bhupender Yadav came as it agreed with the CBI's contention that it was unable to take up investigation of new cases in the absence of general consent in these states. Between November 16, 2018, and November 6, 2020, seven states -- West Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Kerala, Jharkhand and Punjab -- ruled by Opposition parties withdrew consent to the CBI to register cases. Mizoram, currently under NDA ally Mizo National Front, had withdrawn general consent to the CBI on July 17, 2015, when Congress was in power. The CBI contended that new cases, especially those involving bank fraud and other economic offences as well as corruption involving central government employees, could not be taken up. It said these cases involved allegations of misappropriation of huge amounts of public money or primarily, the involvement of officials of the Centre or central PSUs in the commission of criminal misconduct. "The Committee agrees with the view of the CBI that withdrawal of general consent by states impedes investigation. The Committee, therefore, recommends the government to assess if there is a need to amend the existing Laws or bring out a new law altogether in order to clearly define the mandate of CBI and vest more powers in it," the report said. According to Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act,1946, consent of the state government is required by the CBI to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area in a state. After the state grants consent, the Centre issues a notification extending powers and jurisdiction to the CBI to conduct investigations of specified offences. The consent accorded is generally known by the terms general and specific consent. Under general consent i.e. once it is given, the CBI shall have powers and jurisdiction to investigate the offences notified under Section 3 of the DSPE Act in a state, as per the conditions stipulated by the government. The specific consent is valid for the investigation of a specific case only. Though the withdrawal of general consent will not have any impact on cases already registered by the CBI and the investigators can continue the probe, the agency will have to approach these state governments on a case to case basis seeking permission to conduct investigations in new cases. It can also conduct a probe against central government employees posted in states. Earlier, Andhra Pradesh too had revoked the general consent during the N Chandrababu Naidu government but was reinstated after Y S Jaganmohan Reddy stormed to power in the state last year. The last to withdraw general consent to CBI was Punjab on November 6, 2020, a day after Jharkhand did the same. Kerala too withdrew the general consent on November 4, 2020. On October 21 last year, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government withdrew the general consent to CBI after the agency registered a case in the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam on the basis of a complaint filed in Uttar Pradesh. The CBI had also taken over the Sushant Singh Rajput suicide case, which was being probed by Mumbai Police, on the basis of an FIR filed in Patna. After the CBI registered a case in the TRP scam, which was also probed by Maharashtra Police, the state government rushed to withdraw the general consent. The Mamata Banerjee-led government had withdrawn the general consent in 2018 while Congress-ruled Chhattisgarh took a similar action in January 2019. Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan also withdrew the consent given to the CBI in July this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-wants-law-to-vest-more-power-to-cbi-964215.html
20-03-2021||National||China dominates Pentagon chief's first India visit||Pentagon chief Lloyd Austin praised India's growing ties with "like-minded partners" as he held talks in New Delhi Saturday that were expected to be dominated by shared alarm about China. India is a vital US partner in the Asia-Pacific region and Austin's two-day trip is New Delhi's first face-to-face meeting with President Joe Biden's administration. It follows talks between top US and Chinese officials in Alaska that wrapped up on Friday and which a senior Washington official described as "tough and direct". Prior to India, Austin and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Japan and South Korea, two other important partners in the region irked by Chinese activities. That followed the first summit of the leaders of the Quad, a four-way alliance of the US, Japan, Australia and India seen as a bulwark against China. Austin arrived in New Delhi late Friday and held talks with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. Austin "commended India's leadership role in the Indo-Pacific and growing engagement with like-minded partners across the region to promote shared goals," Pentagon spokesman John Kirby said. "The two sides reaffirmed their commitment to promote a free and open regional order. Both sides exchanged perspectives on shared challenges confronting the region and committed to further strengthen their broad-ranging and robust defence cooperation," Kirby said. Also not mentioning China directly, Modi tweeted that "India and US are committed to our strategic partnership that is a force for global good." Austin was set to meet Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday. He may raise the question of human rights in India, with a second senior US official calling the issue "an important part of the Biden administration defense and foreign policy". US-Indian relations have historically been prickly but shared misgivings about China pushed them closer together under Modi and former US President Donald Trump. This accelerated after 20 Indian soldiers and four Chinese troops died last June in a clash on their disputed border high in the Himalayas. The nuclear-armed Asian giants then sent thousands of extra troops to the frontier although tensions have eased somewhat with a pull-back from one area of contention. Beijing has irked New Delhi with its support for arch-rival Pakistan, as have Chinese investments in Indian Ocean nations that India sees as its backyard. India and China have also engaged in a tussle of "vaccine diplomacy", competing to supply other countries with coronavirus shots to secure goodwill and influence. In 2016, the United States designated India as a "Major Defense Partner", and they have since signed a string of deals easing the transfer of advanced weaponry and deepening military cooperation. US defence firms have inked billions of dollars in deals o supply military hardware, including helicopters, under India's $250-billion modernisation of its armed forces. But Russia is India's biggest arms supplier and New Delhi agreed in 2018 a $5.4-billion purchase of Moscow's S-400 missile defence system, even though this could lead to US sanctions. Austin's visit so soon after Biden took office "shows the priority Washington is assigning to New Delhi," Manoj Joshi from India's Observer Research Foundation said. "Our relationship with the US on the military side has enhanced enormously and the US has been helping us in our confrontation with China," Joshi told AFP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-dominates-pentagon-chiefs-first-india-visit-964218.html
20-03-2021||National||India, France working on third joint space mission, says ISRO Chairman||India and France are working on their third joint satellite mission, even as the bilateral space collaboration is entering into multiple domains, including human spaceflight programme, ISRO Chairman K Sivan said. Sivan, also Secretary in the Department of Space, said many French companies are keen to tap into opportunities thrown up by recent reforms injected into the space sector by the Government. "France is the biggest partner of India in space", he said at the DST (Department of Science and Technology) Golden Jubilee Discourse on 'unlocking India's space potential - geospatial data & mapping', an event presented on virtual mode by the National Council for Science and Technology Communication and 'Vigyan Prasar' on Friday. According to ISRO officials, ISRO and French space agency CNES (Centre National dEtudes Spatiales) have undertaken two joint missions 'Megha-Tropiques', which was launched in 2011, and 'Saral-Altika' in 2013. "Currently, we are working for the third one (mission)", Sivan said. Officials said ISRO and CNES have completed the feasibility study to realise the earth observation satellite mission with thermal infrared imager, TRISHNA (Thermal infraRed Imaging Satellite for High resolution Natural resource Assessment) and are working towards finalising an implementing arrangement for the joint development. Sivan said India is also working with France on joint experiments and accommodation of scientific instruments in space missions. "Indo-French space collaboration is expanding into multiple domains including space exploration and human space flight programme," he said. ISRO officials said the two space agencies have also finalised all interface control documents for accommodating CNES's 'ARGOS' instrument in ISROs OCEANSAT-3 satellite. ARGOS instrument has been delivered at Bengaluru for integration with the satellite. "Discussions on establishing 'NavIC' (an independent regional navigation satellite system developed and maintained by India) reference station in France and CNES 'Scintillation' receivers in India are also progressing well", they said. ISRO-CNES HSP (Human Space Programme) Working Group had a number of discussions on medical aspects of human spaceflight and finalising an implementation arrangement to formalise cooperation in the field of space medicine, it was noted. Sivan said with the recent reforms initiated by the government in the space sector, the Indo-French space cooperation is expected to grow further involving industries, academia and research institutes. He said many French companies want to "make use of" reforms in the sector and "they are going to involve". So, the reforms would not only strengthen space cooperation at government-to-government level but industry- to-industry interaction is going to get a "fresh relook" in the changed environment, Sivan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-france-working-on-third-joint-space-mission-says-isro-chairman-964225.html
20-03-2021||National||Superspreader events behind new Covid-19 surge: Niti Aayog member V K Paul||Superspreader events such as weddings have most likely driven the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in India, according to preliminary assessments by the Union government. On Saturday, India saw 40,953 new coronavirus infections being reported in a day, the highest single-day rise recorded in 111 days. Paul also stressed the need for testing. "RT-PCR testing has to increase in districts that are reporting high positivity rate,” he added. After a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases for about five months, for the last few weeks, the number is showing an increasing trend in several parts of the country. Earler this week, Prime Minister Narendra Modi also called for "quick and decisive" steps to stop the emerging "second peak" of Covid-19. Echoing Paul's statement, in a communication to the chief secretaries of all the states and Union territories, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla on March 19 stated that the rise in cases is largely due to laxity in the observance of Covid-19-appropriate behaviour by people, especially at crowded places. He said keeping in view the fresh spike in the number of cases and the upcoming festivals, it will be important to ensure compliance with the guidelines and strictly enforce Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing among people. The report also stated that the Punjab government had found at least 30 superspreader instances, where over 10 cases were reported from a single event. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/superspreader-events-behind-new-covid-19-surge-niti-aayog-member-v-k-paul-964226.html
20-03-2021||National||Ram Mandir Trust purchases 1.15 lakh sq ft of land in Ayodhya||The Sriram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra has purchased about 1.15 lakh square feet of land about 2-3 km away from Ram Janmabhoomi premises to develop facilities for security forces, devotees and for activities of the trust, an official of the trust said on Saturday. Trustee Anil Mishra said two plots of land situated in Ram Kot and Tehri Bazaar localities were purchased last week from Harish Kumar Pathak, a resident of Basti district. The land has been bought at the rate of Rs 690 per square feet, he said. "We have paid a sum of Rs 8 crore to the owner for the two plots," he said. A survey is underway of properties adjoining the Ram Janmabhoomi premises for expansion of the temple land and a list is being prepared to ascertain their ownership. These properties include some Muslim houses and mosques. Ayodhya mayor Rishikesh Upadhyay said the survey is being carried out to find out the owners of these properties. "This will help to find out whether those residing here are tenants or owners of houses," he said. Trust secretary Champat Rai said the expansion of Ram Janmabhoomi premises will be done with mutual understanding and dialogue. "We will purchase the land by paying the demanded price or we can give them an alternate land for the resettlement," he said, adding the extension is being done to provide devotees the basic facilities. In the first week of March, the trust purchased 7,285 square feet land adjacent to the Ram Janmabhoomi premises here, in accordance with its plan to expand the temple complex area to 107 acres from the present 70 acres. The trust bought the land for Rs 1 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-mandir-trust-purchases-115-lakh-sq-ft-of-land-in-ayodhya-964231.html
20-03-2021||National||Now, dial 112 for all emergency services in Odisha||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has launched the Rs 157-crore 'Dial 112' Emergency Response Support System (ERSS) wherein people can call the toll-free number for all emergency services including police, fire and health. "The integrated single-number service will be very beneficial for everyone, especially women and elderly persons," Patnaik said while dedicating the system on Friday. The chief minister also inaugurated the State Emergency Response Centre (SERC) and flagged off the emergency response vehicles fitted with mobile data terminals. The state government has allocated Rs 157.12 crore and 2,500 posts for the project, an official release said. With the introduction of the new response system, existing emergency numbers like 100 (police), 101 (fire) and 102 and 108 (ambulance) will be integrated into the 112 toll- free number in a phased manner, it said. In the 24/7 service, the SERC, digitally connected to 34 district coordination centres and strategically located emergency response vehicles, will respond to voice calls, SMSes, emails and web requests for help, Patnaik said. He appealed to the people to download the 112 India mobile application and register themselves. A caller will also be able to send distress signals by pressing the power button on a smartphone three times in quick succession or by long press on 5 or 9 keys on a feature phone to active a panic call. A total of 236 vehicles, 198 professional call-takers and 2,341 police personnel of various ranks have been sanctioned by the state government to efficiently run the system. A large number of police two and four-wheelers will also be linked with the emergency response system, an official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/now-dial-112-for-all-emergency-services-in-odisha-964233.html
20-03-2021||National||Ishrat Jahan encounter case: Gujarat govt denies sanction to prosecute remaining accused cops||The Gujarat government has denied permission to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to prosecute Inspector General of Police Girish L Singhal, ex-Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and Assistant Sub-Inspector Anaju Chaudhary in connection with Ishrat Jahan encounter case. This was revealed on Saturday when CBI submitted government's letter to the special court. They are the last three accused who are facing the trial. Earlier, ex-IPS officer D G Vanzara and ex-Superintendent of Police N K Amin were discharged after the government denied sanction for prosecuting them. Accused ex-DGP P P Pandey was first to have been discharged, while another accused J G Parmar passed away last year. As CBI has not appealed against these discharge orders and has given in writing in the court stating that it has "accepted these orders", according to source, the remaining three officers are also likely to be dropped from the case, leading to closure of the encounter case even before trial could begin. The special court is likely to pronounce the order on March 31.  CBI produced copies of Gujarat government's letter in the special CBI court and informed that the government has denied sanction to prosecute Singhal, Barot and Chaudhary. The sanction is required for government servants before prosecuting them under code of 197 of CrPC. Singhal had provided evidence which revealed "illegal surveillance of a woman architect". Singhal was not on the spot but is accused of being part of the conspiracy. In the chargesheet, CBI has said that Chaudhary had fired 10 rounds from his Sten-gun, Barot fired six rounds from his revolver and three rounds from the revolver of another colleague. "We have said that these officers were only discharging their official duty. There is no evidence against these officers of any wrongdoing," said a source in the know of the development. In March 2019, while denying permission of trial against Vanzara and Amin, the state government had said that these officers were required to be protected in "larger public interest." It also claimed that 19-year-old Mumbai college girl Ishrat Jahan was a "Lashkar-e-Taiba operative." Giving 'clean chit' to Vanzara and Amin, Gujarat government's letter, read "...from records placed by CBI, it transpires that the deceased Ishrat Jahan was a member of Lashkar-e- Taiba... Lahore-based Ghazwa Times, mouthpiece of Lashkar-e-Taiba, had claimed her as woman activist of the Lashakar-e-Taiba." CBI investigation found that in June 2004, apart from Ishrat Jahan, her friend Javed Sheikh alias Pranesh Pillai, two alleged Pakistani nationals-Zeeshan Johar and Amjadali Rana- were killed in the outskirts of Ahmedabad in cold blood. The police branded them as Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives who were on a mission to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi. The CBI probe established that these four were already in the custody of accused officers of Gujarat police and Intelligence Bureau prior to the alleged encounter. Apart from Gujarat police officers, there are four officers of central Intelligence Bureau including ex-Director Rajendra Kumar, Rajiv Wankhede, T Mittal and Mukul Sinha. They have been chargesheeted which is yet to be committed to a sessions court for trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ishrat-jahan-encounter-case-gujarat-govt-denies-sanction-to-prosecute-remaining-accused-cops-964239.html
20-03-2021||National||Shatabdi fire probe: Railways mulls severe penalty for smoking in trains if it leads to property damage||The railways is set to get cracking against those found smoking in trains and is mulling severe penalties, even arrest, for damaging public property after an initial probe in the recent fire in a coach of the Shatabdi Express, a senior official said on Saturday. Officials in the know said that the initial report has found that cigarette or bidi butts were thrown into the dustbin of one of the toilets which were filled with soiled tissue paper. This led to a fire in the S5 coach of the New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Special. The incident happened on March 13 near Raiwala in Uttarakhand. Section 167 of the Railways Act specifies that anyone found smoking in a compartment despite prohibition or objection from a co-passenger is liable for a fine of up to Rs 100. Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal in a meeting with Railway Board members and general managers of zones asked them to take proactive steps towards sensitising passengers against smoking in trains and also urged that erring passengers need to be deterred from causing risks to others by smoking in trains. "The railways will crackdown on smoking in trains. The fire most likely started in one of the toilets and initial investigations revealed that the fire was in all probability caused by simmering cigarettes/ beedi thrown in the dustbin. The continuous air flow in a fast moving train would have fanned it. "We are contemplating severe penalties. In some cases, even arrests can be made for causing damage to public railway property and risking the lives of others to deter irresponsible and errant persons," a senior officer said. The official refused to come on record as the investigation into the incident is still underway. The fire, the officer said was so damaging that the interior of the toilet was completely charred and the floor was cracked. Officers said that a passenger has also provided a written statement to the four- member probe team stating that the smoke detector in coach went off when the fire started. "A bigger tragedy was averted by the swift response of the train crew as the coach was detached soon. "But we can't let the guard down. So much effort has been made to prevent such incidents. Irresponsible passengers can not be allowed to risk the lives of others," DJ Narain, Spokesperson, Railways, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shatabdi-fire-probe-railways-mulls-severe-penalty-for-smoking-in-trains-if-it-leads-to-property-damage-964241.html
20-03-2021||National||How many people in India read, write and speak in Hindi? Parliamentary Panel wants MHA to find out||A Parliamentary Standing Committee has asked the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to conduct a survey to collect data on the number of people who read, write and speak in the Hindi language and prepare a dictionary of Indian languages incorporating common words used in Hindi. These recommendations in its report on MHA's Demands for Grants came as the Ministry told the panel that its Department of Official Language has not conducted any such survey but pointed out that the Census 2011 said that 52.83 crore people spoke Hindi. Asked whether the government plans to make Hindi the national language, the MHA said that as per Article 343(1) of the Constitution of India, the official language of the Union shall be Hindi in Devanagari script. There is no mention of national language in the Constitution. The Department of Official Language only ensures compliance with the constitutional and legal provisions regarding official language and promotes the use of Hindi for the official purposes of the Union. "The Committee recommends that the Department of Official Language may take up with the concerned authority to conduct a survey to collect data on the number of people reading, writing and speaking Hindi. A survey may also be conducted to check the impact of Hindi Pakhwada in promoting the Hindi language which is organised every year across the country," the panel said. The panel headed by senior Congress MP Anand Sharma also recommended the MHA that a dictionary of Indian languages incorporating the common/synonymous words used in Hindi and other Indian languages be published. It said an expert committee of eminent linguists and lexicographers may be formed to search and select such words of different languages for the dictionary. It also noted that the committee is of the view that the translation done in standard Hindi language is very tough to understand and interpret by a common man. "Therefore, the committee recommends that the Department of Official Language may review the translation works done in Hindi and take necessary steps to ensure that the Hindi translation is done in a simple, easy to comprehend and reader-friendly manner," it said. Asked about awards for popularising Hindi, the MHA informed the Committee that the Official Language policy of the government is based on motivation, encouragement and harmony. Several incentive schemes have been implemented by the Department of Official Language to promote the use of Hindi in the offices of the Government of India, it said. Rajbhasha Gaurav Puraskar and Rajbhasha Kirti Puraskar are being awarded at National Level every year on the occasion of Hindi Diwas on September 14. Regional Official Language awards are given at Regional Official Language Conferences every year. Hindi Pakhwada is also being organised from September 1 to 15 every year for the promotion of the use of the Hindi language, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-many-people-in-india-read-write-and-speak-in-hindi-parliamentary-panel-wants-mha-to-find-out-964250.html
20-03-2021||National||Eight states showing rising trajectory in Covid-19 cases: Health Ministry||A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states and UTs, including Delhi and Maharashtra, while Kerala is showing a declining trend, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. The ministry said Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 76.22 per cent of India's total active caseload, with Maharashtra contributing to 62 per cent of such cases, while Kerala and Punjab account for 8.83 per cent and 5.36 per cent of active cases respectively. The top five districts in Maharashtra recording the highest number of cases are Pune (37,384), Nagpur (25,861), Mumbai (18,850), Thane (16,735) and Nashik (11,867). The top five districts in Kerala recording the highest number of cases are Ernakulam (2,673), Pathanamthitta (2,482), Kannur (2,263), Palakkad (2,147) and Thrissur (2,065). The top five districts in Punjab recording the highest number of cases are Jalandhar (2,131), SAS Nagar (1,868), Patiala (1,685), Ludhiana (1,643) and Hoshiarpur (1,572). "A rising trajectory of daily new cases is visible in eight states. These are Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana. Kerala is showing a consistently declining trend," the ministry said in a statement. The ministry further said that five states account for 81.38 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 70, Punjab followed with 38 daily deaths and Kerala reported 17 deaths in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, fifteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Assam, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Ladakh, Manipur, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. The ministry further said India has scaled a significant peak in its battle against Covid-19 pandemic. The total vaccination coverage has surpassed 4 crore. "About 4,20,63,392 vaccine doses have been administered through 6,86,469 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. These include 77,06,839 healthcare workers (HCWs) (first dose), 48,04,285 HCWs (second dose), 79,57,606 frontline workers (FLWs) (first dose) and 24,17,077 FLWs (second dose), 32,23,612 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 1,59,53,973 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," it said. As on day 63 of the vaccination drive (March 19), 27,23,575 vaccine doses were given. Eighty per cent of the 27.23 lakh vaccine doses administered in the last 24 hours are from 10 states. Of the total, 24,15,800 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,989 sessions for first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 3,07,775 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine. The ministry said eight states account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far. They are Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eight-states-showing-rising-trajectory-in-covid-19-cases-health-ministry-964253.html
20-03-2021||National||Pratap Bhanu Mehta resignation: Academicians from Yale, Harvard write open letter to Ashoka University||Academics from across the world came out in support of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta, whose sudden exit from Ashoka University has triggered a row. Economist Raghuram Rajan hailed Mehta as “India's finest political scientists” and a “thorn in the side of the establishment”. “He is no ordinary thorn because he skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and thought-provoking arguments,” Rajan, the former RBI Governor, said in a social media post. More than 100 academics from universities across the world also expressed solidarity with Mehta. “A prominent critic of the current Indian government and defender of academic freedom, he had become a target for his writings. It seems that Ashoka's Trustees, who should have treated defending him as their institutional duty, instead all but forced his resignation,” the academics said in an open letter to Trustees, Administrators and Faculty of Ashoka University. The signatories to the letter titled A Dangerous Attack on Academic Freedom include Lee C Bollinger of Yale University, Homi K Bhabha of Harvard University, Milan Vaishnav of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Richard Bourke, University of Cambridge, Ashutosh Varshney of Brown University among others. “The university must be a home for fearless inquiry and criticism. We support Pratap Bhanu Mehta in his practice of the highest values of intellectual inquiry and public life,” it says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pratap-bhanu-mehta-resignation-academicians-from-yale-harvard-write-open-letter-to-ashoka-university-964260.html
20-03-2021||National||Govt asks CJI SA Bobde to recommend his successor||With a little over a month left before Chief Justice of India SA Bobde retires, the government has started the process of appointment of next CJI, asking the incumbent to recommend his successor, sources said Saturday. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad Friday sent a letter to Justice Bobde, who is set to retire on April 23, seeking his recommendation, the sources said. As per the Memorandum of Procedure governing the appointment of members of the higher judiciary, "appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court considered fit to hold the office". It stipulates that the Law Minister would, at an appropriate time, seek the recommendation of the outgoing Chief Justice of India for the appointment of the next CJI. Under this process, after receipt of the recommendation of the CJI, the Law Minister puts it before the Prime Minister who advises the President in the matter of appointment. "Whenever there is any doubt about the fitness of the senior-most Judge to hold the office of the Chief Justice of India, consultation with other Judges...would be made for appointment of the next Chief Justice of India," the document states. Justice NV Ramana is the senior-most judge in the top court after the CJI. Born on August 27, 1957, justice Ramana has a tenure till August 26, 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-asks-cji-sa-bobde-to-recommend-his-successor-964282.html
20-03-2021||National||Free speech in India suffered 'grievous blow', says Raghuram Rajan on Ashoka University resignations||Eminent economist Raghuram Rajan has said free speech suffered a "grievous blow" in India with the resignations of Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian from the Ashoka University and that the varsity's founders have bartered away its soul. Earlier this week, the Sonipat-based Ashoka University -- a leading varsity that offers courses in liberal arts and sciences -- found itself at the centre of a controversy after political commentator Mehta and economist Subramanian resigned. In a Linkedin post, former RBI governor Rajan said that free speech has suffered a "grievous blow" in India this week as professor Mehta, one of India's finest political scientists, resigned from the Ashoka University. "The reality is that professor Mehta is a thorn in the side of the establishment. He is no ordinary thorn because he skewers those in government and in high offices like the Supreme Court with vivid prose and thought-provoking arguments," he said. On the recent developments at the varsity, Rajan -- who is a professor at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business -- said, "Free speech is the soul of a great university. By compromising on it, the founders have bartered away its soul." He further said, "And if you show a willingness to barter your soul, is there any chance the pressures will go away? This is indeed a sad development for India," Rajan said. Mehta's exit from the varsity was followed by the resignation of professor Subramanian, also a former chief economic advisor of the Narendra Modi government. Rajan also quoted a few lines from Subramanian's resignation letter which said, "That even Ashoka – with its private status and backing by private capital – can no longer provide a space for academic expression and freedom is ominously disturbing. "Above all, that the University's commitment to fight for and sustain the Ashoka vision is now open to question makes it difficult for me to continue being part of Ashoka." Rajan noted that if Ashoka's founders believe "they have compromised with the powers that be in the greater interests of the university, they are wrong". According to Rajan, it is not that Mehta has much sympathy for the opposition either. "As a true academic, he is an equal opportunity critic. He is, and I hope will continue to be, one of the intellectual leaders of liberalism in India," the former RBI governor said. Rajan also quoted Mehta from his resignation letter that said, "After a meeting with founders it has become abundantly clear to me that my association with the university may be considered a political liability." Rajan opined that Mehta and Subramanian's statements suggest that Ashoka's founders have succumbed to outside pressure to get rid of "troublesome" critics. He added that Ashoka's founders should have realised that their mission was indeed not to take political sides but to continue to protect the right of people like professor Mehta to speak. According to Rajan, a good university creates an environment where ideas for progress and change arise. "Static societies where criticism is silenced are doomed societies, which eventually succumb to the weight of their authoritarianism and groupthink," the former RBI governor noted. He further said Ashoka University, till this week, was considered India's likely competitor to Cambridge, Harvard, and Oxford in coming decades. "Unfortunately, its actions this week make that less probable." He also opined that as an institution, the university should not take political sides. A query sent to the varsity on the recent developments remained unanswered till the filing of the story. The faculty members at the university on March 18 had written to the vice chancellor and board members, expressing anguish over Mehta's resignation. The alumni council of the university had also released a separate statement on March 18 expressing solidarity with Mehta, who stepped down as the VC two years ago and resigned as a professor earlier this week. The faculty members have noted that Mehta's exit has set a "chilling precedent for future removals of faculty" and is a "matter of great anguish. The leadership team of Ashoka University includes Dhruv Agarwala (Co-founder and CEO PropTiger), Sanjeev Aggarwal (Co-Fonder Fundamental Partnership and Helion Ventures), Vishwavir Ahuja (MD and CEO, RBL Bank), Pramod Bhasin (Founder Genpact, Chairman Clix Capital), Amit Chandra (MD, Bain Capital), Ramesh Damani (Investor and Chairman, DMart), Nirmal Jain (Founder and Chairman, IIFL Holdings) and Gautam Kumra (Managing Partner, McKinsey India).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/free-speech-in-india-suffered-grievous-blow-says-raghuram-rajan-on-ashoka-university-resignations-964287.html
20-03-2021||National||Railways guidelines for security of women: Create database of offenders, prevent downloading of porn||As part of the railways new guidelines to prevent crimes against women, RPF officials have been asked to get details of such incidents for the last five years, create a database of criminals operating on railway premises and also ensure that the free wifi available at stations is not used to download porn. The order issued by DG RPF Arun Kumar has also asked that abandoned structures in platforms and yards, abandoned quarters, buildings at isolated places which remain unguarded or unattended should be demolished immediately. Till such time that they are demolished, they should be regularly checked as part of the beat of on-duty staff, especially during the night time or period when the presence of people is minimal. "All the Post Commanders (PC) should get details of the incidents of crime against women, including rape, reported during last five years and should analyse data thoroughly. "The reasons for such offences, gaps in security procedure, failures of security apparatus, modus operandi of criminals involved, vulnerable section of women, places, duration day, month and year, status of investigation/prosecution of past cases, arrest made, whereabouts of criminals and their associates etc. should be carefully examined in coordination with counterparts of Government Railway Police/Local Police, Station staff and NGOs," it said. It also said that the personnel should get photographs of criminals involved in such crimes and create a database that may be accessed through CCTNS/ICJS and state police digital databases. "The railways is providing free Internet services to the passengers. It should be ensured in coordination with the service providers that the porn sites are not accessible through this service," the order said. Based on the data analysis, the DG has said that an action plan must be drawn out and it should be classified as "short term and long term plan". The short term plan should be implemented immediately from the existing resources on priority, without any delay, and it will include keeping a watch on suspects, regular visits to vulnerable spots by duty officers and staff during their rounds, he said in the order. The long term plan will include improvement of basic infrastructure, CCTV and other aspects of security which may take a reasonable time, "should be chased with concerned authorities on regular basis and till such time it is completed, focus should be kept on temporary minor works that can be effective in improving the situation, which may be worked out and got implemented with bare minimum expenditure or with available resources", the order states. The order also asks officials to keep a close lookout on the ladies coach and have escorts at platforms when the train is arriving or departing stations. It also suggested sensitising both staff and passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-guidelines-for-security-of-women-create-database-of-offenders-prevent-downloading-of-porn-964290.html
20-03-2021||National||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin condoles death of IAF pilot in Mig-21 Bison accident||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Saturday condoled the death of a Group Captain of the Indian Air Force in an accident involving a Mig-21 Bison aircraft in Gwalior this week. "First and foremost, I would like to express my deepest condolences for the tragic accident that killed an Indian Air Force pilot earlier this week," the US Defence Secretary said in a statement after holding talks with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. Group Captain Ashish Gupta was killed in the accident on Wednesday when his aircraft went down after taking off for a combat training mission. "Our hearts go out to his family and friends...and his death reminds us of the risks our brave service men and women take each day to defend our democracies, our people, and our way of life," he said. Austin arrived here on Friday on a three-day visit as part of his three-nation first overseas tour that signalled the Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region. On Friday, Austin called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-condoles-death-of-iaf-pilot-in-mig-21-bison-accident-964295.html
20-03-2021||National||Cop implicates teen, her family in 'false' cases after she rebuffs his 'obscene' advances||Enraged after allegedly being snubbed by a teen, a cop, who used to 'harass' her over phone, allegedly slapped a string of cases upon her and her family members in Uttar Pradesh's Basti district. Taking a serious view of the matter, the state government on Saturday suspended two cops, including an inspector of police, and shunted the district police chief on charges of laxity. According to the sources, the cop, an assistant sub-inspector, identified as Deepak Kumar Singh, had allegedly forced the teen, a college student, to share her mobile number a few days ago. The cop had then allegedly obtained her phone number on the pretext of checking her two-wheeler documents. Sources said that Singh would often call the girl and tell her that he was in love with her. He would also allegedly indulge in obscene talks. Irritated by such behaviour, the girl stopped taking his calls and later blocked his number. Angry over the blocking of his number, the cop allegedly threatened the teen to implicate her and her family members in a number of false petty cases, ranging from apprehension of breach of peace and interference in the work of a government servant. After the incident found mention in the local media, senior district police officials admitted that the cop had called the girl over phone, but justified the cases against her and her family members. A preliminary inquiry, however, revealed that the cases were false, sources said. Singh and another inspector were suspended, while the district police chief Hemraj Meena was shunted out of the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cop-implicates-teen-her-family-in-false-cases-after-she-rebuffs-his-obscene-advances-964296.html
20-03-2021||National||ISSF World Cup: Divyansh wins bronze in men's 10m air rifle, Moudgil finishes fifth||World number one Divyansh Singh Panwar opened India's medals tally with a bronze in the men's 10m air rifle on the second competition day of the ISSF World Cup here on Saturday. However, world number four in women's 10m air rifle, Anjum Moudgil had to settle for a fifth-place finish after shooting 187.8 in the final. A 9.9 and a 9.7 hampered Moudgil's prospects as Mary Carolynn Tucker (251.5) and Alison Marie Weisz (250.4) grabbed the gold and silver medals, respectively, in a 1-2 for the USA. Eszter Denes of Hungary bagged the bronze medal with 230.2 after being eliminated in a shoot-off. Before the women's event, the 18-year-old Divyansh shot 228.1 to finish third on the podium at the Dr Karni Singh Shooting Range. The other Indian participant in the final, Arjun Babuta, finished in fifth place after three scores below 10 in the eight-man final. American Lucas Kozeniesky claimed the gold medal with 249.8, while Istvan Peni of Hungaria bagged silver with 249.7. A 10.6 and 10.3 in the seventh series saw Divyansh survive elimination as Sergey Richter of Israel fell behind. Divyansh, a Tokyo Olympic quota holder, shot 10.6 before bowing out with the bronze medal. The win will do a world of good to the Jaipur-based Divyansh's confidence as he braces for the Tokyo Games. He was placed sixth in the 60-shot qualification with a total of 629.1, while Babuta was third with 631.8. In the final, Babuta had one 9.9 in the first series followed by another 9.9 and 9.7 in the second. Under pressure, the 22-year-old Babuta began the fourth series with one more 9.9 before being eliminated at fifth place with 185.5. Moudgil, 27, qualified for the final by finishing an impressive second after aggregating 629.6 over six series of 60 shots. She is a Tokyo Games quota holder and will next compete in the tournament's 50m rifle 3-position event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/issf-world-cup-divyansh-wins-bronze-in-mens-10m-air-rifle-moudgil-finishes-fifth-964301.html
20-03-2021||National||CEC hopeful concept of remote voting will see the light of day by 2024 Lok Sabha polls||Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora Saturday expressed hope the concept of remote voting will see "the light of day" by the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, and said that a pilot project could begin in the next two-three months. Addressing an event here, he said, the EC had early this year started a research project for enabling remote voting, in consultation with IIT Madras and eminent technologists from IITs and other leading institutions. Over the last few months, a dedicated team has been working hard for giving shape to this project, he said, adding the concept would hopefully "see the light of day" by 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The first pilot project could be rolled out in the next "two to three months", the CEC said. It needs to be underscored that the project is neither aimed at internet-based voting nor does it imply voting from home, he observed. For the Commission, transparency and confidentiality of voting has always been a guiding consideration in ensuring free, fair and credible elections, he said, adding the Commission will soon be giving shape to the final model of such voting, after due deliberation on various options. This will entail some process changes as well, he said, adding there will be wider consultations with political parties and other stakeholders. Explaining the "blockchain" technology involved in the project, former Senior Deputy Election Commissioner Sandeep Saxena had earlier said the concept is a "two-way electronic voting system in a controlled environment on white-listed IP devices on dedicated Internet lines enabled with biometric devices and a web camera". Saxena, however, had made it clear that voters will have to reach a designated venue during a pre-decided period of time to be able to use this facility. It does not mean voting from home, Saxena had said. On the issue of Commission's proposal to allow eligible overseas Indian voters use one-way electronically transferred postal ballots to cast vote, Arora said after the elections to five assemblies are over, the poll panel would hold a seminar with all stakeholders as suggested by the government. He expressed hope that the concept would materialise in the next six months or a year. At present, non-resident Indians can vote in the constituency in which their place of residence, as mentioned in the passport, is located. Some time ago, the Commission began to look for options to enable NRIs to vote from overseas after it received several requests for expanding their voting options. At the event, Bhartruhari Mahtab (BJD), Supriya Sule (NCP) and Shrirang Appa Barne (Shiv Sena) were given the 'Sansad Maha Ratna Award' for their sustained qualitative overall performance in the 16th Lok Sabha. Twelve Parliamentarians including the Chairman of a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture were given the Sansad Ratna Awards. The awards were instituted in 2010 by a Chennai-based NGO Prime Point Foundation, and the eMagazine PreSense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cec-hopeful-concept-of-remote-voting-will-see-the-light-of-day-by-2024-lok-sabha-polls-964306.html
20-03-2021||National||SC dismisses delayed appeal in cattle smuggling case||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal filed by the Delhi government in a cattle smuggling case for being time-barred, after noting the department concerned took 20 months in filing the matter, due to "gross incompetence and inefficiency" of its officers. The government counsel said it was really concerned with the Delhi High Court's order letting off the convict with the period of five years imprisonment already served by them.  A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy, however, rejected the plea.  "In our view, if it was really such an important legal issue to be examined, we would have expected bare minimum efficiency from the government department, even keeping in mind the so-called inefficiencies which permeate them. That has certainly not happened nor is anybody is ever made responsible for their gross incompetence," the bench said. The court said it has repeatedly emphasised that the period of limitation cannot be ignored by government and authorities and the Supreme Court of India cannot be a walk in place for it. "We have said that if the government machinery is so inefficient and incapable of filing the appeals or petitions in time, the solution may lie in requesting the Legislature to expand the time period for filing limitation for the government authorities because of their gross incompetence," the bench said.  The court said if the statute subsisted requiring the appeals to be filed in the prescribed period of limitation. No doubt some leeway is given for government inefficiencies but with advancement of technology, a greater leeway can't be given by the court to the government, it added. The court also noted no action has been taken against any officer for the inordinate delay. In the instant case, the High Court had on March 15, 2018 reduced the sentences of the convicts from 10 years to five years jail term under various provisions of the IPC, the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, (PDPP Act) and the Delhi Agriculture Cattle Preservation Act and under the Arms Act. The HC found a number of lacunae in the case including on the aspect of common intention. The top court noted the appeal was filed on January 10, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-delayed-appeal-in-cattle-smuggling-case-964312.html
20-03-2021||National||India, US resolve to further consolidate defence and security cooperation||India and the US on Saturday resolved to further expand their robust defence ties through deeper military-to-military engagement and logistic support, with the US describing the partnership as a "stronghold" of a free and open Indo-Pacific amidst China's growing assertiveness in the region. After holding wide-ranging talks with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin said elevating the Indo-US defence partnership is a "priority" of the Biden administration, and that India is an increasingly important partner amid rapidly shifting international dynamics and a "central pillar" in Washington's approach towards the region. "I reaffirmed our commitment to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a central pillar of our approach to the region," he said, in a clear indication of the new US administration's foreign policy priorities. Describing the talks as "comprehensive and fruitful", Singh said they agreed to enhance cooperation between Indian military and the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command, and that both sides are keen to work together to realise the full potential of the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership.  It is understood that China's aggressive behaviour in eastern Ladakh figured the talks. Referring to Indo-US foundational agreements on defence cooperation, Singh said both sides discussed steps to be taken to realise the full potential of pacts such as LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement), COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) and BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement). Singh also said the recent summit of leaders of India, the US, Japan and Australia under the Quad framework emphasised the resolve to maintain a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. "India is committed to further consolidate our robust defence partnership with the US. I look forward to working with you closely to make the India-US relationship one of the defining partnerships of 21st century," Singh said. In his media statement Austin, who arrived here on a three-day visit on Friday, said India is an increasingly important partner amid rapidly shifting international dynamics and Washington was committed to a "forward-looking" defence partnership with New Delhi as a central pillar of its approach to the region. "As the world faces a global pandemic and growing challenges to an open and stable international system, the US-India relationship is a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region," he said. The US Defence Secretary said as the Indo-Pacific region faces challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing the shared vision for the future. "We discussed opportunities to elevate the US-India Major Defence Partnership...a priority of the Biden-Harris Administration through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions, and defence trade," Austin said. In addition, the two sides are continuing to advance new areas of collaboration, including information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence; and cooperation in new domains such as space and cyber, he added. Describing his talks with Singh were "productive", he said a number of security issues which are important to the two countries were discussed. "As the Indo-Pacific region faces acute transnational challenges, such as climate change, and challenges to a free and open regional order, cooperation among like-minded countries is imperative to securing our shared vision for the future," he said. "Despite today's challenging security environment, the partnership between the US and India, the world's two largest democracies, remains resilient and strong and we will seek every opportunity to build upon this major partnership," he added. In his comments, Austin also referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's comments that India stands for "freedom of navigation and overflight, unimpeded lawful commerce, and adherence to international law."   "This is a resounding affirmation of our shared vision for regional security in the Indo-Pacific. And it's clear that the importance of this partnership, and its impact to the international rules-based order will only grow in the years ahead," he said. He said there was a discussion on engagement with like-minded partners through multilateral groupings such as the Quad and ASEAN. The 10-nation ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) is a key stakeholder in the Indo-Pacific region. It is learnt that India's plan to procure around 30 multi-mission armed Predator drones from the US for the three services at an estimated cost of over USD 3 billion also figured in the talks. The medium-altitude long-endurance (MALE) Predator-B drones, manufactured by US defence major General Atomics, are capable of remaining airborne for around 35 hours and can hunt down targets at land and sea. The US Defence Secretary began his statement by condoling the death of a Group Captain of the Indian Air Force in a crash involving a Mig-21 Bison aircraft in Gwalior this week. "First and foremost, I would like to express my deepest condolences for the tragic accident that killed an Indian Air Force pilot earlier this week," Austin said. Group Captain Ashish Gupta was killed in the accident on Wednesday when his aircraft went down after taking off for a combat training mission. The issue of India procuring a batch of S-400 air-defence missiles from Russia is learnt to have figured in the talks. In October 2018, India signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. Recently, the US imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of S-400 missiles from Russia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-resolve-to-further-consolidate-defence-and-security-cooperation-964316.html
20-03-2021||National||NIA taking over Mansukh Hiren death case no setback to MVA govt: Sanjay Raut||Talking to reporters in Nashik, Raut said, "There was no need for the NIA to take up the probe into the explosives- laden SUV and Mansukh Hiren case. The Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) and Mumbai police were capable of investigating them." "However, the Centreis looking for opportunities to see how theMaha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government can be put in a spot. You can bring the CIA or KGB...It makes no difference. It is not a setback to the Mumbai police of the MVA government," he said. The NIA has taken over the probe into the death case of Hiren, whose body was found in a Thane creek on March 5, days after a vehicle laden with explosives was found parked near the Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani. The SUV was in possession of Hiren. Earlier, the Maharashtra ATS was investigating the case. The central agency is already probing the case related to the recovery of the explosives-laden SUV and has arrested Mumbai's assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Hiren's wife has accused Vaze of involvement in her husband's suspicious death. Talking about the transfer of Param Bir Singh from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, Raut said, "Mumbai police has got a new leadership. The reshuffle in the police has been done to rectify the mistakes that may have happened." Singh, who was under fire for the handling of the Sachin Vaze case, was shunted out on Wednesday and senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale was appointed in his place. Raut further said that although the number of coronavirus cases in Maharashtra is on the rise, the state government is taking steps to control it. One of the reasons for the rising infection cases is increase in the number of tests, he said. "But attempts are being made to corner the state government in Covid-19 management...The numbers are rising, but no help is being provided (by the Centre)," he said. Targeting the Centre, the Shiv Sena MP said, "Since there are no elections in Maharashtra, no help is being provided to the state...But even if elections are held, the BJP will not will." The central government should treat all the states equally in terms of providing the vaccines, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-taking-over-mansukh-hiren-death-case-no-setback-to-mva-govt-sanjay-raut-964318.html
20-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: NIA to investigate Mansukh Hiren case||In your evening news brief, NIA to investigate Mansukh Hiren case; Japan hit by earthquake, and Imran Khan tests positive for Covid-19.  Here is the top news of March 20, 2021: The suspected murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren would now be investigated by the National Investigating Agency (NIA). The Mahindra Scorpio of Hiren (48), a Thane-based automobile spare parts showroom owner, was planted along with gelatin sticks near Antilia, the residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani.   An earthquake struck northeastern Japan on Saturday, hitting areas devastated by the 2011 disaster and generating a tsunami of 1 metre, public broadcaster NHK said. The quake hit the coast of Miyagi Prefecture at 6:26 pm (0926 GMT) and had a magnitude of 7.2 at a depth of 60 km (37 miles), the Japan Meteorological Agency said. Tohoku Electric Power Co has halted the Onagawa nuclear plant and is checking for any irregularities, NHK said.   Pakistan PM Imran Khan has tested positive for Covid-19 and is under self-isolation at home, his top aide on health Dr Faisal Sultan said. Khan tested positive for the virus a day after he received the first shot of vaccination against Covid-19. On Friday, the 67-year-old was vaccinated as part of the nationwide anti-coronavirus vaccination campaign which is underway in its first phase.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-nia-to-investigate-mansukh-hiren-case-964323.html
20-03-2021||National||EAM Jaishankar meets visiting US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin||With the India-China military stand-off not yet completely resolved, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Saturday shared his views with United States Secretary of Defence, Lloyd Austin, on New Delhi’s current security challenges. "Welcomed US @SecDef Lloyd Austin at MEA. A wide-ranging conversation on the global strategic situation. Look forward to working with him on enhancing our strategic partnership," Jaishankar tweeted. During a meeting with Austin, the External Affairs Minister spoke about India’s current security challenges and its longterm strategic outlook, sources said. They also discussed the changing global scenario, including in Europe and in West Asia. Jaishankar and Austin also exchanged views on the situation in Afghanistan and assessment on the peace process and the ground situation, as also the concerns and interests of regional powers and neighbours. External Affairs Minister appreciated the engagement of President Joe Biden’s Administration with India on the situation in Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eam-jaishankar-meets-visiting-us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-964328.html
20-03-2021||National||Don't club newspapers' websites with social media, OTT: Indian Newspaper Society||Arguing that these websites are an extension of the newspapers, INS president L Adimoolam said these websites also follow similar editorial standards and scrutiny, as credibility is paramount. These websites follow stringent editing and fact-checking norms every day, he said. In a letter to Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar, Adimoolam said, "our newspaper digital websites follow the same guidelines. Hence, INS requests that publishers websites be exempted by the new digital news guidelines and follow the existing self-regulation norms followed by newspapers." He said to follow the Journalistic Code of Conduct of the Press Council of India and there was no need for newspapers' websites to be subjected to any different regulatory norm. The government had on February 25 notified Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 to regulate digital media, including news websites. Adimoolam said the INS is demanding that the new rules be amended immediately to exempt websites of newspapers and periodicals registered under the Press and Registration of Books Act with the Registrar of Newspapers for India (RNI). "We would like to state publishers follow the highest journalistic standard and we request the government not club social media and OTT with news websites," he said. Adimoolam said publishers' websites are an extension of newspapers and the news in these websites are generated from the same newsroom following similar editorial standards and scrutiny as credibility is paramount. The content carried in newspaper websites undergoes the same editorial vetting as the news that is published in the print edition, he said. "Digital news publishers, who are an extension of their print or TV ecosystems already have a strong self-regulation mechanism and are held accountable to a number of rules, code of ethics and various laws of the land," Adimoolam said. The INS proposes that newspaper websites follow the self-regulation guidelines followed by the newspapers, as the website is an extension of the newspaper in all respects, except for the frequency of publication, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-club-newspapers-websites-with-social-media-ott-indian-newspaper-society-964329.html
20-03-2021||National||Rapid Antigen Tests compulsory in Mumbai malls, railway stations as Covid-19 rages||Amid rising cases in India’s financial capital of Mumbai, the civic body has launched a massive exercise to conduct 47,800 Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs) on a daily basis in the city’s malls, railway stations and terminals, bus depots, tourist spots, market places and offices. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has asked its officers to maintain ward-wise targets each day for each of the 24 municipal administrative wards. “The RAT will be carried out without the consent of people who are present at various crowded places. If a citizen refuses to test, it would be treated as an offence under Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897,” according to the order signed by Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal. At railway stations for inbound trains originating or passing from Delhi, Rajasthan Gujarat, Goa, and Kerala or from Maharashtra's Vidarbha region, the passengers randomly would be subjected to tests in Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus, Mumbai Central, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus, Bandra Terminus, Andheri Borivli and Dadar. Similar RATs would be conducted on arriving passengers at Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation depots of Parel, Kurla, Mumbai Central and Borivli. At each railway station/terminus or bus depots, 1,000 tests would be conducted on a daily basis. The BMC has also identified 27 malls in the city where tests would be conducted – at least on 400 visitors. Besides, each ward will conduct 1,000 tests in crowded places like hotels and restaurants, beaches, khau-gallis, hawking zones, tourist spots, market places and various government offices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rapid-antigen-tests-compulsory-in-mumbai-malls-railway-stations-as-covid-19-rages-964333.html
20-03-2021||National||IT dept detects over Rs 200-crore black income after raids on Mumbai mobile accessories dealers||The Income Tax Department has detected an undisclosed income of over Rs 200 crore after it raided some Mumbai-based dealers involved in the business of mobile accessories by allegedly "under-invoicing" imports from China, the CBDT said Saturday. "This operation has revealed that the entire sector of trading in mobile accessories is largely unaccounted. The main components are imported from China through Mumbai and Chennai ports." "Search has revealed that the dealers are under-valuing the sales and purchases in a major way," it said. It said it was found that the transactions with their Chinese counterparts took place through the We-chat app.  "The department has recovered the We-chat messages using forensics. The information pieces are being verified and collated to extract information regarding the quantum and cost of Chinese imports." "Unaccounted cash of Rs 5.89 crore has been seized, so far, in this operation. The searches, as yet, have resulted in the detection of undisclosed income of around Rs. 270 crore," it said.  It said the exercise of valuation of unaccounted stock was in progress, the statement said. The statement said these groups import goods from China and sells these goods to various parties all over India.  The imports are under-invoiced and payments are made through hawala channels, it said. The CBDT said the sleuths found 13 secret godowns containing un-accounted stock and it is being inventorised and valuation is under progress.  Evidence of unaccounted investments in properties by the said dealers amounting to Rs 40.5 crore has been detected, it claimed. The department also recently conducted searches against a prominent builder based in the capital city of Maharashtra. The real estate group is developing a commercial Mall, having 950 units exclusively for the mobile accessories business.  "Of these, about 905 of the units have been sold starting from 2017 till date. The evidences stored in a pen drive found in the searched premises revealed that the builder group, has taken an amount of Rs 150 crore as on-money receipts over and above the agreement value, which is not accounted for in the books of accounts on sale of such units," it alleged. Evidence of on-money amounting to Rs 70 crore has been found in the pen drive pertaining to a residential-cum-commercial project, it claimed. Cash of Rs 5.50 crore has been found and seized from various premises of this group.  "The receipts of on-money for sale of shops/flats by the builder in various projects recorded in digital form have been seized," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-dept-detects-over-rs-200-crore-black-income-after-raids-on-mumbai-mobile-accessories-dealers-964337.html
20-03-2021||National||Amid rising head injury cases, AIIMS doctor seeks resumption of trauma services at JPN Centre||A neurosurgeon at the premier AIIMS here has sought resumption of trauma services at the Jai Prakash Narayan (JPN) Apex Trauma Centre which has been functioning as a dedicated Covid-19 facility since April last year. On the occasion of World Head Injury Awareness Day on Saturday, the doctor said the number of head trauma cases which had witnessed a dip during the lockdown period has increased and now stands almost at the pre-pandemic level. He also said the occupancy of beds by Covid-19 patients at the trauma centre was low with a large number of beds remaining unoccupied. "Various other centres and hospitals in the city and the country have resumed normal trauma services in dedicated centres. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) in Jhajjhar, which was run by AIIMS and was earlier used for dedicated Covid-19 care, has resumed routine cancer care too in the past two months," Professor in the Department of Neurosurgery at AIIMS Deepak Gupta said. "It's high time some policy decision is taken to shift trauma services back to the JPN Apex Trauma Centre," Dr Gupta said. Surge in Covid-19 cases resulted in the conversion of the 265-bed JPN Apex Trauma Centre attached to the AIIMS to a dedicated Covid-19 facility in March-end last year and all trauma cases are being admitted and treated in the main hospital facility since then. "As against 70-80 cases of head injury care beds in trauma centre, we are now able to provide support only to 25-30 head trauma cases as other neurosurgical emergencies like brain tumours, brain hemorrhages, hydrocephalus cannot be ignored either," Dr Gupta said. Most head injury cases demand urgent surgical interventions irrespective of Covid-19 infection status of patients. Two to three dedicated operation theatres used to run round the clock at JPN Apex Trauma Centre in the pre-Covid-19 period. "As against over 1,000 head and spinal injuries operations in 2019, only one third of head injuries could get admission and operated in 2020 at AIIMS. With unchanged incidence of head injuries, many patients are thus probably getting treated in peripheral centres where infrastructure and facilities to treat such cases may not be apt," he said. Many head injury patients have associated spinal injuries and many of these have to wait for long periods due to a limited number of operation theatres and long waiting list for other brain tumour/brain hemorrhage and other life-threatening neurosurgical emergencies, he stated. The pandemic has also impacted organ donation and transplantation significantly and increased the number of patients waiting for organ transplants as many of the donors used be severely head injured brain dead patients, Gupta highlighted. Speaking in the context of the ongoing pandemic, Gupta said like following Covid-19-appropriate behaviours such as wearing a mask, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing along with vaccination can help prevent the disease, wearing a helmet, following traffic rules, using the seat-belt and avoiding mobile phones while driving can bring down instances of head injury. "Wearing a face mask is more common these days than wearing a helmet or putting on a car seat belt. For sure, it is good to take vaccination, wear face masks and follow appropriate behaviour for Covid-19 prevention. "However, it is equally and probably more important to follow  appropriate behaviour for head injury prevention. Wearing helmets, safety seat belts while driving four-wheelers, using dedicated cycling /walking paths by pedestrians, following speed limits can bring down the instances," he said. Worldwide, more than 50 million people have traumatic brain injury each year, and it is estimated that about half the world's population will have one or more brain injuries over their lifetime. Nearly a million people are disabled owing to traumatic brain injury in India each year, and between 60 per cent and 70 per cent of such cases result from road accidents, Gupta said. On an average, one person dies of head injury every three minutes in India. Fall from height amongst children remains a unique pattern of head injury in our population, majority of these are preventable. Over one third of head injuries are severe cases and many of these require surgery, ventilatory support and long hospital stays subsequently.  Only one third of severely injured come back to normalcy, while the remaining ones either die or remain in vegetative state or with severe neurological deficits for many years requiring prolonged rehabilitation care. Over half of head injured population in the country are sole bread-earning members of their families.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-rising-head-injury-cases-aiims-doctor-seeks-resumption-of-trauma-services-at-jpn-centre-964338.html
20-03-2021||National||SC nod to disbursal of Rs 50,000 to widow of man who died due to negligence of AAI||The Supreme Court has given its nod for disbursal of Rs 50,000 deposited in its "suitors fund" by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to the widow of a man who had died of cardiac arrest owing to negligence in shifting him to the nearest hospital in Kolkata in 2012. The AAI, under provisions of the Consumer Protection Act has deposited Rs 50,000 with the top court while filing an appeal against the October 7, 2015 order of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) which had held its negligence or deficiency in shifting the patient to the nearby hospital and directed payment of Rs 10 lakh as compensation to the widow. Under the Consumer Protection Act, if an appeal is preferred against an order of the NCDRC by a person who is required to pay any compensation, it would be entertained by the top court only if that person has deposited fifty per cent of that amount or Rs 50,000, whichever is less. The amount is deposited in the "suitors fund" of the top court and under the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, if the appeal is allowed by the court, then the amount deposited by the appellant would be refunded without interest but if it is dismissed, the amount will be allowed to be withdrawn by the other party or disbursed according to the directions of the court. A bench of Justice Ajay Rastogi on Friday allowed disbursal of Rs 50,000 to the widow after she moved an application on the ground that the appeal filed by the AAI had been dismissed by the court on November 29, 2019. Advocate Dushyant Parashar, appearing for the widow, contended that since the top court had upheld the order of the NCDRC that the AAI was negligent in shifting the man who had suffered cardiac arrest to the nearest hospital in Kolkata and dismissed the appeal, the amount deposited in suitors fund shall be disbursed to her. On November 29, 2019, a top court bench headed by Justice M M Shantanagoudar had said, "We find from the records that the Airports Authority of India was negligent in not shifting the patient to the hospital for treatment immediately...." While refusing to interfere with the NCDRC order, it had noted that the man, who was travelling from Agartala to Delhi in a private airline flight, was deplaned at 12 noon, after he complained of chest pain at Kolkata airport and was not shifted to the nearest hospital at least after 2.30pm. "The ambulance was called only at 4.32 pm. No information is forthcoming by the Airports Authority of India as to why the ambulance was not immediately called for shifting the patient/deceased to the hospital. The deceased died at about 5.30 am on the next day in the hospital because of cardiac arrest," the bench had noted. It had also noted that the NCDRC on facts has concluded that the AAI is negligent to a certain extent and directed it to pay a sum of Rs 10 lakh as compensation along with interest of nine per cent per annum from the date of filing of the complaint and quantified the cost of litigation at Rs 20,000. It had said, “Having regard to the entire material on record, and under the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, we decline to interfere in the impugned judgment. We also decline to enhance the compensation as prayed for by the claimant." The deceased who leaves behind wife and three dependent children was travelling on November 24, 2012 and during the flight he had claimed of chest pain. The widow of the deceased has claimed compensation alleging negligence and deficiency on the part of the private airline as well as the AAI and moved the NCDRC. The private airline had claimed before the NCDRC that it had fulfilled its obligations cast upon it by applicable laws, rules and regulations and the demise of the deceased was not as a consequence of any act/omission attributable to it. The AAI has also opposed the claim of the widow and said that it owed no obligation or duty towards the deceased and it provides medical assistance free of cost on request of airlines concerned and therefore, the complainant cannot be said to be consumer of the AAI. After considering the facts of the case, the NCDRC had held that there was no deficiency on the part of private airline but said that the staff of AAI was "clearly negligent and deficient in rendering services to him" and ordered it to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the widow.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-nod-to-disbursal-of-rs-50000-to-widow-of-man-who-died-due-to-negligence-of-aai-964343.html
20-03-2021||National||Arindam Bagchi replaces Anurag Srivastava as MEA spokesperson||Arindam Bagchi on Saturday assumed charge as the Official Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), according to ANI. an Indian Foreign Service officer of the 1995 batch, replacing Anurag Srivastava as the Joint Secretary (External Publicity). Sources said that while Bagchi would take over as the new spokesperson of the MEA, Srivastava would replace him as the Joint Secretary (North) at the headquarters of the ministry.  A formal announcement is expected to be made soon. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arindam-bagchi-replaces-anurag-srivastava-as-mea-spokesperson-964348.html
20-03-2021||National||LJP president Chirag Paswan on two-day visit to Kashmir||On a visit to Kashmir, Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Saturday inaugurated his party office here and said the intention behind nullifying Article 370, which had given the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir special powers, was good.  Addressing a party meeting, Paswan said people will have to stay away from divisive forces for the union territory's development, a statement from the LJP said.  Paswan is accompanied by party MPs Veena Devi and Prince Raj beside other leaders during the visit.   "Every patriot wants his state's and country's progress. All Kashmiri youngsters are children of India, and every Indian wants Kashmir to become better," he said.  He said the intention behind nullifying Article 370 was good. The Valley has lost a lot, it should not be allowed to lose anything any more, he said in the region that has been battling militant and separatist forces for over three decades.  The Narendra Modi government in August, 2019 nullified the provisions of Article 370 and made Jammu and Kashmir a union territory, which is directly governed by the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ljp-president-chirag-paswan-on-two-day-visit-to-kashmir-964349.html
20-03-2021||National||Plea filed in SC to oppose PIL against 1991 law on places of worship||A plea has been filed in the Supreme Court to oppose a PIL against a law setting up August 15, 1947 as the cut-off date to maintain character of a place of worship, saying the country has been progressing unitedly but certain individuals, including the petitioner, a BJP leader were making attempts to divide people on the basis of religion. Disputes, which have not existed for centuries, are sought to be ignited by the plea filed by Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay, an application by a Lucknow-based co-manager of a mosque said. "Petition (by Upadhyay) is bizarre attempt at reopening the issues already settled by this court. Petitioner is making a direct assault against secular structure of the Constitution," Wasim Hasan, a co-Mutawalli of the Teelaywali Masjid. The applicant has been defending a suit pending before a Lucknow court on the grounds that it was once allegedly site of a temple. "The instant petition is mischievous one which aims at isolating the Muslim community as a separate category from other major religious communities in India," the applicant said. He also contended the petitioner's contention to set cut off date of 1192 AD for foreign rule in the country was personal attack and not legal submission which cannot be based on such "incendiary, senseless and baseless allegations". The top court had on March 12 issued notice to the Centre on Upadhyay's PIL challenging validity of a 1991 law which created "arbitrary and irrational retrospective cutoff date" of August 15, 1947, for maintaining character of places of worship and pilgrimage against encroachment by "barbaric invaders".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-sc-to-oppose-pil-against-1991-law-on-places-of-worship-964350.html
20-03-2021||National||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh asked Sachin Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore a month, alleges Param Bir Singh||In a shocking revelation that shook Maharashtra’s political circles, former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh has alleged that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had assigned a target of Rs 100 crore a month collection from suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Singh, an officer of 1988-IPS batch, who was shunted out from the most sought-after police assignment and posted as Commandant General of Home Guards, has made the allegations in a letter written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with a copy to the office of Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. मुकेश अंबानी प्रकरणी तसेच मनसुख हिरेन हत्याप्रकरणी सचिन वाजे यांचा सहभाग स्पष्ट होत असताना व त्याचे धागेदोरे तत्कालीन पोलिस आयुक्त श्री परमबिर सिंग यांच्यापर्यंत पोहोचणार असल्याची शक्यता तपासातून होत असताना According to the letter, he has already briefed Thackeray, Pawar and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, about Deshmukh’s “misdeeds and malpractices”. Singh said Vaze, who was heading the Crime Intelligence Unit of the Crime Branch, was called at his official residence several times in the past few months. The BJP has demanded the immediate sacking of Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader from Vidarbha. परमबिर सिंग यांनी स्वतःला वाचवण्यासाठी तसेच पुढच्या कायदेशीर कारवाई पासून स्वतःचा बचाव करण्यासाठी हा खोटा आरोप केला आहे. “The Home Minister expressed to Vaze that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crore a month. For achieving the aforesaid target, the Home Minister told Vaze that there are about 1,750 bars, restaurants and other establishments in Mumbai and if a sum of Rs 2-3 lakh each was collected from each of them, a monthly collection of Rs 40-50 crore was achievable. The Home Minister added that the rest of the collection could be made from other sources,” Singh said in the letter.  The former Commissioner of Police, Parambir Singh has made false allegations in order to save himself as the involvement of Sachin Waze in Mukesh Ambani & Mansukh Hiren’s case is becoming clearer from the investigation carried out so far & threads are leading to Mr. Singh as well Meanwhile, Deshmukh has denied the charges. “The involvement of Sachin Vaze is clear in the Antilia-Scorpio planting case and murder of Mansukh Hiran…the strings would have possibly reached Param Bir Singh…he is trying to save himself,” Deshmukh said. It needs to be mentioned here that the twin cases have been taken over by the NIA. Singh said that even as Vaze came and informed him about the demands of the Home Minister, Assistant Commissioner of  Sanjay Patil of Social Service Branch and Deputy Commissioner (Enforcement) Raju Bhujbal were also called by Deshmukh to discuss the hookah parlours in Mumbai, with similar demands to ‘collect’ money. Singh said that he reconfirmed all this information four days ago with ACP Sanjay Patil and also reproduced the WhatsApp chat with him in the letter that he sent to Thackeray and Koshyari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-asked-sachin-vaze-to-collect-rs-100-crore-a-month-alleges-param-bir-singh-964366.html
20-03-2021||National||Parliamentary panel asks Govt to revise taxes levied on petroleum products||As fuel prices reign high, a parliamentary panel has asked the government to revise the taxes levied on petroleum products, noting that the levies were on the higher side. The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution, chaired by Trinamool leader Sudeep Bandyopadhyay, noted that the Centre had collected Rs 2,29,247 crore as central excise duty on petroleum, oil and lubricants in 2018-19 as against Rs 76,547 crore in 2010-11. The customs duty also witnessed an increase from Rs 26,282 crore in 2010-11 to Rs 39,123 crore in 2018-19. "The Committee are of the opinion that the taxes levied on petroleum products, specially on petrol and diesel are on the higher side, and need a revision after making an evaluation of the prevailing oil pricing regime existing in the country and also making comparative assessment of the same with the systems prevailing in this regard in other countries,” it said in a report presented to Parliament last week. Opposition parties have been targeting the Modi government over high fuel prices and demanded roll back of the central excise duty, which they claimed were higher than the actual cost of the fuel. The government had scrapped the administered price mechanism on petrol on June 26, 2010 and diesel on October 19, 2014. The public sector oil marketing companies (OMCs) take decision on pricing of petrol and diesel in line with their international product prices, exchange rate, tax structure, inland freight and other cost elements. The Government modulates the effective cost to consumer for subsidized domestic LPG, whereas the prices of non-subsidized domestic LPG are determined by the OMCs in line with changes in international markets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliamentary-panel-asks-govt-to-revise-taxes-levied-on-petroleum-products-964369.html
20-03-2021||National||Parties do not send their best talents to Parliament due to lack of internal democracy: Former SC judge||Former Supreme Court judge A K Patnaik on Saturday said political parties do not send their best talents to Parliament due a variety of reasons, including a lack of internal democracy in their functioning. Speaking at an event, he said lack of funds to contest elections without the support of a political party has discouraged many capable and meritorious persons from seeking an opportunity for election to Parliament. Justice Patnaik, who retired as a Supreme Court judge in 2014, said he has been listening to the debates in Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and have been reading about them in newspapers. "I appreciate the quality of debates on the national issues and some of the criticisms that the opposition members make in Parliament. For such debates and criticisms, parliamentarians need to be rewarded," he said. He also referred to criticism by the opposition on the issue of "seditious acts". "This is what Parliament should do. The government should respond. This is how democracy is kept alive," he said. "I am of the view that our political parties do not send their best talents, with merit and integrity, to Parliament for various reasons," he said. The first reason, Justice Patnaik (retd.) said, was that there is no internal democracy in political parties. "In a democracy, a political party should give an opportunity to its members to participate in the debates on the formulation of the programmes of the party.  This is now recognised in the laws of various other countries," he said. The second reason is that persons with merit and integrity who want to contest Lok Sabha election do not have the funds for campaigning for their election. "Considering the huge resources required by a candidate in an election for parliamentary seat, a prospective candidate has to either depend on a political party for such funds for election or has to organise his own funds as an independent candidate," he said. This has discouraged many capable and meritorious persons from contesting elections for seats in Parliament, he opined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parties-do-not-send-their-best-talents-to-parliament-due-to-lack-of-internal-democracy-former-sc-judge-964383.html
20-03-2021||National||Focus on new areas opened up by govt, FM Nirmala Sitharaman tells students||Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said the opening up of areas that were till now completely reserved for the government offers immediate possibility for university graduates to become entrepreneurs. The private sector has been given a lot of importance in the Union Budget for 2021-22, and areas that have been opened up are "rich in possibilities" for individuals and not necessarily just large companies, she said at the 29th annual convocation of Ahmedabad-based Nirma University. "The areas which have been opened up are rich in possibilities. These are areas in which university graduates, students who are coming out of universities, have immediate possibility to get in and be an entrepreneur," she said in her virtual address. She said sectors such as space and atomic energy can "immediately benefit" from positive thoughts and fresh skill sets. Sitharaman hailed Indian entrepreneurs and teachers for standing up to the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic, adding that several start-ups went on to become unicorns, and teachers quickly adapted to technology to reach out to their students from diverse backgrounds. "Good and positive tendency which exists in our minds as Indians to find newer opportunities, to find opportunities even during challenging times, is what the spirit of the Indian entrepreneur is," she said. Teachers did brilliantly in the rapidly setting digital era, by teaching online via video conference without betraying exhaustion, and it was this spirit that has made ancient seers and Prime Minister Narendra Modi say that the country can be come a "vishwa guru". She said the new Education Policy has the focus on making students employable, adding that the Union government was negotiating with countries like the UAE and Japan so that Indian graduates get the skill sets required for job offers in the post-corona world. Sitharaman said National Research Foundation, with an allocation of Rs 50,000 crore over five years, will strengthen the ecosystem for research in the country. In the convocation ceremony, degrees were conferred to 52 PhDs, 798 postgraduates, and 1,530 graduate students of various departments of the university, while 51 students got 59 medals for exemplary performance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-new-areas-opened-up-by-govt-fm-nirmala-sitharaman-tells-students-964385.html
20-03-2021||National||Ashoka University students announce two-day class boycott over resignations of Mehta, Subramanian||Students of Ashoka University have announced a two-day boycott of classes from Monday in protest against some recent developments at the institution, including the resignations of faculty members Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian. The Ashoka University Student Government, a student body, also said on Saturday it will be organising a separate movement demanding the resignation of the Vice-Chancellor. The university in Haryana's Sonipat became the centre of a controversy earlier this week, when political commentator Mehta, who had resigned as its vice chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability". Arvind Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the government, had resigned from the university two days later in solidarity with Mehta. The demands of the protesting students include a public acknowledgement by the university founders on Mehta's statement that he felt that he was a "political liability" as well as assuring the Ashokan Community that Mehta will be given a unconditional offer letter. The students are also demanding an open meeting organised by the founders with the student body, the divesting of administrative powers and roles from founders of the university to the elected representatives of faculty, students and administration. "We are extremely saddened by the resignations of both professors and incredibly dissatisfied by the conditions under which the resignations took place. Not only have we lost intellectual giants and erudite academics whose scholarship we value deeply, but also our trust and faith in this administration to protect the students within this university from external political pressures. This is a gross violation of academic freedoms and we strongly condemn it," the students' body said in a statement. "We will not back down in the face of injustice. We will continue our struggle for a more just and equal institution and for true academic freedom at Ashoka and beyond," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashoka-university-students-announce-two-day-class-boycott-over-resignations-of-mehta-subramanian-964392.html
20-03-2021||National||Farmers' body seeks withdrawal of parliamentary panel's recommendation on implementing one of 3 farm laws||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Saturday sought the withdrawal of a parliamentary panel's recommendation asking the Centre to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, one of the three agri laws against which the farmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for over 100 days. The SKM, an umbrella body of over 40 farmers' union leading the farmers' agitation, alleged that the ECAA allows "unlimited private hoarding and black marketing". Their remarks comes after a parliamentary panel asked the government to implement in "letter and spirit" the ECAA. This panel also has members from opposition parties including Congress, TMC and AAP. These parties have been demanding repeal of all three farm laws enacted by the Centre recently. "It must not escape attention that the ECAA makes a wholly anti-poor recommendation that food, which is the most essential item for the survival of human beings, should be removed from the list of EC. "It allows unlimited private hoarding and black marketing. It will lead to the winding up of the PDS facilities and structures," the SKM said in a statement. It added that the implementation of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act will "expose 75 crore beneficiaries to open market purchase of food requirements, promoting Corporate and MNCs in food markets". In its report tabled in the Lok Sabha on March 19, the Standing Committee on Food chaired by TMC leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay recommended the government to "implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit, and without let or hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act". The SKM said, "It is entirely disgraceful that many parties which have been claiming support to farmers agitation for repeal of three farm laws have voted for the implementation of the ECAA. "This exposes a wider consensus amongst these parties on these laws. We appeal to the committee to withdraw these recommendations," it said. The farmers' body has called "Bharat Bandh" on March 26. The Morcha, which held a meeting on Saturday, also decided that on 22 March, meetings of public organizations will be held at the district level across the country. It was decided that during the 'Bharat Bandh' on March 26, all services except emergency services will be inactive from 6 am to 6 pm, and road and rail transport will be blocked, the SKM said. It said on March 28, copies of three agricultural laws will be burnt in 'Holika Dahan' and on April 5, farmers will 'gherao' offices of Food Corporation of India across the country from 11 am to 5 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-body-seeks-withdrawal-of-parliamentary-panels-recommendation-on-implementing-one-of-3-farm-laws-964395.html
20-03-2021||National||Discussed issues related to human rights with Indian ministers: US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin||US Secretary of Defence General Lloyd Austin on Saturday said he had discussed issues related to the human rights of the minorities in India with members of the Union Cabinet, but the topic did not come up when he called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Asked whether he raised the issue related to discrimination against Muslims with the Indian Prime Minister, General Austin said, "I did not have an opportunity to talk with him about that. I did have a conversation with other members of the cabinet on this issue." "We have to remember that India is our partner, a partner whose partnership we value. I think partners need to be able to have those kinds of discussions. Certainly, we feel comfortable doing that. You can have those discussions in a very meaningful way and make progress." The US official responded to media queries at a select press briefing at the US Embassy after his bilateral engagement with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. In the last leg of his three-nation tour, General Austin reached New Delhi on Friday after visiting Japan and South Korea. Responding to another query, he said human rights and rule of law were important in a democracy. On the contentious issue of India buying S-400 missile systems from Russia ignoring the threat of US sanctions, General Austin said since the missile defence system had not yet been delivered to India, issues related to sanctions did not come up at the talks. "But we urge all our allies to move away from any kind of Russian equipment.” General Austin asserted that the US-India relationship was a stronghold of a free and open Indo-Pacific region and a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India would be a central pillar of the US approach to the region. Queried on the Sino-Indian border crisis, the Secretary of Defence said that the USA never considered the possibility of a war between India and China during the nine-month-long Ladakh crisis last year. Singh said India and the USA agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation with the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command. Moreover, with three foundational agreements (LEMOA, COMCASA and BECA), the two countries would explore ways to realise the full potential of the three pacts. Elevating the US-India Major Defense Partnership through regional security cooperation, military-to-military interactions and defence trade would be a priority of the Biden-Harris Administration, General Austin said. In addition, the two nations would collaborate on information-sharing, logistics cooperation, artificial intelligence, space and cyberspace. The first top official from the Joe Biden administration to travel to India for diplomatic engagements, General Austin also met External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discussed-issues-related-to-human-rights-with-indian-ministers-us-defence-secretary-lloyd-austin-964399.html
20-03-2021||National||PM wishes Imran Khan speedy recovery from Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday wished his counterpart in Pakistan, Imran Khan, a speedy recovery from Covid-19. Khan, 68, tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 infection just two days after he was administered a vaccine developed by China National Pharmaceutical Group Corporation a.k.a Sinopharm to keep the virus away. His wife Bushra Bibi also tested positive for the Covid-19. “Best wishes to Prime Minister @ImranKhanPTI for a speedy recovery from Covid-19,” Modi posted on Twitter, tagging his counterpart in Islamabad. Khan’s Special Assistant on National Health Service, Faisal Sultan, first confirmed that the Prime Minister of Pakistan had tested positive for Covid-19 and isolated himself at home. “PM Imran Khan has tested positive for Covid-19 and is self-isolating at home,” Sultan tweeted earlier on Saturday. The Prime Minister’s Office in Islamabad also confirmed it and said that further details about his health would be shared later. New Delhi supplied “Made-in-India” Covid-19 vaccines to as many as 72 countries around the world. Pakistan, however, did not ask India for vaccines. It instead preferred to get vaccines from its ‘iron brother’ China. Pakistan will however receive 45 million Made-in-India AstraZeneca vaccines from the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunization. The response of the front-line health workers of Pakistan to the vaccines supplied by China was purportedly poor, although the Khan Government now launched inoculation of elderly people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-wishes-imran-khan-speedy-recovery-from-covid-19-964402.html
20-03-2021||National||Vardhan stresses need to create awareness about voluntary blood donation||Health Minister Harsh Vardhan Saturday underscored the need to create awareness amongst the general public to donate blood voluntarily, calling for reducing the gap between demand and availability of safe blood. Speaking at the inauguration of a Nucleic Acid Testing (NAT) Testing Facility at the Indian Red Cross Society's National Headquarters Blood Centre, he said educational programme should be so designed that the community understands the advantage of regular blood donation. "The groups targeted for motivation would be educational institutions, Industrial Houses, socio-cultural organisations, religious groups, and government organisations. Mass media should be engaged for motivating the people and sensitising them towards their participation in the most effective way to mobilise voluntary blood donation," he said. Reminding everyone that the goal of securing 100 per cent voluntary, non-remunerated blood donors for a regular and safe supply of blood has not yet been achieved, he said, "Countries that have efficient voluntary blood donor organisations are able to sustain a constant inflow of donors. Blood transfusion is a unique technology in that its collection, processing and use are scientifically based, but its availability depends on the extraordinary generosity of people who donate blood regularly as the most precious of gifts – the gift of life." Describing how transfusion of blood is an essential part of modern health care management, he said in developed countries, 50 persons per 1000 people donate blood in a year.   "In our country, 8-10 persons donate blood per 1000 people in a year.  India with a massive population of 1.38 billion requires just around 14 million units of blood annually. Ideally if 1 per cent of the total eligible population donates blood every year there would be no shortage of blood," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-stresses-need-to-create-awareness-about-voluntary-blood-donation-964404.html
20-03-2021||National||Cong's vote share would have increased if it fought Bengal polls alone: Abhijit Mukherjee||The Congress' vote share would have increased if it had fought the West Bengal elections without aligning with the Left, former party MP Abhijit Mukherjee said on Saturday. Abhijit, the son of former president Pranab Mukherjee, said that his party has forged an alliance with only the Left Front and not Abbas Siddiqui's ISF. "The Congress's vote share would have increased if it fought the elections alone. This is my personal opinion. However, it is not necessary that the increase in vote share would mean an increase in seats," he told reporters on the sidelines of a programme at the Arabinda Stadium here. "Congress would have been able to fight on more number of seats if it contested the elections without going into any alliance. The chances of winning would have been more. Still, I am hopeful that the alliance will form the next government in West Bengal," he added. The Congress has aligned with the Left Front and ISF for fighting the assembly elections in West Bengal, taking on the ruling TMC and opposition BJP. Mukherjee's comments come even as the three sides give a final touch to the seat-sharing arrangement. The Congress got 5.67 per cent votes in the Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal, most of which came from Murshidabad and Malda Dakshin seats where party candidates won. The CPI(M)-led Left Front got around 7 per cent votes but could not manage to win a single amid a bipolar contest between the BJP (40.64 per cent) and TMC (43.69 per cent). The TMC won 22 seats, while the BJP bagged 18 seats, emerging as the main opposition party in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congs-vote-share-would-have-increased-if-it-fought-bengal-polls-alone-abhijit-mukherjee-964406.html
20-03-2021||National||India must vote in favour of UN resolution against Sri Lanka: Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Saturday said India must vote in favour of the United Nations resolution calling out "human rights violations" by the Sri Lankan government. "INDIA must vote in favour of the resolution and call out the violations by the Sri Lanka government. INDIA must stand by the Tamils and other communities that have been denied human rights," he said on Twitter. INDIA must vote in favour of the resolution and call out the violations by the Sri Lanka government. INDIA must stand by the Tamils and other communities that have been denied human rights. Chidambaram said the UN Security Council is considering a resolution urging Sri Lanka to be accountable for such violations. "It is sad that Sri Lanka continues to deny there were — and are — human rights violations in that country, especially in respect of Tamils," he also said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-vote-in-favour-of-un-resolution-against-sri-lanka-chidambaram-964407.html
20-03-2021||National||Congress MPs dissociate themselves from panel report advocating implementation of 1 of 3 farm laws||Three Congress MPs Saturday dissociated themselves from the report of a parliamentary standing committee recommending implementation of the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, and alleged the report was adopted against norms and conventions. The said Act is one of the three contentious agriculture-marketing laws which have triggered protests by farmers and which the Congress wants repealed. The Congress and Trinamool Congress have accused the BJP of "flouting norms" and pushing the report in the absence of its regular Chairman, TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay, who is currently busy in West Bengal assembly elections.. Three Congress MPs in the panel - Saptagiri Sankar Ulaka, Rajmohan Unnithan and Vaithilingam Ve -- have separately written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, urging him to look into the matter and allow them to record their dissent in writing. The 11th report of the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution was adopted on March 18 at its meeting chaired by acting chairperson Ajay Misra Teni (BJP), and it was tabled in Parliament on Friday. Congress member Saptagiri Ulaka wrote to Om Birla disassociating himself from the report. "Written to Hon'ble Lok Sabha Speaker to dissociate myself from the Eleventh Report of the Standing Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution on the subject matter - 'Price Rise of Essential Commodities - Causes and Effects' tabled in Parliament on 19.03.2021," he said in a tweet sharing his letter to the Speaker. In his letter to the Speaker, he has said, "I urge you to kindly look into the matter and give me the opportunity to record my dissent officially in the Report." "It is highly irregular that such an important Report was circulated at a very short notice, and without recording any dissenting opinion, was tabled in Parliament," he said. Ulaka alleged that he was not present when the report was adopted at the meeting called in a short notice of merely 15 hours. "It is not only misleading the nation, but also against the norms and conventions of the functioning and the democratic spirit of the Parliamentary Standing Committee," he said in his letter to the Speaker. He said the reports recommends on page 62 "to implement the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 in letter and spirit". "I completely dissociate myself with this recommendation and record my dissent to the Report...," Ulaka said. Unnithan and Vaithilingam have also written similar letters to the Speaker. They said the subject was selected by the Committee in 2019-20 for examination before the three farm ordinances and related farm laws were passed and the panel spent a cumulative time of 4 hours 45 minutes on it. They alleged that the Committee did not seek oral evidence from a single farmers' group or any independent expert before finalising the Report. Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh also shared Ualaka's letter in a tweet, saying, "MPs of the Congress party DID NOT ask for implementation of the Essential Commodities Act. The Standing Committee Report is a misrepresentation!" Ramesh, who is the chief whip of the party in the Rajya Sabha said, "It is unprecedented that the report is adopted in the absence of the Chairman". "In 17 years I have been an MP, this has never happened," he told PTI. Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien alleged that this is the “con job” done by the BJP's 'dirty tricks department'. "This is the BJP cheap and dirty tricks department in action. Con job was done when Chairman of Parliament Committee was not at meeting. AITC position on Farm Laws and Essential Commodities Act well documented. Withdraw draconian laws,” he said in a tweet, using hashtag "FarmersProtest".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-mps-dissociate-themselves-from-panel-report-advocating-implementation-of-1-of-3-farm-laws-964415.html
20-03-2021||National||Dignitaries to don Khadi Mujib Jackets during PM's visit to Bangladesh||Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has supplied 100 custom-designed “Mujib Jackets” that will be the attire of dignitaries during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visit to Bangladesh later this month. Mujib Jacket is famed as the signature garment worn by Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, who is called Bangladesh's Father of the Nation. "Khadi, the heritage fabric of India, is all set to catch eyeballs during Hon'ble Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visit to Bangladesh on March 26 & 27. KVIC has supplied 100 custom-designed Mujib Jackets that will be the attire of dignitaries during the visit of the Prime Minister," the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) ministry said in a statement on Saturday. As Bangladesh celebrates 'Mujib Borsho', the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Indira Gandhi Cultural Centre of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka, had placed an order for 100 Mujib Jackets, ahead of the PM's visit, the statement said.  The diplomatic consignment has already been dispatched to Dhaka. KVIC comes under the administrative control of the MSME ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dignitaries-to-don-khadi-mujib-jackets-during-pms-visit-to-bangladesh-964423.html
20-03-2021||National||Vardhan calls for collective fight against tuberculosis||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday urged people to fight tuberculosis collectively and consider it not just a biomedical disease but also a social disease. Delivering the keynote address at the India TB Summit, Vardhan reaffirmed the government's commitment to end tuberculosis. "India is committed to scale up access to free diagnosis through rapid molecular tests also providing information on drug resistance, free treatment for all people with TB, with best-quality drugs and regimens, financial and nutritional support to patients, use of digital technologies for notification and adherence and linking with interface non-governmental agencies to strengthen private sector engagement," he said. The minister said the movement would make India step forward as a leader for a TB-free world. Detailing about the National TB Elimination Programme's ambitious National Strategic Plan (NSP) to end tuberculosis by 2025, he said, "The NSP embraces bold strategies with commensurate resources to rapidly decline TB incidence and mortality." "The NTEP has instituted many innovations such as contracting of Patient Provider Support Agencies (PPSAs) to enhance engagement with the private sector, strengthening community engagement through TB Forums at the national, state and district levels, and integrating TB services across all levels in the health system, including the Ayushman Bharat- Health & Wellness Centres, thereby, making TB an essential part of Comprehensive Primary Health Care," Vardhan said. He also spoke on the new initiatives taken at sub-national level to strengthen community level engagement and to make it a part of Comprehensive Primary Health Care. "Through enhanced access to molecular diagnostics by decentralizing CBNAAT and TruNat services, India has enabled earlier detection of drug resistance. Through Active Case Finding, India has reached out to the unreached and vulnerable groups," Vardhan said. "Sub-national surveillance of TB and disease-free certification has been introduced, wherein states/districts that have achieved significant reduction in incidence of TB from 2015 baselines were assessed and were likewise awarded bronze, silver, gold and even TB Free certifications," he said. Vardhan said India has established TB forums which provide a common platform to government officials, physicians, civil society and representatives from patient groups to discuss all concerns pertaining to service delivery and patient care. The health minister also underscored how these arrangements are being backed by affirmative action, policies, and resources. Resource allocation for TB has witnessed substantial increase in recent years. "Last year, the government had disbursed more than Rs 249.43 crore to over 11.10 lakh patients as nutrition support under the Nikshay Poshan Yojana. He also informed how the government's intervention ensured that gains against TB were not squandered during the pandemic," Vardhan said. Vardhan called upon every citizen to fight tuberculosis collectively and consider it not just a biomedical disease but also a social disease. He noted, "Considering the extensive TB burden and the gamut of challenges, we must agree that much more needs to be done with support from all stakeholders." "To address tuberculosis, the first step is that we need to stop thinking of biomedical solutions only as TB is a social disease. TB control needs to be taken up by all of us as a developmental issue. We have called upon Jan Andolon against TB to reinforce our commitment to end TB through multi-sectoral and integrated actions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vardhan-calls-for-collective-fight-against-tuberculosis-964429.html
20-03-2021||National||Owaisi takes exception to Gurgaon Municipal Corporation's decision to close meat shops on Tuesday||Taking exception to the Gurgaon Municipal Corporation's decision to shut meat shops falling under its jurisdiction every Tuesday, AIMIM president Asauddin Owaisi on Saturday said such decisions cannot be taken on the basis of faith and demanded that the ruling BJP withdraw the move. "If you keep on doing everything on the foundation of faith, it is against the Preamble of the Constitution. If food is sold on the foundation of faith, if it is decided on the foundation of faith as to who will sell what..has this country become a theological country," he told reporters here. According to the Constitution, prepared by B R Ambedkar, the country does not have any faith and it accepts all faiths and also those who does not have any faith, he said. How can the right of a citizen who cooks and eats what is not illegal at his home be curbed, he said. "You run this country on the basis of belief or Constitution? If this country would run on the basis of belief, then why the Constitution," he asked. He claimed that an effort is on to make the country a theocratic country by ending its diversity and pluralism. There is a Supreme Court judgment which says that right to privacy is a fundamental right, he said. The decision to close the meat shops on Tuesday would hurt the income of meat-sellers who are also non-Muslims, he claimed. The decision only spreads hate, he alleged. BJP, which is in power in Haryana and at the Centre, should run the country on the basis of Constitution and immediately halt the decision of Gurgaon Municipal Corporation, he said. Owaisi earlier tweeted: "How can beliefs get hurt by what other people are doing in their private lives? People are buying, selling or eating meat, theyre not forcing you to partake. By this logic, close alcohol shops on Friday? Meat is food for millions of Indians. Cannot treat it as something impure."  Meat shops falling under the Gurgaon Municipal Corporation's jurisdiction will remain shut every Tuesday as proposal to this effect was passed by the MC House. According to BJP councillor Subhash Singla, the proposal was passed by the Gurgaon Municipal Corporation on Thursday. He said there was a provision to close meat shops on any day of the week and during the meeting he suggested that Tuesday should be selected as many people do not consume meat on that day and thus it would suit the shops selling meat. Singla asserted that Tuesday was not suggested because of anyone's religious sentiments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/owaisi-takes-exception-to-gurgaon-municipal-corporations-decision-to-close-meat-shops-on-tuesday-964432.html
20-03-2021||National||Second Covid-19 surge will worsen, scientists warn||As the second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic in India swells up, scientists have warned that the second surge would worsen in the coming weeks as seen from the computer models that are being used to track the outbreak. The alert is based on the rising value of R (reproduction number) – a parameter to denote the virus's ability to spread the infections – in almost all the big states. In 16 out of 17 states, the R value is significantly higher than 1, Kerala being the lone exception. An R value of 1.3 would mean that 10 infected persons can spread the disease to 13 others. For the epidemic to shrink, the R value should be less than one. "With data up to March 17, the overall situation has worsened. The R for the country as a whole climbed to 1.19, the highest value I have estimated since August last year,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai who was tracking the outbreak with his model since last year. “Almost all the states with the highest Covid-19 active cases have R values greater than one. Kerala is the only silver lining but its benefit has been completely offset by Maharashtra as its R climbed to 1.29. All major metros have R greater than one, with Pune having an R value of 1.36 with Mumbai following close behind at 1.28,” he told DH. Other states with such high R values are Chhattisgarh (1.44), Punjab (1.32), Karnataka (1.3), Haryana (1.33), Gujarat (1.24), Madhya Pradesh (1.25) and Delhi (1.23). Among the metro cities, Chennai (1.2) and Bengaluru (1.17) are causes of worry. As many as 40,953 new Covid-19 cases have been reported till 8 AM on Saturday riding high on 25,681 cases reported in Maharashtra. For the third consecutive day, Punjab reported more than 2,000 daily new cases whereas Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh reported more than 1,000 daily new cases for the first time. Karnataka and Gujarat too reported more than 1,000 fresh cases every day for the last few days. According to the Union Health Ministry 188 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (70) followed by Punjab (38). More than 4.36 crores of vaccine doses have been administered so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-covid-19-surge-will-worsen-scientists-warn-964434.html
20-03-2021||National||US Defence Secretary urges all its allies and partners to avoid buying Russian equipment||US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Saturday said there was no discussion with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on the possibility of American sanctions against India over its plan to buy S-400 air defence missile systems from Russia. At the same time, Austin urged all the allies and partners of the US to avoid buying Russian equipment that may invite US sanctions. "There has been no delivery of the S-400 system. and so the issue of sanctions is not the one that has been discussed," Secretary Austin said while replying to a question at a select media briefing. When pressed further, he said there was no reason for the sanctions to be on the table as India has not acquired the systems. The US has imposed sanctions on Turkey under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) for purchase of S-400 missile defences from Russia. "We have countries that we work with from time-to-time that have Russian equipment acquired over the years," he said. "Certainly we urge all our allies and partners to move away from Russian equipment and avoid any kind of acquisition that would trigger any kind of sanctions on our behalf," he added. Ahead of Austin's high-profile India visit, Senator Robert Menendez, Chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee, in a letter urged the US Defence Secretary to take up with Indian leaders the issue of New Delhi procuring Russian S-400 missile defence system. In October 2018, India had signed a USD 5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, despite a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions. India made the first tranche of payment of around USD 800 million to Russia for the missile systems in 2019. The S-400 is known as Russia's most advanced long-range surface-to-air missile defence system. Following US sanctions on Turkey, there have been apprehensions that Washington may impose similar punitive measures on India. Austin flew into India on Friday as part of his three-nation first overseas tour that signalled the Biden administration's strong commitment to its relations with its close allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region. He visited Japan and South Korea before arriving here. On Friday, Austin called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. He held extensive talks with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday during which both sides resolved to further consolidate India-US defence ties through deeper military-to-military engagement with the US describing the partnership. Later, he met Jaishankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-defence-secretary-urges-all-its-allies-and-partners-to-avoid-buying-russian-equipment-964449.html
20-03-2021||National||It's safe for Christians to join BJP, says party's Mizoram chief||BJP leaders are not communal or religious bigots, party's Mizoram unit president Vanlalhmuaka said on Saturday, asserting that it was "safe" for Christians to join it. Addressing a party workers' meet in bypoll-bound Serchhip, he said the BJP's central leadership encouraged every member to freely follow any culture or religion of their choice. "I have been serving as a teacher in Sunday school (class for learning theology in churches) for 13 years now. Prime Minister Modi and other BJP leaders have never suggested me to convert to Hinduism even a single time. Instead, they told me to be firm in my culture and religion (Christianity)," he said. "It is safe for Christians to become a part of the BJP," Vanlalhmuaka added. The party's national leadership are anti-communal and not religious bigots, he told the gathering. Slamming the ruling MNF, Vanlalhmuaka said the people of the state have lost faith in the government. MNF, headed by Chief Minister Zoramthanga, is a part of the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA). However, the two parties do not work together in the state. Urging the people to vote for the BJP in the upcoming bypoll, Vanlalhmuaka said his party will field a candidate from the Serchhip town itself. Lalhriatrenga Chhangte, who is speculated to be the party's candidate, said that he would make great efforts with the help of the Centre to usher in all-round development in Serchhip if the party wins. He exuded hope that the party's membership will increase by 2023 when the state goes to the polls. In the 2018 polls, the BJP won one seat in the 40- member Mizoram assembly. The bypoll to the Serchhip seat was necessitated due to the disqualification of MLA Laldhuma in November last year. It is scheduled to be held on April 17. The ruling MNF, opposition Zoram People's Movement (ZPM) and Congress have already announced the names of their candidates. The BJP and People's Conference (PC) party are yet to announce the names of their candidates. The last date for filing nominations is March 30 and counting of votes will be undertaken on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/its-safe-for-christians-to-join-bjp-says-partys-mizoram-chief-964458.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||BJP attained power by dividing society: Akhilesh urges farmers to stay united||Describing the BJP a party that divides, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Friday urged farmers to remain united, saying a government committed to their welfare is possible only if they maintain harmony and brotherhood. “Since the BJP has attained power by dividing society, farmers’ unity has to be maintained at any cost,” Yadav said addressing a “Kisan Mahapanchayat” at Morki Inter-College here. The day farmers will understand their trick, the BJP will be out of power, he said, adding that a farmer-oriented government in the state is possible only when the harmony and brotherhood reflected in the rally is maintained. I am attending the "Kisan Mahapanchayat" with the expectation that by maintaining unity, farmers will teach the BJP a lesson in the next elections, the former UP chief minister said, alleging that through its three draconian laws, the BJP-led Union government has attempted to snatch farmers' land. He also criticised the Centre for demonetisation, saying while people suffered due to it, the promise of eliminating corruption and balck money remained unfulfilled. Similarly, the Goods Services Tax (GST) was introduced with a lot of fanfare but it also proved counter-productive for small and medium traders, he said. RLD national vice-president Jayant Chaudhary, who also attended the rally, criticised BJP leaders for calling farmers terrorists and “parjeevi” (parasite). Describing farmers as the backbone of the country, he said 300 of them have already died protesting against the Centre’s farm laws. Jayant also advised farmers to maintain unity and brotherhood.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attained-power-by-dividing-society-akhilesh-urges-farmers-to-stay-united-964100.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||What is in store for the 'Backup CM' O Pannerselvam this Tamil Nadu Assembly election?||This year’s Tamil Nadu Assembly election is a litmus test for both the major Dravidian parties, the AIADMK and the DMK. Tamil politics since the founding of DMK in 1949 has always had larger-than-life personas leading the state. However, this election seems more of a test for ruling party because after the deaths of J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, the DMK has taken to a groomed leader in M K Stalin whilst the AIADMK has faced leadership issues over the past few years. One of the more popular figures in the ruling party is Ottakarathevar Panneerselvam. Fondly known as OPS, most popular for being AIADMK supremo late J Jayalalithaa’s right-hand man, is eyeing to retain power in the state. Panneerselvam, often described as “staunch Jayalalithaa loyalist" and "Backup CM", has been the CM of Tamil Nadu thrice, including the one as a caretaker chief minister when Jayalalithaa was forced to resign by court orders.   Soon after the passing away of the enigmatic leader in 2016,  the  party was in disarray and it was a turbulent time as multiple people fought to take control  of the party including V K Sasikala, Edappadi Palaniswami (EPS), TTV Dhinakaran and OPS. The years 2016 and 2017 were a real test for OPS’s leadership, influence and support from the party cadre. OPS who took over as CM resigned only months later and was expelled from the party at the behest of the then general secretary V K Sasikala. She appointed EPS as the CM, TTV as the deputy general secretary before the start of her four-year prison sentence in a DA case and she was later expelled from the party, a demand from the OPS faction of the party for merger with the EPS faction.   Pannerselvam’s influence in the party and among cadre was on full display during that time. Palaniswami, not the most prominent face around at the time, needed OPS and his supporters after Sasikala’s family was expelled. Several members owing allegiance to OPS were made members of a steering committee, another demand of the faction for a merger. Pannerselvam’s reinstatement to the party, him being given the Deputy CM post, and several Cabinet portfolios is evidence of his sway not only in the AIADMK but also Tamil Nadu politics. Despite the power and positions OPS holds and has held in Tamil Nadu politics, in stark contrast to his political mentor Jayalalithaa, he is known to be among one of the not very vocal leaders who does not have the personality cult of the late AIADMK supremo. It has also been speculated in that Jayalalithaa ostensibly chose OPS to lead the party and the state in her few instances of absence due to this quality which would reduce the risk of rebellion from him and his supporters. In fact, she chose OPS instead of Thanga Tamilselvan, who gave up his seat from Andipatti for her to get elected to the Assembly in 2001. Panneerselvam has been active in politics since he was a teenager. In 1969, at the age of 18, he joined the then united DMK and worked at the grassroots level. When DMK split in 1973 following popular actor M G Ramachandran’s suspension from DMK, OPS joined MGR’s new AIADMK party making him one of the founding members. Over time, he grew in stature in the party, but his electoral debut was not to come till the 21st century.  In 2001, he contested from the Periyakulam Assembly seat in Theni district, his native place and won the election and re-election in 2006. In 2011, he shifted to Bodinayakkanur in the same district and won two elections there. He will be contesting from Bodinayakannur constituency this election too. Interestingly, this seat holds sentimental value to him as this was the first Assembly seat that Jayalalithaa won in 1989. This constituency is likely to see one of the more interesting fights this election as OPS will take on former AIADMK member and now DMK member Thanga Tamilselvan. They both had the trust of late J Jayalalithaa but they never saw each other eye-to-eye.  Another key factor this election so far has been the OPS-EPS power play. Whilst several AIADMK supporters back Palaniswami to continue as chief minister if the party is voted into power, OPS also has been speculated to take over as the CM as he is considered to be Jayalalithaa’s “political heir” by some. Speculations over the AIADMK's CM face, however, were put to rest in January when the party’s General Council definitely said that Edappadi Palaniswami would be the CM face for the polls. Over the past five years, EPS has come across as a fairly efficient administrator, but this is the first time in the foreground of Tamil Nadu politics for him, whilst, OPS has already served three short terms as a CM and has been at the forefront of Tamil Nadu politics. However, it has to be said that Palaniswami’s astuteness was on display when he forced OPS to merge with AIADMK and made his deputy, effectively demoting him. To balance this out, however, Pannerselvam is EPS’s boss in the party’s hierarchy. Pannerselvam’s role in the party post-election is still unknown, whether he will maintain a similar profile if the party wins, or if he has bigger ambitions is still unclear and only time will tell.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-in-store-for-the-backup-cm-o-pannerselvam-this-tamil-nadu-assembly-election-964205.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata's 'bhaipo' Abhishek Banerjee only window in industry scarce Bengal: PM Narendra Modi||Seeking to corner West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee with corruption charges, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday targeted her nephew Abhishek Banerjee. Without directly naming the Trinamool Congress (MP), Modi said that while in other states there is a single window system for speedy clearance of industrial projects but in Bengal there is only the “bhaipo window” (nephew window) and without crossing it no work can be done. “There is a single window system in other states for speedy and hassle free clearance of industrial projects. But in Bengal there is a new kind of single window system. Its called the ‘bhaipo window’ and without entering it no work gets done,” said Modi. He was speaking at a rally at Kharagpur in West Medinipur district. He further alleged that in the last 10 years no major industry has come up in Bengal due to the syndicate rule under the TMC. “There is only mafia business in the State,” said Modi. Lashing out at Mamata, the Prime Minister accused her of betraying the people of Bengal and running a Government of extortionists. “Didi is standing like a wall blocking the path of Bengal’s development. You (people) trusted her but she betrayed you and shattered your dreams. Didi the people of Bengal gave you an opportunity for 10 years but you destroyed Bengal,” said Modi. The Prime Minister slammed Mamata for opposing the new education policy and accused her of ruining 10 years in the lives of Bengal’s youth. Taking potshots at Mamata’s slogan “khela hobey” (game on), Modi said that she had been saying “khela hobey” but the people of Bengal now want the game to be over. “Didi has been saying ‘khela hobey’, but Bengal is saying ‘khela sesh hobey ( game will be over) and development will start. I assure the youth, women, poor and Dalits of Bengal that we will not allow Didi to play with your future anymore,” said Modi.    “Didi has always resorted to appeasement politics...her party is a school for cruelty which has extortion, cut money and syndicate in its syllabus. Didi’s school teaches how to commit atrocities and resort to anarchy,” said Modi. Seeking to refute the Chief Minister’s “outsider” barb at the BJP, the Prime Minister said that the party a successor to the Jan Sangh founded by “Bengal’s own” Syamaprasad Mokkerjee” has Bengal in it’s DNA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamatas-bhaipo-abhishek-banerjee-only-window-in-industry-scarce-bengal-pm-narendra-modi-964232.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||US Defense Secretary Austin talks about strengthening ties with India||India and the US on Saturday resolved to further expand their global defence and security cooperation including military-to-military engagement, information sharing, logistics support as both sides vowed to work for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. After talks with visiting US Secretary of State Lloyd Austin, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said the two sides agreed to pursue enhanced cooperation between Indian military and the US Indo-Pacific Command, Central Command and Africa Command. "I am happy to inform that I had a comprehensive and fruitful discussion with Secretary Austin and his delegation. We are keen to work together to realise the full potential of the India-US comprehensive global strategic partnership," Singh said in his statement to the media. Referring to Indo-US foundational agreements on defence ties, he said both sides discussed steps to be taken to realise the full potential of pacts such as LEMOA (Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement), COMCASA (Communications Compatibility and Security Agreement) and BECA (Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement) for mutual benefit. Singh also said the recent summit of leaders of India, the US, Japan and Australia under the Quad framework emphasised the resolve to maintain a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific region. In his comments, Secretary Austin reaffirmed the commitment by the US to a comprehensive and forward-looking defence partnership with India as a "central pillar" of its approach to the region. He also described the India-US relationship as a "stronghold" of a free and open Indo-Pacific region. "Singh and I had a very productive discussion...I wanted to convey the Biden-Harris administration's message about our strong commitment to our allies and partners," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/us-defense-secretary-austin-talks-about-strengthening-ties-with-india-964235.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||BJP biggest extortionist in the world, should never be allowed to rule Bengal, says Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday slammed the BJP, branding it as the "biggest extortionist" in the world, which should never be allowed to rule the state. Banerjee, speaking at an election rally at Haldia in East Midnapore district, also accused the saffron party of orchestrating riots, killing people and torturing Dalit girls. "BJP is the biggest 'tolabaz' (extortionist) in the world... Just see the amount of money it collected under the PM Cares Fund. If the people of West Bengal want peace and a state free from riots, then the Trinamool Congress is the only option," she asserted. The eight-phase West Bengal Assembly elections will get underway on March 27. West Bengal Assembly Election Result 2016||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-biggest-extortionist-in-the-world-should-never-be-allowed-to-rule-bengal-says-mamata-banerjee-964257.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan bets on walk, chats to canvass votes||Actor-politician and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan is betting big on casual interactions with people like when he goes on a walk to canvass votes for the April 6 Assembly polls. Haasan, who is debuting from Coimbatore South Assembly constituency here, went for a walk in the flower market and R S Puram areas on Saturday morning and people vied with each other to click selfies and converse with him. After visiting Amman Kulam locality, he said people faced hardship to get access to even very basic amenities and vowed to address their issues. His visit to a restaurant to have coffee saw fans surround him. A man sung a popular number from his 1992 Tamil flick 'Devar Magan' and replaced the lyrics to suit the the actor's political innings. The actor, all smiles, acknowledged the fan's affection by nodding his head. As several people tried to get close to him, someone stepped on his foot by mistake, leading to swelling. Since Haasan recently underwent a follow-up surgery on his leg, doctors' advise was taken and he was advised rest for a while and accordingly there would be some changes in his propaganda schedule, MNM said. Hassan's nomination papers, meanwhile, have been accepted by poll authorities following scrutiny, it said in a release. The star value of the actor, active in the tinsel world since the 1970's, could be gauged from the fact that wherever he went, a number of people tried to have a word with him or wished him well. When he travelled to nearby Tirupur district in a helicopter for campaigning, many locals turned up at the college ground, used as a helipad, to see him. After he left the spot by road for poll propaganda, his chopper continued to be the centre of attraction and people eagerly took selfies in front of it. Haasan, after choosing to fight from this textile city, has been staying here for about a week and personally interacting with people. The other day when he travelled in an autorickshaw, a youngster on a motorbike chased the three wheeler and wished him well. He went on a walk around the site of a yet to be completed overbridge and lashed out at the AIADMK government for not completing the project and over corruption. However, whether his cinematic charisma would translate into votes and catapult his fledgling party into a decisive political force remains to be seen. Besides following the conventional campaign, DMK president M K Stalin, ahead of the 2016 Assembly polls, reached out to the people by going on a walk in every town he visited and by having tea in local shops and so on. In 2018, Haasan launched Makkal Needhi Maiam, pitching a 'Centrist' line. His party garnered 3.77 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and got 15,75,640 valid votes out of the 4,18,25,669, total valid votes polled in Tamil Nadu. The MNM, which will be fighting the Assembly polls for the first time, has firmed up an alliance with actor Sarathkumar led All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi and Indiya Jananayaga Katchi. AIADMK has been in power in Tamil Nadu since 2011 and DMK is putting its best foot forward to capture power from its arch rival, while MNM has been trying to position itself as the only alternative to the Dravidian majors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/makkal-needhi-maiam-chief-kamal-haasan-bets-on-walk-chats-to-canvass-votes-964299.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi rakes up toolkit row, claims Congress backing those trying to 'finish' Assam tea||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday accused the Congress of openly supporting forces that are out to finish the identity of Assam tea and destroy the tea industry. Addressing an election rally in this Upper Assam town, a day after Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacted with tea garden workers here, Modi alleged that the party is playing with the "pride and glory" of the oldest industry of the state. He said a toolkit recently sought to defame Assam tea, famous across the world, and Yoga, the legacy of our ancient saints, as part of a "conspiracy". "A conspiracy was hatched against Assam tea. You must have heard about a toolkit. It sought to destroy the tea gardens of Assam. No Indian will allow that," he said. One of the points reportedly mentioned there was to "disrupt yoga and chai image of India in general". "Congress is supporting such forces. And while doing so it has the temerity to come here and seek votes of the tea garden workers. They have fallen so low.  "Who can understand the problems of tea workers better than a 'chaiwala'," Modi said referring to his background when as a small boy he used to sell tea at a railway station and on trains in his native Gujarat. He also said a few days ago the Congress had circulated photographs of Sri Lankan tea gardens and before that of Taiwan, passing them off as tea gardens of Assam. "A mistake can happen once, but when it has been repeated, it shows the mentality. This is injustice and insult to the beautiful land of Assam," the prime minister said. "The mask is off the faces of those who talk of Asssam's 'asmita' (identity)," he said, attacking the Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-rakes-up-toolkit-row-claims-congress-backing-those-trying-to-finish-assam-tea-964314.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||LDF, UDF 'deceiving' people by engaging in 'mock battles', says BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi||Ridiculing the major fronts in Kerala as "LUDF", the BJP on Saturday alleged that the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF and the opposition UDF headed by the Congress were "deceiving" people by engaging in "mock battles". They are constantly deceiving people by engaging in mock battles whenever the other comes to power. Their agendas are common, Lekhi told reporters here. "It is the 'LUDF' which the BJP is fighting. Not the LDF or UDF. It is one party and both are the two sides of the same coin. Ultimately the same set of people come back to power," Lekhi, who is here to campaign for party candidates in the April 6 assembly polls, said. On the Sabarimala women entry issue, she said both the fronts are now speaking for the rights of Ayyappa devotees. When the apex court delivered its verdict, everyone had welcomed the decision. "They never stood against the decision, there was no resistance from them. Not one case was filed against the other party (UDF).And today they are all trying to hijack the people's will," she said. The state had witnessed violent protests led by a section of devotees and right wing outfits against the state government's decision to implement the 2018 Supreme Court order allowing entry of women of all ages into the hilltop shrine. The state government, which had filed several cases against those who participated in the Sabarimala agitations, has already decided to withdraw cases which were of lesser gravity, while the UDF has said they would bring in a new legislation to protect the tradition of the shrine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ldf-udf-deceiving-people-by-engaging-in-mock-battles-says-bjp-leader-meenakshi-lekhi-964317.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||BJP attacking culture, language, history, heritage of Assam: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi Saturday slammed the ruling BJP in Assam for allegedly attacking the culture, language, history, heritage and bonds of brotherhood in Assam and assured to protect the indigenous ethos if his party is voted to power in the state. Gandhi, who had arrived for campaigning in poll-bound Assam on Friday, blamed the ruling BJP for "handing over" the entire state to outsiders and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of working only for two-three richest industrialists and not the general public of the country or for their welfare. "The BJP in Assam and across the country is attacking culture, language, heritage and brotherhood ... We will protect you, your culture and identity. This is your state and it cannot be run from Nagpur (RSS headquarters)," he said at rallies at Mariani and Gohpur. Hitting out at the ruling BJP for "handing over" the Assam to outsiders, he said "The government spent Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise Guwahati airport. Now the airport been snatched from you and given to Adani. This way everything in the country is being given to two-three richest businessmen friends of the prime minister". Gandhi said if a Congress chief minister assumes power in Assam the '5 guarantees' promised by the party will be implemented. A law will be introduced in the state assembly to nullify the CAA, five lakh government jobs will be given to the state's youths, each household will get upto 200 units of free electricity, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers be raised to Rs 365. Mounting his attack, the Congress leader said "Modi had talked about 'Make in India'. But look at the labels of the products you are using. They are all 'Made in China'. That is because the prime minister broke the backbone of entrepreneurs through demonetisation and imposition of GST. "GST was introduced promising simple tax and benefit for all. Modi brought it with five different taxes and highest at 28 per cent... Thousands of industries were shut down due to these two decisions. Modi says something but does something else," the former Congress president said. Raising the price rise issue, he said the BJP-led government at the Centre is working for "hum do, humare do", (a government of two with two others meaning apparently Prime Minister Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Adani and Ambani likely.  This is being done while farmers, small businessmen, workers and other people are suffering due to high inflation. "He (Modi) waived taxes and loans of two-three industrialists, but did nothing for you. He even attacked the farmers by bringing in the three farm acts. That is why we have brought the 5 guarantees for you," Gandhi said. Charging the BJP administration of failing to fill up vacant government jobs, Gandhi said when Congress forms the government it will first fill up these posts and then give incentives to the private sector to create jobs. He alleged that the BJP makes different promises at different places but never fulfills them. "I never lie. See what I had said before polls in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Punjab. I said farmers loans will be waived. Within six hours of forming government in Chhattisgarh, it was done. Likewise, every promise in other states was fulfilled," he added. The Congress leader was in Mariani, which will go to the polls in the first phase on March 27 to campaign for sitting Congress MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi and in Gohpur for APCC president Ripun Bora.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-attacking-culture-language-history-heritage-of-assam-rahul-gandhi-964358.html
20-03-2021||National Politics||BJP govt handing over public sector companies to two-three richest industrialists: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the BJP-led government at the Centre was handing over public sector companies to two-three richest industrialists of the country. Interacting with employees of public sector oil companies in oil city Digboi, Gandhi sought to know the need for privatising profit-making public sector companies. "The BJP government has only one aim -- hand over the profit-making public sector companies to the two-three richest industrialists," he said at the meeting organised by the Assam Petroleum Mazdoor Union, Assam Petroleum Workers Union and Oil India Workers' Association, among others. "The government gave Rs 2,000 crore of your money to modernise the Guwahati airport. Now, that has been snatched from you and given to Adani. In this way, everything in the country is being given to their two-three richest businessman friends," the Congress leader said. If looked deeply, it will be seen that the public sector organisations are working effectively, efficiently and doing good work compared to the private sector, Gandhi said. However, there is a uniform idea that the private sector is better than the public sector, he added. "Why disturb strong public sector companies when they are giving benefits to the people? It can't be said they are not working. The public sector companies are working effectively and playing a positive role for society," he said. Gandhi was on a two-day visit to Assam since Friday to campaign for the Congress ahead of the three-phase assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-govt-handing-over-public-sector-companies-to-two-three-richest-industrialists-rahul-gandhi-964439.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Fewer Covid-19 deaths in India during second wave, except in Punjab||Amid Covid-19's rapid resurgence in India, the death rates at the start of the second wave so far are the lowest since the beginning of the pandemic, barring Punjab, although experts caution that keeping it that way may be a challenge. The case fatality rate (CFR), which is the fraction of deaths among laboratory-confirmed Covid-19 cases, declined steadily from 1.75 per cent in July 2020 to 1.4 per cent in December and 0.79 per cent in February. The CFR for the country stays at 0.59 per cent between March 1-15, 2021. Punjab presents a completely different picture when it comes to Covid mortality. Since February 15, close to 500 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the northern state giving it a CFR of 4.5 per cent. Even the cumulative CFR for Punjab is 3 per cent as against India's 1.4 per cent. When asked whether the second wave is less virulent, senior virologist Shahid Jameel, a professor at Ashoka University said, “By and large this is true except in Punjab where the case fatality rate in this stage is at least double that of other states showing the surge. Tier 2 cities are already affected especially in Maharashtra and Punjab,” “Can this be due to circulating mutants? We don’t yet know,” Jameel told DH. On Friday, as many as 39,726 new Covid-19 infections were reported from all over the country — the highest single-day rise in 110 days, but mortality stays low. While active cases are up in 19 of the 20 most populous states, Maharashtra overtakes them all by miles. A central team that visited Maharashtra earlier this month mentioned in their report that though there were more infections, the cases were less virulent. In Punjab, like the rest of the country, the Covid numbers and CFR were low till the first half of February, then they started rising. Out of 154 new fatalities reported on Friday, 32 are from Punjab and 58 from Maharashtra. Observing that the epidemic was far from over, public health experts observed that it would be better to have a cautious approach on the mortality trend and more analysis would be needed. “The assessment of virulence must be after comparing age ranges — if younger persons are getting infected, we will see very few deaths. Re-infections also should be associated with fewer deaths,” veteran virologist T Jacob John, a former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fewer-covid-19-deaths-in-india-during-second-wave-except-in-punjab-964070.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||No threat to Amarnath yatra, all security measures being ensured: J&K DGP||Jammu and Kashmir's Director General of Police (DGP) Dilbag Singh on Friday said there is no threat to the upcoming Amarnath yatra and all necessary security measures are being undertaken. The 56-day long Amarnath yatra to the 3,880-metre high cave shrine in the south Kashmir Himalayas will commence on June 28 and culminate, as per tradition, on the day of Raksha Bandhan festival on August 22. "All security measures (for forthcoming Amarnath yatra) are being planned as per the past practice. All necessary security measure needed for the yatra will be ensured," Singh told reporters at a function. "There is a set drill and we know what kind of security is required on the highways, camps, community kitchens and on the twin tracks of Pahalgam and Baltal. The arrangements are being done on the same pattern," Singh said.  The DGP asserted that all requisite security arrangements will be put in place. Asked if there is any security threat to the yatra, the DGP said there is no such information. The Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) has fixed passage of 10,000 people to the cave shrine per day per route from Baltal and Pahalgam, thereby excepting over 7 to 8 lakh pilgrims.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-threat-to-amarnath-yatra-all-security-measures-being-ensured-jk-dgp-964082.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Lockdown in Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur on Sundays||In view of the spurt in coronavirus cases, the Madhya Pradesh government has announced lockdown in Indore, Bhopal and Jabalpur cities every Sunday till further orders, an official said here. The lockdown will be in force from Saturday 10 pm to Monday 6 am. Besides, all educational institutions will remain closed in these three cities till March 31, said a public relations department official on Friday. Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 1,140 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths. The decision of Sunday lockdown was taken at a meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, the official said. Essential services and industries will remain functional during the period, he said. People must wear masks not only for one's own safety but also for that of others, the chief minister said, and appealed people to follow social distancing and avoid going to crowded places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-in-indore-bhopal-and-jabalpur-on-sundays-964084.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||20 Delhi prisoners receive Covid-19 vaccine shot, no adverse event reported: Officials||Around 20 eligible prison inmates in Delhi have received their first jab of Covid-19 vaccine, officials said on Friday, adding none of them has reported any adverse event so far. The vaccination drive for prison inmates started on Thursday and 13 inmates got the shot on day one, and the rest on Friday, they said. According to a senior jail official, the inmates were taken out of the jail premises for the vaccination. "We spoke to the families of the inmates who were eligible for vaccination. If they had documents required for the registration, the jail authority asked their family members to send them on WhatsApp. Then, the inmates were taken to the nearest government hospital under the police guard for the vaccination," he said. Tihar Jail inmates were taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, while those from the Rohini Jail were taken to Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital and Mandoli Jail inmates to the GTB hospital, the officer said. A total of 326 inmates in the Delhi prisons are above 60, and over 300 are in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities. These two age categories of citizens are eligible for vaccination in the ongoing nationwide drive. "We are working to make in-house vaccination centres so that the inmates would not need to be taken out of the premises to get the shot," the official said. No inmate who has received the jab has reported any complication so far, they said. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, "We are identifying the eligible inmates and asking their willingness. We are also answering any queries that they have." The officials said there are several inmates who do not have the required documents for the vaccination process. "Due to which they were not selected for the shot. We are trying to figure out how they will be vaccinated," another official said. On March 1, the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the national capital. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-delhi-prisoners-receive-covid-19-vaccine-shot-no-adverse-event-reported-officials-964087.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Wearing 'ripped jeans', Delhi Mahila Congress workers protest against Uttarakhand CM||Members of the Delhi Mahila Congress staged a protest here on Friday wearing "ripped jeans" and raised slogans against Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat over his comment on the outfit. The protest themed 'torn jeans, visible knees do not guard my thinking' was led by Delhi Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan and was held at Connaught Place. "Instead of keeping an eye on our clothes, Uttarakhand chief minister should broaden his ideology and outlook," Dhawan said, expressing displeasure over Rawat's comment over women wearing "ripped jeans". Facing flak over his "ripped jeans" comment, Rawat on Friday said he apologises for the remark if it has hurt anybody. But at the same time, he repeated his objection to ripped jeans, saying he has no problem with jeans but wearing "torn" ones is "not right". Referring to his remark made earlier this week, Rawat told the media that he had commented that nowadays children bring a costly jean home and then cut it with a scissor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/wearing-ripped-jeans-delhi-mahila-congress-workers-protest-against-uttarakhand-cm-964103.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Congress in-charge for J&K to arrive in UT on 5-day visit today||All India Congress Committee (AICC) in-charge for Jammu and Kashmir Rajni Patil will arrive in the Union Territory on a five-day visit on Saturday to take stock of the current situation. Her visit comes in the wake of a section of Congress leaders in Jammu and Kashmir staging a protest against senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad during his recent visit to the Union Territory and another group extending support to the former chief minister. In a statement, the Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee (JKPCC) informed that Patil will take stock of the current situation in the Union Territory during her visit. She will review the organisational affairs and activities and interact with the party cadre in Pulwama at 12.30 pm and at the party office in Srinagar at 3 pm on Saturday, the statement said. On Sunday, Patil will interact with Congress workers at Lolab in Kupwara district, followed by an interactive session with the party cadre at the Baramulla Dak Bungalow at 3 pm. Ahead of Patil's visit, Jammu and Kashmir Congress chief G A Mir called upon senior party leader and Congress Working Committee (CWC) member Tariq Hameed Karra at his Srinagar residence. The meeting is being viewed as a step by Mir to seek the veteran leader's support in the wake of recent happenings in the party. The two leaders had a two-hour-long meeting, in which many political developments and organisational matters in Jammu and Kashmir and across the country came up for discussion. Both the leaders reiterated their solidarity towards the Congress leadership, another statement issued by the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-in-charge-for-jk-to-arrive-in-ut-on-5-day-visit-today-964127.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Fire in New Delhi-Lucknow Shatabdi Express, passengers safe||The generator car of the New Delhi-Lucknow Shatabdi Express caught fire at Ghaziabad railway station on Saturday early morning. There was no injury to passengers as the fire was limited to the generator car which was immediately separated from the rest of the train.   The fire incident occurred at 6:45 am and the train left for Lucknow at 8.40 am, a railway official said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-in-new-delhi-lucknow-shatabdi-express-passengers-safe-964176.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi records minimum temperature of 16.8 degrees Celsius||Delhi woke up to a clear sky on Saturday morning with the minimum temperature settling at 16.8 degrees Celsius, a Met official said. The maximum temperature is likely to be around 34 degrees Celsius, without any possibility of rain, he said. Strong surface winds with speed up to 20-30 km/h are expected on Sunday. Meanwhile, the air quality in the national capital was recorded in the "poor" category. The air quality index (AQI) was 293 as per the Ministry of Earth Sciences' SAFAR app. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor, 301-400 very poor and 401-500 severe, while an AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-records-minimum-temperature-of-168-degrees-celsius-964190.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Stone from Sri Lanka's Sita Eliya to be used in Ram temple||A stone from Sita Eliya, the place where Goddess Sita is believed to have been held as a captive by Ravana in Sri Lanka, will be used in the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The stone is expected to be brought to India by Sri Lankan High Commissioner to India Milinda Moragoda. "A stone from Sita Eliya in #SriLanka for the Ram Temple in #Ayodhya will be a pillar of strength for #India-#SriLanka ties. This stone was received at Mayurapathi Amman Temple by HC-designate of Sri Lanka to India HE Mr Milinda Moragoda in presence of the High Commissioner,” the Indian High Commission in Sri Lanka tweeted on Thursday. A temple in Sita Eliya is dedicated to Goddess Sita and is said to mark the place where she was held captive by the Lankan king Ravana and where she regularly prayed to Lord Rama for her rescue. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had last year performed the ‘bhoomi pujan’ of the Supreme Court-mandated Ram temple in Ayodhya, bringing to fruition the BJP's “mandir movement” that defined its politics for three decades and took it to the heights of power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stone-from-sri-lankas-sita-eliya-to-be-used-in-ram-temple-964196.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||First night flight takes off from Srinagar airport||In a first, a night flight operated from Srinagar Airport on Friday by Go Air to New Delhi at 1915 hours. The development comes after the air-safety teams of GoAir and IndiGo reportedly requested the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for permission to operate trial night flights from the Srinagar airport. Director Airports Authority of India, Srinagar, Santosh Dhoke said the evening flight of GoAir was the first trial flight and was held successfully. “It was a test flight and we are hopeful that regular night flights will begin from March 28,” he said. Several airlines are offering bookings for night flights to and from Srinagar beginning March 28. However, these companies are awaiting final approval from the Director-General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to start night operations. With the start of night operations of flights, the summer schedule will see a substantial increase in flights to J&K. Srinagar Airport is under the direct operational control of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which controls its air traffic and landing strip and also the facilities of fire-fighting and crash activities, apart from the airspace. J&K Principal Secretary Industries and Commerce, Ranjan Prakash Thakur who was present on the occasion greeted the crew of the flight and other ground personnel. Speaking on the occasion, he said that the start of the night operations from Srinagar is the dawn of a new era as it will improve air connectivity to Jammu and Kashmir. “This significant development will boost the tourism sector of J&K as it will increase the tourist footfall in the region,” Thakur said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-night-flight-takes-off-from-srinagar-airport-964228.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Woman cuts off man's genitals after he tries to rape her||A 45-year-old woman chopped off the genitals of a man, who had allegedly tried to rape her by sneaking into her house in Madhya Pradesh's Sidhi district, police said on Saturday. The incident occurred in Umariha village, approximately 50 kms from the district headquarters, around 11 pm on Thursday, they said. As per the complaint lodged by the woman, her husband had gone out of station for some work when the incident took place, Khaddi police outpost in-charge sub inspector (SI) Dharmendra Singh Rajput said. "The woman was at home with her 13-year-old son when the accused (45) entered their house. However, thinking that a thief had sneaked in, her son ran to safety out of the house," he said. Thereafter, the accused thrashed the woman and tried to sexually assault her. However, she resisted his attempt for over 20 minutes, he added. "In a bid to save herself, the woman picked up a sickle lying under her cot and cut off the man's genitals. The woman then reached the police outpost and lodged a complaint against him around 1.30 am on Friday," Rajput said. The police took the accused to a hospital for first aid, he added. "After that, he was shifted to Sidhi district hospital. As per the doctors' advice, he was later admitted to Sanjay Gandhi Medical College and Hospital in Rewa district for further treatment," he said. The accused has been booked under IPC section 354 (criminal force on woman with an intent to outrage her modesty), 456 (house-trespass or house-breaking by night), 294 (obscene acts), 506 (criminal intimidation) and others. However, the accused has also filed a complaint against the woman, Rajput said. "Based on his complaint, a case has been registered against the woman under IPC section 327 (voluntarily causing hurt)," Rajput said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-cuts-off-mans-genitals-after-he-tries-to-rape-her-964229.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||No infiltration, no ceasefire violations after Indo-Pak agreement on Line of Control||Stating that there has been zero infiltration on the Line of Control (LoC) this year, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbagh Singh Saturday said that no fresh ceasefire violation was reported after the recent peace agreement between Indo-Pak officials. “So far there is zero infiltration on the LoC in both Kashmir and Jammu regions. I would love to see zero infiltration throughout 2021,” Singh told reporters on the sidelines of inauguration of a cricket tournament, here. However, he said, that drugs are "a fresh gift” being sent from across the LoC. “Last year a large quantity of heroin was seized. We have constituted an Anti-Narcotics Task Force (ANTF) and this force is doing a good job. Drugs are being sent from Kashmir as well as Jammu borders,” the police chief said. He said the LoC is peaceful since a peace agreement between the officials of India and Pakistan last month as no ceasefire violation was reported since then. About active militants in Srinagar, Singh said some youth have joined militancy in the city as “radicaliaation is taking place by elements who are not happy with the peace.” “(But) the situation is not alarming. We have an ecosystem where we deal with such issues. As far as other districts, we will have to put our heads together where religious leaders, social activists have to play a role to ensure youth are kept away from the gun,” he said. The police chief said last year, three dozen youth, who had joined militancy were brought back while 12 youth surrendered during encounters with security forces. “Those who surrender will get all the dividends of good life,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-infiltration-no-ceasefire-violations-after-indo-pak-agreement-on-line-of-control-964247.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Doorstep ration delivery scheme will have no name: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said the doorstep ration delivery scheme of his government would not have any name, a day after the Centre red flagged 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' which was scheduled to start from March 25. "We will accept all conditions of the Centre but will not allow any obstruction in implementation of the scheme," Kejriwal asserted in a press conference. The Centre on Friday asked the Delhi government not to implement the 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna' saying it is "not permissible" to use subsidised foodgrain allotted under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) for a state scheme. The chief minister said a letter from the Centre on Friday noon informed that the doorstep delivery of ration scheme cannot be named 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojna'. "Perhaps they had objection over Mujhya Mantri word. We are not doing this for credit or to polish our names. So now the scheme will have no name. There will be a Cabinet meeting on Monday and its proposal will be sent to the Centre," he said. Kejriwal claimed it was very important for him to ensure ration delivery to poor people by removing ration mafia from the public distribution system. "We dreamt of this scheme for 20-22 years and I was personally preparing for it for last 2-3 years, so our hearts sank after receiving Centre's objection but now we will not let any obstruction come in its way and accept all their conditions." He said the doorstep delivery of ration was a revolutionary scheme in view of powerful mafia active in the field and hoped the scheme without any name would satisfy the Centre and it would have no objection now. Kejriwal was scheduled to launch the scheme with doorstep delivery of ration to 100 households in northeast Delhi's Seemapuri on March 25. The central government, however, said it would have no objection if the Delhi government came out with a separate scheme without mixing the elements of the NFSA. PTI VIT/GJS   AAR AAR||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/doorstep-ration-delivery-scheme-will-have-no-name-arvind-kejriwal-964281.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi parents protest near Chief Minister's residence to demand reopening of schools for primary students||A group of parents staged a protest near Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's residence here on Saturday, demanding that students of classes 1 to 8 be allowed back into schools. The protesting parents, led by the Delhi State Public Schools' Management Association, said that since anganwadis, courts, and classes from 9th till 12th standards have resumed functioning, the students of primary section should also be allowed back into schools. Chairman of the Delhi State Public Schools' Management Association R C Jain said the government should give the parents an option of sending their children to school along with continuing online teaching. "The government should issue an SOP that those who can and want their children to attend offline classes should follow some guidelines, and the rest can continue through online medium," Jain told PTI. He added that after over a year away from school, the children have become frustrated and their parents are also finding it difficult to go to their work and taking care of the child's education at the same time. Educational institutions in the national capital were shut in March last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. Phased reopening of educational institutions has begun in the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-parents-protest-near-chief-ministers-residence-to-demand-reopening-of-schools-for-primary-students-964291.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in tent at Singhu border: SKM||A fire broke out in a tent at Delhi's Singhu border where farmers have been protesting the Centre's three agri laws, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha claimed on Saturday. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, said the incident took place around 10 am near an under-construction flyover where the tent was put up. However, there was no official word about the incident from the police or the fire department. The tent was completely burnt, the Morcha, which is heading the agitation, said. A man was also injured while trying to extinguish the blaze. The tent was burnt after a cylinder caught fire, the SKM claimed. There were around 10 to 12 people inside the tent when the blaze broke out. Five mobile phones, twenty mattresses, 20 chairs and dry ration was destroyed, it said, adding that a fire tender from Kundali doused the fire. Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delh's borders points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws and make a new one that would ensure legal guarantee on the MSP. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-tent-at-singhu-border-skm-964298.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Jyotiraditya Scindia helps injured MP cop, video goes viral on social media||Congressman-turned-BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia on Saturday helped an injured policemen while on his way from Bhopal airport to Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's residence, a party functionary said. Incidentally, exactly a year ago, 22 Congress MLAs loyal to Scindia had rebelled against the party, quit the Assembly and joined the BJP, leading to the fall of the Kamal Nath government. "When his motorcade was on its way from the airport to the CM's residence where both are scheduled to have lunch together, Scindia saw a policeman injured after a fall and helped him. The policeman has been hospitalised," said party spokesperson Pankaj Chaturvedi. The policeman had sustained a minor injury on his forehead and a video of Scindia putting a handkerchief on the wound went viral on social media. Superintendent of Police (North) Vijay Khatri denied that the policeman was hit by one of the vehicles in Scindia's entourage. "He fell after feeling dizzy. Scindia helped him," the SP said. Meanwhile, the Congress, in protest against the way their government fell last year, observed 'Loktantra Samman Diwas' and held a 'Tiranga Yatra' across the state, said party spokesperson Bhupendra Gupta. Gupta said all Covid-19 norms were adhered to during the protest. State BJP media in charge Lokendra Parasar, however, tweeted that Saturday was "khushali diwas" (happiness day).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jyotiraditya-scindia-helps-injured-mp-cop-video-goes-viral-on-social-media-964307.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Over 800 Covid-19 cases in Delhi for first time this year, positivity rate breaches 1% mark again||Delhi reported over 800 Covid-19 cases for the first time this year on Saturday as the positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, while two more fatalities pushed the death toll to 10,955, as per data shared by the health department. The number of active cases rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago, according to the latest health bulletin. The new 813 cases pushed the infection tally to 6,47,161, of whom over 6.32 lakh people have recovered till date. On Friday, the city had recorded 716 cases while the count on Thursday was 607 and 536 on Wednesday. The two new fatalities took the toll to 10,955, while the positivity rate rose to 1.07 per cent from 0.93 per cent on Friday, the bulletin said. Delhi had recorded 425 cases on Tuesday. The cases have been steadily rising over the last few days. The positivity rate had been hovering below the 1 per cent-mark for over two months. A total of 77,888 tests, including 46,292 RT-PCR and 29,596 rapid antigen, were conducted on Friday, while the number of people under home isolation on Saturday rose to 1,722 from 1,624 a day ago, the bulletin said. Health experts and doctors have attributed this “sudden rise” in Covid-19 cases to people turning complacent, not following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and “assuming all is well now”. A total of 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 424 on January 3. The daily count had dropped to 306 on January 11 and risen again to 386 on January 12, according to official figures. The numbers had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. Asserting that the recent rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital was not a cause for worry, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said Thursday the city government had directed officials for stricter tracking, tracing and isolation of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-800-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-for-first-time-this-year-positivity-rate-breaches-1-mark-again-964313.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Himachal Congress MLA requests Speaker to fine CM for not wearing mask in Assembly||A Himachal Pradesh Congress legislator on Saturday requested Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur for not wearing a mask in the Assembly. On the last day of the Budget Session, Shillai MLA Harshwardhan Chauhan stated that a strong message of wearing masks to check the spread of COVID-19 should go to the public from this House.  When Chauhan made the demand, the speaker himself was without a mask.  A member from the treasury benches stated that the Congress legislator himself did not wear the mask properly. To this, Chauhan stated he wore the mask but pulled it down to his chin so as to speak. The entire matter ended in laughter. Earlier, Leader of the Opposition Mukesh Agnihotri stated that a fine of Rs 5,000 had recently been announced against those who did not wear masks in Una district.  The fine of Rs 5,000 cannot be justified, he said and demanded that the amount should be reduced and a decision on the matter should be taken at the state level. Replying to Agnihotri, Chief Minister Thakur said that a fresh coronavirus wave is spreading in the country as well as in Himachal Pradesh, necessitating strict adherence to guidelines, including wearing of masks. Acknowledging that the fine is heavy, Thakur said it ensures the public adhere to the direction of wearing masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-congress-mla-requests-speaker-to-fine-cm-for-not-wearing-mask-in-assembly-964322.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||M4 assault rifle being illegally manufactured somewhere in Pak, Afghanistan: JK DGP||Jammu and Kashmir Police chief Dilbagh Singh Saturday claimed that American assault rifle M4, which was among the seized weapons in the union territory recently, was being illegally manufactured somewhere in Pakistan or Afghanistan. He was giving details of the weapons which were smuggled in from Pakistan using drones and other means but seized by security forces along the border during 2020. "The weapons seized last year was huge, incomparable to what we have seized in previous years. In all, there were 475 weapons seized last year. The number was not even half of this in 2019," the top cop of the union territory said.  He said among the recoveries were pistols, AK assault rifles, M4 rifles, narcotics and cash as well. "M4 actually is an American rifle but there are duplicates manufactured somewhere in Pakistan or Afghanistan," he claimed.  Singh said drugs are being smuggled in from Pakistan using drones and other means.  "If I say the gift of narcotics substance is coming from there (Pakistan), it will become clear to you -- be it the Kashmir border, Rajouri-Poonch or Jammu Kathua Samba border. For some time now, narcotics are being dropped using the drones. The quantity of narcotics that has been seized is unprecedented. We are making our best efforts to counter this menace in an organised manner," he said.  Singh said a new wing -- anti narcotics task force -- has been set up in the Crime Branch to deal with the drug menace. On the infiltration of militants from Pakistan, the DGP said he would like to believe that it will remain low during this year as well. "I can't say whether it will rise with changing weather because the security grid is working effectively. But I believe that it will stay low as  there is a complete stop on ceasefire violations since the dialogue was resumed. We don't have any information about infiltration. If there are such attempts,  we are geared up to deal with it," he added.  On the missing army jawan Shakir Manzoor from Shopian district, Singh said "We don't know where he has been killed and buried. We are trying to trace his whereabouts. When we get to know something we will share it with his family."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/m4-assault-rifle-being-illegally-manufactured-somewhere-in-pak-afghanistan-jk-dgp-964330.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi court closes defamation case against Somnath Bharti after complainant accepts his apology||A Delhi court on Saturday closed a criminal defamation case against Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Somnath Bharti filed by a woman journalist in 2018 after she accepted his apology before the judge. The complainant, Ranjana Sharma, had filed the case against Bharti for calling her names during a live television debate show in 2018. After Bharti's apology, the complainant, represented by advocate Yogesh Swaroop, agreed to compound the case. "In view of the submissions made and statements of the parties recorded today, particularly statement of the complainant regarding compounding of the present complaint case against the accused, present complaint case stands disposed of as compounded,” Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Sachin Gupta said. The court also noted that in the present case, the notice for offence punishable under section 500 of IPC was framed against the accused, which is compoundable in nature. If convicted, Bharti could have faced a maximum of two-year jail term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-court-closes-defamation-case-against-somnath-bharti-after-complainant-accepts-his-apology-964359.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan ACP arrested for seeking sexual favours from rape survivor compulsorily retired||The Rajasthan government has compulsorily retired police officer Kailash Chand Bohra, an official order said Saturday, days after he was arrested for allegedly demanding sexual favours from a rape survivor for taking action in cases lodged by her. The action against 52-year old Bohra, who served the police department for 24 years and seven months, was taken under rule 53 (I) of the Rajasthan Civil Services (Pension) Rules 1996, and as per the recommendation of a high-level standing committee of the administrative reforms department, the order said. Bohra was posted as the Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) in the special investigation unit for crimes against women in the DCP East office. He was arrested from his office on March 14 by an Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) team. "The Governor is hereby pleased to compulsorily retire the said Shri Kailash Chand Bohra from service in public interest with effect from the date of receipt of this order by him," the order said. ACP Bohra had first demanded money from the woman, who had lodged three complaints including one of rape, ACB DGP B L Soni had said Sunday, adding that after the woman expressed her inability to give him money he allegedly began demanding sexual favours from her. Bohra was investigating these cases. The issue was also raised in the assembly by the opposition BJP on Monday. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal had assured the house that the offending officer would be terminated from the service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-acp-arrested-for-seeking-sexual-favours-from-rape-survivor-compulsorily-retired-964374.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Need to compile literature on Nath sect: Adityanath||Asserting that footprints of the Nath sect are present across the globe, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday said that there is a need to compile the literature available on it. "The Nath sect is very rich in terms of literature and followers. One could find signs of the Nath sect in countries like Pakistan, Afghanistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka," Adityanath said inaugurating the three-day-long seminar, “Global Contribution of Nath Panth”, at DDU Gorakhpur University on Saturday. "There is a need to assimilate and compile the literature on the Nath sect present in different parts of the world and the country," he added. The CM also emphasised on the role of educational institutions and universities in projecting cultural and spiritual heritage on the global platform. "The Hatha Yoga of the Nath sect emphasised on ‘kaya shuddhi’ (physical well-being) and ‘mann suddhi’ (mental and spiritual well-being)," Adityanath said, praising PM Narendra Modi for promoting Yoga across the globe. Adityanath said there are temples of the sect in Bangladesh’s Dhaka and Pakistan's Peshawar. "A Sikh family from Gorakhpur now living in Singapore went to Pakistan and saw a Nath sect temple in Peshawar, visited by Hindus and Muslims," he said. The UP chief minister said a seventh-century prince of Nepal, Ratan Nath, was a yogi of the sect and used to visit the Devipatan temple in Balrampur. "The Nath sect is not based on assumptions but on real experiences and there is no place of hypocrisy in the sect. Theories based on hearsay lead to ill practices and conservatism,” the CM said. He also inaugurated the first volume of the Nath sect encyclopedia which will be published in six volumes and in seven languages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/need-to-compile-literature-on-nath-sect-adityanath-964378.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||HP Assembly passes Bill giving honorarium to people jailed during National Emergency||The Himachal Pradesh Assembly on Saturday passed a Bill giving honorarium to people from the state who were imprisoned for social or political reasons during the National Emergency imposed in 1975. Eighty-one beneficiaries, called “Loktantra Prahris”, have so far been identified and they will be given Rs 8,000 in case of imprisonment up to 15 days. Those who spent over 15 days will be given Rs 12,000, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said introducing the Himachal Pradesh Loktantra Prahri Samman Bill, 2021. The CM said during the Emergency period from June 25, 1975 to March 21, 1977, several people fought for the protection of the fundamental rights and safeguarding the democracy. The state government has decided to give an honorarium to those who actively participated in the protection of democracy and went to jails. Spouses of the deceased “Loktantra Prahris” will also be eligible for the honorarium, he added. Thakur said a committee will be constituted to consider the claims of the applicants. A person who has been punished by a court on charges of moral turpitude will be ineligible for the honorarium, he said. During a discussion on the Bill, Congress MLA Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu suggested that people who were imprisoned during the Emergency for vandalism should not be given the honorarium. Sukhu demanded that the term “Loktantra Prahri” should be changed as it is a wider term which also includes people such as RTI activists and journalists. He also alleged that only people associated with the BJP will be given the honorarium. Thakur replied that the BJP was not in existence in 1975 and people from various ideological backgrounds, including journalists, who raised their voice against it will be given the honorarium, if eligible. During the period of the Emergency, democracy in our country was crushed, he said, adding that several states such as Rajasthan, Chattisgarh, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Maharashtra have enacted similar laws to honour those who spoke up against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hp-assembly-passes-bill-giving-honorarium-to-people-jailed-during-national-emergency-964394.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Nursery admissions: Delhi schools release first list, second list to be announced on March 25||Schools in the national capital on Saturday notified their respective first lists for admission to nursery classes which began in February after a two-month delay. The schools have put out their first list using the point-based criteria announced by them earlier. The Directorate of Education (DoE) has said that the private unaided recognised schools shall develop and adopt criteria for admission which shall be fair, reasonable, well-defined, equitable, non-discriminatory, unambiguous and transparent. The process for nursery admissions in over 1,700 schools in Delhi began from February 18, bringing respite for anxious parents who have been waiting for the notification for over two months. "The first list of selected children has been displayed today and will be followed by second list on March 25 and subsequent list for admission, if any, on March 27. The entire admission process will conclude on March 31," a senior DoE official said. The DoE has also directed that since schools are closed in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and physical class room learning is not going on for entry level classes at present, no fee except prescribed registration fee, admission fee, caution fee (if school already charges) and tuition fee, shall be charged at the time of admission by the schools and thereafter only tuition fee shall be charged from the students till further orders. Usually, nursery admissions in the national capital begin in the last week of November. The DoE releases guidelines and schools are asked to furnish required information, following which the application process is rolled out in December. However, there was no development on it in 2020. Delhi government officials in December had said that a proposal to scrap nursery admissions was being considered as the schools were closed for nine months due to the pandemic. But school principals had opposed this idea. As per norms, all private unaided recognised schools admitting children in pre-school, pre-primary and class-l level shall reserve 25 per cent seats for EWS or DG category students and children with disability. A monitoring committee has been constituted in each district under the chairmanship of the Deputy Director (District) concerned. The deputy director shall ensure that each private school uploads the criteria and their points on the online module and further ensure that the school shall not adopt those criteria which were abolished by the department and upheld by the Delhi High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nursery-admissions-delhi-schools-release-first-list-second-list-to-be-announced-on-march-25-964411.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Complete probe into pending cases of crime against women in shortest possible time: Ashok Gehlot to police||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed police to complete investigation in pending cases of crime against women in shortest possible time. He said cases of crime against women and SC/ST should be monitored at the level of chief secretary, DGP and principal secretary (home) in a time-bound manner. Gehlot said the state government's decision of filing an FIR on the basis of every single complaint lodged in police stations has led to an increase in the registration of crimes. "This decision has been widely appreciated and it has sent a positive message to the complainants," he said in a review meeting with Chief Secretary Niranan Arya and senior police officials. DGP ML Lather said in the meeting that the average time of investigation in rape cases has reduced to 122 days in 2019-20 as compared to 269 days in 2017-18. The chief minister also instructed the officials to take feedback from the lower level seriously and make efforts to improve the system. He also directed action against policemen who misuse their power. Referring to a case in which an RPS officer was arrested by the anti-corruption bureau for seeking sexual favours from a rape victim, Gehlot said strongest possible action should be taken against such policemen. He said police officers should investigate the case properly without any bias. Gehlot directed the officials to take steps towards increasing the representation of women in the Police Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/complete-probe-into-pending-cases-of-crime-against-women-in-shortest-possible-time-ashok-gehlot-to-police-964412.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Himachal Assembly passes Appropriation Bill; House adjourned sine die||The Himachal Pradesh Assembly was adjourned sine die after the House passed the Appropriation Bill, 2021, authorising the state government to spend Rs 53,500 crore from its consolidated fund to meet its expenses for the next fiscal. Speaker Vipin Singh Parmar said 16 sittings of the House took place during the Budget session, taking up more than 55 hours of time. The session had begun with the Governor address on February 26, a day marred by unruly scenes in the assembly complex when some Congress MLAs blocked Dattatraya's exit. Five Congress MLAs were suspended. Later, a compromise was reached and the MLAs’ suspension was revoked. Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur presented a budget of Rs 50,192 crore for 2021-22 on March 6. Parmar said answers to a total of 748 questions put by MLAs were tabled during the session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-assembly-passes-appropriation-bill-house-adjourned-sine-die-964428.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Over 46,000 people vaccinated in Delhi on Saturday, highest in a day||Over 46,000 beneficiaries received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Saturday, the highest in a day till date, officials said. In the age bracket 45-59 years, 4,794 beneficiaries received the shots, while 22,376 senior citizens also got their first jabs, a senior official said. A total of 46,769 people were vaccinated across 548 sites and two cases of minor AEFI (adverse events following immunisation) were recorded, officials said. "This is the highest number of single-day vaccinations achieved so far (in the city) since the starting of the Covid-19 immunisation drive on January 16," the official said. On Friday, 29,499 people had received jabs while on Thursday it was 40,564. "The sessions sites on Wednesday and Friday are fewer as dispensary-based sites are not functional," a senior official had said on Friday. Addressing a virtual press conference, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday had acknowledged the rise in coronavirus cases in the national capital in the last few days, but said it was not a matter of worry, even as he announced that capacity of inoculation daily in Delhi will be augmented from 30,000-40,000 to 1.25 lakh. He had also said the number of vaccination centres would be doubled to 1,000 from about 500 at present spanning both government and private facilities, and the closing time for vaccination would be extended, to run from 9 am to 9 am from 9 am to 5 pm currently. An order was also issued later by the government on the extension of timing, effective March 22. Under the nationwide mega vaccination drive launched mid-January, a total of 4,319 health workers, against a target of 8,117, were administered the shots at 81 centres across the city on day one. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, have been vaccinated in Delhi. Over 5,100 senior citizens in Delhi had received their first shots of the vaccine on March 1 when the second phase of the vaccination drive began in the national capital. According to official estimates, there are around 43 lakh people in the specified priority category of 60 years or above and those within 45-59 years with comorbidities in Delhi. People within the age group of 45-59 years with comorbidities are required to produce a comorbidity certificate signed by a registered medical practitioner. A total of 20 comorbidities have been specified for the vaccination, the officials said. People eligible for vaccination also have to carry their photo identity cards, including Aadhaar card, PAN card or voter card. On Saturday, second dose of vaccine was given to 14,100 people, officials said, adding, 3,151 frontline workers and 2,348 healthcare workers got their first shots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-over-46000-people-vaccinated-in-delhi-on-saturday-highest-in-a-day-964440.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Farmer leader Ugrahan tests positive for coronavirus||Farmer leader Joginder Singh Ugrahan, whose outfit is taking part in the stir against the Centre’s farm laws, has tested positive for coronavirus. The 75-year-old Bharti Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) president was tested for the infection on March 17 at a private hospital in Bathinda, said a doctor on Saturday. Ugrahan had complained of fever, said the doctor while talking to reporters in Bathinda. Meanwhile, the farmer leader in a video message said he is fine and will soon join the stir against the farm laws. “I fell sick a few days ago. Then I tested positive for coronavirus. I am fine. I will join you (protesting farmers) in a couple of days. There is no need to worry,” said Ugrahan in the video clip. BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokrikalan said Ugrahan is undergoing treatment at a hospital and he is fine. The faction led by Ugrahan is one of the biggest farmer bodies in Punjab and has been participating in the stir against the Centre’s farm laws at the Delhi borders. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmer-leader-ugrahan-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-964446.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Kejriwal to address Kisan Mahapanchayat in Punjab on March 21||AAP national convenor and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will address a Kisan Mahapanchayat in Punjab on Sunday in support of farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. The AAP, in a statement, said the Kisan Mahapanchayat will be held at Anaj Mandi, Bagha Purana and Moga. Kejriwal will also address a Kisan Mahapanchayat at Huda Maidan in Jind, Haryana on April 4. The chief minister earlier held a mahapanchayat in Uttar Pradesh's Meerut. "The Aam Aadmi Party has been with the farmers since the beginning. AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal will lend his voice to this pertinent issue at tomorrow's Kisan Mahapanchayat," the AAP said. The party has strongly come out in favour of the farmers protesting against the new farm laws and Kejriwal has visited the Singhu border twice and extended his support to the farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kejriwal-to-address-kisan-mahapanchayat-in-punjab-on-march-21-964451.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||Gehlot directs officials to fulfill budget proposals in time-bound manner||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday directed officials to prepare a model to fulfill budget announcement in a time-bound manner. Gehlot held a meeting of senior officials for monitoring the execution of the budget announcements and gave them necessary instructions. He said that the administrative department should divide the budget announcements in timeline and issue its approvals in a time-bound manner. Gehlot said that the review of the implementation of budget announcements will be held every week at the level of the principal secretary- finance, fortnightly at the level of the chief secretary and monthly at the level of the chief minister. Also, the ministers and senior officials will regularly review the implementation of the budget announcements, according to a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-directs-officials-to-fulfill-budget-proposals-in-time-bound-manner-964465.html
20-03-2021||North and Central||First T20: South Africa thrash India women by 8 wickets||South Africa rode Anneke Bosch's unbeaten 66 to crush India by eight wickets in the first T20 International here on Sunday. Batting first, India managed a below-par 130 for 6 with Harleen Deol contributing 52 off 47 balls and Jemimah Rodrigues chipping in with 30. In reply, Bosch (66 not out off 48 balls) and skipper Sune Luus (43 not out off 49 balls) added 90 runs for the second wicket to complete proceedings in 19.1 overs. Brief Scores: India Women: 130/6 in 20 overs (Harleen Deol 52 off 47 balls, Jemimah Rodrigues 30 off 27 balls). South Africa Women: 133/2 in 19.1 overs (Anne Bosch 66 not out off 48 balls).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-t20-south-africa-thrash-india-women-by-8-wickets-964467.html
20-03-2021||Opinion||Demonising intense women||Ever wondered why the fate of every free-thinking or intense woman in mainstream cinema or popular literature is doom? A sentenced life of misery, where she struggles to live till death, or a phoenix that rises from the ashes because she falters at the alters of patriarchy? Mythology is full of such examples. A woman strong and aware enough to articulate her attraction and physical desire to men is humiliated, spurned and has her nose, ears and breasts cut off. As a ‘punishment’ for being liberated enough. Surpankha is brutalised by the celebrated Lakshman, the devoted brother of ‘Purshottam’ Ram. Or Hidimba, abandoned and forgotten, despite being a powerful force herself, and reduced to have merely offered a strong progeny who was instrumental in the Mahabharata war. Ms Havisham, one of the most layered, broken, brittle, resentful yet mystifying characters in literature, meets the most brutal fate. Intense in her love, as she stops time, living like the dead, dead while living, thinks she will find resonance, peace and vindictive joy in watching other hearts break. She isn’t a villain, she is a woman who loved deeply, and was heartbroken till the very end. Frail, nursing the grief. Ideas of grief, intensity and love are demonised with the fate of characters we have seen. Similarly, a woman’s heartbreak is not met with empathy in mainstream Hindi cinema. Despite the heartbreak, she is expected to conform in marriage, forge relationships, and die within. Which sentence is worse? Any film from the 1960s-70s-80s, with plots of unrequited love — whether it is Kabhie Kabhie, Kaagaz Ke Phool or even Sholay and Muqaddar ka Sikander, and countless others, in each film, a woman nursing a broken heart is expected to go through life holding her grief close. And for no one else to see. Ambition is another trait that invites a curse. Lady Macbeth, doomed to be driven to insanity, because she was ambitious enough to convince Macbeth to kill King Duncan. In Vishal Bharadwaj’s outstanding adaptation of Macbeth, Maqbool, Tabu’s glorious Lady Macbeth is miserable in her marriage and is almost demonised for her desire to be with the man she loves. And her fate is that of death. Many would argue that these women fall under the societal themes of righteousness vs unrighteousness. And the fates of these women underlie those realities. However, there is something more sinister at the root of them all. Patriarchy. Intensely ambitious women, in narratives of the 1990s and 2000s, who refuse to let go of their ambitions to conform to patriarchally accepted lives, are filmed to be designated for failure, absence of love, resulting in mental health issues. Why must a woman have to choose between these? Why is her choice of following her ambition and desires a ticket to demonise her, and condemn her to trauma, and being broken? Films like Fashion, Heroine, Page 3 invite audiences to judge protagonists putting their ambitions first. Almost justifying the story arc of impending misery because of this choice that they make. We sentence the women to a life of unending misery, and within that indicate that the misery is because of the absence of an anchor (inevitably, a man), or a moral compass — one designed by patriarchy. Hark back to the 1960s-70s. The vamp was the vamp because she was in control of her body and sexuality. Openly and intensely showing allegiance to the men she was attracted to, made love to them, seduced them, enjoyed her sexuality. This, by patriarchal standards, was the ‘loose’ woman. For exactly these traits of hers. Never to be happy, only to be used (by protagonists for their gains, the anti-heroes for glamour, and as cinema tropes for objectification). Only the women who conformed to the ideas of patriarchy found a future with the men they loved. The vamp was fated to be abandoned, killed, or ‘reformed’. Abandoning the idea of agency and body from the woman herself. Demonised for her liberation. While women are accused of feeling too much (which, in itself, is a basic human trait that is a strength, evoking empathy and solidarity), they are often demonised for it. The everyday language of boys and men being asked to ‘man up’ includes not crying and feeling less. Since feeling emotions is itself equated to femininity, and therefore shameful. Why is intensity celebrated in male protagonists, often relishing in the oppression of the woman in the name of intensity (a deeply problematic and widely celebrated trait — Kabir Singh, for instance) but demonised in women? A woman is considered to be ‘mad’ if she’s not submissive — and loving intensely, passionately, sexually and emotionally— while a man is considered to be passionate while genuinely being oppressive and unable to register consent. A woman is considered ‘loose’ when she explores her sexuality, while men being in multiple relationships with multiple women is celebrated as being macho. These notions are embedded in our conscience, by repeated reinforcements in cinema and literature. That the fate of single, liberated, strong, passionate, sexually-aware women is that of misery, doom and death. Narratives and depictions must change. Each character is political and must be evaluated with the same lens. And more women’s voices are needed as characters are built in cinema and literature. Only then will we find intense, single women, flourishing in the choices they make. And battling greater complex questions than the absence of a man, which, in fact, is an active choice. (The writer is a poet, gender activist and ad-woman)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/demonising-intense-women-964212.html
20-03-2021||South||Filing of nominations closes for Tamil Nadu polls||The filing of nominations for the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu ended on Friday with over 6,300 candidates filing applications to contest from 234 constituencies . As many as 6,357 candidates, including 5,398 men, 956 women and three transpersons, filed their nominations to contest the polls, as per data hosted on the official website of the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu at 9.40 pm on Friday and the final tally may increase. AIADMK top leaders Chief Minister K Palaniswami (Edappadi), Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam (Bodinayakkannur) have already filed their nominations. DMK President M K Stalin (Kolathur), DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin (Triplicane-Chepauk), Makkal Needhi Maiam President Kamal Haasan (Coimbatore-South) are among the star candidates. BJP state unit Chief L Murugan and actor-politician, Khushbu Sundar (BJP-Thousand Lights) are the other prominent candidates who have filed their nominations. While the AIADMK is eyeing a straight third term in office, the DMK is leaving no stone unturned to return to power after a 10-year hiatus. The BJP and PMK are AIADMK's key allies while Congress, CPI(M), CPI and VCK are among the constituents of the DMK. Karur segment witnessed the highest of 90 nominations and constituencies of Ranipet and Cheyyur, the lowest with eight nominations. The submission of nominations to contest from Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency, where bypoll has also been scheduled on April 6, as many as 19 nominations were received. In Kanyakumari applications were received including that of nominations of Congress party's Vijayakumar V alias Vijay Vasanth and BJP's Pon Radhakrishnan. Nominations will be scrutinised on March 20 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature is March 22. Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu, Satyabrata Sahoo said over 2,44,000 forms have been received, seeking to utilise the postal ballot option and this includes 1,59,849 applications from people aged 80 and above. Police and polling personnel, persons with disabilities, senior citizens aged 80 and above, people affected by Covid-19 and those in essential services are the category of people who could choose the postal ballot option.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/filing-of-nominations-closes-for-tamil-nadu-polls-964074.html
20-03-2021||South||Congress-led UDF releases 'People's manifesto', promises homes to poor, Rs 2,000 pension for homemakers||The Opposition Congress-led UDF on Saturday released its manifesto for the April 6 assembly polls, promising Rs 2000 'pension' for homemakers, Rs 72,000 annually to the poor under 'Nyay Yojana' and five lakh homes for the underprivileged. It also assured creation of a Peace and Harmony department akin to that run by the Rajasthan government and five kg free rice for white ration cardholders. The manifesto was released by UDF leaders, including the Front Chairman Ramesh Chennithala, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC President Mullapally Ramachandran. AICC General Secretary Tariq Anwar was also present. The manifesto, banking on the Nyay yojana, the minimum income guarantee scheme, proposed by senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, assured Rs 72,000 annually to the poor, who have been hit hard during the Covid-19 pandemic and the two consecutive floods in 2018-19. The UDF, if voted to power, would give food kits free of cost to all, as also 100 units of electricity every month, it said. Wooing women voters, the manifesto guaranteed Rs 2,000 monthly pension to homemakers between the age of 40-60, while those working in the unorganised sector would be entitled to six months maternity leave. Unemployed women from Scheduled Tribe community would be given Rs 3,000 for six months post delivery and a two year age relaxation for mothers appearing for exams for government jobs. Women entrepreneurs will be given Rs 10 lakh interest- free loan. "Housewives aged between 40-60, who do not come under the Nyay scheme, launched by the Congress in 2019, will be entitled for the Rs 2,000 monthly pension. We will provide free food kits for all those who are affected by the pandemic and 'no bill hospitals' will be opened," Manifesto committee chairman Benny Behanan, MP, said. In an effort to reach out to Ayyappa devotees, UDF promised a special law to protect the traditions of the Sabarimala temple, which had witnessed violent incidents after the state government decided to implement the Supreme Court verdict of 2018, allowing women of all age groups to offer worship. As per temple tradition, women in the 10-50 age group are barred from trekking to the shrine of Lord Ayyappa, a celibate. The "people's manifesto" also said that the social welfare pensions would be raised to Rs 3,000 and a Welfare Pension Commission would be formed. The ruling LDF had on Friday announced pension for homemakers and had hiked the social security pension to Rs 2,500 from the present Rs 1,600. Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP, Shashi Tharoor, who played a major role in compiling the "demands and expectations of people from various sections of society", told the media that UDF will form a Peace and Harmony Department. "In order to put an end to the rising communal and political violence and to spread happiness, a Rajasthan model department of Peace, Harmony and Happiness will be formed here," he said. The UDF 's aim is to make Kerala a knowledge hub and a review committee, comprising academicians, students and parents, would be formed. "The primary concern is employability. Then we need to remove the digital divide," he added. The manifesto also announced that five kg free rice would be given to white ration card holders. In Kerala ration cards are colour coded and white card holders are non-priority, above the poverty line section of society. Then there are Blue card holders above the poverty line, which is also a nonpriority but subsidised Above Poverty Line (APL). The Pink Card and Yellow card are for families below the poverty line (BPL) and carry subsidies and other benefits. Behnan said the Minimum Support Price of rubber will be increased to Rs 250, paddy to Rs 30 and coconut to Rs 40, Behnan said.  He also said that a special agriculture budget would be presented. To focus on the education sector, the manifesto plans to collaborate with foreign universities, Nobel laureates and other renowned personalities to make Kerala an educational hub. Other than packages to tourism sector and other small scale industrial sectors, the poll document also plans to create Miyawaki-model small forests to increase the green cover in urban areas. Chennithala said discussions were held with people from different sections of society over the past six months to draw up the manifesto. "The manifesto is a Bible, Quran and (Bhagavad) Gita as far as the UDF is concerned", he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-led-udf-releases-peoples-manifesto-promises-homes-to-poor-rs-2000-pension-for-homemakers-964251.html
20-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu govt announces closure of schools for standard 9, 10, 11 from March 22||With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sudden surge in coronavirus cases over the last few days, the state government on Saturday ordered closure of schools for classes 9, 10 and 11 from March 22 until further orders. However, they would continue to function for the 12th standard students for they have to take the board examination. Notifying the closure, the government said the director of public health and preventive medicine has recommended that it would not be advisable to continue classes for 9, 10 and 11 from the health point of view as there has been a rise in Covid-19 cases. With regard to 12th standard, the director said the students may be permitted to attend school as their numbers would be lesser and they have to sit for the board examination with strictly adherence to preventive measures such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing. "The government of Tamil Nadu hereby order that schools shall be closed for classes 9th, 10th and 11th with effect from March 22 until further orders," state Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan said in the order. However, online/digital mode of education shall continue for classes 9, 10 and 11, he said. Further, hostels too would be closed. Announcing relaxations in lockdown rules, the government had permitted the re-opening of schools for 10 and 12 classes from January 19 this year and for 9 and 11 from February 8 after a year, permitting also the re-opening of hostels for those students. The government allowed conducting board exam for class 10 other than Tamil Nadu State Board as scheduled by those boards besides conduct of special classes to students appearing for the board exam for class 10 and also the functioning of hostels for those students. While teachers and students were found infected at a school in Chennai, about 55 students besides a teacher at a girls' school in Thanjavur were admitted to the government hospital recently after testing positive for Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-govt-announces-closure-of-schools-for-standard-9-10-11-from-march-22-964255.html
20-03-2021||South||Senior CPI leader C A Kurian passes away||Veteran CPI leader, trade unionist and former Deputy Speaker of Kerala Legislative Assembly, C A Kurian, died at his residence in Munnar on Saturday due to age-related ailments, party sources said. Kurian, 88, is survived by three children. A senior leader of the AITUC, trade union wing of the CPI, he represented Peermade constituency thrice in the state Assembly. Beginning his political career as the trade union activist in 1960, Kurian was jailed for several months for leading the agitation of plantation workers. Hailing from Puthuppally in Kottayam district, Kurian entered the politics after quitting the job in the bank. Elected to the state Assembly in the elections held in 1977, 1980 and 1996, Kurian occupied the chair of Deputy Speaker of the state Assembly during the period of 1996 and 2001. Condoling the demise of Kurian, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the departed leader fought for the rights of the plantation workers in the state. The CM also recalled the contribution in improving the lives of people living in the hill district of Idukki.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/senior-cpi-leader-c-a-kurian-passes-away-964294.html
20-03-2021||South||Kerala CM flays BJP candidate's act of paying floral tribute at Left's Punnapra memorial||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday flayed a BJP candidate's act of paying floral tributes at the famous Punnapra Vayalar Smriti memorial in Alappuzha, jointly managed by the CPI(M) and CPI, saying it was intended to destroy peace and harmony in the region. "This should not have happened as the memorial is associated with the sentiments of the communists. The aim of the BJP candidate was to destroy peace and harmony and provoke Left workers. "The candidate should not have done that. But CPI(M) workers kept their cool and I appreciate them for that", he told reporters at Cheruthuruthyin Thrissur district. The memorial, built to honour the Communists killed during their movement against the 'misrule' of Sir C P Ramaswami Iyer, the prime minister of erstwhile Princely state of Travancore in 1946, is maintained by the CPI(M) and CPI. The BJP nominee from Alappuzha assembly constituency, Sandeep Vachaspati, had paid floral tributes and raised "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan at the place on Friday. The CPI(M) on Saturday expressedstrong protest against the act of the BJP candidate, who "trespassed" into the memorial. In a tweet, CPI(M) leader S Ramachandran Pillai said the act amounted to "insulting" the martyrs of the Punnapra Vayalaruprising and hurting the sentiments of those who rever the legacy of the struggle. CPI district secretary T J Anjalose had on Friday filed a police complaint against Vachaspati. The BJP candidate said the memorial was the symbol of "the biggest betrayal" by Communist leaders who had fled the scene after forcing their innocent followers from Scheduled Castes and backward communities to face the guns of the Army. C P Ramaswamy Iyer, who had opposed Travancore joining the Indian union, was forced to leave the kingdom as a result of the uprising in Punnapra Vayalar. The Communists have alleged that hundreds were massacred by the military and henchmen of Travancore rulers, in alliance with "British imperialists" in Punnapra Vayalar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-flays-bjp-candidates-act-of-paying-floral-tribute-at-lefts-punnapra-memorial-964304.html
20-03-2021||South||AP SEC files plea in HC seeking CBI probe into 'leak of privileged communication' between him and Guv||Andhra Pradesh State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar filed a petition in the High Court on Saturday seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged leak of "privileged communication" between him and the Governor. The SEC also mentioned about the motion of breach of privilege moved by two ministers against him to the Assembly Speaker, "based on one such privileged communication between me and the Governor", and a subsequent letter addressed to him by the Legislature Secretary in the matter. He named the Union Home Secretary, AP Chief Secretary, the Governor's Secretary, CBI, state ministers P Ramachandra Reddy and Botcha Satyanarayana (both of whom moved the motion of privilege) and a private person as respondents in the petition. The SEC pointed out that as the state government has been trying to interfere with the conduct of elections, he had approached the Governor on several occasions for redressal of issues through confidential letters. "The letters are written in strict confidence and are not for public consumption and ought not to have leaked to the general public or media. However, these confidential and privileged communications are constantly being brought into the public domain by certain individuals having vested interest," the SEC said. Ramesh Kumar, while citing certain communication between him and the Governor since January this year, submitted that such communications were supposed to be protected against all possible leaks. Referring to a private person, whom he made a respondent in the case, the SEC pointed out that a petition was filed in the High Court based on a letter he had written to the Governor on March 12. "This respondent does not disclose the source from which he obtained such privileged communication and chose to rely upon it to seek a Mandamus against me," the SEC added. Noting that such communications were between two constitutional bodies, the SEC referred to certain judgments of various courts in this regard. "Leakage of such communications had severely hampered the functioning of the petitioner (SEC) and if such trend is allowed to continue, it will have serious consequences in the democratic polity and governance. It would hamper functioning of the constitutional bodies and, hence, is liable to be dealt with an iron fist," Ramesh Kumar contended. The SEC said he made several requests to the Chief Secretary and the Secretary to the Governor to investigate into the leak of "privileged and confidential communication". "However, the Secretary to the Governor failed to act upon the requests," he added. Ramesh Kumar requested the court to direct the Union Home Secretary, AP Chief Secretary, Secretary to Governor and the CBI to investigate the leak of privileged communication. He made a plea that the court direct the CBI to file an interim report within 72 hours. Taking up the petition, Justice Rao Raghunandan Rao of the High Court asked the registry to refer it to the Chief Justice for appropriate listing and hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ap-sec-files-plea-in-hc-seeking-cbi-probe-into-leak-of-privileged-communication-between-him-and-guv-964360.html
20-03-2021||South||Telangana contests Centre's 17.6% vaccine wastage charge; pegs it at under 1%||The Telangana government is disputing the Centre's charge that the state is wasting over 17% of the Covid-19 vaccine doses — the highest in the country. The K Chandrasekhar Rao government is pegging the wastage at only 0.62%, the lowest in the country. In his virtual review on the resurging pandemic with the chief ministers on Wednesday, Prime Minister Modi Narendra Modi flagged the issue of vaccine wastage, particularly in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh where it is 17.6 and 11.6%, as per the ministry of health and family welfare. Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka follow with wastage of 9.4% and 6.9%. The national average is 6.5%. However, Telangana health officials are presenting a different picture altogether. “Telangana was issued 9,58,280 doses, out of which 40,540 were provided to the armed forces and 14,420 are the buffer doses with the vaccination centres for advance scheduling. Thus, against the 9,03,320 doses, the state has administered 8,97,687 doses as per the Cowin dashboard. Vaccine wastage is only 0.62% in Telangana,” a statement from Srinivas Rao director, public health and family welfare said, providing the status as of Friday at 9.00 pm. Vaccine wastage is the reference to the squandered vials, unutilised doses. According to the experts, the main reason for the wastage in the present immunisation drive is several doses from an opened vial left unconsumed for the lack of recipients. A vial opened should be discarded after four hours. “So, if a vial meant for 20 persons is opened in the evening and there are only 4-5 recipients left for that day, the rest goes waste. And in some vaccine centres, the turnout is often low – about 50-60% of the total persons registered for the dose that day,” Dr K Ramababu, Andhra Pradesh state nodal officer for Covid-19 tells DH. Cautioning the states on the wastage, PM Modi has called for proper planning and a strict monitoring mechanism for optimum utilisation. “Yes, we need to devise some local-level strategies like keeping few younger persons outside the present eligibility range in reserve, so that the doses are not discarded if the intended recipients are not showing up,” Dr Rambabu, a general physician, says. The second phase of immunisation launched on 1 March is presently covering senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with co-morbid conditions. Meanwhile, fresh cases are spiralling once again in the two Telugu states. Andhra Pradesh has reported 380 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the highest number this year. Telangana has recorded 364 new cases on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-contests-centres-176-vaccine-wastage-charge-pegs-it-at-under-1-964370.html
20-03-2021||South||DMK chief M K Stalin interacts, poses questions to people a la Jayalalithaa||"Will you make the Secular Progressive Alliance candidates win the polls?" DMK president M K Stalin asked the people in his campaign trail here on Saturday, engaging their attention a la late AIADMK supremo J Jayalalithaa. The April 6 Assembly polls was not only to usher in a regime change but also to shatter the dreams of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah, he said. Stalin alleged that the top two BJP leaders dreamt of stoking communal passions and ruin the country. To end such designs, he exhorted the electorate to vote for the DMK and its allies. The top Dravidian party leader listed creation of job opportunities, protection of state's rights and retrieval of 'lost' rights and asked people to repeat such issues and they did. To achieve these goals, "for which front" the people must vote, Stalin asked and answered them specifying his party-led Secular Progressive Alliance. "Which front?" he posed again and asked people to repeat, "the DMK-led combine, the SPA." Mentioning the names of candidates of his party and that of ally Congress's nominee in this region, he asked them:"Will you make the Secular Progressive Alliance candidates win the polls? for sure? a promise?" to which the enthusiastic crowd replied in the affirmative. Former Chief Minister and late AIADMK matriarch J Jayalalithaa is noted for her engaging campaign style and her emphatic line, "Will you do it? (Vote for AIADMK and trounce opponents) reverberated in Tamil Nadu during the previous polls. The DMK had all along accused the AIADMK of compromising the state's rights and for being subservient to the BJP-led Centre. Earlier, addressing a public meeting at Thakkalai in Kanyakumari district, Stalin said history showed that only the combine led by his party has secured a 'complete victory' in the district. "The history should continue," he said and recalled the initiatives taken up during his party-led rule in the past. The DMK chief said he graduated to the top position in the party, step by step, after decades of work which started when he was only 14-years-old. Alleging that a tender, worth crores of rupees, of the highways department was awarded to a relative of Chief Minister K Palaniswami in violation of rules, Stalin demanded an answer from the CM on the matter. Palaniswami has already rubbished such allegations as false and unfounded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-chief-m-k-stalin-interacts-poses-questions-to-people-a-la-jayalalithaa-964393.html
20-03-2021||South||Rude shock for NDA: Nominations of BJP candidates rejected in Thalassery, Guruvayur, ally AIADMK's in Devikulam||In a setback to the BJP-led NDA in Kerala, the nomination papers of its candidates from Thalassery, Guruvayur and Devikulam constituencies for the April 6 Assembly polls were rejected by the Returning Officers after scrutiny. The rejection of nominations of party candidates in Thalassery in Kannur district and Guruvayur in Thrissur district has come as a rude shock for the BJP, which is seeking to emerge as an alternative to both the CPI(M)-led LDF and UDF headed by the Congress in Kerala. In Devikulam in Idukki district, BJP ally, AIADMK's candidate R M Dhanalakshmi's nomination was reportedly rejected for submitting an incomplete form along with the nomination papers, sources said. The nominations of the BJP candidates in Thalassery and Guruvayur were rejected for want of mandatory documents, they said. BJP's Kannur district president N Haridas was the party's candidate for Thalassery. With the rejection of nomination, the party has no candidate in the fray in Thalasserry where it had secured the highest number of votes,(22,215) in the north Kerala district, considered a bastion of the CPI(M),in the 2016 Assembly polls. Haridas said the party will move the Supreme Court challenging the decision of the Returning Officer. Talking to reporters, he said there was only a "minor mistake" --lacking a signature--in his papers but the returning officer did not agree with it. "We were asked to provide before 3 pm.Although we had provided it online, it was not accepted," he said. BJP's Guruvayur candidate Nivedita, who is the president of the party's state Mahila Morcha, claimed there was only a minor technical error in her nomination but the returning officer refused to give a relaxation. She said she would fight it legally. BJP sources said the party does not have dummy candidates in Guruvayur and Thalassery, while the nomination of AIADMK's dummy candidate was rejected at the time of submission. The CPI(M) alleged that with the rejection of nomination of the NDA candidates in three constituencies, it will create a situation of trading of BJP votes in favour of the Congress-led UDF in these constituencies. The Congress hit back, saying the NDA candidates submitted the incomplete nomination papers for helping the CPI(M) in the elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rude-shock-for-nda-nominations-of-bjp-candidates-rejected-in-thalassery-guruvayur-ally-aiadmks-in-devikulam-964397.html
20-03-2021||South||BJP will reach double digits in TN, says CT Ravi||BJP National General Secretary CT Ravi, who is in charge of the poll-bound Tamil Nadu, said the saffron party will “reach the double-digit” and that the AIADMK-led alliance will return to power.  The BJP is fielding its candidates in 20 seats as part of its alliance with the AIADMK. Tamil Nadu goes to polls on April 6. “This election will be futuristic for the BJP keeping in mind the party’s growth,” Ravi told reporters. “The AIADMK-led combination is better than the DMK-led combination. We’re telling people to choose between democratic values of the AIADMK-headed NDA or corruption, goonda politics, land grabbing mafia of the DMK-led alliance. People are saying ‘venda’ (no) to the DMK-led alliance,” Ravi said.  While the BJP will focus on the victory of all candidates of the alliance, Ravi said the saffron party was specially focussing on the 20 seats where it has fielded people on its symbol. “The feedback from citizens is that we've fielded good candidates. So, certainly, this will benefit us,” he said. “Our aim is to reach the double digits and we will.”  ‘AIADMK unhappy’ AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao said even the AIADMK was not keen on allying with the BJP. “Still, forcibly they have entered an understanding,” he said. “Those who speak against (BJP) are subjected to raids. They have control on the media as well. They’re using such crooked methods to come to power,” Rao said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-will-reach-double-digits-in-tn-says-ct-ravi-964403.html
20-03-2021||South||Former PM PVN Rao's daughter wrests Hyderabad-Mahbubnagar-Ranga Reddy graduate MLC seat from BJP||Former Prime Minister PV Narasimha Rao's daughter Surabhi Vani Devi has won from the Hyderabad-Mahbubnagar-Ranga Reddy graduate MLC constituency. Devi contested as the ruling TRS party's candidate and defeated the sitting MLC Ramchander Rao of the BJP in a drawn-out counting process of four days. The MLC election results have halted the BJP's electoral success in Telangana lately. The BJP had seized the Dubbaka constituency from the TRS in the November bye elections. The saffron party has made major gains in Hyderabad too, improving its municipal corporation presence from four to 48 wards in the December polls. Though the BJP had no big expectations in Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, where it is in fourth position, the debacle in Hyderabad-Mahbubnagar-Ranga Reddy has disappointed the state leadership. Analysts and party leaders believe that the candidature of late PVN Rao's daughter has tilted the result in the TRS' favour. Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has been of late hailing the former PM's “wide and immense contributions for the nation” and in June last year kick started PV's birth centenary year. KCR even asked the centre to confer the Bharat-Ratna posthumously up on the son of the soil. Former MLC and renowned political analyst Prof K Nageshwar, who contested as an independent, came in third position. In Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda, sitting MLC Rajeshwar Reddy is leading by a comfortable margin. TV presenter and independent candidate Naveen Kumar alias Teenmaar Mallanna, who regularly challenges the TRS establishment with his popular satirical videos on social media, is in the second position. Telangana Jana Samithi chief Prof M Kodandaram and BJP candidate Premender Reddy were in third and fourth positions. The Congress party is relegated to the fringes. “BJP understands that in elections 'we win some & we lose some'. (But) a remarkable outcome of this election is, the Congress party is wiped out of the electoral ecosystem of Telangana. It seems has quit even putting up a fight. It is evident that the future electoral battles in Telangana will be between BJP and TRS only,” said Krishna Saagar Rao, Chief Spokesperson, BJP Telangana. With the MLC results out, political parties in Telangana are preparing for the Nagarjuna Sagar assembly bye poll scheduled on 17 April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-pm-pvn-raos-daughter-wrests-hyderabad-mahbubnagar-ranga-reddy-graduate-mlc-seat-from-bjp-964408.html
20-03-2021||State||Rs 17-crore GST evasion unearthed in Mangaluru; two held||The officers of Mangaluru CGST (Office of Commissioner of Central Excise and Central Tax), Preventive Unit on Friday unearthed a GST evasion case of around Rs 17 crore. Two persons have been arrested in this connection. The sleuths attached to CGST preventive wing analysed documents and digital returns filed by some traders. The analysis indicated that an organised group was issuing invoices without the actual supply of arecanuts. Searches were conducted in Sirsi, Puttur, Mangaluru, Chitradurga and other places. Many premises were found not existing, completely empty or without any furniture/computers/records, indicating that the premises were being used only as a front to get registration under GST and carry out their illegal activities. The arrested. Suresh Chatrabhoja Bhanushali and Shridhar Hegde, have been remanded in judicial custody till April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/rs-17-crore-gst-evasion-unearthed-in-mangaluru-two-held-964069.html
20-03-2021||State||Corporate honchos dash for government fellowship||Top corporate minds will soon channel their inputs on improving public policy in Karnataka, thanks to a new initiative. Over 500 mid-career professionals have applied for the Indian Administrative Fellowship (IAF), a programme through which the state government will tap into the talent pool available in large multinationals for policy implementation.  Twelve fellows will be selected finally and from July they will spend 18 months rubbing shoulders with senior bureaucrats and policymakers to work on projects as diverse as sustainable development goals (SDG), agriculture, rural development and e-Governance.  Karnataka is the first state to accept the IAF, which is being anchored by Bengaluru-headquartered nonprofit The/Nudge Foundation.  The IAF coincides with the Centre’s move to bring in specialists from the private sector to the posts of joint secretary and director in various departments.  “To my mind, this is a first-of-its-kind initiative,” Rural Development & Panchayat Raj principal secretary L K Atheeq, a former senior adviser to the World Bank, told DH. “Increasingly, public policy is becoming an attractive field for the private sector. Also, given the staff shortage in the government, it’ll help us.”   Under IAF, Atheeq will work with corporate executives on implementation of metering, billing and collection of water supply in Gadag, Koppal, Chamarajnagar and Hassan.  Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar himself will engage with corporate executives on governance redesign, and so will other senior bureaucrats on areas such as post-harvest value chain, rural livelihood, agritech and administrative reforms.  The last date to apply for the IAF is March 21. “But going by the overwhelming response, we’re thinking of extending the application date,” Mohit Chelani, the IAF programme manager, said. “We have received more than 500 applicants, and they are mostly from vice-presidents, general managers and CXOs of large organisations.”   The average experience of the applicants is 18+ years, Chelani pointed out.   The 18-month fellowship will offer a stipend of up to Rs 20 lakh per annum.  “The idea is to augment capacity in the government, which is chasing problems of mammoth scale. This marriage of senior stakeholders from the private sector with administrators is a win-win situation,” Chelani said.  The/Nudge is in the process of taking the IAF to other states. By 2025, there will be 100 such fellows working with various state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/corporate-honchos-dash-for-government-fellowship-964080.html
20-03-2021||State||Candidate defeated in MyMUL elections dies by suicide||K C Balaram, who was defeated in recently concluded elections for MyMUL, dies by suicide. According to the sources, Balaram died in a hospital in Bengaluru. Balaram, who also served as MyMUL director, was under depression as he was defeated in the election and thus took the extreme step.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/candidate-defeated-in-mymul-elections-dies-by-suicide-964234.html
20-03-2021||State||Three women rescued from brothel in Mysuru district||Mysuru district police, led by Additional Superintendent of Police R Shivakumar, rescued three women from a brothel. The police raided a prostitution centre at Kamanakeri Hundi village coming under Mysuru South Police limits. The rescued women, including two from northern India, are shifted to a rehabilitation centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/three-women-rescued-from-brothel-in-mysuru-district-964261.html
20-03-2021||State||Bypolls: Suspense on who will get BJP’s Belgaum ticket ||The BJP core committee on Saturday authorized state president Nalin Kumar Kateel to finalize tickets for the upcoming bypolls, even as there seems to be no consensus on who the candidate should be for the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat.  A section of party leaders is of the opinion that the Belgaum ticket should be given to someone from the late Suresh Angadi’s family. Angadi was a union minister when he died September last, necessitating the bypoll.  Speculation is rife that Angadi’s daughter Shradha is in the race for the ticket, alongside Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath and Dr Girish Sonwalkar, a medical professional who is said to have RSS roots.  “We don’t know what the central leadership will decide,” BJP national general secretary CT Ravi told reporters after the core committee meeting. “The aspiration of (Angadi’s) family has been conveyed.” Revenue Minister R Ashoka also told reporters that Angadi’s family cannot be ignored. “The family has been with the BJP for a long time. Having said that, the BJP has always preferred loyal party workers (for tickets),” he said.  Bypolls for the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Maski and Basavakalyan assembly seats are scheduled on April 17. Ravi said Kateel had been authorized to recommend the list of candidates to the party’s central leadership.  For Maski, the BJP is most likely to field disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil. He won the 2018 polls on a Congress ticket, but defected to the BJP leading to his disqualification and this bypoll. “Naturally, (Patil) was the sitting MLA who resigned and came (to the BJP). He has to be given justice, given that he’s been nowhere for the past two years,” Ravi said.  In Basavakalyan, the BJP core committee is said to have discussed the possibility of fielding the party’s vice-president and Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa’s son BY Vijayendra as the candidate. Also, former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba is being considered, sources said.  The core committee is said to have decided to recommend the ticket probables in two days’ time to the central leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bypolls-suspense-on-who-will-get-bjp-s-belgaum-ticket-964382.html
20-03-2021||State||Six heliports planned across Karnataka, says Tourism Minister CP Yogeeshwara||Karnataka Tourism Minister C P Yogeeshwar said that heliports would be developed at six places to provide better connectivity to major tourist destinations across the state. “As part of the heli-tourism project, heliports will come up in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Hampi, Kalaburagi, Mangaluru, and Hubballi. The tourism department is mooting a heli-tourism model with a hub of heliports and helipads at these places,” he said during an interaction with stakeholders here on Saturday. The minister said that the Centre had approved the state’s request for introducing seaplane services to connect the state’s 320-km long coastal belt. “Chief secretary has been asked to conduct a survey and submit a feasibility report under the Udaan scheme. Preliminary meetings have been held and experts have visited the locations identified to construct heliports,” he said.  “Developing tourism infrastructure will attract more domestic and international tourists to the state,” he stressed. Madhusudhan from Aerohelicon said a heliport base will be set up under the project to facilitate take-off or landing of chartered flights and helicopters. Such a hub could also be utilised to promote spiritual tourism and medical tourism, he added.  The six locations identified will create a heli-tourism circuit to connect prominent tourist destinations. The heliports will have all infrastructure facilities, including refuelling facilities. The heliports also can be used by people, who want to use chartered helicopters, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/six-heliports-planned-across-karnataka-says-tourism-minister-cp-yogeeshwara-964430.html
20-03-2021||State||Schools during Covid-19: Govt to monitor situation for a week, says Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has said that the state government would arrive at a decision on functioning of schools after observing the Covid situation for a week. "Though Covid cases are on the rise in the state, the situation does not call for closure of schools. We will decide further course of action by observing the situation for a week," Yediyurappa said. He was addressing a public meet after launching several development works in Tiptur on Saturday. The chief minister said that he won't dispute "claims" about corruption in state. "Files are not being disposed of on time. They are kept pending for 15-20 days in government offices," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/schools-during-covid-19-govt-to-monitor-situation-for-a-week-says-karnataka-chief-minister-bs-yediyurappa-964431.html
20-03-2021||State||Wildfire breaks out at Kappatagudda after a brief lull||After a brief lull, fire broke out at Kappatagudda forest on late Friday night destroying vegetation, mainly shrubs and dry grass, on more than 150 hectares. The fire was spotted at the forest patches at Hirevaddatti and Chikkavaddatti in Dambal hobli of Gadag district on late Friday night. The Forest department personnel managed to douse the flames after a day-long operation. Range Forest Officer Pradeep Pawar told DH, "It's a man-made fire. Unidentified persons are repeatedly setting fire to the dry grass at Kappatagudda range. Dry grass on over 150 hectares has been gutted in the fire. Strong winds made the matters worse. More than 40 forest personnel fought hard to put off the wildfire. A forest staffer, on the condition of anonymity, told DH, "We do not have proper equipment to fight the fire. We have to make do with wet plants to douse the fire. Kappatagudda hill, home to rare medicinal plants, is considered a treasure trove of unique flora and fauna. The forest declared a conservation reserve five years back is facing a serious threat from man-made fires. In the last two months, vast tract of vegetation has perished in four major fires.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wildfire-breaks-out-at-kappatagudda-after-a-brief-lull-964435.html
20-03-2021||State||Village stay: Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka allots land for residential school on the spot in Hubballi village||Moved by the plight of Chabbi village high school students, who have to travel five km every day to attend classes, Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka ‘on the spot’ sanctioned land for residential high school to the village on Saturday. During a programme as part of his overnight village stay at Chabbi village in Hubballi taluk, the minister announced that six-and-a-half acres of revenue land has been allotted for the construction of a residential school with a 500-student capacity, including 200 seats for girl students. “The school will be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 24 crore,” he said after a group of students demanded a school in their village and additional government buses to ply 300 students to school and college in Bookarlikatti village. ‘Fuel price won’t impact poll outcome’ Ashoka said the soaring prices of fuel would not have any impact on the results of the upcoming elections. Speaking to reporters, he said in spite of the rising fuel prices, the BJP is on the threshold of winning the West Bengal elections. “People have understood that whatever Prime Minister Narendra Modi does is for the good of people and country, so the fuel prices will not impact the election results even in the state.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/village-stay-karnataka-revenue-minister-r-ashoka-allots-land-for-residential-school-on-the-spot-in-hubballi-village-964471.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Take steps to prevent using chemicals in jaggery: Sumalatha||Mandya MP Sumalatha on Friday urged the government to take steps to prevent adulteration of jaggery using chemical agents and bleaching compounds to make it look whiter. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha, she said consumers are fonder of white jaggery than organic jaggery, which is dark brown in colour. A large number of illegal units have come up that adulterate jaggery and make it look white by using chemical agents and bleaching compounds. The government must take serious action against the unhealthy and dangerous practice of jaggery adulteration and create awareness among the public about the danger of consuming white jaggery. The popular organic jaggery industry in Mandya is now shrinking due to a lack of financial support. Earlier there were 6,000 jaggery making units in the district which has now come down to 600. Since jaggery from Mandya district is being used to promote the 'one district, one product' idea under the Atmanirbhar Bharat scheme, the government should focus on giving financial, business and technical support to this industry in the district, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/take-steps-to-prevent-using-chemicals-in-jaggery-sumalatha-964079.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly discusses working of judiciary||The Legislative Assembly on Friday expressed concerns over the functioning of and “corruption” in the judiciary. This discussion was triggered after former Speaker K R Ramesh Kumar raised questions on “judicial activism” during the debate on the 2021-22 Budget.  “Judiciary is fiercely independent, but is also tyrannical sometimes,” Kumar said. “The lamp of justice is wavering and there are fears it would go off.”  Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar raised the issue of corruption. “Nobody talks about corruption in the judiciary. If someone does, there will be contempt,” said Shettar, a former chief minister and Speaker. “Many retired chief justices of India have noted that more than 50% of the judiciary is corrupt,” he said, adding that there would be “anarchy” if the judiciary went awry. Another former Speaker K G Bopaiah pointed to the difference of views on justice delivery itself. “It is said that justice delayed is justice denied. But, judges themselves say ‘justice hurried is justice buried’. What does that mean?” he asked. He also raised the question of supremacy. “There is a legislature or Parliament...where is the provision to override them? We have the privilege to speak here, but I won’t be surprised if the legislature is also held in contempt in the coming days.” He raised the issue of the judiciary’s attempt to curtail the Speaker’s power with respect to the anti-defection law. Senior JD(S) MLA A T Ramaswamy asked if judges were above the law. “The honourable High Court and Supreme Court judges aren’t government employees. They are Constitutional representatives. But are they above law? No action was taken even after 84 High Court and Supreme Court judges got sites under Judicial Employees Housing Co-operative Society, of which they can’t even become members,” he said.  Senior MLAs H K Patil and K M Shivalinge Gowda underlined the need to introspect. “Nobody in this world comes from devaloka, be it judges or us,” Gowda said.  BJP MLA Araga Jnanendra complained that the judiciary treated legislators like criminals. “For the court opening ceremony in my village, they don’t want me sitting next to them. We pass their budget, so we are supreme. But how are they treating the legislature?” he said.  Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai opined that the legislature, executive and judiciary have been repeatedly put to test in the 72-year journey of democracy. “Laws are ambiguous and interpreted differently. If we correct this (ambiguity), interference will reduce,” he said. “But if the legislature doesn’t address it and the judiciary exceeds its limits, we have to take measures for electoral or judicial reforms.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-discusses-working-of-judiciary-964090.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Dattatreya 'Dattaji' Hosabale elected RSS General Secretary||Karnataka-born Dattatreya Hosabale was elected Saturday as the Sarkaryavah (general secretary) of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), the BJP’s ideological parent. Hosabale, 66, is now second in the RSS hierarchy after Sarsanghchalak Mohan Bhagwat. His elevation, due for several years now, was confirmed at the Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha, the highest decision-making body of the RSS, which concluded its 2-day meeting here. Hosabale, who was the Sah Sarkaryavah since 2009, replaces Suresh ‘Bhaiyyaji’ Joshi, who was Sarkaryavah for 12 years. The Sarkaryavah has a 3-year term. Considered to be close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Hosabale's appointment could redefine the Sangh's political relationship with the ruling BJP. Hosabale is known to have played a key role in the BJP's massive win in the 2017 Uttar Pradesh assembly polls. Born December 1, 1954 in the Hosabale village of Soraba in Shivamogga, he joined the RSS in 1968 and the Akhila Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in 1972. He completed his BA (honours) degree in English at the Government Arts & Science College in Bengaluru in 1974. The next year, he enrolled for an MA English degree, but dropped out to join the anti-Emergency movement launched by Jayaprakash Narayan. He went back to college in 1977 to complete postgraduation. It is said that it was Hosabale, a youth activist then, who was the first to inform the likes of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, LK Advani, SN Mishra and Madhu Dandavate about the imposition of the Emergency while they were in a meeting in Bengaluru on the morning of June 26, 1975. He was imprisoned in December that year, apparently. After spending years in the ABVP, Hosabale became the RSS Akhila Bharata Sah Boudhik Pramukh in 2003. An avid reader - he put out a list of 15 must-read books during last year's Covid-19 lockdown - Hosabale is seen as a ‘moderate’ voice in the Sangh. He is the founding editor of the Kannada magazine Aseema. While Hosabale has risen in the RSS ranks, another Kannadiga BL Santhosh is currently the BJP national general secretary (organization), second after national president JP Nadda. Before Hosabale, two other Kannadigas occupied the powerful post of RSS Sarkaryavah - HV Seshadri and KS Sudarshan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dattatreya-dattaji-hosabale-elected-rss-general-secretary-964236.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||RSS will support laws against Love Jihad: Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosabale||The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) will support laws against Love Jihad, its newly-elected Sarkaryavah Dattatreya Hosabale said Saturday and he maintained that this issue had nothing to do with religion.  “The use of fraudulent methods to lure girls for marriage, (religious) conversion, any kind of misuse or taking them to other countries has to be condemned and opposed,” Hosabale told reporters. “Some states have even come forward to make laws against this and the RSS supports this.” Asked about the nomenclature, Hosabale said ‘Love Jihad’ was used by the courts and not the Sangh. “Karnataka and Kerala High Courts have confirmed the practice of Love Jihad,” he said, adding that there was no question of religion in this.  Hosabale was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the Akhila Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the RSS’ highest decision-making body that concluded here.  Hosabale also distanced the RSS away from Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat’s statement on women wearing ripped jeans. Asked about criticism linking the RSS to Rawat’s comments, he said: “(Rawat) is capable of answering. It’s not that everything in the country happens due to the RSS. What the Sangh has to communicate, it does from its forums...there’s no reason to bring RSS into all allegations.” Responding to the RSS being targeted by political parties, Hosabale said they were free to express their opinions in a democracy. “But, it is wrong to say that the government is controlled from one place,” he said. “The entire country comes together for a cause when needed. The Ram Mandir, for example, saw crores of people across party lines coming together. “Not just Hindus, even people of other religions wilfully became a part of the campaign,” he said.  Under Hosabale’s tenure as Sarkaryavah, the RSS will focus on its expansion plan. “The RSS will complete its national service in 2025. We have planned to reach every mandal in the country,” he said. Also, the RSS will work in the cultural space among other things. “Social harmony, environment, water conservation, family values...the RSS will work towards uniting the entire society by resolving all differences,” he said.  During its 2-day meeting, the ABPS passed two resolutions: that the construction of Ram Mandir was a manifestation of the “innate strength of Bharat” and that “Bharat stands united against the Covid-19 pandemic”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rss-will-support-laws-against-love-jihad-sarkaryavah-dattatreya-hosabale-964357.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Congress picks Satish Jarkiholi for Belgaum bypolls||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress on Saturday zeroed in on the party’s working president Satish Jarkiholi as the candidate for the Belgaum Lok Sabha bypolls.  “We have recommended only one name to the high command,” Shivakumar told reporters, alluding to Satish.  This was discussed at a senior leaders’ meeting where the party planned its strategy for the upcoming bypolls and handed out responsibilities.  Satish is currently the MLA of Yamkanmaradi and he is the brother of BJP’s Ramesh Jarkiholi, who had to resign from Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s Cabinet in the wake of a sex scandal.  Satish’s pick for the Belgaum bypolls ticket is his attempt to show that the scandal had not affected the Jarkiholi family’s clout over the Belagavi district.  Asked about why Satish was picked, Shivakumar said, “The party's decision is based on who is best suited to contest.”  The Congress has already announced tickets to Maski and Basavakalyan. In Maski, the party has fielded BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate Basanagouda Turvihal. For Basavakalyan, the party has fielded Mallamma, the wife of incumbent MLA B Narayan Rao, who died in September last year due to Covid-19.  “Everyone in the party is excited and we’re confident of winning all three seats,” Shivakumar said. “We have faith in voters. They have decided that they need a change in the state,” he added.  According to sources, the state unit's working presidents Eshwar Khandre and R Dhruvanarayana have been assigned Basavakalyan and Maski, respectively. Former minister MB Patil will oversee the party's election campaign for the Belgaum seat.  Wary of the spike in Covid-19 cases, Shivakumar said it was decided to limit the number of public meetings for the bypolls. “There’s confusion, thanks to the (BJP) government. So, we will wait for clarity on holding open-air events,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-congress-picks-satish-jarkiholi-for-belgaum-bypolls-964390.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Coast Guards rescues six off Kasaragod coast||The Coast Guard saved the lives of six mariners on Saturday after a Dornier 773 picked up a distress call around 11.35 am while on a routine patrol. After searching the area for 30 minutes, the Dornier spotted wreckage and six people in the water some thirty nautical miles west of Kasaragod. The Dornier dropped a life raft for the six individuals. Conditions were described as a sea state of two with wind speed touching 20 Knots and the current being at 1.5 knots. The Coast Guard also activated a coast vessel C448 for search and rescue operations. C448 reached the reported site in less than one hour. The sunken vessel was reported as being a dhow, named the Safina-AL-Mirzan. The crew reported the flooding of their boat’s engine room about 40 nautical miles southeast of Mangalore which left them dead in the water. The vessel, which subsequently sank, had sailed from Old Mangalore Port on March 19, carrying 120 tons of spices, food grains, vegetables, sand and granite. Five of the rescued individuals are from Gujarat and one is from Mangalore. They are reported to be in good health and were brought to New Mangalore. They are to be handed over to the Coastal Police/AD Fisheries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coast-guards-rescues-six-off-kasaragod-coast-964409.html
20-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||April 17 bypolls: Nod for Karnataka BJP state chief to send list of probable candidates to high command||The ruling BJP core committee in Karnataka that met on Saturday has authorised its state unit president to send the list of probable candidates for the April 17 bypolls to the high command, after consulting local leaders. "Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha, also Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments and possible candidates were discussed at the core committee meeting," BJP national general secretary CT Ravi said. Speaking to reporters, he said it was decided that the list of probable candidates should be sent after gathering opinion from local leadership. "The state president has been authorised to send the list of probable candidates after discussions with local leaders," he added. Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha and Basavakalyan Assembly seats were necessitated following the death of Union Minister Suresh Angadi of the BJP and MLA B Narayan Rao of Congress respectively due to Covid-19 in September last year. Maski seat fell vacant following the disqualification of MLA Prathapagouda Patil who had won in 2018 from the Congress and is now with the BJP. Indicating that Prathapagouda Patil will be the candidate from Maski, Ravi said "he (Patil) had resigned as an MLA and come to our party, naturally we will have to do justice to him." Responding to a question on Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll and talks about giving ticket to late Suresh Angadi's family, he said, "We don't know what the central leadership will decide.The aspiration of (Angadi's) family has also been conveyed, it will be decided." Names of Angadi's daughter Shradha, along with Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath are doing the rounds for the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba is among the names being mentioned for Basavakalyan seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/april-17-bypolls-nod-for-karnataka-bjp-state-chief-to-send-list-of-probable-candidates-to-high-command-964470.html
20-03-2021||West||Covid-19 tests in Mumbai to be doubled to 50K per day: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday decided to double the number of Covid-19 tests from 25,000 per day now to 50,000, the decision coming on a day when Mumbai reported a record 3,062 cases, officials said. The decision was taken after a virtual meeting chaired by Mumbai Civic Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, they added. It was also decided to increase the daily Covid-19 vaccination target in the metropolis to one lakh, as the number of inoculation centres in the private sector had been increased from 59 to 80, the officials informed. A BMC release said Chahal asked private hospitals providing Covid-19 treatment to take the consent of patient or kin before administering costly medicines and line of treatment so that disputes on bills could be avoided. It added that the BMC would appoint two auditors at private hospitals for verification of bills and complaints centred around them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-tests-in-mumbai-to-be-doubled-to-50k-per-day-bmc-964120.html
20-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze taken to Antilia for crime scene recreation||In a significant development, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) took controversial police officer Sachin Vaze to Antilia for crime scene recreation past midnight. On February 24-25 midnight, Vaze (49), an Assistant Police Inspector working with the Crime Intelligence Unit of Crime Branch-CID parked a Scorpio SUV laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter, nearly 300 metres of Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani. Vaze was made to walk along the road. Over the last few days, Vaze, who was arrested last Saturday, has been taken to various locations in Mumbai and the neighbouring Thane district. Vaze and the slain SUV owner Mansukh Hiren, both are residents of Thane city and knew each other well. The development comes a day after an NIA team comprising Inspector General of Police Anil Shukla and Superintendent of Police Vikram Khalate met newly-appointed Mumbai Police chief Hemant Nagrale.  During the meeting, Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime) Milind Bharambe and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detection) Akbar Pathan were present. Besides the Scorpio, the NIA has seized four other cars/SUVs being used by Vaze — two Mercedes-Benz, a Toyata LandCruiser Prado and an Innova. Vaze has been booked by the NIA in the Antilia case while the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is investigating the suspected murder of Hiren.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-taken-to-antilia-for-crime-scene-recreation-964153.html
20-03-2021||West||Four dead, one hurt in two blasts at chemical factory in Mumbai||Four workers were killed and one of their colleagues suffered injuries in two blasts at a chemical factory in Khed taluka of Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district on Saturday morning, a police official said. Around 40 other workers were rescued by the fire department staff and the police personnel following the blasts that triggered a blaze, he said. "Two major blasts occurred inside a unit of the chemical factory around 9 am today. The workers injured in the incident were rushed to a government-run hospital, where four of them were declared dead. Another worker, who suffered critical injuries, is being treated," the police official from Ratnagiri said. The fire that erupted after the blasts has been brought under control and cooling operation is underway, he said. As per the preliminary investigation, a boiler at the factory exploded due to overheating. However, the exact cause of the incident is being ascertained, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/four-dead-one-hurt-in-two-blasts-at-chemical-factory-in-mumbai-964214.html
20-03-2021||West||NIA takes over Mansukh Hiren death case||The mystery behind the sensational death of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran – whose Mahindra Scorpio was planted near the residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani - will now be probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the federal agency to take over the probe that was being conducted by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police. Over the last few days, NIA officials have already met their ATS counterparts and discussed the details of the case. Hiran (48), the owner of a car accessories business, Classic Car Decor near Vandana Talkies in Thane, went missing on 4 March and was found dead on 5 March at the Reti Bunder in Mumbra-Kalwa in Thane. Following pressure from the BJP, the case was transferred from the Thane police to the ATS.   It may be recalled, the ATS has registered an FIR into the case after Hiran’s wife Vimla Hiran said that Vaze knew her husband was using the Scorpio and was eliminating her husband. After the Central government’s decision, Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut said: “It does not affect us…the Mumbai Police and ATS are capable and professional organizations. However, the Centre (BJP) seemed to be in a hurry to take over the case, the opposition (BJP in Maharashtra) has a different view…let it be…let them get the case investigated by the CIA or KGB.” Meanwhile, senior BJP leader Kirit Somaiya visited Thane and met members of the Hiran family. “They feel Vaze cheated and murdered Mansukh. They are satisfied that the NIA took over investigation of the case,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-takes-over-mansukh-hiren-death-case-964240.html
20-03-2021||West||Indian Navy's Cobras celebrating diamond jubilee on March 21||Indian Naval Air Squadron (INAS) 310, The Cobras, a maritime reconnaissance squadron of the Indian Navy based at Goa is celebrating its diamond jubilee on Sunday.  Commissioned at Hyéres, France on 21 March 1961, the squadron holds the distinction of being the most decorated unit of the Indian Navy.  INAS 310 has rendered yeoman service to the nation in numerous operations since 1961 and continues to carry out daily surveillance operations over the coastline. The squadron operated the carrier-borne Alize aircraft until 1991 and subsequently migrated to the shore-based Dornier-228 aircraft. In the last one year, amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, flying across the length and breadth of the nation, the aircraft of the squadron have delivered critical medical supplies, Covid-19 test kits and transported medical teams and samples, clocking close to 1,000 sorties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/indian-navys-cobras-celebrating-diamond-jubilee-on-march-21-964242.html
20-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Gelatin sticks in SUV capable of low-intensity blast, chances of big damage dim, says FSL official||The Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Mumbai's Kalina has found in its preliminary analysis that the gelatin sticks recovered from the Scorpio parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house were capable of triggering only a low-intensity blast and there was little chance of them causing any big damage, an official said on Saturday. During the analysis, the FSL found ammonium nitrate inside the gelatin sticks, he said. "The lab found ammonium nitrate inside the gelatin sticks. The preliminary analysis suggests that this explosive is capable of triggering a low-intensity blast and there is a little chance of any big damage due to it," the official said. This kind of explosive is used in rural areas for digging wells, in road construction work and for other such purposes, he said, adding that the lab would submit its report to the concerned agency in the next two days. The Kalina FSL is also analysing the SUV, in which the 20 gelatin sticks were found. "With the help of chemical experts, the FSL will try to find out is the vehicle's chassis number to know whether it was changed. It will help us know the real owner of the SUV and in whose name it was registered," the official said. The lab will check the entire vehicle linearly to find out if there is any stain of blood, hair or anything lying inside the car that may help the investigators to know the person who was driving the car and other occupants of the car, if there were any, when it was parked near Ambani's house, he added. The FSL is also in the process of analysing the viscera samples of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was in possession of the Scorpio that was found parked near Ambani's multi-storey residence 'Antilia' on February 25. Hiran's body was found in a creek on March 5. "The lab is trying to ascertain if anyone gave Hiran any type of drug before his death," the official said. Mumbai police officer Sachin Waze has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 in connection with the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle. The suspended assistant police inspector is also facing a probe in Hiran's alleged murder. The Maharashtra Anti- Terrorism Squad (ATS) is investigating the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-gelatin-sticks-in-suv-capable-of-low-intensity-blast-chances-of-big-damage-dim-says-fsl-official-964292.html
20-03-2021||West||Former Goa minister Harish Zantye passes away||Goa's former minister and ex-Member of Parliament Harish Zantye died at his residence here on Saturday after a prolonged illness, sources close to his family said. He was 85. He is survived by his son and three daughters, they said. His son, Pravin, is a BJP leader and an MLA representing the Mayem Assembly constituency. Zantye was an MLA between 1980 and 1990 and held positions like minister for tourism, civil supplies, education among others. He was a Lok Sabha member between 1990 and 1995. Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik expressed grief over his death. "Saddened to hear the demise offormer MP and Education Minister of Goa Harish Zantey ji. May God give strength to his family to bear the loss. Om Shanti," Naik tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-goa-minister-harish-zantye-passes-away-964297.html
20-03-2021||West||Maharashtra board exams for Classes 10, 12 to be held in offline mode||The written examinations of HSC (Class 12) and SSC (Class 10) of the Maharashtra education board will be held through offline mode only from the next month, state minister Varsha Gaikwad announced on Saturday. It means that students will have to physically go to the exam centres to appear for it, the School Education Minister said. "The schools of the students will be their exam centres. Apart from the regular three-hour period of the exam, they will get extra half an hour to attempt the questions," she said. The examination dates have already been announced and practical exams will be held once the written tests are over, Gaikwad added. The Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) exam will be conducted between April 23 and May 21, while the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exam will be held between April 29 and May 20, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) had announced last month. These board exams are usually held in February and March, but this year their schedule has been changed due to the Covid-19 pandemic||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-board-exams-for-classes-10-12-to-be-held-in-offline-mode-964302.html
20-03-2021||West||Experts must probe surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra: Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday said a team of experts should be formed to probe the reason for the surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra compared to the other states in the country. The former chief minister was speaking to the media after attending a meeting with Nagpur Guardian Minister Nitin Raut and district officials at the divisional commissionerate here. "I feel a team of experts should be constituted to study the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state. Maharashtra is no different from other states, but then why is it witnessing such a surge in infections?" Fadnavis said. The BJP leader further claimed if the rise is due to increased testing, then there are other states that are conducting more per million tests than Maharashtra. Fadnavis further raised concerns about the Covid-19 vaccination drive, citing that the immunisation process was being carried out slowly and the pace should be picked up. Maharashtra on Friday recorded 25,681 new coronavirus infections and 70 deaths. The state currently has 1,77,560 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/experts-must-probe-surge-in-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-devendra-fadnavis-964308.html
20-03-2021||West||Covid-19 curbs to continue in Nagpur till March 31 with relaxations||Maharashtra minister Nitin Raut on Saturday said curbs imposed in Nagpur district amid the rise in Covid-19 cases will continue March 31, but with some relaxations. Strict curbs have been imposed in the district from March 15 following a surge in Covid-19 infections. Raut, who is the district guardian minister, held a review meeting with district officials to assess the situation. The restrictions, which have been imposed in the district, will continue till March 31 with partial relaxations, the minister said. He further informed that a separate standard operating procedure will be issued for the festival of Holi, which will be observed on March 28-29. Shops selling essential commodities will be permitted to operate till 4 pm as opposed to the earlier timing of 1 pm, while restaurants and eateries, which had been ordered to remain shut, can function till 7 pm, the minister said. Food delivery services will be allowed till 11 pm, he said. The police department has been directed to take action against violators, the minister added. Nagpur recorded 3,235 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the count of infections to 1,85,787.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curbs-to-continue-in-nagpur-till-march-31-with-relaxations-964327.html
20-03-2021||West||NIA recreates Antilia crime scene with Sachin Vaze||Suspended police officer Sachin Vaze was made to walk in white full-sleeves and trousers, an oversized white-kurta and with a handkerchief on his head, as investigators recreated the crime scene near Antilia, the home of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani.  Teams of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and Pune-based Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) recreated the crime scene on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday at the Carmichael Road. It was done to understand the chain of the events of the two days and before that and match the physical profile of Vaze with the unidentified man who was caught on CCTV walking away wearing a PPT kit. Over Wednesday and Thursday, Vaze was taken to several locations in Mumbai and neighbouring Thane district to gather evidence. It is suspected that Vaze (49), a suspended assistant police inspector, had planted the Mahindra Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter, on the midnight of 24-25 February, near the house of the businessman. The SUV owner Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based automobile spare parts showroom owner, was found dead on 5 March. Vaze is in NIA custody for a week now – and it ends on 25 March. The NIA has also seized four other cars/SUVs used by Vaze — two Mercedes-Benz, a Toyota LandCruiser Prado and an Innova.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-recreates-antilia-crime-scene-with-sachin-vaze-964336.html
20-03-2021||West||Gujarat to hold Covid vaccination drive on Sunday||The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be held on Sunday across Gujarat in order to increase the number of people covered, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel told the Assembly. Currently, around two lakh people are vaccinated at 2,500 centres in the state on all days except Wednesday and Sunday, Patel, who holds the health portfolio, informed the House on Saturday. "To cover a larger number of beneficiaries, we have decided to continue our drive this Sunday (March 21)," Patel said, and urged eligible MLAs to get vaccinated as soon as possible. A state government release said that, as on Thursday, 26.41 lakh people have been given the first dose of the vaccine and 5.84 lakh people have got the second dose since the drive started on January 16. On Thursday, over 2.21 lakh senior citizens and those in the 45 plus age group suffering from comorbidities were vaccinated, the release added. The decision to have vaccination on Sunday as well comes after Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani assured Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state would increase the vaccination target to three lakh a day soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-to-hold-covid-vaccination-drive-on-sunday-964340.html
20-03-2021||West||Aaditya Thackeray tests positive for Covid-19||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s son and minister Aaditya Thackeray has tested Covid-19 positive and is in self-isolation. Aaditya (30), the leader of Yuva Sena, is minister for the Tourism, Environment and Protocol and is also the Guardian Minister of Mumbai Suburban District. “On having mild symptoms of Covid-19, I had myself tested and I am Covid-19 positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get themselves tested,” he tweeted. “I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important to not let your guard down. Please follow Covid-19 protocols and stay safe,” he added. On having mild symptoms of COVID, I had myself tested and I am COVID positive. I request everyone who came in contact with me to get themselves tested. I urge everyone to realise that it is extremely important to not let your guard down. Please follow COVID protocols & stay safe||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aaditya-thackeray-tests-positive-for-covid-19-964346.html
20-03-2021||West||With 27,126 new cases, Maharashtra sees record daily spike in Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Saturday witnessed an exponential jump in Covid-19 cases with the state reporting over 27,000 cases in a single day. This is the biggest spike Maharashtra has ever reported in 24 hours.  On Saturday, Maharashtra recorded 27,126 new cases and 92 deaths taking the progressive total to 24,49,147 and 53,300, respectively. The active cases in the state now stand at 1,91,408. During the day, 13,588 people were discharged taking the total treated patients to 22,03,533. The day’s total in Mumbai was 2,982 cases while the same for the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) was 5,697.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-27126-new-cases-maharashtra-sees-record-daily-spike-in-covid-19-cases-964372.html
20-03-2021||West||Maharashtra board students to get 30 additional minutes to complete paper||The Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave may have started with jump in infections but the Maharashtra government made it clear that the 10th and 12th board examinations in the state would be in offline mode.  However, the students would get an additional 30 minutes of the three-hour time that they get to write the exam. This is because, during one year of lockdown, the studies/classes were online and students have lost the habit of writing and writing fast. Besides, the government also denied news reports that the passing percentage would be 25 per cent. “There was no such discussions…the passing percentage would be 35 per cent as usual,” School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad told reporters in Mumbai. Theory exams of Class 12/HSC board are scheduled to be conducted from April 23 to May 21, 2021 while, Class 10 Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board theory examinations will be conducted from April 29 to May 20, 2021. The examination will be conducted in the students respective schools. Practical examinations for class 10 will not be conducted, while for class 12 practicals will be held once the written tests are over. The ministry has decided to conduct the practical exam for the HSC/class 12 students because practicals in HSC are crucial for further professional courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-board-students-to-get-30-additional-minutes-to-complete-paper-964373.html
20-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze case: BJP demands resignation of Anil Deshmukh||Mounting a major offensive on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government, the BJP demanded immediate resignation of state’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and a court-monitored probe into the allegations made by ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh. “This is extremely serious. A DGP-rank officer has made allegations in writing to the Chief Minister, who had earlier been verbally briefed on the ongoings,” Leader of Opposition in state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said. According to him, this is for the first time that such an incident has been reported in Maharashtra. “Anil Deshmukh must resign forthwith… The Chief Minister must accept his resignation immediately… The minister’s being in office has become untenable,” he said. Fadnavis also suggested that there should be a probe by a “central agency” and the inquiry could be a court-monitored probe. “There should be a free and fair probe,” he added. Fadnavis’s counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar said that it is shocking. “From day one, we had been demanding the resignation of Anil Deshmukh and sacking of Sachin Vaze,” he said. State BJP President Chandrakant Patil and former Finance Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar too demanded the immediate resignation of Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-case-bjp-demands-resignation-of-anil-deshmukh-964388.html
20-03-2021||West||Sharad Pawar should head UPA, says Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Saturday said NCP chief Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson. The need of the hour is to strengthen the United Progresstive Alliance so that it emerges as a strong alternative to the BJP, Raut told reporters in Nashik. "Congress president Sonia Gandhi has handled the responsibility (as UPA chairperson) very well. She is unwell now and not politically active....Pawar should become UPA chief. If UPA emerges stronger, the Congress too will benefit," the Rajya Sabha member said. The Sena shares power with the Congress and the NCP in Maharashtra, but it is not part of the Congress-led UPA. The Sena mouthpiece `Saamana', of which Raut is executive editor, had recenlty created a flutter by stating in an editorial that if Pawar became UPA chief, it will benefit the alliance. Parties such as Shiv Sena and Akali Dal should also come under the UPA umbrella to take on the BJP, it had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-should-head-upa-says-shiv-sena-leader-sanjay-raut-964400.html
20-03-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh to file defamation suit against sacked police officer Param Bir Singh||Pushed to the wall, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh described the charges of Param Bir Singh as “baseless” and decided to file a defamation suit against the police officer. “Why was Param Bir Singh quiet for so many days even after the arrest of Sachin Vaze? He is making such baseless allegations to save himself,” he said, adding that the former Mumbai Police chief is trying to blackmail the government. Deshmukh pointed out that everyone in the police department knows that API Sachin Vaze and ACP Sanjay Patil are very close to Singh. He also pointed out that Vaze was taken back into the force after 16 years using his discretionary powers. Deshmukh also accused Singh of trying to divert the probe into the Antilia-Scorpio bomb planting and Mansukh Hiren's death case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-to-file-defamation-suit-against-sacked-police-officer-param-bir-singh-964413.html
20-03-2021||West||Maharashtra CMO says Param Bir Singh letter 'unsigned'||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office confirmed that it has received a communication from Param Bir Singh. However, it said that the letter it received was unsigned and has not come from the official e-mail ID of the officer. “The Chief Minister’s secretariat has received an e-mail at 1637 hrs… the letter mentions his name but is not signed,” the CMO said in a statement on Saturday night. The e-mail address is being verified. “The Home department is trying to reach out to Singh,” the statement said, pointing out that since the letter does not carry a signature and comes from an unlisted e-mail ID, adequate verification is being carried out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cmo-says-param-bir-singh-letter-unsigned-964438.html
