21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Agitating farmers in Delhi need support from south India: Pal||Senior Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal from Punjab, one of the pioneers of the intensified farmers' agitation on the borders of Delhi, stated that farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh need the support of farmers from south India to defeat the Modi-led government at the Centre. He was speaking at south India’s first Farmers Mahapanchayat organised by Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene and Aaikya Horata Samithi at Science ground on Saturday in Shivamogga. Addressing the gathering, he said the ongoing farmers agitation in Delhi has not only failed Modi's communal card but also united farmers of the country. "In order to defeat Modi-led government in the Centre, we need the support of farmers of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Kerala without which it is not possible to meet the demands of the farming community," he noted. Pal, who is leading farmers agitation said not just farmers, but students, teachers and people in various fields are ready to carry on the agitation in Delhi on behalf of farmers and allow them to indulge in farming activities as harvesting season has commenced. People in the US, Canada and UK across the globe have extended support to the farmers. So, pressure is mounting on Modi to meet the demands of farmers. "So, I am hopeful that the Centre would meet the demands of farmers." He also stated that the agitation has eradicated caste discrimination in north India. Hindus and Muslims in Muzaffarnagar of Uttar Pradesh have come together. Similarly, two rival communities-Meena and Gurjars in Rajasthan have come together for the sake of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/agitating-farmers-in-delhi-need-support-from-south-india-pal-964521.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three killed as lorry catches fire in Hassan||Three people were killed when a chemical-loaded truck toppled and caught fire near Ganganalu village in Arkalgud taluk, Hassan district, on Saturday night. While two people were burned to death, the lorry driver succumbed to the injuries at the hospital. According to sources, the lorry was transporting chemicals to a garment factory in Hassan from Mysuru. The lorry driver lost balance of the vehicle at a curve near Ganganalu village, the lorry toppled and burst into flames. The incident is said to have occurred at around 10.30 pm. The villagers, who saw the burning lorry informed the Fire and Emergency Services and also tried to douse the flames. They rescued driver Puttaraj (40) and rushed him to the government hospital in Hassan. But he failed to respond to the treatment and died. The other two in the truck Pramod (45) and Paramesh (40) were died at the spot. All the three deceased are said to be residents of Goravanahalli.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-killed-as-lorry-catches-fire-in-hassan-964612.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||The rescued leopard at Nailady in Brahmavar taluk||In a bizzare incident, a dog found itself trapped with a leopard inside the storeroom of a house for more than three hours, at Nailady in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district on Sunday. After one and half hours of operation by the forest department officials, the leopard was caught in a cage and later was released into the reserve forest. According to forest officials, the dog probably wanted to escape the leopard and entered the storeroom of the house. However, the leopard managed to follow it inside. While trying to capture its prey, there was a lot of sound in the room owing to the scrap items dumped in the room. As a result, the family members woke up. On noticing, the leopard inside the storeroom, the members quickly bolted them in at around 4.30 am. The forest officials led by RFO Chidanandappa rushed to the spot and carried out an operation to capture the leopard. A cage was placed near the door of the storeroom by covering nets and plastic all over, to ensure that the leopard does not leap through the roof. Later, using a stick, the officials pushed the leopard inside the cage and the door of the cage was closed. After veterinary doctors checked the leopard at a veterinary clinic in Saibrakatte, it was released inside the forest. Villagers said that the straying of leopard into Billadi and surrounding villages has increased for the last few years. Last year, a leopard had fallen into a well in the nearby village. The house where the leopard was trapped in the cage belongs to Taramma Shetty and her son Agnesh Shetty. Meanwhile, the pet dog has suffered injuries in its neck in the leopard attack.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/the-rescued-leopard-at-nailady-in-brahmavar-taluk-964644.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka govt plans to declare industrial townships in six locations||Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar said that there are plans to declare industrial townships in five to six locations in Karnataka. The Chief Minister in the budget has announced that an industrial township at Peenya would come up at Rs100 crore, he told mediapersons in Mangaluru.To develop industrial townships, the cooperation of the urban development department is essential. Despite the pandemic outbreak and economic slowdown, Karnataka has attracted investment proposals worth nearly Rs 1.6 lakh crore in 2020, the highest in India. The state government’s pro-industry measures, including an investor-friendly industrial policy, helped investment amid the Covid-19 pandemic, added the Minister. A total of Rs 4,00,000 crore worth of investment proposals were received in the country. The Minister further said that 382 projects worth Rs 76,376 crore have been approved in the state. This will help in the generation of 1.77 lakh employment. To a query on Tesla Inc setting up a manufacturing unit in Karnataka, the Minister said that the government is ready to give all the support to it. The plastic park will come up in Mangaluru, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-govt-plans-to-declare-industrial-townships-in-six-locations-964709.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cops in Davangere seize explosives worth Rs 3.62 lakh||Davangere police raided a godown at Kaadajji village in the taluk and seized explosives worth Rs.3.62 lakhs and four persons have been arrested in connection with the illegal transport of explosives.  According to police, the arrested have been identified as BS Vikram, Nagaraj K, Vijaykumar and Manjunath. A case has also been registered against godown owners Shanmukappa and Mujeeb. The team seized 10,000 gelatin sticks 7400 electric detonators and a goods carrier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cops-in-davangere-seize-explosives-worth-rs-362-lakh-964748.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka's Byndoor, Karwar may get airports: Jagadish Shettar||The Karnataka government has proposed to open airports at Byndoor and Karwar under the UDAN scheme of the Union government, state Minister for Medium and Heavy Industries Jagadish Shettar said on Sunday. Speaking after inaugurating the Karnataka coastline business conclave organised by Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) here, he said land acquisition for setting up the airports will begin soon. The Minister said new airports have already been developed in Hubballi and Belagavi under the UDAN scheme and15 to 20 flights are operating from the two places daily. The minister said the land acquisition process is being expedited in the state for boosting industrial development. The state has received industrial investment proposals worth Rs 1.60 lakh crore, he said. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, who also spoke, said Karnataka was according priority to entrepreneurship development. The DK district has great potential for medical tourism, religious tourism and development of the hospitality industry. FICCI Karnataka chapter president Ullas Kamath, in his speech, commended the contribution of coastal Karnataka for the overall development of the state. New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) chairman A V Ramana, Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (MRPL) managing director M Venkatesh and Industries department additional chief secretary Gaurav Gupta were among those who spoke.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnatakas-byndoor-karwar-may-get-airports-jagadish-shettar-964749.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Vijayendra wouldn't be candidate in bypolls: B S Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa clarified on Sunday that Vijayendra will not be a candidate in the ongoing bypoll. Speaking to reporters in Sindhanur of the district, he stated as there is a pressure to stay in Mysuru, Vijayendra will hire a house there. He will strengthen the party in neighbouring districts, staying in that city, the CM explained. BJP has already won bypolls to Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments. We are chalking out strategies to win the Belgavi Loka Sabha constituency, Yediyurappa stated. However, the CM refused to comment on the statement made by Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal that the chief minister will be changed after the bypolls. Yediyurappa also visited Sharanabasaveshwara temple in Gorebala village of Sindhanur taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/vijayendra-wouldnt-be-candidate-in-bypolls-b-s-yediyurappa-964573.html
21-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bigger role awaits Karnataka CM's son B Y Vijayendra in BJP||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday charted out a bigger role for his son and BJP state vice-president B Y Vijayendra to make a dent into the Congress and JD(S) citadel in old Mysuru region. Ruling out fielding Vijayendra from Basavakalyan where assembly bypoll is due on April 17 along with Maski assembly segment and Belagavi Lok Sabha segment, Yediyurappa said his son would camp in Mysuru to strengthen the party base. "There is no element of truth in fielding Vijayendra from Basavakalyan. Seniors have the expectations that he should go to Mysuru and reside there to cover four to five districts," Yediyurappa told reporters at Sindhanur Taluk in Raichur district. The Chief Minister said Vijayendra would camp in Mysuru after the bypolls are over. "If he works in five to six districts around Mysuru in a manner that we get at least 13 to 14 more seats, then we will get at least 135 to 140 seats (in the next assembly elections). This is our expectation," Yediyurappa added. Sources in the BJP said the area of focus this time is the Old Mysuru region including Ramanagara, Mandya, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kolar districts where BJP is weak. Ramanagara and Mandya districts are considered JD(S) citadel for being the Vokkaliga dominated area which the JD(S) first family of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda belongs to. The BJP, however, had managed to change the notion with the victory of Dr K C Narayana Gowda from the K R Pet Assembly constituency in Mandya during the December 2019 bypolls. Vijayendra had played a key role in turning the tables on the JD(S). On the other hand, Mysuru, Chamarajanagar and Kolar are considered to be Congress bastions. "We are very specifically eyeing on Mandya, Ramanagara, Kanakapura, Channapatna and Varuna assembly segments," a BJP leader told P T I. While JD(S) has a stronghold in Mandya, Ramanagara and Channapatna, Kanakapura and Varuna are Congress bastions. While H D Kumaraswamy and his wife Anitha are MLAs from Channapatna and Ramanagara respectively, Varuna and Kanakapura are represented by former chief minister Siddaramaiah's son Yathindra and Congress state chief D K Shivakumar. Varuna had been considered Siddaramaiah's fort as he had been contesting and winning from there. The BJP has plans to defeat the stalwart Congress and the JD(S) leaders, a party leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bigger-role-awaits-karnataka-cms-son-b-y-vijayendra-in-bjp-964716.html
21-03-2021||National||Over 4.36 cr Covid-19 doses administered till now, 16.12 lakh jabs given on Saturday||Over 4.36 crore Covid-19 doses have been administered to beneficiaries till now, with 16.12 lakh jabs given on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. The total figure includes 77,63,276 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 48,51,260 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 80,49,848 frontline workers (FLWs) (1stdose), 25,41,265FLWs (2nd dose), 1,69,58,841 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 35,11,074 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific comorbidities, the ministry said. A total of 4,36,75,564 vaccine doses have been given, according to a report till 7 pm on Saturday. The ministry said total 16,12,172 vaccine doses were given on Saturday, the 64th day of nation-wide Covid-19 vaccination. "Out of which, 14,41,009 beneficiaries were vaccinated for 1st dose and 1,71,163 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-436-cr-covid-19-doses-administered-till-now-1612-lakh-jabs-given-on-saturday-964476.html
21-03-2021||National||Row over Parliament panel report of ECA; Congress, TMC slam BJP||A political row broke out over a Parliamentary panel report urging the Modi government to implement the Essential Commodities Act (ECA)-2020, a centerpiece of the ongoing farmers' protests, in “letter and spirit”. The Parliamentary Committee on Food, Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution, chaired by Trinamool leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, had suggested implementing the ECA in “letter and spirit, and without let or hindrances so that the farmers and other stakeholders of the farming sector in this country receive the benefits intended under the said Act”. A day after the report was tabled in Parliament, Congress Lok Sabha member Saptagiri Ulaka, shot off a letter to Speaker Om Birla, dissociating himself from it contending that the draft was circulated and adopted at very short notice. “I was not present when the report was adopted as the meeting was called at short notice of merely 15 hours,” Ulaka said in the letter to Birla. The minutes of the meetings of the committee noted that the report on 'Price Rise of Essential Commodities' was adopted on March 18, 2021, at a meeting presided over by BJP member Ajay Misra Teni at the instance of the 17 members, including Ulaka, present on that day. The CPI(M)-backed All India Kisan Sabha, which has been protesting against the ECA and two farm laws, condemned the recommendation of the standing committee and hit out at the Trinamool Congress, its arch-rival in the upcoming West Bengal elections. “The TMC which claims to be opposed to the three anti-farmer acts … must explain how a Committee headed by its leader has given a recommendation betraying the farmers,” AIKS leader Hannan Mollah and Ashok Dhawle said in a statement. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, referring to Ulaka's letter, described the Committee report as a “misrepresentation”, contending that the MPs of the Congress did not ask for the implementation of the ECA. Trinamool leader Derek O'brien accused the BJP's “cheap and dirty tricks department” of doing a “con job” when the Chairman of the Committee was not at the meeting. “BJP and Modi-Shah are masters of disinformation campaigns. Can you imagine such a blatant lie,” Rajya Sabha member Digvijaya Singh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/row-over-parliament-panel-report-of-eca-congress-tmc-slam-bjp-964488.html
21-03-2021||National||Malik's concerns reflect Centre's unease over farm protests||Meghalaya Governor Satyapal Malik's support to the ongoing farmers' agitation reflects the unease within a section of the government and the ruling party over the prolonged protests against the three farm laws. Malik, a prominent Jat leader from western Uttar Pradesh who is known for his socialist leanings and connect with the farming community, asked the Modi government to listen to the farmers' concerns and not suppress their agitation. The farmers' agitation at the borders of the national capital demanding the rollback of agricultural reforms has been going on since November 26 and talks with the government have hit a stalemate after 11 rounds of deliberations. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar had offered to amend the farm reforms to accommodate the concerns raised by farmers, but firmly ruled out repeal of the laws as demanded by the protestors. Over the past one month, the number of farmers at the three protest sites – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders – have dwindled and a section of them have sent signals to the government of a possible rapprochement by suggesting the names of Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, JD(U) leader K C Tyagi or Malik as possible interlocutors. Interestingly, all the three hail from Uttar Pradesh with Malik having helped defuse a farmers' protest by Mahendra Singh Tikait, the late father of Rakesh Tikait, who has emerged as the face of the farmers' agitation after the Republic Day violence during a tractor rally and vandalisation of Red Fort in the national capital. Malik, speaking at a felicitation ceremony in his home district Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, said he had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi against the use of force to end the farmers' agitation and not to send them home empty-handed. BJP, which has dubbed the farmers' agitation as politically motivated, has been feeling the heat in western Uttar Pradesh and neighbouring Haryana, where farmers have called for a social boycott of leaders of the saffron party. BJP had swept the 2014 Lok Sabha elections in western Uttar Pradesh and held considerable ground in the 2019 general elections as well. However, the elections to the Uttar Pradesh assembly early next year has left a section of the BJP worried. A deft manoeuvring on caste and religious lines by its rivals could damage the BJP's prospects in the region that saw BSP making a comeback in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Malik has claimed to be talking informally to both the farmers and the government and stressing the need for an early solution to the stalemate. However, it remains to be seen whether a negotiated settlement with farmers of western Uttar Pradesh will be acceptable to those from Haryana and Punjab, who are considered to be stringent in their opposition to the farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maliks-concerns-reflect-centres-unease-over-farm-protests-964497.html
21-03-2021||National||Covid-19: People found without mask in Srinagar will undergo Rapid Antigen Test, says DC||The Srinagar district administration on Saturday decided to impose a fine and conduct a rapid antigen test on all persons found without a mask in public places amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Srinagar Deputy Commissioner Mohammad Aijaz Asad chaired a meeting of administrative and medical officers of the district regarding the containment of coronavirus here. While emphasising strict implementation of Covid appropriate SOPs, Asad, who took over as deputy commissioner earlier this week, said those found roaming at public places without masks shall be fined and subject to Rapid Antigen Testing in the interest of the community at large. The directive has come in the wake of Srinagar topping the daily new Covid cases in Jammu and Kashmir for nearly a month now. The district has been contributing almost 50 per cent of the daily cases in the Union Territory. Asad said while the daily new cases in the district was around 30 per day earlier, it has now gone up to 70 per day now. He said the recent spike in the positive cases is a matter of serious concern and adequate administrative, as well as medical measures, are required to remind the public that the deadly virus has not vanished yet instead various strands of the virus have emerged all over the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-people-found-without-mask-in-srinagar-will-undergo-rapid-antigen-test-says-dc-964503.html
21-03-2021||National||January 26 violence in Delhi was 'govt plan': Naresh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union chairman Naresh Tikait Saturday alleged the BJP government was behind the January 26 violence in Delhi, and it is "insulting" farmers. Addressing a mahapanchayat at Puwaya, Tikait said, "The BJP government itself engineered the violence in Delhi, and insulted the farmers. "The BJP government is the biggest enemy of the farmers. There still is time for all farmers to unite, otherwise they will reach to the brink of destruction." He also claimed that whatever happened in Delhi during farmers’ tractor march on January 26, "was a plan of the government, and the accused were also people of the government”. "The farmers have been called terrorists, Khalistanis, members of tukde-tukde gang and parasites. But we are anti-government, we are against the policies of the government," he said. He also said, "We will not allow the farmers to get deceived, and all the talks will be held with Samyukt Kisan Morcha. Hence, one person from every family of a farmer, should be ready to go to the Ghazipur border (protest site)." Tikait alleged the BJP is seeking votes in West Bengal in the name of Lord Ram. "In Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, it worked out, but it will not work in future, because Lord Ram was from our clan," he said. During their January 26 parade, many of the protesters, driving tractors, had stormed the Red Fort, with some of them hoisting religious flags on its domes and on the flagstaff at the ramparts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/january-26-violence-in-delhi-was-govt-plan-naresh-tikait-964504.html
21-03-2021||National||Congress manifesto in Assam: Law to scrap CAA, farm loan||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday released his party's election manifesto for Assam, making "five guarantees" that included Rs 2,000 per month for every housewife and law to nullify the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The Congress also promised to waive off farmers' agriculture debts and women's loans from micro-finance institutes, distribute kerosene and sugar through PDS, offer lunch at Rs 10 and price a quintal of rice at Rs 2,500. "Though Congress symbol is there in the document, actually it is a people's manifesto. It contains the aspirations of the people of Assam," Gandhi said. In its manifesto, the Congress also "guaranteed" five lakh jobs in the public sector, 200 units of free electricity per month for all and a hike in the minimum wages of tea garden workers to Rs 365. Gandhi said Congress guarantees to defend the "idea of Assam" that contains culture, language, tradition, history and the way of thinking. "This is our commitment. You are aware that BJP and RSS are attacking the diverse culture of India and Assam. We will defend that," he told reporters. The opposition party promised to waive off debt for women, who have taken loans from micro-finance banks. "Agricultural debt will be waived off for farmers, the country's food providers," the manifesto said. The party, if voted to power, will restart the distribution of kerosene and sugar through the public distribution system at "minimum price", the manifesto said. The document also mentioned providing lunch at Rs 10 through 'Aamar Pakghar' (Our Kitchen) for the organised as well as the unorganised sector workers. "Congress will price a quintal of rice at Rs 2,500 and necessary steps will be taken to implement it," it added. When asked how the financial implications will be handled while fulfilling the promises as Assam is already debt-ridden, Gandhi said the Congress team has done "all the math" and these are "guarantees" that will be implemented at any cost. "There was total mismanagement by the BJP in Assam during the last five years. We are running governments in states such as Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Punjab, and we have no problem in running these governments and looking after the poor people," he said. If one has the focus on only doing things for two- three "close friends", then it would be a "completely different" type of government than the one having a focus on the common man, Gandhi asserted. "This is a common man's manifesto. We are not going to give the airport to Narendra Modi's friend. We are not going to give thousands of crores to the rich man. That is not going to happen. That is how we will get the money (for the promises)," he said. The Congress leader also said that the BJP government at the Centre has "essentially destroyed" India by damaging the country's biggest strength -- the economy, which was created slowly and painstakingly by the UPA. "During UPA tenure, we had jobs and the growth was 9 per cent. During NDA's time, the economic backbone of the country has been destroyed. Demonetisation and GST have destroyed India's ability to generate jobs," he said. Gandhi further said the ruling BJP has no choice but to privatise all the prime assets and resources of Assam and the country. "We are completely against this. There are things that can be privatised, but strategic assets must not be privatised. Strategic assets defend and protect the country. The main problem here is a problem created by the BJP. Assam is in debt because the BJP has destroyed the Indian economic system," he claimed. MSME, agriculture and many other sectors are not functioning, leading to a complete halt in job generation, Gandhi said. "They (BJP) have no choice but to monetise what is left. Believe me, even after monetising what is left, the Indian economy will not start. Because, they basically fundamentally don't know how to run this country," he said. The country cannot be run by dividing people and only on the back of two-three people, but it can be run with the poor people and the Congress knows it very well, Gandhi asserted. He also said that the Congress will have a "zero tolerance" policy towards any form of corruption in the government. When asked about the chief ministerial candidate of the Congress-led 'Grand Alliance', Gandhi said it will be decided after the results of the Assembly polls are out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-manifesto-in-assam-law-to-scrap-caa-farm-loan-964506.html
21-03-2021||National||People's laxity towards Covid-19 main reason behind rise in cases, says Vardhan||Holding the laxity shown by people in following safety protocols as the reason behind the recent surge in coronavirus cases, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday urged them not to let their guard down against the infection, else the situation may turn "dangerous". "With vaccines available now, people feel they should not wear masks. Maximum people hang their masks around their neck, some keep it in their pocket and some do not use it at all," the minister said here on Saturday evening. Covid-19 cases have again started rising at some places in the country for the past few weeks and the laxity shown by people towards the infection is the basic reason behind it, Vardhan said, adding that the situation may turn "dangerous". "If we do not follow Covid appropriate behaviour, then coronavirus will go away slowly from the country and the world," he said. "I want to appeal to people of the country that they should not let the Covid appropriate behaviour get weakened at any cost. Maintaining social distancing, wearing masks properly and washing hands with soap probably are the biggest tools to win the fight against Covid-19," said Vardhan. The Union health minister further said the two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, which had been made available in the country are the second tool in this fight against contagion. He also said there was no need for vaccination for all from the scientific point of view while asserting that the two vaccines developed in the country are completely safe and effective. The vaccination drive should also be turned into a mass movement, he said, adding that the vaccines are available at 50,000 government and private health facilities in the country. The Union health minister said the priority groups have been set after keeping in the mind the scientific criteria and studying the behaviour of Covid-19. "You know that the behaviour of Covid virus is dynamic and the vaccination process is also dynamic. Under this dynamic process, the criteria will be expanded as and when the time requires," he said. Asserting that saving lives is a priority for the government, the minister said Rs 35,000 crores had been earmarked in the Union Budget for the Covid-19 vaccination. While expressing concern over the rise in cases in Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula, Vardhan said there was no doubt that coronavirus cases were rising in six to seven states, including Punjab and Maharashtra, and stressed that these states should be more careful. He also said sequencing of the virus and its mutants was going on and one of the two vaccines was also effective against mutants.  Earlier, addressing a gathering to mark World Oral Health Day, Vardhan said the premier institutes like PGIMER have a bigger responsibility of mentoring and hand-holding, of creating successful models which contribute towards the ultimate goal of 'health for all.' "The year 2020 may go down in history as the 'Year of Covid', but it will also be remembered as the 'Year of Scientific Community'. "The way our medical professionals and scientific community rose to the occasion, and even after one year still fighting without any trace of fatigue, thereby successfully managing the pandemic in a country of 1.3 billion, is a testimony that we have the DNA, sincerity, commitment and passion to accomplish the vision of good quality health for everyone," he said. Complimenting PGIMER for its initiatives, the minister stated that the state-of-art facilities and equipment inaugurated are a major step forward in healthcare innovation and will go a long way in addressing the healthcare needs of the community of the region. Vardhan also inaugurated a national resource centre for oral health care of children and elderly, an advanced PET-CT facility, 384 slice dual-source CT scan and a refractive surgery suite at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/peoples-laxity-towards-covid-19-main-reason-behind-rise-in-cases-says-vardhan-964519.html
21-03-2021||National||3 PAC battalions to be named after women warriors: Yogi||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday announced to set up three PAC battalions, which will be named after women warriors. Addressing a gathering at an event organised on the death anniversary Rani Avantibai Lodhi, Chief Minister Adityanath said three Provincial Armed Constabulary women battalions will be set in Budaun, Lucknow and Gorakhpur and all formalities regarding it have been completed. These will be named after Rani Avantibai Lodhi, Uda Devi and Jhalkaribai, who sacrificed their lives for India's freedom struggle, the CM said in a statement here. Stating that Bundelkhand played a vital role in the freedom struggle, he said Rani Laxmibai in Jhansi and Rani Avantibai Lodhi in Ramgarh led the revolt against the British. When rulers of different regions were supporting the British to protect their throne, these women warriors remained firm on their stand. They fought fiercely to protect the country till their last breath, he said in the statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-pac-battalions-to-be-named-after-women-warriors-yogi-964522.html
21-03-2021||National||Eyeing 2022 civic polls, Delhi BJP's executive committee discusses challenges ahead||In the backdrop of the BJP drawing a blank in the national capital's municipal corporation bypolls held on February 28, the executive committee of the party's Delhi unit met on Saturday discussing the challenges ahead, including civic body polls next year. At the meeting, the party leaders highlighted various issues, including the regularisation of unauthorised colonies and the municipal corporation elections. "The party leaders asserted that the BJP will emerge victorious in the municipal corporation elections," said a participant of the meeting. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) swept the municipal bypolls in Delhi winning four of the five seats while the Congress bagged one and the BJP drew a blank. The BJP even lost the Shalimar Bagh seat held earlier by it to the AAP. The executive committee met at the Delhi BJP office, holding a preliminary discussion on political resolutions to be presented in the main meeting on Sunday, said a Delhi BJP statement. The second day of the executive meeting, to be held at Majra Dabas, will be inaugurated by senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, it said. In a virtual address to the executive committee, Delhi BJP in-charge Baijayant Jay Panda said the Narendra Modi government is working for Delhi people on a sustained basis and added regularisation of unauthorisded colonies will benefit lakhs of people in the city. Panda suggested BJP workers should discuss the amendment in the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) Act telling them it will bring in a clear administrative system in Delhi. According to the Bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" in the context of any law made by the legislative assembly. The Bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. He also called for an awareness campaign on rising pollution and the failure of the Delhi government to provide clean water supply to people. Chairing the meeting, Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta said he has witnessed great enthusiasm among the workers during his organisational tours of the ward units and asserted the party was ready for the 2022 civic body polls. Alka Gurjar, Delhi BJP's co-incharge, emphasised continued organisational tours by state and district level leaders for direct communication with the people. Leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri presented a political proposal asking party workers to campaign among people to "expose" the Kejriwal governments "failures" in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eyeing-2022-civic-polls-delhi-bjps-executive-committee-discusses-challenges-ahead-964523.html
21-03-2021||National||Hopes and hurdles after a year of lockdown||Akhila J, a software professional based in Thiruvananthapuram, feared she might have to quit her job as she was to shift to Mumbai after marriage. She applied for a transfer but her bosses told her it might not be possible. Eventually, the office allowed her to move out of Kerala without a transfer thanks to the Covid-19 lockdown and an extended work-from-home (WFH) regime. Akhila is relieved that she could keep her job and was not thrown into an unstable market in a new city. On the flip side, she and her colleagues now spent more hours at work than they used to while in office. The pandemic has not been kind to several others like R Arjun from Coimbatore. Sacked just before the lockdown, Arjun turned to freelance writing but his professional life didn’t look up. He now waits to be paid for 11 of the 12 assignments he did in the past six months. It was a year ago at 8 pm on March 24 that Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the announcement that impacted every Indian. Four hours later, a complete lockdown was in place. The whole country suddenly saw itself in a self-imposed cage. The measure had a knock-on effect on every sector. But after the initial resentment, people switched to the “adjustment” mode. Conversations were soon sprinkled with WFH, digital learning, e-wallets and video calls. Suddenly, there were more people ordering food online and flocking to OTT platforms for entertainment.  So, how have life and society changed? Sociologist and Delhi University professor Satish Deshpande says we could find the answer only over time and “right now, the most obvious change is to the world of work”. “The majority of the kind of work that people do requires physical presence. The question is — how long will the recovery take and how much of a restructuring will it involve? Depending on that, there is going to be a severe impact on livelihood for a very large number of people,” he adds. For a small number of people who would do the kind of non-material work that can be done virtually, there will be other changes, he says.  “The impact on women — who usually have to do all the work that has to do with home — is severe. There is a lot of stress and strain because work which was separated in time and space is no longer so,” Deshpande adds. Human resources managers tell a different story. An HR manager, who refused to be identified, says the WFH regime augurs well for both employers and employees. The employee gets flexibility in work while the company can save money by cutting establishment cost. Centre of Indian Trade Unions national secretary A R Sindhu echoes Deshpande about the increased burden of women. She says flexibility offered by employers turns into a liability as working hours increase tremendously. “The burden on working women has increased. So they choose WFH and the proportion of unpaid work increases,” she points out. A survey by UNITE (Union of IT and ITES Employees), Chennai, last year said 67.9% employees were not paid any allowance for internet and power, 24.7% employees had allowance cut due to Covid-19 and 75.1% feel work hours increased after the pandemic. When classrooms come home Like workplace, schools and colleges also reached home with students and teachers meeting each other over laptops, WhatsApp, Zoom and Google Meet among others. While many adapted well, several others felt short-changed by the digital divide. “The issue is whether our teachers are equipped enough to handle the situation. Training is the need of the hour. We will falter in future if we don’t do so as online learning in some form is here to stay,” a Delhi schoolteacher says. Software Freedom Law Centre Legal Director Prasanth Sugathan says people were forced to adopt several digital practices though many of them were already in place. “We will have a hybrid model for work. One is virtual courts. None thought it would come this fast. But one has to be clear about the existing digital divide,” he says. Sugathan is a bit sceptical when it comes to people moving completely digital. He cites the demonetisation experience where people started using plastic and digital money for sometime and returned to cash when currency supply stabilised. “The online space brings back into play the class divide and lack of access to resources. There are differences in terms of location for those who stay in areas with feeble network. By and large, it intensifies economic and social disadvantages,” Deshpande says. The digital divide is not restricted to online classes and workplaces. Arjun knows better. Once an avid OTT consumer, he is not active for the past couple of months as his financial situation does not allow him to buy even a basic data package that satiates his appetite for entertainment. Digital art, anyone? Art performances also went virtual during the pandemic, and with the easing of restrictions, artists and performers are slowly hitting galleries and stages after months of online streaming. While dance and music performances could be watched online, visual artist KajalDeth says, “These days you are not just seeing a painting, photograph or an installation, but experiencing it. Today’s installations or artwork may have smell, you may have to feel it. So a virtual exhibition may not work. The physical impact is important.” Bipin Chandran, who wrote scripts for Malayalam films like 1983 and Paavada, says the pandemic has fast-forwarded the changes that could have occurred in 5-10 years. “Lockdown taught us that we can watch movies on mobile phones. Visual language and sensibility changed with people acquiring a taste for foreign language series,” he says. The pandemic has presented a new challenge to the entertainment industry, says Chandran. “Now we have two formats — traditional movies and OTT. We need to understand the nuances of the medium,” he says. He believes people will return to cinema halls but is sure OTT is here to stay. Visual sensibilities will change over time and people may be ready for longer storytelling on the screen, courtesy their experience with OTT series which are “not like our usual TV serials”. The way stories are told has changed. “May be some of our directors can now think of movies of more length,” Chandran says. Covid-19 has impacted democratic polity too. “The pandemic works in favour of authoritarian regimes everywhere and since India happens to be in that kind of frame right now, it is having an impact here... When there is too much of a tilt in one direction, the system calls for corrective response. Such a response is inhibited by the pandemic. So there is the risk of a particular tendency going unchecked, allowing it to go much further than it could have in normal times,” Deshpande says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hopes-and-hurdles-after-a-year-of-lockdown-964544.html
21-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Ashoka University row heats up||Days after Pratap Bhanu Mehta quit Ashoka University, former chief economic adviser Arvind Subramanian followed suit claiming that the varsity can “no longer provide space for academic expression and freedom”. The exit of two academics in quick succession sparked off protests by students on the university campus and Opposition parties accused the Modi government of trying to curb academic freedom and free speech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-ashoka-university-row-heats-up-964549.html
21-03-2021||National||India sees nearly 44,000 Covid-19 cases; active cases cross 3 lakh||India recorded 43,846 new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,99,130, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering an increase for the 11th day in a row, the total active caseload has increased to 3,09,087, which now comprises 2.66 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.96 per cent, the data stated.  The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 115 days. The death toll increased to 1,59,755 with 197 daily new fatalities, the highest in 97 days, the data updated at 8 am showed.  As many as 44,489 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 26. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,30,288, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.38 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,35,65,119 samples have been tested up to March 20 with 11,33,602 samples being tested on Saturday. The 197 new fatalities include 92 from Maharashtra, 38 from Punjab, 15 from Kerala and 11 from Chhattisgarh.   A total of 1,59,755 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,300 from Maharashtra, 12,590 from Tamil Nadu, 12,432 from Karnataka, 10,955 from Delhi, 10,303 from West Bengal, 8,758 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,189 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-nearly-44000-covid-19-cases-active-cases-cross-3-lakh-964560.html
21-03-2021||National||This new book chronicles Indian fugitives who escaped to UK||A new book on some high-profile, as well as lesser-known Indian extradition cases, attempts to decode why the UK is considered a safe haven for those wanting to escape the law in India. 'Escaped: True stories of Indian fugitives in London', released worldwide on Monday, tracks 12 cases involving alleged offenders wanted in India to stand trial for offences ranging from loan defaults to murder. The book, by London-based journalists and researchers Danish and Ruhi Khan, includes a recap of the more recent cases involving former Kingfisher Airlines boss Vijay Mallya and diamond merchant Nirav Modi, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, as well as some historic ones including those of former Indian Naval officer Ravi Shankaran and musician Nadeem Saifi. “These 12 cases were chosen as much for the significance of the allegations against them as for the interesting arguments raised during their hearings and the observations made in their judgments,” said Danish Khan. “We have studied in much detail many other extradition cases, have had long interviews with experts and pored over case laws and parliamentary reports to understand the principles underlying the extradition process that we explore in our last chapter,” he said. As journalists covering the recent court cases in London, the couple said they drew on their own observations and reporting and also dug into British archives, old newspaper records and parliamentary reports to review cases dating back to the 1950s that have had a significant impact on the India-UK extradition policy. “We have used investigative reporting and eye-witness accounts to bring to life the stories of the flamboyant billionaire Vijay Mallya and diamond czar Nirav Modi. We have also made extensive use of the British archives and historical newspapers reports to bring into focus the less heard but extremely important and intriguing stories of other fugitives that throw a spotlight on India over the past seven decades – whether it is the underworld-cricket-Bollywood nexus or the Indo-Pak diplomatic wars,” said Ruhi Khan. Among some of the past extradition cases is that of a key lieutenant of Dawood Ibrahim, Iqbal Mirchi, who set up a base in London at a time when the Middle East was the most popular destination for underworld dons and it proved a good choice as he was successful in his fight against being extradited to India. The authors say they have tried to take a close look at how Mirchi built his empire, rising from the mohallas of Bombay to London’s millionaire row. The book similarly tracks the lives of all these fugitives who "escaped" from India, many winning their battle against extradition and others carrying on a long-drawn legal fight to stay on in the UK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-new-book-chronicles-indian-fugitives-who-escaped-to-uk-964567.html
21-03-2021||National||Ashoka University acknowledges lapses in institutional processes over resignations of Mehta, Subramanian||Ashoka University on Sunday acknowledged "lapses in institutional processes" and expressed "deep regret" at the recent events surrounding the resignations of political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta and noted economist Arvind Subramanian from its faculty. Meanwhile, Mehta wrote a letter to students, urging them to not "press" for his return asserting that the circumstances that led to his resignation will not change in foreseeable future. The university in Haryana's Sonipat became the centre of a controversy earlier this week, when Mehta, who had resigned as its vice-chancellor two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability". Subramanian, the former chief economic advisor to the government, had resigned from the university two days later in solidarity with Mehta. "We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders. This will reaffirm our commitment to academic autonomy and freedom which have always been at the core of the Ashoka University ideals," the institution said in a statement.  "Ashoka has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as Vice-Chancellor and then as senior faculty. Subramanian brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the university and his exit leaves a void that will be hard to fill," it added. The statement has been jointly issued by the university chancellor, vice-chancellor and the chairman of Board of Trustees, along with Mehta and Subramanian. "Pratap and Arvind would like to emphasize that Ashoka University is one of the most important projects in Indian higher education. They are sad to be leaving Ashoka, especially its outstanding students and faculty. They continue to believe strongly that Ashoka University should embody a liberal vision and commitment to academic freedom and autonomy. "And they remain lifelong friends and well-wishers of the institution and are committed to its success wherever they are," the statement said, adding that the two professors will remain "available for advice and consultation to the university in the future". The students have called for a two-day boycott of classes from Monday in protest over the developments. Mehta, however, said he wants to close this chapter. "The underlying circumstances that led to the resignation will not change for the foreseeable future, in my case, at any rate. So I must close this chapter. I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors,” Mehta said in his letter addressed to the students. "The poise and articulacy with which your defended important values and demanded accountability should make anyone want to associate with this university. You are its beating heart and soul and nothing can damage that," he said. "Second, it is not for me to intercede in this matter. But I imagine your voice will, in the long run make Ashoka a better university and get it to recommit to its ideals and values. So your outpouring is already a victory of sorts. You have taught us by example, what we were badly trying to teach you by lectures," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashoka-university-acknowledges-lapses-in-institutional-processes-over-resignations-of-mehta-subramanian-964569.html
21-03-2021||National||Indian military fourth strongest in the world, says study||China has the strongest military force in the world while India stands at number four, according to a study released on Sunday by the defence website Military Direct. "The USA, despite their enormous military budgets, comes in 2nd place with 74 points, followed by Russia with 69, India at 61 and then France with 58. The UK just about makes the Top 10, coming in 9th place with a score of 43," said the study. The study said the "ultimate military strength index" was calculated after taking into consideration various factors including budgets, number of inactive and active military personnel, total air, sea, land and nuclear resources, average salaries, and weight of equipment. China has the strongest military in the world, scoring 82 out of 100 points in the index, it noted.   "Based on these scores, which account for budgets, men, and things like air and navy capacity, it does suggest that China would come out as top dog in a hypothetical super conflict," it mentioned. The world's biggest military spender with a budget of $732 billion per year is the USA, it noted, adding that China comes second with $261 billion, followed by India at $71 billion.  "China would win by sea, USA by air and Russia by land" in this hypothetical conflict, it said. "USA wins in an aerial war with 14,141 total airships vs Russia with 4,682 and China with 3,587. The Russian Federation wins in a land war with 54,866 vehicles vs USA with 50,326 and China with 41,641," it mentioned. China wins in a sea war with 406 ships vs Russia with 278 and the USA or India with 202, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-military-fourth-strongest-in-the-world-says-study-964575.html
21-03-2021||National||Serum Institute to delay further Covid-19 vaccine shipments to Brazil, Morocco, Saudi Arabia||The Serum Institute of India (SII) has told Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Morocco that further supplies of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine will be delayed due to surging demand at home and as it works through a capacity expansion, a source with direct knowledge of the matter told Reuters. The news comes as India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, is being criticised domestically for donating or selling more doses than inoculations conducted at home, despite reporting the most number of coronavirus infections after the United States and Brazil. India is currently seeing a second surge of cases, taking its total to about 11.6 million. The latest delays, first reported by The Times of India daily, came to light days after Britain said it would have to slow its Covid-19 vaccine roll-out next month as SII was likely to deliver more doses later than expected. SII has supplied half of the 10 million doses recently ordered by Britain. Brazil has already received 4 million doses from SII, Saudi Arabia 3 million doses and Morocco 7 million, according to India's foreign ministry https://www.mea.gov.in/vaccine-supply.htm. The three countries had ordered 20 million each. Reuters could not immediately contact representatives for the countries or determine if they had agreed to a revised delivery schedule. SII, the single-biggest maker of vaccines, declined to comment. It has partnered with AstraZeneca, the Gates Foundation and the Gavi vaccine alliance to make up to a billion doses for poorer countries. The source, who declined to be identified, said SII was working on expanding its monthly production to 100 million doses by April/May, from 60 million to 70 million now, suggesting supplies could improve then. SII was originally supposed to sell vaccines only to middle- and low-income countries, mainly in Asia and Africa, but production issues at other AstraZeneca facilities forced it to ship to many other countries as well on the British company's behalf. India has so far donated 8 million doses and sold nearly 52 million doses to a total of 75 countries, mainly the AstraZeneca shot made by SII. India has administered more than 44 million doses since starting its immunisation campaign in the middle of January.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/serum-institute-to-delay-further-covid-19-vaccine-shipments-to-brazil-morocco-saudi-arabia-964587.html
21-03-2021||National||Healthcare experts warn of child obesity rise due to Covid-19 pandemic||Confined to their homes amid the Covid-19 pandemic, children are facing a higher risk of obesity due to increased intake of junk food, lack of socialisation and physical activities, healthcare experts have warned. Covid-19 is expected to possibly worsen the problem of obesity in middle and high socio economic groups, they said. The economic, food, and health systems disruptions resulting from the Covid-19 pandemic, healthcare experts said, are expected to continue to exacerbate all forms of malnutrition. The latest National Family Health Survey, which was conducted in 22 states in pre-pandemic times, presented a dire picture of nutrition of children in the country. While on the one hand, it showed a rise in malnutrition in several states, the government survey also presented an increase of obesity among children in 20 of the 22 surveyed states. A senior official said tackling obesity is going to be a major area of focus for the government under the newly launched Mission Poshan. However, healthcare experts have said that the possible implications of Covid-19 in worsening the situation of overweight and obesity cannot be ignored. "Covid-19 is expected to possibly worsen the situation of overweight in middle and high socio economic groups since the tendency for home confined young and school aged children and adolescents to indulge in frequent munching or consumption of high calorie and empty nutrient value snacks such as 'namkeen', biscuits, bread, buns, noodles, ice creams, cookies and cakes, fried snacks, sweetened beverages would increase. "These items are rich in carbohydrate, sugar and fat and are sought routinely and consumed to get relief from boredom," said Dr. Sheila Vir, Director, Public Health Nutrition and Development Centre, Delhi. She said parents also encourage feeding such items to meet the stress of constant demand for food fed to younger children. "Moreover, these children unable to play outdoors spend many more hours sitting in front of the computer or television," she said. Dr. Sujeet Ranjan, Executive Director, The Coalition for Food and Nutrition Security said children in India presently suffer from a double jeopardy of malnutrition; children are afflicted with over-nutrition as well as suffer from effects of under-nutrition. "During the lockdown and restricted movement, children had constrained access to socialisation, play, and even physical contact, critical for their psychosocial wellbeing and development. School closures were preventing children from access to learning and limiting their interactions with peers," he said.     Schools across the country were closed in March to contain the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. "Children felt confused and at loss with the current situation, leading to frustration and anxiety, which only increased with the overexposure to mass and social media," he added. Warning of ill-effects of obesity, he said childhood obesity is associated with a higher chance of premature death and disability in adulthood. "Lack of dietary diversity is one of the reasons for rising obesity, overweight children and high undernutrition. The change is diets and consumption of high carbohydrate and high sugar foods have an impact on health of the children," he said.   Regular and excessive consumption of foods high in salt, sugar and fat leads to obesity and is a risk factor many diseases. Sports for development (S4D) for physical fitness, balanced diet, reducing Television viewing are the four pillars through which obesity can be reduced among children, Ranjan said. Dr. Somasekar Ramaswamy, Professor of paediatrics at the Madras Medical College, said not just children but obesity will also impact adults. "When it comes to children, one of the major cause could be online classes, while on the other hand it could be, work from home for adults. In both the cases, they have to sit for hours with excessive consumption of junk food and almost no physical activity resulting in an imbalance between intake and expenditure of calories, leading to accumulation of more weight, weeks-after-weeks," he said. For prevention of overweight in young children 6-23 months, Vir said care givers should ensure that wise selection of food items and proper feeding practices are followed. "Overfeeding a child, if undernourished earlier, should be strictly avoided. TV time should be restricted and play time encouraged. Regular weight monitoring, as far as feasible, should be encouraged. In fact, the entire family should 'Eat Right' since overweight problem in mothers is also associated with overweight and obesity in their offspring. Also get into the habit of checking the nutrient content which is printed on the food packets, as per the government/FSSAI policy," she said. Interventions at the school and community level that promote awareness and education about healthy eating habits, lifestyle patterns and regular exercise are essential to prevent obesity in children. Stringent advertisement guidelines and media intervention that prevent false propaganda of unhealthy foods by celebrities that children adore is another step in this regard, Vir said. "Thus, interventions at a biopsychosocial level using a multi-disciplinary team approach forms the cornerstone in the effective management of childhood obesity," Vir added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/healthcare-experts-warn-of-child-obesity-rise-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-964599.html
21-03-2021||National||Six shooters positive for Covid-19 at World Cup in India||Six participants, including two from overseas, have tested positive for Covid-19 at the shooting World Cup in New Delhi, but organisers said Sunday there was no threat to the tournament. Top shooters from over 50 countries are participating in the 12-day event, which is being held behind closed doors due to the pandemic. "Four Indians and two overseas players tested positive and have been moved to an isolation facility," an official of India's rifle federation told AFP on condition of anonymity. "We have taken all the necessary steps and sanitised the range and the show goes on." India is the world's third-most infected nation with more than 11.5 million cases. There are concerns of a new wave of infections in the nation of 1.3 billion people, with some states imposing restrictions on movement and activities. There were 43,846 fresh cases reported in the past 24 hours, the health ministry said Sunday, in the highest single-day rise this year. The Indian government had relaxed the quarantine period from 14 to seven days for overseas shooters before the start of the tournament but they have to remain in a bio-secure "bubble". Reports have in local media said some international shooters had broken the rules and travelled outside the bubble. The tournament will finalise India's quota places -- already a record 15 -- for this year's Tokyo Olympics. The World Cup concludes on March 29.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/six-shooters-positive-for-covid-19-at-world-cup-in-india-964602.html
21-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla tests positive for Covid-19, hospitalised||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted to the AIIMS Covid Centre. Birla, 58, had tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday and was admitted to the AIIMS Covid Centre a day later. “He is stable and all his parameters are normal,” the All India Institute of Medical Sciences said in a statement. Birla had presided over the proceedings of the Lok Sabha on Thursday when the house had adjourned past 8:00 p.m. after passing the budget for Jammu & Kashmir, and the Vote on Account for Puducherry. West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankar, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot have wished Birla a speedy recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-speaker-om-birla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-hospitalised-964605.html
21-03-2021||National||Congress a 'loot engine' that wants to come to power anyhow to fill its 'empty coffers': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday called Congress a "loot engine" which is desperate to come to power in Assam "at any cost" to fill its "empty coffers." Making fun of the grand old party giving guarantees to the people if they are voted to power in Assam, Modi said they gave "false guarantees" of providing jobs and empowering women but did nothing when it was in power at the centre and also in Assam at the same time earlier. The Congress can go to any extent for coming to power and this is evident from the "lies" that they are spreading through their manifesto and the alliances they are entering to gain power, the Prime Minister said at an election rally in Bokakhat in Golaghat district. "When there was a Congress government at the centre and the state at the same time, there was double neglect, double corruption and double infiltration", he mockingly said. There was nobody to listen to the people either in Assam or at the centre and now they should keep the "'loot engine Congress' far away from them as the party only makes false promises and gives false hopes to the poor," he said. "The Congress is now giving guarantees...their manifesto is guarantees of lies, of confusion, instability, 'bomb, bandook aur blockade' (bomb, guns and blockades), insurgency and separatism, corruption and nepotism", Modi said. "The party's coffers are empty and they want to come to power at any cost to fill it. They have no vision and for them, the chair is the friend (unke toh kursi hi dost hain) and to attain that they can go to any extent", he added. They have entered into alliances with the sole motive of coming to power. In West Bengal, they have entered into an alliance with the Left and in Kerala they are fighting against them, he said to drive home the point. "In Assam, Kerala and West Bengal, the Congress has entered into alliances with the communal forces as they cannot look beyond power and they claim to be secular. Nobody in the country now believes them", he alleged. Congress has a tie-up with the AIUDF of MP Badruddin Ajmal in Assam, while in Bengal it has joined hands with the Left and Indian Secular Front of the Muslim cleric Abbas Siddiqui and in Kerala its partner is Indian Union of Muslim League. On the other hand, the double engine NDA government in Assam has ensured that the foundation for development is laid and the state is connected with the rest of the country, while during the next five year, there will be more all-around speedy development, the Prime Minister said.   During Congress rule, people thought will Assam be ever free of bomb blasts, guns or violence and peace will prevail, but the NDA government has ensured that there is peace and stability in the state, he said. He also accused the Congress of patronising poachers and said the NDA government has ensured that rhino poaching is stopped and poachers are put in jails, while the famed Kaziranga National Park has been freed of encroachers. "Our priority is simple and clear, to ensure both animal protection and also provide basic facilities of living and the NDA government in the state is doing that for the last five years with the result that the green cover in Assam has increased", he said. He further accused the Congress of doing 'Chai pe rajneeti' (politics over tea) when they have actually done nothing for the people of the tea-growing community. Referring to the increase in the daily wages of the tea garden workers, Modi said the Assam government is serious and committed to their welfare and during the last five years, it has been increased twice. "The matter is now in the court and there are some difficulties due to that but once the NDA government is formed again, the matter will be resolved speedily," Modi said. Another important sector in Assam is the petroleum and gas sector with the NDA government investing over Rs 40,000 crore to increase its production capacity and in Numaligarh Refinery Limited, it has invested over Rs 1300 crore for the bio-refinery project for the production of ethanol from bamboo, to increase employment opportunities for the locals, he said. Referring to the bamboo which the British had declared as a tree creating difficulties for the local bamboo industry, Modi accused the Congress of taking no steps for the past 70 years to rectify this, but the NDA government realised their problems and changed the law which will now help the local bamboo industry. Bamboo plantation, creation of value chain, marketing of bamboo products, formulating a special policy and creating a special zone for the bamboo and cane industry are some of the steps taken by the Assam government for the state, he said. The Prime Minister also paid tribute to legendary Ahom General Lachit Barphukan and said it was former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee who had instituted gold medal award for the best cadet at the National Defence Academy in his name and the state government also observes his birth anniversary with great reverence. "Lachit Barphukan not only saved Assam from foreign invaders but his military strategy was 'swadeshi' and he used the mighty Brahmaputra to strengthen his naval power. It is this spirit of 'atmanirbhar' that we are following to strengthen our naval power," he said. "We are also using the water resources of our country for economic prosperity. In Assam also extensive work is going on to develop its water resources", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-a-loot-engine-that-wants-to-come-to-power-anyhow-to-fill-its-empty-coffers-pm-modi-964615.html
21-03-2021||National||Siachen, world's highest battlefield, may be made functional for tourists soon||To boost tourism in Ladakh Union Territory (UT), the world’s highest battlefield, Siachen Glacier, may be opened for adventure tourists soon. If the proposal goes through, it will attract adventure tourists not only from within the country but abroad as well. In October 2019, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had announced that the base camp of Siachen Glacier which is situated at the height of 11,000 feet from sea level is open for tourists up to Kumar Post, located at the height of 15,000 feet. A delegation of leaders from Ladakh, led by BJP leader and Lok Sabha MP from the UT, Jamyang Tsering, had a meeting with Rajnath in New Delhi, where the assurances to make functional the Siachen Glacier for tourists, were made. A local English daily reported that the delegation raised the demand for making Siachen Glacier functional for tourists as Rajnath had already announced in 2019 that some parts of the Glacier are open for tourism. The delegation demanded that along with Siachen Glacier, other border areas along the Line of Control (LoC) should also be opened for tourists to promote tourism in the UT as many persons are interested to tour the forward areas. The Defence Minister reportedly assured the delegation that the areas which can be opened for tourists will be discussed. The world’s highest battleground stands at an altitude of 24,000ft in Ladakh where temperatures during winters routinely drop to less than minus 50 degrees Celsius. Siachen Glacier is also the second-largest glacier in the world outside the polar region. Until the 2003 Indo-Pak ceasefire agreement, the Siachen Glacier was the highest battlefield in the world with artillery duels taking place almost every day. Today, the artillery guns have fallen silent, but there is no let-up in the vigil at posts located as high as 23,000 feet on the Saltoro Ridge, which dominates the glacier. In 2019, when India announced that the base camp of Siachen Glacier will open for tourists, Pakistan had objected it. “India has made attempts to occupy the territory of Siachen. Pakistan claims that the Siachen Glacier was a disputed territory that India could not open for tourism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/siachen-worlds-highest-battlefield-may-be-made-functional-for-tourists-soon-964621.html
21-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi to launch 'Catch the Rain' campaign to mark World Water Day on Monday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the "Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain" campaign on the World Water Day on Monday. The historic MoU to implement the Ken Betwa Link Project, the first project of the national perspective plan for interlinking of rivers, will also be signed by Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh chief ministers at the event. The PMO said in a statement that the campaign will be undertaken across the country in both rural and urban areas with the theme "catch the rain, where it falls, when it falls". It will be implemented from March 22 to November 30 - the pre-monsoon and monsoon period in the country. It will be launched as a 'Jan Andolan' (public movement) to take water conservation at the grassroot level through people's participation. It is intended to nudge all stakeholders to create rainwater harvesting structures suitable to climatic conditions and subsoil strata, to ensure proper storage of rainwater, the PMO said. After the event, gram sabhas will be held in all gram panchayats of each district (except in poll-bound states) to discuss issues related to water and water conservation. Gram sabhas will also take 'Jal Shapath' (oath) for water conservation, it added. The Ken Betwa link project agreement heralds the beginning of inter-state cooperation to implement the vision of former prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to carry water from areas that have surplus water to drought prone and water deficit areas through the interlinking of rivers, the PMO said. This project involves transfer of water from Ken to Betwa River through the construction of Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers, the lower Orr project, Kotha barrage and Bina complex multipurpose project. It will provide annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectare, drinking water supply to about 62 lakh people and also generate 103 MW of hydropower. The PMO said the project will be of immense benefit to the water starved region of Bundelkhand, especially to the districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur of Uttar Pradesh. It will pave the way for more interlinking of river projects to ensure that scarcity of water does not become an inhibitor for development in the country, the PMO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-to-launch-catch-the-rain-campaign-to-mark-world-water-day-on-monday-964623.html
21-03-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee calls herself 'donkey' for not recognising 'true face' of Adhikari family||West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Sunday blamed herself for not recognising the "true face" of the influential Adhikari family of Purba Medinipur district and called herself a "big donkey" for being unable to do so. Venting her ire against Suvendu Adhikari, her protege-turned-rival who is pitted against the TMC leader from Nandigram constituency for the coming assembly polls, Banerjee said at an election rally here, she had even heard rumours the Adhikari family had built an empire worth Rs 5,000 crore. "I say I am a 'big donkey' (Ami ekta boro gadha) for having failed to recognise them. I don't know (about it), but people say their `empire' is worth Rs 5,000 crore and they will use the money to buy votes. But don't vote for them," Banerjee told the rally. The chief minister said, she will get it investigated once she is voted to power. Most members of the Adhikari family, which holds considerable political clout in the district, have either joined the BJP or expressed a desire to join the saffron party. Veteran TMC MP Sisir Adhikari - father of Suvendu, on Sunday, joined the BJP at Egra in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior leaders of the party. She compared the Adhikari family with "Mir Jafar" (traitor) and said that the people of the region will not tolerate it and give befitting replies with ballots. Mir Jafar, the military general of Bengal's last independent nawab Siraj-ud-Daulah, is considered a traitor for deceiving the besieged Nawab during the Battle of Plassey in 1757 which paved the way for British rule in India. The TMC chief also described the BJP as a party of "rogues and goons".  She also blamed the Adhikari family for ruling the district as "zamindars" (landlords) by taking full control of the area, claiming that even she was not allowed to hold public meetings there. Highlighting that all works like health, roads and other schemes were undertaken by the state government and not by the Adhikari family, Banerjee urged the crowd to keep the BJP out of West Bengal to maintain peace and further the pace of development. Earlier too, she had described Suvendu Adhikari as a "traitor", pointing out that she had blindly supported him when he was in the Trinamool Congress. Banerjee also attempted to play the nationalistic card by raising slogans of "Bande Mataram" and "Jai Hind". Banerjee left her Bhowanipore constituency in Kolkata to contest against her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram seat, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted the TMC to power in the state in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-calls-herself-donkey-for-not-recognising-true-face-of-adhikari-family-964638.html
21-03-2021||National||Indian Style Wrestling Association of India gets Sports Ministry recognition||The Indian Style Wrestling Association of India (ISWAI) has officially been recognised as a National Sports Federation (NSF) by the Sports Ministry, making it eligible to receive fund and support from the government. The ISWAI informed about the development in a statement issued on Saturday. "The Ministry of Sports has been pleased to grant us recognition as a National Sports Federation and privileges and benefits as enjoyed by other federations will also be admissible to Indian Style Wrestling Association of India, such as rail concessions, recruitment against to wrestlers of Indian style and also participation of leading international wrestlers in our competitions," it said in the statement. "We will have to line up to the norms and expectations of Ministry of Sports by expanding our activities...," the statement issued by ISWAI secretary general Gaurav Sachdeva added. In its order dated March 8, the Sports Ministry said ISWAI has been granted recognition as an NSF after a decade as the sports body failed to comply with the government's National Sports Development Code 2011. "Indian Style Wrestling Federation of India was granted recognition by this Ministry as a National Sports Federation for promotion and regulation of 'Indian Style Wresting' in the country. "The Government recognition of Indian Style Wrestling Association of India was not renewed after the introduction of new scheme of annual recognition from the year 2010, on account of failure to incorporate the provisions of National Sports Development Code, 2011," the letter issued by Deputy Secretary, SPS Tomar, said. The ISWAI was formed in 1958 and has been in existence for about 60 years. Indian Style Wrestling is a traditional indigenous sport which is played on mud, unlike professional wrestling, which is contested on the mat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-style-wrestling-association-of-india-gets-sports-ministry-recognition-964640.html
21-03-2021||National||Large-scale corruption in transfer of police personnel: Devendra Fadnavis||Alleging large-scale corruption into transfer of police personnel in Maharashtra during the regime of Maha Vikas Aghadi government, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis pointed out that in the past, such instances were pointed out to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. The statement comes in the wake of the letter by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh, who had claimed that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh demanded Rs 100 crore per month from arrested-suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. “Param Bir Singh’s letter is not the first such letter,” Fadnavis told a news conference in Nagpur. “There is massive corruption in police transfers…there are brokers around….money is being exchanged,” he said. He also rejected NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s contention that neither Thackeray nor Desmukh was involved in the reinstatement of Vaze and was done at the level of the then Mumbai’s Commissioner of Police. Fadnavis pointed out that the then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal has sent a report to the Chief Minister through the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department Rashmi Shukla. According to him, Thackeray forwarded the report to Deshmukh. It needs to be noted that both Jaiswal and Shukla had thereafter moved to the Centre. While Jaiswal is the Director General of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Shukla is Additional Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “Subodh Jiaswal left for Central assignment,” Deshmukh pointed out. Fadnavis questioned the silence of Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on the issue. Reiterating the demand of Deshmukh, he said that a proper inquiry is not possible if he remains in office. “He must immediately resign or removed…there can be a probe by the NIA or other central agency…but you may not have faith in it so there could be a court-monitored probe,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/large-scale-corruption-in-transfer-of-police-personnel-devendra-fadnavis-964642.html
21-03-2021||National||After 70 years, cheetahs set to make a comeback in India: Report||On March 3, World Wildlife Day, Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar announced the Centre’s goal of bringing cheetahs back to India. India stopped being a habitat for Cheetahs when they went extinct from the country in 1952. Excessive hunting, trafficking and a decline in forest cover are said to be the main reasons for India not having any cheetahs for 70 years. A country that once took pride in its ‘Asiatic cheetah’ now only finds the wild cat in zoos. An effort to reintroduce cheetahs in India began back in 2009, but a nod from the Supreme Court to pursue the objective only came recently. Currently, the only surviving Cheetahs in the country live in zoos. For the reintroduction of the species, the African variety of the cat would be introduced. The work on the reintroduction began last year after the Supreme Court gave the Centre its go-ahead for the project, based on the application filed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). The decision was taken keeping in mind the depleting population of the wild creature. Preparations for the major reintroduction will be underway in a week when Indian forest officers will start being trained by experts from Namibia and South Africa. These are both countries with the world’s highest population of cheetahs. The team of experts will be training the officers how to go about handling, breeding, rehabilitation, medical treatment and conservation of the cheetahs. In 1947, Maharaja Ramanuj Pratap Singh Deo of Koriya is believed to have caused the Asiatic Cheetah’s extinction in India after he shot the last three of them while hunting. Now, decades later, India is going to carry out the world’s first inter-continental relocation of a large carnivore in an attempt to make up for his actions. Six sites - Mukundara Hills Tiger Reserve and Shergarh Wildlife Sanctuary in Rajasthan and Gandhi Sagar Wildlife Sanctuary, Kuno National Park, Madhav National Park and Nauradehi Wildlife Sanctuary in Madhya Pradesh – have been assessed for relocating the wild animals. Out of them only Kuno National Park has been deemed ready so far, owing to it being observed since 2006. The park was also chosen for relocating the Asiatic Lion since both animals share the same habitat. Dean and expert committee member of the Wildlife Institute o India (WII), Dr Y V Jhala, said, “While there was never any problem with cheetahs and lions sharing the same space, the Supreme Court felt at the time this was not conducive to the lion. The court had instructed that the lion be introduced at Kuno in 2013; that is yet to happen. Last year, the Supreme Court gave the go ahead to introduce cheetahs here. But one site is not enough for a healthy population of cheetahs in the country. So, we will upgrade the other identified sites, which have conducive habitats, so it can be introduced in four-five places at least over the coming five or six years. But this year, we will relocate eight cheetahs to Kuno to begin with. The idea is to relocate 35-40 cheetahs across the identified sites.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-70-years-cheetahs-set-to-make-a-comeback-in-india-report-964649.html
21-03-2021||National||Security forces in J&K strengthen bullet-proofing as steel bullets emerge again||Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have strengthened the bullet-proofing shield of their vehicles and bunkers after steel bullets that can pierce through normal protective shields were recovered from terrorists during an encounter in South Kashmir recently. A few days back, local commander of the banned Jaish-e-Mohammed terror group, Vilayat Hussain Lone alias Sajad Afghani, was killed in an encounter at Shopian. The army had recovered 36 rounds of armed steel-core bullets. The recoveries raised alarm bells within the security establishment as these bullets can harm personnel even wearing a regular protective shield. Officials said that now the vehicles, especially deployed in South Kashmir, and personnel moving for anti-terror operations are equipped with shields which have an extra layer of protection for blunting such penetrative bullets. The ammunition normally used in the AK series rifles was being modified from across the border with the help of Chinese technology of encasing bullets with hard steel core, the officials said. The bullet, termed Armour Piercing (AP), is built of hardened steel or tungsten carbide, they explained. The first incident of use of 'steel core' bullet was noticed on the New Year eve of 2017 when JeM terrorists had carried out a suicide attack on a CRPF camp in Lethpora in South Kashmir. Five paramilitary personnel were killed in the attack and one of them was hit by a bullet fatally despite using a static bullet-proof shield provided by the Army. Normally, the bullets terrorists use in their assault rifles have a lead core covered with mild steel which cannot penetrate a bullet-proof shield, but after the December 31, 2017 encounter and a detailed analysis, forces had to change the way they protected themselves, the officials said. They said that the terrorists, mainly from banned Jaish group, were armed with the best possible arsenal including M-4 carbines and bullets with steel core, with the capability to pierce a static bullet proof bunker used during counterterrorism operations. After the December 31, 2017 attack, the then Additional Director General of CRPF for Jammu and Kashmir S N Shrivastava, who now heads the Delhi Police, had conducted a thorough inquiry which revealed that the bullet fired by the terrorist from the assault AK rifle was of steel core with the capability of piercing through the static bunkers used by security personnel during encounters with terrorists. An analysis of previous suicide attacks was also carried out during which ballistic experts opined that 'steel core' bullets had previously been used by terrorists during an attack on district police lines of Pulwama in South Kashmir in August 2016. Eight security personnel had lost their lives in the terror strike. It was last used by terrorists during a suicide attack at Anantnag in June 2019 where five CRPF personnel and a Jammu and Kashmir police inspector were killed. Post-incident analysis showed that the terrorist had used the same steel bullet, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-in-jk-strengthen-bullet-proofing-as-steel-bullets-emerge-again-964656.html
21-03-2021||National||Five states account for over 83% of new Covid-19 cases: Govt||As India witnessed the highest daily tally of Covid-19 cases this year, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday that Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh account for 83.14 per cent of the new infections. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 27,126. It is followed by Punjab with 2,578 while Kerala reported 2,078 new cases. Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh reported 1,798, 1,565 and 1, 308 infections in a day. India recorded 43,846 new coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,15,99,130. Besides, 197 deaths were reported in a span 24 hours, the ministry said adding six states account for 86.8 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (92). Punjab follows with 38 daily deaths. Kerala reported15 deaths. Delhi reported over 800 coronavirus cases for the first time this year on Saturday, while two more people succumbed to the pathogen. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose to 3,409 from 3,165 a day ago. The positivity rate breached the 1 per cent-mark after over two months, according to a bulletin. Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Gujarat and Haryana are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, according to the ministry. India’s total active caseload was recorded over 3.09 lakh (3,09,087) comprising 2.66 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 20,693 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. According to experts, the biggest reason for the surge in cases is that people feel the pandemic is over and they are not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "There are multiple reasons for the surge, but the main reason is that there is change in people's attitude and they feel coronavirus is over. People should still restrict non-essential travel for some more time," AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria said. Dr V K Paul, NITI Aayog member (Health) said to remain free of this virus, it is very important that Covid-appropriate behaviour, containment strategy, readiness from the health infrastructure point of view as well as vaccination has to be brought in to fight the pandemic. He advised that in districts where Covid-19 cases are seemingly on the rise, vaccination of eligible individuals should be intensified and prioritised. States and UTs showing an upsurge in daily new cases and with a high caseload of active cases have been advised by the Centre to improve testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase the overall share of RT-PCR tests (more than 70%), especially in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing in line with the ‘Test Track and Treat’ strategy of the government. They have also been advised to carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case (in the first 72 hours) along with isolation and early treatment of the serious cases as per clinical protocol. They have been asked to focus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing cluster of cases and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths and that they should also follow up on sending samples for genome testing to track virus variants of concern, officials said. All states and UTs have been tagged to 10 national labs under the INSACOG consortium with National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) as the nodal institute. They have been asked to limit the gathering in public places along with promoting Covid-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Accelerating the pace of vaccination has also been stressed upon, officials stated. India’s cumulative recoveries stand at 1,11,30,288 on Sunday. Seventeen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Jharkhand, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Puducherry, Daman and Diu & Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Ladakh (UT), Manipur, Mizoram, A&N Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Besides, over 4.4 crore (4,46,03,841) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,25,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till Sunday 7 am. These include 77,79,985 HCWs (1st dose), 48,77,356 HCWs (2nd dose), 80,84,311 FLWs (1st dose) and 26,01,298 FLWs (2nd Dose), 36,33,473 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 1,76,27,418 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on Day-64 of the vaccination drive ( March 20), more than 25 lakh (25,40,449) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 22,83,157 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,669 sessions for 1st dose and 2,57,292 HCWs and FLWs received 2nd dose of vaccine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-account-for-over-83-of-new-covid-19-cases-govt-964659.html
21-03-2021||National||For first time, NTPC Bongaigaon's output crosses installed capacity||The output of state-run power major NTPC's Bongaigaon plant in Assam has crossed its installed capacity of 750 MW for the first time since the commissioning of all its units two years ago, an official statement said on Sunday. The plant achieved more than 100 per cent Plant Load Factor (PLF) for the first time since all the three units were commissioned in March 2019, it said. Units I and II have crossed 100 per cent and Unit III achieved a PLF of 98.5 per cent, he said. The total installed capacity of the plant is 750 MW, which is equivalent to 18 million units. PLF is the generated capacity against the installed capacity. "NTPC's group generation also exceeded 300 BUs (billion units) in the current financial year 2020-21. NTPC group companies have generated 300.8 BUs till March 19 in the current financial year," the statement said. This is higher by 6.9 per cent compared to the same period last year, it said. NTPC Bongaigaon in western Assam was set up at a total investment of Rs 8,149 crore. The plant's Unit-I was commissioned on April 1, 2016, while the other two units were commissioned on November 1, 2017 and March 26, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/for-first-time-ntpc-bongaigaons-output-crosses-installed-capacity-964666.html
21-03-2021||National||Rajasthan govt imposes night curfew in 8 cities from Monday; visitors told to carry Covid negative report||The Rajasthan government on Sunday imposed stricter measures to check the spread of coronavirus, ordering night curfew in eight cities and making a Covid-19 negative report mandatory for anyone visiting the state. Gehlot said it has also been decided that travellers coming to Rajasthan from other states will have to carry RT-PCR negative reports, not older than 72 hours, from March 25, officials said. Earlier, the production of RT-PCR negative reports was mandatory for travelers from Kerala, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Haryana. “Now, this has been made mandatory for travelers from all the states. Travelers will also be examined at airports, railway stations and bus stands,” he said. The fresh measures were announced after Gehlot had consultations with leaders of political parties and religious organisations, representatives of NGOs, and health experts on the emerging Covid-19 situation on Friday. Gehlot said night curfew will be imposed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Sagwara (Dungarpur) and Kushalgarh (Banswara) from 11:00 pm to 5:00 am, beginning Monday. The chief minister said markets in urban local bodies will be shut down at 10:00 pm as part of measures to protect the lives and livelihood of the people of the state in view of the second wave of Covid-19. On Saturday, Rajasthan had reported 445 new cases of Covid-19, taking the total number of cases in the state to 3,24,948.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-govt-imposes-night-curfew-in-8-cities-from-monday-visitors-told-to-carry-covid-negative-report-964671.html
21-03-2021||National||Nitish Kumar throws his hat in the ring for Assam & Bengal||The ruling party JD(U) and the BJP may be allies in Bihar, but in poll-bound Assam and West Bengal, they will be foes contesting against each other. Of the 37 seats where the JD(U) has thrown its hat in the Assam ring, 13 were won by the BJP during the 2016 Assembly polls. JD(U) national general secretary Sanjay Verma said that the party was contesting six seats in the first phase (March 27), nine seats in the second phase (April 1) and 22 seats in the third phase of polls (April 6) in Assam. Most of the constituencies, where the JD(U) is in the fray, are those where there is large number of people originating from Bihar. Like, for example, in Tinsukia, the JD(U) has fielded Alok Ray. Incidentally, he will be pitted against the JD(U)’s main rival in Bihar - the RJD – which has fielded Hira Devi. Born and brought up in Bhagalpur (Bihar), Hira Devi shifted to Assam in 1984 after her marriage. Devi is the combined Opposition candidate in Tinsukia representing the RJD, which is contesting on only one seat as an ally of the Congress-led alliance in Assam. Similarly, the JD(U) is contesting 50 seats in West Bengal. Though nomination papers of four of its candidates were rejected, the move has not dampened the party’s spirits. “We are not only expanding our base. We will make our presence felt in the neighbouring West Bengal,” said senior JD(U) MLC, Ghulam Rasool Baliyavi, who is camping in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nitish-kumar-throws-his-hat-in-the-ring-for-assam-bengal-964674.html
21-03-2021||National||No Holi celebrations, only Holika Dahan allowed: Gujarat Dy CM||The Gujarat government on Sunday said permission won't be granted for Holi celebrations due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state through the religious ritual of 'Holika Dahan' associated with the festival can take place with crowd restrictions. Holi falls on March 29 and Holika Dahan on its eve on March 28. The government will only allow 'Holika Dahan', a pyre lighting ritual symbolizing the victory of good over evil on the eve of Holi, that too with a limited number of people in housing societies and villages, Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said. Patel, who also holds the health portfolio, said people won't be allowed to form crowds to throw colour at each other, a prime part of the boisterous celebrations associated with Holi. "No permission is granted for the celebration of Holi. Action will be taken against violators. However, I believe the people of Gujarat will follow rules and will not play Holi," Patel said. Gujarat reported 1,565 coronavirus positive cases on Saturday, the addition being the highest in four months, taking the state's tally to 2,85,429. The active caseload in the state is 6,7373 as of Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-holi-celebrations-only-holika-dahan-allowed-gujarat-dy-cm-964678.html
21-03-2021||National||Recipients of second dose of Covid-19 vaccine must wait for 28 days to donate blood||A recent order by the National Blood Transfusion Council has said that a person cannot donate blood for the next 28 days after taking the last dose of Covid-19 vaccine. As approved in the 30th meeting of the governing body of the NBTC held on February 17, the deferral criteria for blood donation post-Covid-19 vaccine was finalised as "28 days post-vaccination deferral after the last dose of Covid-19 vaccination irrespective of the type of the vaccine received."  The order implies that the donor has to wait for 28 days after taking the second dose of the vaccine, which means that he or she cannot donate for 56 days after taking the first jab. The order was issued by NBTC director Dr Sunil Gupta on March 5. According to the Union Health Ministry, two doses of the vaccine need to be taken by an individual 28 days apart to complete the immunisation schedule. Protective levels of antibodies are generally developed two weeks after receiving the second dose, it has said. Also, on whether one should avoid alcohol after receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry in a series of FAQs on March 2 clarified that "according to experts, there is no evidence of alcohol impairing the effectiveness of the vaccine".   Two vaccines -- Oxford's Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute in the country and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin have been approved by the National Drug Regulator for restricted emergency use in India. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recipients-of-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-must-wait-for-28-days-to-donate-blood-964684.html
21-03-2021||National||From TRP scam to Sushant Singh Rajput death, Param Bir Singh handled several important cases||In his last stint as the Mumbai Police Commissioner, senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh handled several important cases like the TRP scam and Anvay Naik suicide case, the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput – and always remained in news. But in his previous stints too, the 1988-batch IPS officer, had made headlines – he had handled several important assignments – Superintendent of Police in Chandrapur and Bhandara, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Detection) in Mumbai, Additional Commissioner of Police in North-West Region in Mumbai, Additional Commissioner of Police in Anti-Terrorism Squad, Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order). During the 26/11 terror attacks, Singh was posted as Additional Commissioner of Police, and countered the terrorists in Oberoi-Trident. However, the then Police chief Hasan Gafoor made some comments on certain officers including Singh. Singh's boss, Hemant Karkare, the then ATS chief, laid down his life during the terror attacks. Karkare and Singh were also involved in the investigations of the Malegaon blasts case in which Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur and Lt Col Prasad Purohit are accused. Last year, she had accused Singh of torturing her in custody. In August, 2018, in a press conference, he read out letters seized by Pune police in the Elgar Parishad-Koregaon Bhima case, in which there were revelations of a conspiracy to assassinate Prime Minister Narendra Modi and overthrow the elected government. In fact, the Bombay High Court, rapped him for this. As Thane Police chief, his team arrested Iqbal Kaskar, the brother of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim. He also busted a Rs 2,000 crore drug scandal in Thane with international repercussions and links to foreign cartels linked to Vijaygiri Anadgiri Goswami aka Vicky Goswami alias Vicky and his wife Mamta Kulkarni.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-trp-scam-to-sushant-singh-rajput-death-param-bir-singh-handled-several-important-cases-964694.html
21-03-2021||National||Reservation for women, implementation of CAA: Key takeaways from BJP's West Bengal poll manifesto||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday unveiled the BJP's manifesto for the upcoming West Bengal Assembly elections. Calling it a 'Sankalp Patra', Shah said the manifesto is a resolution letter for West Bengal by the BJP. Here are the key takeaways from the BJP's manifesto: 1. Women to be given 33% reservation in state government jobs. 2. Border fencing to be strengthened to curb influx of infiltrators in West Bengal. 3.Free education to be provided for women from KG to PG. 4. Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to be implemented and refugees who have been staying here for 70 years to be given citizenship. Every refugee family to be given Rs 10,000 per year for five years through DBT. 5. Fishermen to be given assistance of Rs 6,000 per year, and Rs 10,000 to be given to each farmer in the state every year. 6. Three new AIIMS to be set up in North Bengal, Jungle Mahal and Sundarbans regions. 7. Assistance of Rs 4,000 every year to be provided to every landless farmer under Krishak Suraksha Yojana. 8. Anti-corruption helpline to be created under the CMO, so that any citizen will be able to direct the complaint directly to the Chief Minister. 9. Common Eligibility Test to be instituted for all state government jobs to keep a check on corruption. 10. Separate Task Forces to be constituted to curb problems of arms racketeering, unchecked narcotics trade, land grabbing, fake currency circulation and cattle smuggling.  West Bengal goes to polls in eight phases from March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reservation-for-women-implementation-of-caa-key-takeaways-from-bjps-west-bengal-poll-manifesto-964698.html
21-03-2021||National||Aadhaar not mandatory for Jeevan Pramaan, Sandes app: Centre||Aadhaar is no longer mandatory for pensioners to get digital life certificate, Jeevan Pramaan, that is required to collect their pensions, according to the new rule notified by the government. The government has also made Aadhaar verification voluntary for its instant messaging solution 'Sandes' and attendance management at public offices under the Aadhaar Authentication for Good Governance (Social Welfare, Innovation, Knowledge) Rules, 2020. "Aadhaar Authentication in Jeevan Pramaan is on a voluntary basis and user organizations shall provide alternate means of submission of Life Certificate. NIC shall comply with provisions of Aadhaar Act 2016, Aadhaar Regulation 2016 and the O.Ms (official memorandum), circulars and guidelines issued by UIDAI from time to time," a notification by the Ministry of Electronics and IT dated March 18 said. Digital Life Certificate for pensioners scheme was introduced to address the woes that pensioners faced as they were required to be present before pension disbursing agency or had the life certificate issued by authority where they served earlier and delivered that to the disbursing agency. The digital life certificate helped pensioners from physically travelling to the respective organisation. However, many pensioners complained about problems in getting pension due non-availability of Aadhaar cards or their fingerprints becoming unreadable. While some government organisations provided an alternate way of issuing pension in 2018, the notification to make Aadhaar voluntary for the digital life certificate has been issued now. Simultaneously, the Electronics and IT Ministry has made Aadhaar optional for users of instant messaging solution, Sandes app, developed by the National Informatics Centre. "Aadhaar Authentication in Sandes is on a voluntary basis and user organisations shall provide alternate means of verification. NIC shall comply with provisions of Aadhaar Act 2016, Aadhaar Regulation 2016 and the O.Ms, circulars and guidelines issued by UIDAI from time to time," a separate notification dated March 18 said. Developed under project name Government Instant Messaging System, the app is used within public departments. Proof of concept for the app is done by more than 150 organizations including Niti Aayog, MeitY, CBI, MEA, Indian Railways, Indian Navy, Indian Army, National Security Council Secretariat (NSCS), Intelligence Bureau, Border Security Force, Central Reserve Police Force, Department of Telecom, Home Ministry, etc. The government has plans to make available Sandes for the general public also. Aadhaar authentication has been made voluntary for biometrics attendance systems used in government offices through another notification on March 18. "Aadhaar Authentication in AEBAS is on a voluntary basis and user organizations shall provide alternate means of attendance," the notification said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aadhaar-not-mandatory-for-jeevan-pramaan-sandes-app-centre-964699.html
21-03-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh: Siren to be blown to make people take vow of wearing masks||A siren will be sounded in all cities in Madhya Pradesh at 11 am on March 23 for two minutes when people will take a vow to wear masks and maintain a physical distance at public places to check the spread of coronavirus, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday in view of a fresh surge in the infections. He said a siren will be blown again at 7 pm on Tuesday to remind people of their resolve to follow these norms. "Putting on a mask is very important and that is why we are starting this campaign. We should be cautious. Do not let things go out of our hands," the CM told reporters. Chouhan said, in a worrying trend, fresh Covid-19 cases in Indore, Bhopal and other places are on the rise. He also appealed to people to celebrate upcoming festivals, including Holi, at their homes. "Slogans like 'Meri Holi, Mera Ghar' should be embraced totally. Festivals should be celebrated with caution," he added. Madhya Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload stood at 2,74,405 as on Saturday, as per the state health department. Night curfew is already in place in Bhopal and Indore||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-siren-to-be-blown-to-make-people-take-vow-of-wearing-masks-964706.html
21-03-2021||National||After 'ripped jeans' remark, Uttarakhand CM says 'India was America's slave for 200 years'||After the controversial 'ripped jeans' remark, the newly-appointed Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat has once again made headlines with his 'slip of tongue.' Rawat, during an event in Ramnagar, said that India was America's slave for 200 years. While praising India's fight against coronavirus, Rawat compared India's preparedness with other countries like America, and Italy. He said, "As opposed to other countries, India is doing better in terms of handling the Covid-19 crisis. America, who enslaved us for 200 years and ruled the world, is struggling in current times." Earlier this week, the new CM drew criticism when he said that youngsters follow strange fashion trends due to a lack of values and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees. Women also follow such trends. Rawat then went on to describe the attire of a woman who sat next to him on a flight. He described her as wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees, bangles in her hands and two children travelling with her. He also said she runs an NGO, goes out in society and has two children and wondered what values she would give them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-ripped-jeans-remark-uttarakhand-cm-says-india-was-americas-slave-for-200-years-964729.html
21-03-2021||National||Ashoka University admits to lapses; Mehta firm on quitting||Ashoka University on Sunday admitted to “some lapses” in the institutional process amid a controversy over the resignations of professors Pratap Bhanu Mehta and Arvind Subramanian and assured corrective measures. The joint statement by the university, with Mehta and Subramanian, came hours after Mehta urged the students, who had called for a boycott of classes for two days, “not to press the matter further”, suggesting that he was firm on his decision to move on. "We acknowledge that there have been some lapses in institutional processes which we will work to rectify in consultation with all stakeholders,” said the statement signed by Chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee, Vice Chancellor Malabika Sarkar, Chairman of Board of Trustees Ashish Dhawan besides Mehta and Subramanian. “The University has been privileged to have been led, guided and counselled by Pratap first as Vice Chancellor and then as senior faculty,” it said adding that Subramanian brought eminence, stature, fresh ideas and energy to the institution. In a separate letter to students, Mehta said the underlying circumstances that led to his resignation would not change in the foreseeable future and that he “must close this chapter.” “It is often said that you cannot swim in the same river twice. In the contrarian spirit of Ashoka, I tried by resigning twice!! I hope even you might forgive me for not wanting to tempt fate again,” he said. “I urge you not to press on this matter. I know you will be disappointed. But if I may exercise one last bit of professorial discretion: your mission is larger than the fate of two Professors,” Mehta said. Mukherjee, in a separate letter to the students, parents, teachers and alumni, said the founders of the university had never interfered with academic freedom. “... faculty members have been left free to construct their own courses, follow their own methods of teaching and their own methods of assessment. They have also been left free to carry out their own research and publications,” Mukherjee said. Dhawan, the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, told the students and alumni that the past few days have taught them to build an open line of communication with them. “We will make ourselves available for meetings with the Students' Government and Alumni Council on a regular basis,” Dhawan said in a separate letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashoka-university-admits-to-lapses-mehta-firm-on-quitting-964736.html
21-03-2021||National||India battles 2nd Covid-19 wave, growing vaccine scepticism||India is racing to contain a second wave of the coronavirus, but its vaccination campaign is running into doubters like Akbar Mohamed Patel. A resident of Mumbai’s densely populated slum area of Dharavi, Patel survived a severe bout of the coronavirus in May. The first wave prompted Mumbai officials to seal off his housing complex, confining thousands of people for nearly two months. Still, the current campaign has been marred by a slow initial government rollout as well as scepticism and apathy from people like Patel and his neighbours. “On social media we come to know this is all a big game to make money,” Patel said. Of the vaccine, he said, “many things have been hidden.” The coronavirus, once seemingly in retreat, is again rippling across India. Confirmed infections have risen to about 31,600 daily from a low of about 9,800 in February. In a recent two-week period, deaths shot up 82%. The outbreak is centred on the state of Maharashtra, home to Mumbai, the country’s financial hub. Entire districts of the state have gone back into lockdown. Scientists are investigating whether a new strain found there is more virulent, like variants found in Britain, South Africa and Brazil. Officials are under pressure from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to aggressively ramp up testing and vaccination, especially in Mumbai, to avoid disruptions like last year’s dramatic nationwide lockdown and resulting economic recession. “I am very categorical that we should stop it, contain it, just here,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at a private hospital in Mumbai and a member of the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force. India’s vaccination campaign could have global consequences. Last week, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that an expected drop in Britain’s Covid-19 vaccine supplies stemmed from a nearly monthlong delay in delivery of 5 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in India. The reasons for the delay are not clear, but the manufacturer, Serum Institute of India, has said shipments will depend in part on domestic Indian needs. India is a crucial link in the vaccination supply chain. Amid hoarding by the United States and other wealthy countries, India has given away or sold tens of millions of doses to other countries, even as it struggles to vaccinate its own people. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, the foreign minister, has said that the availability of vaccines in India will determine how many doses go overseas. While vaccinations were initially available only in public hospitals, India is now giving jabs in private clinics and enormous makeshift vaccination centres, and it is considering making them available in pharmacies, too. Vaccination hours have been extended, and those eligible can register in person and receive a shot the same day, bypassing an online scheduling system. The Indian government is playing catch-up. Since it launched a nationwide vaccination drive two months ago, uptake has been disappointing. Less than 3% of the population has received a jab, including about half of health care workers. At the current rate, it will take India about a decade to vaccinate 70% of its people, according to one estimate. By comparison, roughly one-quarter of the population of the United States has had at least one jab. Not everybody in India has the internet access needed to register for a shot online. But the campaign has also been plagued by public scepticism. The government approved a domestically developed vaccine, called Covaxin, before its safety and efficacy trials were even over, though preliminary findings since then have suggested it works. The other jab available in India is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which was suspended in some countries after a number of patients reported blood clots and strokes, though scientists have not found a link between the shots and the afflictions. Some of the tepid response may come down to apathy. A nationwide study released in February found that 1 in 5 Indian people were likely to have already had Covid-19. Surveys in cities show even higher prevalence rates. The disease is just one among many that people in India worry about, joining tuberculosis, dengue fever and bird flu. Many people are struggling to recover from the huge financial hit of India’s lockdown last year and cannot afford to take time off work to stand in line for a shot. “These are hand-to-mouth people. Bread, butter depends on their daily work. They can’t sit back and relax and wait for the wave to go,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the Mumbai ward that includes Dharavi. “They can’t afford quarantine, so the only option is to vaccinate these people as early as possible.” Health experts are prodding Modi to do more, including making the vaccine available to more people. Older adults, health care and front-line workers, and some people with medical conditions are currently eligible for shots. “I would try to put the injection in the arm of every Indian that is 18 years and above, and I would do it now,” said Dr N.K. Ganguly, president of a medical research institute in New Delhi. Persuading the 800,000 residents of Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, to get vaccinated is seen as critical. Residents travel for work to every corner of the city of 20 million. Officials are reintroducing what earlier in the pandemic they called the Dharavi model: If the disease can be contained there, transmission can be curbed citywide and even further afield. It will not be easy, even though just 3 miles away, a jumbo vaccination centre is administering about 15,000 shots a day, free of charge. Day and night, Dharavi is teeming with life. People overflow from thin, corrugated metal houses, stacked on top of each other like matchboxes, onto crowded, mostly unpaved lanes strung with loose electrical wire. Animals skitter between parked motorcycles and piles of debris. Shops, tanneries and factories are squeezed next to houses of worship and community toilets. “We have been OK all this while,” Abdul Razad Rakim, a 61-year-old diabetic, said from a foldout chair in front of the tiny apartment he shares with his wife, Shamim. “Why do we have to go?” A short walk away, Janabai Shinde, a former janitor for the city health department, was squatting on her front step, rising every few minutes to spit red tobacco juice into a drain. “I take walks in this lane. I sit here for fresh air. I have not stepped out much since the lockdown,” Shinde said. Her son, who works for the city, has already registered her for a turn at a vaccination centre. She said she hoped her neighbours would join her. “It’s for our good,” she said. The Mumbai government has enlisted aid groups to set up help desks in Dharavi, where residents can ask questions and complete online registration to make an appointment for a free shot. Plans are underway to set up a vaccination centre within the confines of the slum and to reopen an institutional quarantine centre with thousands of beds, according to Dighavkar, the assistant commissioner. Last week, as Maharashtra recorded its highest new case numbers since September, the chief executive of a disaster relief group delivered a pep talk at Gold Filled Heights, an apartment complex largely occupied by members of the Jain religious group, who run many of the jewellery businesses in Dharavi. “We can’t let the virus spread again,” said the chief executive, Shantilal Muttha. “If it spreads in Dharavi, it becomes a threat for the entire Mumbai and Maharashtra.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-battles-2nd-covid-19-wave-growing-vaccine-scepticism-964737.html
21-03-2021||National||Health Ministry flags Kumbh Mela as potential Covid-19 superspreader event||With the Kumbh Mela at Haridwar set to attract lakhs of pilgrims next month, the Union Health Ministry on Sunday red-flagged the Kumbh’s potential as a superspreader event to trigger an upsurge in the Covid-19 cases as every day 10-20 pilgrims and an equal number of locals are being found positive even now. "Currently more than 12 states have shown a surge in Covid-19 cases during the past few weeks. Pilgrims expected to visit Haridwar could also be from such states. It has been noted that there is a potential of an upsurge in cases in the local population after the auspicious Shahi Snan days during the Kumbh Mela,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement quoting a letter that Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the Uttarakhand government. The communication from the Health Ministry is on the basis of a report submitted by a high level team that visited the hill state on March 16-17 for a review of the preparations. The team was led by the director of National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi. As per its report, 10-20 pilgrims and 10-20 locals are being reported positive for Covid-19 every day. Such a high positivity rate has the potential to rapidly turn to an upsurge in cases, given the expected large footfall during Kumbh. The world’s largest mass gathering at one place, Kumbh Mela is celebrated four times in every 12 years. According to an official assessment, nearly 10 lakh people visit Kumbh daily on a regular day and the number shoots up to 50 lakh in auspicious days. Four such auspicious dates for Shahi Snans when lakhs and lakhs of people will assemble at the Har Ki Pauri ghat to take a holy dip in the Ganga are April 12, 14, 21 and 27. Such a huge mass gathering in the middle of a second wave of Covid-19 has emerged as a big worry. To compound the complications while the number of people visiting Haridwar are expected to swell in April, the Covid-19 testing arrangements are grossly inadequate. Uttarakhand administration is conducting 50,000 rapid antigen tests and 5,000 RT-PCR tests at Haridwar daily. This, Bhushan pointed out, was not enough to effectively offset the huge number of expected pilgrim footfalls. The ministry has advised the state to significantly increase the share of RT-PCR tests besides setting up systems for generating early warning signals in areas with susceptible populations and enhancing tests in potential high transmission areas. Meanwhile, continuing with the high growth curve, India reported 43,846 new Covid-19 cases and 197 deaths on Sunday with Maharashtra topping the list in both charts. The total number of active cases crossed three lakhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-flags-kumbh-mela-as-potential-covid-19-superspreader-event-964744.html
21-03-2021||National||Take stand against Sri Lanka in UN meet, TN parties urge PM Modi||India must take a stand against Sri Lanka in the United Nations Human Rights Council session vis-a-vis the accountability and reconciliation resolution, political parties in Tamil Nadu urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday. Pointing to news reports that Lanka was hopeful of India's support at the UNHRC session on Monday in connection with the resolution, DMK president M K Stalin said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'silence' over it has caused a big 'shock' among the Tamil diaspora and people in Tamil Nadu. MDMK and PMK also sought India's support to the resolution. Recently, Sri Lanka expressed hope that India would stand by it when the UNHRC took up its latest accountability and reconciliation resolution. This follows a UN report that called for drastic measures against those allegedly responsible for rights violations during last phase of the armed conflict with the LTTE (2009). Stalin said India must not take a stand favouring Sri Lanka, which would be "an injustice" to Lankan Tamils. India should vote in favour of the accountability and reconciliation resolution against Sri Lanka, he said in a statement. Also, Modi should take steps to see that support was canvassed in the UN body to bring amendments to that resolution to facilitate initiation of proceedings in the international criminal court against Lanka over war crimes, he said. MDMK chief and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko said India must support the resolution against Sri Lanka adding the BJP-led Centre should not ignore the sentiments of Tamil people. PMK leader and former union minister Anbumani Ramadoss also appealed for India's support to the UNHRC resolution, saying it should stand for human rights and peace in Sri Lanka. Noting that justice continued to 'elude' Tamils killed in the Eelam war, he recalled Modi's Feb 14 speech at a public meeting here where he promised that India was always committed to ensuring that the Tamils in the island nation lived with equity, equality, justice, peace and dignity. The resolution accuses Lanka of war crimes with threats to take those responsible to the International Courts and impose targeted sanctions against officials allegedly responsible for human rights violations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-stand-against-sri-lanka-in-un-meet-tn-parties-urge-pm-modi-964752.html
21-03-2021||National||Road Transport Ministry issues possible cyberattack alert||The Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways on Sunday issued a possibly cyberattack alert on the Indian transport sector, including various departments in the Ministry and state Public Works Departments, and asked them take adequate security measures. "The Ministry of Road Transport and Highways received an alert from CERT-In regarding targeted intrusion activities directed towards Indian transport sector with possible malicious intentions. The Ministry has advised departments and organisations under transport sector to strengthen the security posture of their infrastructure," a statement from the Ministry said. "NIC, NHAI, NHIDCL, IRC, IAHE, State PWDs, Testing agencies and Automobile manufacturers have been requested to conduct the security audit of the entire IT system by CERT-In certified agencies on a regular basis and take all actions as per their recommendations," the statement said. The audit report and the action taken report are to be regularly submitted to the Ministry, the statement added. CERT-In, cyber security nodal agency in the government agencies, frequently issues alert about possible cyberattacks. Earlier the government had informed Parliament that several attempts were made to attack the various government agencies websites from countries including Pakistan and China during lockdown announced to check spread of Covid-19 last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/road-transport-ministry-issues-possible-cyberattack-alert-964759.html
21-03-2021||National||Polls to elect next head of Tibetan Government-in-Exile: Bylakuppe’s Penpa Tsering emerges frontrunner||Lobsang Nyindak was among the early thousands, who followed the 14TH Dalai Lama, left Tibet and took refuge in India in late 1950s and early 1960s. He and his wife Tsamla settled at Bylakuppe in Karnataka. But the home they left behind in the high plains of Amdo in northeastern corner of Tibetan Plateau was always at the core of the bedtime stories their children grew up listening to. And, six decades later, the son of Lobsang and Tsamla, Penpa Tsering, now seems set to lead the Tibetans living in exile around the world in their struggle to liberate the homeland their ancestors and they had to leave behind after it was occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army. Tsering is one of the two candidates, who secured highest number of votes in the preliminary round of elections to the office of the ‘Sikyong’ or the President of the Tibetan Government-in-Exile (TGiE) – formally known as the Central Tibetan Administration or CTA – based at Dharamshala in India. The TGiE’s Election Commission on Sunday announced the results of the preliminary round of polls, which was held on January 3 last with thousands of Tibetans living in exile in India and elsewhere around the world casting votes to elect the new political leader of the community. Since Tsering is way ahead of the runner-up Kelsang Dorjee Aukatsang in terms of vote-count in the preliminary polls, he is being seen within the community as the frontrunner for the final round of elections next month too. The 54-year-old has already chalked out his priority as the ‘Sikyong’ – launching an international campaign to press upon the Xi Jinping’s regime in Beijing that China had no other option, but to peacefully and expeditiously resolve the issue of Tibet. A staunch believer in the ‘Middle Way’ approach of Dalai Lama, he insists that the solution to the issue has to be “equitable” – “fair and just to both the Tibetans and the Chinese”, in view of the “reality of the situation”. “I grew up listening from my parents the tales of Tibet,” Tsering tells DH and adds: “My father always kept on telling me and my brothers and sisters that we must keep supporting His Holiness Dalai Lama’s pursuit for genuine autonomy for all Tibetans.” He already served as a member of the Tibetan Parliament-in-Exile (TPiE) from 1996 to 2016, the last eight years as its Speaker. He was appointed as Dalai Lama’s representative to North America in 2016 and was responsible for Dharamshala’s outreach to Washington D.C. and organized the high-profile visit of a bipartisan delegation of the US Congress led by Nancy Pelosi to the headquarters of the TGiE. No wonder, the Chinese Government black-listed Tsering. When a namesake of him landed in Kathmandu in June 2019, Beijing forced the Nepalese Government to deport the man to the United States. His parents took up farming to eke out a living for the refugee family. After passing out from the Central School for Tibetans in Bylakuppe, when he went to Madras Christian College in Chennai for graduation, he had to work in a restaurant to make ends meet. That is perhaps why he pledged to prioritize welfare of the exiled Tibetans, particularly to help the farmers within the community market produces. The Dalai Lama set up the TGiE or the CTA on April 29, 1959, just a few weeks after he arrived in India following his escape from Tibet, which had been occupied by the Chinese People’s Liberation Army in 1950-51. He also started introducing the Tibetan refugees in India to democratic practices since 1960s. The CTA calls itself the “continuation of the government of independent Tibet”. What has added to the significance of the election of the Sikyong this year is that the democratic exercise by the exiled Tibetans last year got endorsement from the United States. The US Congress late last year passed the Tibetan Policy and Support Act (TPSA) of 2020, acknowledging the legitimacy of both the Tibetan Parliament in Exile and the Tibetan Government in Exile or the Central Tibetan Administration. The TPSA 2020, which the then US President Donald Trump signed into law, acknowledged the Central Tibetan Administration as the “legitimate institution reflecting the aspirations” of the Tibetan Diaspora around the world with Sikyong as its President. Beijing does not recognize the elections to the Sikyong and the TPiE and repeatedly asked India to shut down the TGiE. It has been accusing Dalai Lama as well as the TGiE of running a secessionist campaign against China. New Delhi officially never acknowledged the existence of the TGiE or the CTA. But it did tacitly encourage the Dalai Lama to lead the exiled community to embrace democracy gradually – starting with electing the Parliament-in-Exile and then moving on to directly elect the leader of the TGiE. It was during the 2011 elections that Dalai Lama officially announced that he would be delegating his political powers to whoever would be elected democratically to the top office of the TGiE – a move, which was apparently aimed at avoiding a leadership vacuum and keeping the struggle against China’s rule in Tibet alive beyond the lifetime of the octogenarian monk. Tibetans living in Tibet under the repressive rule of the Chinese Government could not take part in the elections. “We need to understand the thinking and aspiration of the Tibetan youths inside Tibet and pool their energies also on achieving a better resolution of our cause,” says Tsering, insisting that the main responsibility of the Sikyong and the CTA is to represent Tibetans in Tibet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/polls-to-elect-next-head-of-tibetan-government-in-exile-bylakuppe-s-penpa-tsering-emerges-frontrunner-964767.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||This is Maha Aghadi for loot, not for development, says Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sachin Vaze case||Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday called for a "fair and impartial probe by an outside agency" into the controversy surrounding Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze and his alleged patronisation by top leaders of the ruling Shiv Sena-NCP combine in Maharashtra. Prasad expressed astonishment over Vaze, "a mere assistant inspector", having been defended inside and outside the assembly by none other than Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. He also questioned the "silence" of NCP chief Sharad Pawar in the matter though his party colleague and home minister Anil Deshmukh has been accused of asking the policeman to "extort Rs 100 crore from dance bars etc. every month". "The Maha Vikas Aghadi in Maharashtra has been formed with an intention to loot and not to govern. The BJP is going to raise this issue very strongly and will soon hit the streets", Prasad declared at a press conference at the party office here. Charging Thackeray with having betrayed the NDA for the sake of power, Prasad wondered whether the sordid turn of events was in consonance with the "Jai Maharashtra" (hail Maharashtra) slogan popularised by his late father and Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray, "for whom I have tremendous respect". Referring to the explosive letter written to Thackeray by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, the BJP MP from Patna Sahib said, "extortion is a crime. A policeman indulging in it and that too at the behest of the home minister of the state is a very serious matter. "It must be probed in an honest and transparent manner by an outside agency". Prasad is holding Law and Justice, Electronics and Information Technology and Communications portfolios in Prime Minister Narendra Modi cabinet. "What has been alleged in the letter could be just the tip of the iceberg. Maharashtra is a prosperous state. "If a policeman in Mumbai is asked to extort money for political bosses, we can surmise that there have been similar transgressions at other business hubs like Pune, Nagpur and Jalgaon", Prasad added. Training his guns at Sharad Pawar, the BJP leader said, "the very senior leader" needed to break his "silence" and hold forth as to in what capacity was he recently "briefed" about the whole episode by Anil Deshmukh. "Pawar is not a part of the government. Moreover, the so-called briefing makes it amply clear that he is aware of the serious charges against a member of his party. As party chief, what action is he going to take", Prasad asked. The Union minister also demanded an explanation from the Maharashtra government as to "under pressure from whom" was Vaze, who had been suspended for years and joined the Shiv Sena, reinstated during the COVID crisis last year. He also sought to know how the assistant sub-inspector came to head the crime intelligence unit of the Mumbai police "which should normally be helmed by an SP or at least a Deputy SP". Vaze, once hailed as an "encounter specialist", hit the headlines recently in the aftermath of an explosives-laden vehicle being found parked outside the residence of Reliance chairman Mukesh Ambani. Param Bir Singh, who was transferred following the grave security lapse, came out with his litany of shocking allegations soon after being shifted from the top post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/this-is-maha-aghadi-for-loot-not-for-development-says-ravi-shankar-prasad-on-sachin-vaze-case-964594.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||Suvendu's father Sisir Adhikari joins BJP at Amit Shah's rally in Bengal||Senior Trinamool Congress (TMC) MP Sisir Adhikari, father of BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari, joined the BJP today in presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Sisir joined the saffron party at a BJP rally at Egra in the East Medinipur district. Sisir said that he had given his all to rise through the ranks in the TMC, but the way the party treated him and his sons forced him to leave it and join the BJP. “The way our family was thrown out of the TMC will forever be written in history. We will not bow down to political attacks and atrocities and work under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah,” said Sisir. The veteran TMC MP is the patriarch of the Adhikari family which has considerable clout in the district. During the day TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee dubbed then as “gaddars” (traitors) without directly mentioning them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/suvendus-father-sisir-adhikari-joins-bjp-at-amit-shahs-rally-in-bengal-964611.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||'Panna pramukhs' BJP's strength, deploy them to win hearts: Rajnath Singh to Delhi party unit||Senior BJP leader and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday told the city unit of the party to deploy 'panna pramukhs' across Delhi, as they are its biggest strength and can make it win in the national capital. The 'panna pramukh' or page in-charge is the first point of contact for most voters in the BJP's election management machinery.  Singh, who inaugurated the Delhi BJP's executive committee meeting, said panna pramukhs should help create awareness about schemes and programmes started by the Narendra Modi government. The Modi government has a proven "track record in good governance and development... we have always done what we promise", Singh told Delhi BJP leaders. "Panna pramukh should be deployed in Delhi. I think it is the most important post and the biggest strength of the party... I can say it with conviction it can take the BJP to a win here," he said.  Singh said the panna pramukh is more important than a president of the party's state unit and that he should be honoured. Earlier this month, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won four out of five seats in municipal by-elections, seen as a “semi-final” before the MCD polls scheduled to be held in 2022. The AAP lost one seat to the Congress, and gained one from the BJP. The BJP failed to win any of the five seats. There are 272 municipal wards in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/panna-pramukhs-bjps-strength-deploy-them-to-win-hearts-rajnath-singh-to-delhi-party-unit-964622.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||CAA will be implemented in West Bengal, refugees staying here for 70 years will be given citizenship: Amit Shah||After dodging questions on the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA), the BJP on Sunday announced in its manifesto for the West Bengal Assembly elections that the decision of implementing the CAA will be taken in its first Cabinet meeting when it forms government in the state. The manifesto called ‘Sonar Bangla Sankalpa Patra’, released by Union Home Minister Amit Shah, also stated that the CAA will be implemented to “regularise” the citizenship of refugees. “We will implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in the first cabinet meeting in order to regularise the citizenship of our refugee brothers and sisters,” said the manifesto. Several schemes were announced for the refugees under the CAA in the manifesto. It stated that a corpus of Rs 100 crore will be set up for the welfare of refugees who will get citizenship under the CAA. The BJP also promised direct benefit transfer of Rs 10,000 per year for each refugee family for five years after they are granted citizenship. The manifesto further stated that a system of “single window clearance” will be set up for refugees to get important documents such as the Aadhaar card, Ration card and Voter Identity card. The refugees granted citizenship under the CAA will also be provided with “subsidised loans to start their own business” and scholarships to school and college students among them. Seeking to woo the Matua community (Dalit Hindus who came to West Bengal from the erstwhile East Pakistan in large numbers after partition), the BJP promised a monthly pension of Rs 3,000 to Matua Dalapatis leaders. It also promised to set up a “special fund for refugee colonies” in Jadavpur, Thakurnagar and Cooch Behar in West Bengal along with a provision for basic amenities such as electricity, sanitation and water to refugee colonies. The manifesto stated that after BJP is voted to power in Bengal, the State Government will collaborate with the Centre to control “border infiltration and trafficking” by constructing fences, outposts and CCTV surveillance infrastructure. “We will constitute the following task forces to curb the problem of arms racketeering, unchecked narcotics trade, land grabbing, fake currency circulation and cattle smuggling,” stated the manifesto. The BJP promised to set up a “Go Suraksha Task Force” to check the sale and illegal smuggling of cows across the border. It also promised to implement the Central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and OM Kisan Samman Nidhi in Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/caa-will-be-implemented-in-west-bengal-refugees-staying-here-for-70-years-will-be-given-citizenship-amit-shah-964691.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||Didi’s game will be over in Bengal Assembly polls: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday slammed Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee for her slogan “khela hobe” (game on) and said that Bengal has decided that her game will be over in the Assembly elections. “Didi, now you are saying ‘khela hobe (game on). Was not it enough for you to play with Bengal, to betray the people for 10 years? Now Bengal has decided that the game will be over and development will start,” said Modi. He was speaking at a rally in West Bengal’s Bankura district. Modi said that it is clear that Mamata will taste defeat in the Assembly elections. “People became poor in the 10 years of her rule but the Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders earned a fortune. Didi will be gone this time,” said Modi. The Prime Minister said that he will not allow the TMC supremo to play with Bengal’s development and the dreams of its people. Referring to a campaign graffiti where a bandaged foot resembling the injured foot of the Chief Minister is seen kicking a football resembling his head the Prime Minister said that he will not allow her to kick Bengal’s development, the dreams of the people, Dalits and tribals. “Look very carefully Didi, your forte has collapsed in Bengal,” said Modi. He also said that while the BJP runs on schemes, the TMC runs on scams. “The BJP runs on schemes and the TMC runs on scams. TMC always finds a way to make a scam in any scheme regardless of the Government running it. TMC’s mantra is where there is a scheme, there is a scam,” said Modi. He further alleged that the TMC blocks Central schemes such as Ayushman Bharat and PM Kissan Samman Nidhi which work through direct benefit transfer as there is no scope for any scam. “Schemes such as Ayushman Bharat, PM Kissan Samman Nidhi which function through direct transfer of benefits they did not have any chance to make scam so they refused to implement it,” said Modi. Modi said that sensing defeat, the TMC supremo was now raising questions on the EVM. “Now Didi is raising questions on the EVM. She does not like the EVM with which people kept her at helm of Bengal for 10 years. Didi day and night you are seeing your defeat,” said Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/didi-s-game-will-be-over-in-bengal-assembly-polls-modi-964707.html
21-03-2021||National Politics||AAP challenges BJP for debate on GNCTD Bill||AAP leader Saurabh Bhardwaj on Sunday challenged Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta for an open debate on the contentious GNCTD (Amendment) Bill that aims to give overarching power to the Lieutenant Governor. Addressing a press conference here, Bhardwaj said the fight is not between the AAP and the BJP over the bill, but between “democracy” and "Hitlershahi" (Nazism). "I challenge BJP state president Adesh Gupta for an open debate in any assembly constituency in which the rule is better--LG's or that of the elected Arvind Kejriwal government," he said. Bharadwaj said that the right-wing Bharatiya Jana Sangh fought for years to make Delhi an independent state after independence. "Today the BJP which came from the same Jana Sangh is trying to bypass Delhi's elected government," he said. The AAP spokesperson alleged that the Centre is taking away all the rights of the Delhi government elected by the people who gave it 62 seats out of 70. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was introduced in the Lok Sabha by Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy earlier this week. According to the bill, the "government" in the city would mean the "Lieutenant Governor" (L-G) in the context of any law made by the legislative assembly. The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the LG before any executive action. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor maintained that his party has never said that Lieutenant Governor's rule is better than that of an elected government. "All we feel and believe is that any government or administration will be better for Delhi than the present Arvind Kejriwal dispensation which has stalled the development of the national capital," he said. Kapoor claimed that the city does not have an elected government on the basis of a manifesto or development commitment. The truth is that Kejriwal has manipulated electoral victory through the “politics of freebies and communal divide”, he said. "We challenge Kejriwal to fight one election against the BJP on the issue of development of Delhi and see the results wherein he will be ousted from power," the BJP leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-challenges-bjp-for-debate-on-gnctd-bill-964747.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Yogi govt paid Rs 1.25 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers: BJP's western UP Chief Mohit Beniwal||The Yogi Adityanath-led government has made payments worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore to sugarcane farmers in the last four years, BJP's western Uttar Pradesh chief Mohit Beniwal said here on Saturday. Beniwal made the claim during a programme held in Noida to mark the completion of four years of the state government led by the BJP, amid the ongoing farmers' protest on Delhi's borders since November 2020 over new contentious central farm laws. He also said that UP has reached among top five states of the country due to the development works done in the last four years. The event was attended by Gautam Buddh Nagar MP Mahesh Sharma, Rajya Sabha MP Surendra Nagar and Noida MLA Pankaj Singh, among others. "Under the leadership of Yogi Adityanath, the government is ensuring all-round development of the state with the motto of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas'," Beniwal said. "Payments worth Rs 1.25 lakh crore have been made to sugarcane farmers and loans worth Rs 36,000 crore of 86 lakh farmers waived in the last four years," Beniwal said, according to a statement issued by the BJP's Gautam Buddh Nagar media in-charge Tanmay Shankar. His claims have come at a time when farmers in western Uttar Pradesh have alleged that their payments against sugarcane have been pending for a long time while many resent there has been no change in the minimum support price (MSP) for the crop in the last three years. Sugarcane is a major crop cultivated in parts of western UP, including districts like Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Meerut, where farmers have been vocal and supportive about the ongoing protests against the new farm laws. During Saturday's programme, Beniwal listed out infrastructure projects like the expressways, the upcoming Jewar airport and the Noida film city, among others as achievements of the BJP-led state government and claimed that work of “several years” has been completed in just four years. He said the government has organised a successful Kumbh in Prayagraj and a grand Ram temple is being built in Ayodhya, which is on its way to becoming a world-class tourist centre, according to the statement. As it completes four years in power, the BJP-led Uttar Pradesh government is holding special events across the state to showcase achievements during the tenure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-govt-paid-rs-125-lakh-crore-to-sugarcane-farmers-bjps-western-up-chief-mohit-beniwal-964505.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 lockdown turns streets empty in Bhopal, 2 other Madhya Pradesh cities||People in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur woke up to a quieter outdoor and deserted streets on Sunday as the coronavirus-triggered lockdown came into force in these three cities of Madhya Pradesh. In view of the spurt in coronavirus cases, the state government had on March 19 announced lockdown in these three cities every Sunday till further orders. Accordingly, the lockdown came into force at 10 pm on Saturday and will remain in force till 6 am on Monday. A night curfew was already in place in Bhopal and Indore districts between 10 pm and 6 am since Wednesday. Due to the lockdown, the kiosks selling packaged milk as well as petrol pumps remained closed in Bhopal on Sunday. Only the local vendors were allowed make home delivery of milk till 10 am. However, chemist shops and hospitals were open. This is after 196 days that a complete lockdown is in place in Bhopal again.   But it is for the first time in the state capital that even petrol pumps, grocery shops, milk booths and vegetable markets are shut during the lockdown. Last year, all these establishments and outlets used to operate during the lockdown. However, the Bhopal City Link Limited (BCLL) buses plied on the streets exclusively to ferry the candidates appearing for the MP Public Service Commission examination at five centres in the state capital. On Saturday, 345 infection cases were reported in Bhopal, which took its caseload to 46,728, while Indore saw 317 cases, where the tally rose to 63,827. A total of 116 fresh virus cases were reported in Jabalpur, which pushed the total count to 17,464 last evening. Madhya Pradesh on Saturday reported 1,308 Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 2,74,405, while two deaths increased the toll to 3,903.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-lockdown-turns-streets-empty-in-bhopal-2-other-madhya-pradesh-cities-964593.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Naxals in Chhattisgarh allegedly kill police constable after abducting him||Naxals have allegedly killed a policeman after abducting him in the Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh, an official said on Sunday. Constable Sannu Punem was abducted by a group of Naxals on Saturday evening from Pondum village under Bhairmgarh police station limits and his body was found this morning near a rivulet close to nearby Keshkutul village, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P said. "Punem, who was posted at Gangaloor police station of the district, was on leave and had gone to Pondum, located around 450 km away from capital Raipur," he said. After being alerted about the incident, a police team was rushed to the spot and the body was shifted for the post mortem. "Prima facie, it seems that he was killed with sharp-edged weapons, but the exact cause of the death will be known after the autopsy," the IG said. A search operation has been launched in the area to trace the Naxals, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/naxals-in-chhattisgarh-allegedly-kill-police-constable-after-abducting-him-964597.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Preparations underway for 'Juta Maar' Holi celebrations in UP's Shahjahanpur||Preparations are underway for the 'Juta Maar' Holi celebrations in Shahjahanpur in Uttar Pradesh on March 29 when a large number of revellers are expected to descend on the city, officials said. Senior police and administrative officials have reviewed the arrangements and issued directions for ensuring smooth celebrations. Superintendent of Police S Anand said a large number of police personnel will be deployed during the celebrations. "For the procession of Bada Laat Sahab and Chhota Laat Sahab, demand has been made for five circle officers, 30 police station in-charges, 150 sub-inspectors, 900 constables, two companies of PAC (Provincial Armed Constabulary) and two companies of RPF and two drone cameras. The men and machinery will possibly reach by March 25," he said. Elaborating on the history of the procession of 'Laat Sahab', Vikas Khurana, the head of History department of Swami Shukdevanand College, told PTI, "On the day of Holi, the procession of 'Bade Laat Sahab' is taken out on a buffalo cart with Holi revellers beating him with 'juta' (shoes)." The Holi tradition dates back to the early 18th century during the time of Nawab Abdullah Khan, the last emperor of Shahjahanpur founder Nawab Bahadur Khan clan, who was popular among both Hindus and Muslims. He said this tradition continued till 1857. However, this event symbolising the Hindu-Muslim unity was not liked by the British, and in 1858, Mardan Ali Khan, the commander of the military ruler of Bareilly Khan Bahadur Khan, attacked the revellers and both Hindus and Muslims were killed in the violence. After 1947, the administration changed the name of the procession to 'Laat Sahab', and since then it is known by this name. The procession of 'Laat Sahab' begins from Phoolmati Devi Mandir and proceeds towards Baba Vishwanath Mandir. Similarly, the procession of 'Chhote Laat Sahab' begins from Ram Chandra Mission ke Sarai and ends there itself after taking a small round. According to the organisers, this time 'Laat Sahab' will come from Delhi. 'Laat Sahab' had come from Rampur last time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/preparations-underway-for-juta-maar-holi-celebrations-in-ups-shahjahanpur-964614.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Government wants to snatch farmers' future, says Rahul Gandhi on new agriculture laws||Stepping up his attack on the BJP-led Centre over the three new farms laws, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the government wants to snatch the income and future of farmers for the benefit of a few top businessmen in the country. He was addressing a function in Chhattisgarh capital Raipur to disburse cash benefit to farmers and cattle-rearers under the two schemes of the state government through a recorded video-message in Hindi. "What we had promised to farmers, we have fulfilled it today. You know the government of India is heading on some other path. It has brought three farm laws against the farmers. The central government wanted to snatch the income and future of farmers and hand it over to two-three big businessmen," he said without naming anyone. Hailing the Bhupesh Baghel-led dispensation in Chhattisgarh, Gandhi said he is happy that his party's governments in Chhattisgarh and other states are walking on the path of supporting farmers, labourers, small businessmen, youth and women. Targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi over demonetisation and GST rollout, Gandhi said, "Narendra Modiji's government implemented 'notebandi' and GST, and today you can see that India has failed to create employment." In contrast, the Chhattisgarh government extended support to farmers and strengthened the rural economy, he said. "We pumped in money into the rural economy and therefore, Chhattisgarh has not been facing any trouble (during the coronavirus crises), which is being faced by other states," he added. On the occasion, Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel transferred Rs 1,104.27 crore into the accounts of 18.43 lakh farmers as the fourth and last instalment of Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana (for kharif and rabi crop year 2019-20). Besides, he also transferred Rs 7.55 crore to the accounts of cattle-rearers under the Godhan Nyay Yojana. Under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana, farmers have been paid a total of Rs 5,627.89 crore in four instalments as input support to paddy cultivators and certified seeds growers, a government official said. Under Godhan Nyay Yojna, the state government has been procuring cow dung at Rs 2 per kg from cattle-rearers for production of vermi-compost, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/government-wants-to-snatch-farmers-future-says-rahul-gandhi-on-new-agriculture-laws-964628.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Ashoka University Chancellor says founders never interfered||Countering narrative building around reasons for the exit of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta, Ashoka University Chancellor Rudrangshu Mukherjee has said the institution remains committed to academic freedom and intellectual independence, and its founders have never interfered with academic freedom. Days after Mehta, who had resigned as vice-chancellor of the university two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability", Mukherjee wrote to faculty and students clearing the air. "Today when the Founders are being attacked for trying to compromise and curtail academic autonomy and freedom of expression, I find it necessary as Chancellor and given my association with Ashoka from its inception, to state unambiguously that the Founders have never interfered with academic freedom: faculty members have been left free to construct their own courses, follow their own methods of teaching and their own methods of assessment," he wrote. Mehta and Subramanian, he said, have also been left free to carry out their own research and publications. "There are only two points that the Founders have insisted upon. One, that Ashoka should not compromise on intellectual standards; and two, that the Foundation Courses should be integral to Ashoka's academic offering," he wrote on March 20. Over 150 international academics have come out in support of Mehta in an open letter that described his resignation from Ashoka University as a "dangerous attack" on academic freedom. Former RBI governor and economist Raghuram Rajan too has expressed solidarity in a blog, saying, "Metha is a thorn in the side of the establishment". The university students union has given a strike call on March 22-23 over the resignation of Mehta and Arvind Subramanian, noted economists who resigned in solidarity with Mehta. Ashoka University on Sunday acknowledged "lapses in institutional processes" and expressed "deep regret" at the recent events surrounding the resignations of political commentator Mehta and noted economist Subramanian from its faculty. Meanwhile, Mehta wrote a letter to students, urging them to not "press" for his return, asserting that the circumstances that led to his resignation will not change in the foreseeable future. "Ashoka University's commitment to core values and our Founders and Trustees' role are being questioned in the wake of the recent resignation of Professor Pratap Bhanu Mehta," Mukherjee said, addressing Mehta by the first name and calling him a "close personal friend" whom he had brought to the university and succeeded him as Vice-Chancellor. Mehta, he said, made invaluable contributions to building Ashoka into the institution. "We all regret what has happened, but I am sure we will recover and move forward from the situation we find ourselves in". "It would be no exaggeration to say that some of my colleagues, including faculty members and some Founders, and myself drew up the core values of Ashoka - critical thinking, intellectual autonomy, learning through debate and interaction, the importance of social responsibility, and moral courage. Ashoka University and its reputation stand on these pillars," he said. "We have always been and will remain committed to academic freedom and intellectual independence." This is why Ashoka has set new standards in higher education in India. "With our additional commitment to excellence, I do not doubt that we will continue to scale new heights," he said. Stating that he had to engage very closely with the founders in building and fundraising for the university, he said these are individuals who have worked selflessly and tirelessly to build Ashoka into what it is today. "Most of us were introduced to Ashoka by them. They have worked alongside us and seamlessly with us. Ashoka has a unique and unprecedented governance model that is collaborative but has natural guardrails to preserve academic integrity and independence," he said. Ashoka has been a place of many firsts and of setting new benchmarks, he said. "As the Chancellor, I see it as my duty that the core values as laid out above are unfailingly adhered to." "As Ashoka University overcomes these difficult times and moves forward. I hope you will stay unwavering in your support for our quest to build India's greatest university," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ashoka-university-chancellor-says-founders-never-interfered-964643.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||To boost economy, J&K govt earmarks 937 acres of land for entrepreneurs||For boosting the economy and push for entrepreneurship, Jammu and Kashmir government has earmarked 937.5 acres of industrial land for new prospective entrepreneurs. Director Industries and Commerce Department, Kashmir, Nazim Zai Khan, said that the department has acquired 937.5 acres of additional land for new entrepreneurs to boost industrial growth in the Valley. Stating that more industrial estates will help boost the industries and generate employment opportunities in Kashmir, he said that they are currently building the infrastructure on the identified land so that industrial estates are ready for unitholders. “Once the land is fully available with all the facilities, the allotment would be done to the new entrepreneurs,” he said. Despite Kashmir offering vast opportunities in agriculture, horticulture, food, clothing, tourism, handicrafts, and other untapped resources, developing entrepreneurship remained a challenge for decades. The land allotment is part of the Industrial development scheme which was approved by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs early this year and will be implemented from April. The scheme (2021-2037) has an outlay of Rs 28,400 crore. As per the plan document, it is expected to generate an investment of Rs.20,000 crore and employment of 4.5 lakh over the plan period. Till 2020 there were only 439 industrial units in Kashmir spread over 115.5 acres and 415 units over 126.75 acres of land in Jammu. Khan said the department is also in the process of land retrieval of sick unitholders. Currently, there is a pessimistic business environment in J&K and current entrepreneurship is in distress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/to-boost-economy-jk-govt-earmarks-937-acres-of-land-for-entrepreneurs-964663.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Suspecting wife of infidelity, UP man stitches her private part with wire||In a shocking incident, a man tried to stitch the private part of his wife with copper wire as he suspected that she had an illicit relationship with another person. The incident occurred in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur district, about 325 kilometres from here, on Saturday. The wife, who was bleeding profusely, was admitted to the hospital, where her condition was stated to be stable.  According to the police sources here on Sunday, the man, who worked as a daily wager and a resident of Milak area in the district, and his wife of two years, would often have heated arguments over what the hubby suspected her illicit relationship with another person. On Saturday, the man, who was drunk, allegedly tied his wife with ropes and tried to stitch her private part with copper wires. Police officials said in Rampur that the woman's medical examination report revealed that the man had in fact put a couple of stitches. The man later left home leaving his wife writhing in pain. The woman could not shout as her hubby had stuffed a piece of cloth in her mouth, sources said. The woman, however, managed to call her parents on phone and the latter got her admitted to the hospital, the officials said. The hubby has been arrested. ''We have registered a case in this regard.....the woman is being treated at the district hospital....we will take stern action against the guilty,'' said a senior police official in Rampur. Police sources said that the woman had earlier lost her two-month-old unborn baby following a miscarriage after her husband had hit her repeatedly on her stomach suspecting that the child was not his.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/suspecting-wife-of-infidelity-up-man-stitches-her-private-part-with-wire-964669.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Vaccines, not one-day lockdowns answer to curbing Covid-19 spread: Omar Abdullah||National Conference leader Omar Abdullah Sunday said one-day shutdowns to contain the spread of coronavirus is a "meaningless tokenism" which can lead to complacency, and called for allowing more people to take the vaccine against Covid-19. The Madhya Pradesh government had on March 19 announced Sunday lockdowns in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur till further orders in view of the spurt in coronavirus cases. "With a rampaging virus that has a 2-14 day incubation period this one-day lockdown is meaningless tokenism. All it will do is create a misplaced sense of complacency," Abdullah tweeted. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said vaccines were the answer to the spread of Covid-19 and called for opening up the vaccines to more people. "Vaccines are the answer not one day lockdowns. Open up vaccines to more people," he added. His statement came as India recorded 43,846 new coronavirus cases Sunday, the highest single-day rise so far this year. India is currently vaccinating people above 60 and those aged between 45-59 years with 20 identified comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccines-not-one-day-lockdowns-answer-to-curbing-covid-19-spread-omar-abdullah-964670.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab government deceived people, failed to keep promises: Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday hit out at the Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government, accusing it of not keeping its poll promises and deceiving people. Addressing a Kisan Maha Sammelan organised by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) at Punjab's Moga, he told people that his party will always stand shoulder to shoulder with the farmers protesting against the Centre's three farm laws. He also took on the Modi-led Union government over the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, alleging that the Centre wants to “snatch power” from the Chief Minister of Delhi. Kejriwal said four years ago, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had made “big promises”. “Captain Sahib had said smartphones will be given. Who got smartphones just raise your hands? Captain Sahib had said farmers' loan will be waived. Whose loan has been waived just raise your hands,” said Kejriwal. The Delhi CM said the Congress had also promised jobs to the youth ahead of the 2017 Assembly polls. “Not even a single promise has been fulfilled,” he alleged, adding that Amamrinder Singh have “deceived” people. “Neither anyone was given job nor anyone's loan was waived,” he claimed. “I want to ask you if somebody deceives you, then what do you do? Usse se badla lete hain (Revenge is taken from him). Captain Sahib has deceived you. Whether revenge will be taken after one year or not,” he asked the gathering, apparently referring to the assembly polls next year. He told people that his party honoured every promise made to residents of the national capital. He talked about free power, improvement in the condition of government hospitals and schools in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-government-deceived-people-failed-to-keep-promises-arvind-kejriwal-964672.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Former Congress MP Suraj Solanki dies of cardiac arrest in Bhopal||Former Congress Lok Sabha MP from Madhya Pradesh Suraj Bhanu Singh Solanki died of cardiac arrest on Sunday during a morning walk in Bhopal, his kin said. Solanki, MP from Dhar in 1989 and 1991, was 60 and is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son. He was the son of former deputy chief minister and ex-state Congress chief late Shiv Bhanu Singh Solanki. Solanki was a commercial pilot and was brought into politics by late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and state Congress president Kamal Nath expressed grief at Solanki's death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-congress-mp-suraj-solanki-dies-of-cardiac-arrest-in-bhopal-964690.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Arrested in UP after Tablighi Jamaat event, 11 Bangladeshi members allowed to go home||Eleven Bangladeshi Tablighi Jamaat members, who were arrested from here for flouting visa norms and put in a government travel blacklist, have left the country after a Lucknow court allowed them go on completing their punishment, police said Sunday. Superintendent of Police Ram Badan Singh said they left Saturday on a bus from Bhadohi with a police team accompanying them, and will reach Bangladesh through Kolkata and 24 Parganas district of West Bengal. He said all the 11 were tested for Covid-19 before departing and their reports have come negative. The 11 were arrested on March 31 last year from a private guest house in Kajipur locality here where they had been staying after coming from Delhi's Tablighi Jamaat congregation, the SP said. They were released from the jail in August, pending trial, but were not allowed to go home as the case was still going on, officials said, adding they were kept in the same guest house under police watch. Talking about the March 31 police raid that led to their arrest last year, he said the action was taken following a tip-off that they had been to the Delhi Markaz event and come here on March 4. Those arrested included 11 Bangladeshi Tablighi Jamaat members, one from West Bengal and two from Assam, he said. He said the Bangladeshi citizens had come on a tourist visa but were preaching which was a violation of the visa norms. He also informed that cases were registered against 21 persons, which included the 11 Bangladeshi citizens, three Indians and those who had given shelter to them. The SP said that following the direction of the Allahabad High Court, all the Tablighi Jamaat members lodged in the jail were released in August last year. "The court of Chief Judicial Magistrate of Lucknow had punished the Jamatis with a fine of Rs 1,500 each. The court said that since these people had completed their punishment, they can be sent outside India," the SP said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrested-in-up-after-tablighi-jamaat-event-11-bangladeshi-members-allowed-to-go-home-964702.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh's achievement claims bundle of lies: BJP||The BJP on Sunday slammed Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh over his government's achievement claims, saying these are nothing but a “bundle of lies”. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national general secretary Dushyant Gautam said Amarinder Singh “cleverly” tried to divert the attention to “hide his failures by taking refuge of Covid for the financial constraints”. His claims are nothing but a “bundle of lies” to “befool” people of the state, the BJP leader said addressing the concluding session of a two-day state executive of the party here. On Thursday, Amarinder Singh had claimed that more than 85 per cent manifesto promises had already been implemented, adding that it was a record for any party in any state. The CM had also promised to fulfil all 2017 poll commitments before going back to people for their blessings ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections. In a statement here, Gautam questioned Amarinder Singh as to why he chose to remain “mum” on several key poll promises made to farmers, which remain “unfulfilled” till date. He also slammed the Congress-led government over farmer suicides. He also blamed the CM for “ignoring” the Scheduled Castes. Gautam said some of the main promises made to the community to which the Amarinder Singh-led government has completely turned a “blind eye” are the disbursal of a post-matric scholarship on time, government jobs and housing for the homeless. On the Punjab CM remarks that he was among the first to oppose electronic voting machines (EVMs), Gautam said by questioning the credibility of the EVMs, even after winning the 2017 Assembly polls and recent civic body elections, it makes it amply clear that Amarinder Singh is “questioning” his own party's victory. He has now also started looking for excuses, foreseeing the Congress Party's “imminent defeat” in the coming 2022 Assembly polls, he said. Meanwhile, BJP national vice-president Sudan Singh claimed that the BJP would form the next government in Punjab in 2022. Addressing the BJP state leaders, Singh stressed that the party had the requisite organisational infrastructure to contest on all 117 Assembly seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singhs-achievement-claims-bundle-of-lies-bjp-964742.html
21-03-2021||North and Central||Man shot dead for opposing celebratory firing at wedding in UP||A man was shot dead after he opposed celebratory firing at a wedding in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli, police said on Sunday. The incident took place at Silawar village, which comes under the jurisdiction of Adersh Mandi police station, on Saturday night. SP Om Prakash said some miscreants opened fire at the wedding and when Sonu opposed this, he was shot dead by them. A case was registered on the basis of a complaint lodged by the deceased's father and efforts were underway to nab the accused, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-shot-dead-for-opposing-celebratory-firing-at-wedding-in-up-964751.html
21-03-2021||Opinion||For BJP, Bengal is within reach, and Kerala, Tamil Nadu doors are opening||The reverberating sounds of electioneering, crowds cheering, the cacophony of campaign and the clouds of dust rising from helipads every time leaders land or take off clearly sets the year 2021 apart from the silent pandemic year that went by. Election results in each one of the four states and one Union Territory will be starkly different from one another, deciding the fate of regional and national parties. But the cumulative effect of these results will have a larger influence on national politics, governance and even India’s regional approach. For the BJP, Bengal, Kerala and Tamil Nadu are extremely important as the doors to the corridors of power in these states are open to it for the first time since Independence, perhaps more so in Bengal than in the other two. Although much less may be at stake in the Union Territory of Pondicherry, being in the driver’s seat there is no less important for the BJP in terms of expanding its footprint nationally. A BJP victory there will put a seal of popular approval on the recent political defections and the consequent dismissal of the Congress government. This was one place where the Congress could have fought back tooth-and-nail and retained its hold, but party seems to have a death wish and determined to vacate its positions to the BJP. Assam is another state where the Congress had successfully kept the BJP out of power for long. Former Congress chief minister late Tarun Gogoi had a pan-Assam appeal and influence. His image was much larger than that of the family-controlled party high command in Delhi, just like that of the independent-minded Chief Minister of Punjab, Capt. Amarinder Singh, who won not because of the party central leadership but in spite of it. The Congress party, like in Pondicherry, has not been able to come up with a leader, enthuse workers or provide an alternative agenda in Assam. The 26 seats it won in 2016 has since come down to 19, resulting in the party losing the leader of opposition position, which had to be subsequently restored through court intervention. In 2016, the BJP-Asom Gana Parishad (AGP)-Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) alliance got 126 seats, with about 41.59% vote share. The Congress got 30.96% votes but only 26 seats, while the All-India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), which contested separately, won 13.05% of the votes polled and 13 seats. If one were to go by pure arithmetic, the Congress-AIUDF coalition this time is thus entitled to a 44% share. But election victory does not follow from pure arithmetic. The perception of ‘Assam under attack’ by outsiders and minority vote bank can help the BJP retain its hold over the state comfortably. But merely retaining Assam will not be reason enough for the BJP to rejoice. Its objective is to wrest power from Trinamool Congress (TMC) in West Bengal and occupy the seat of power in Kolkata with élan. The BJP’s predecessor, the Bharatiya Jana Sangh, was founded in Bengal. Its leader, Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee, was one of the tallest leaders of the state, a freedom fighter, and laid down his life fighting for the abrogation of Article 370. His other agenda -- protecting the Hindus of Bengal and preserving the unique identity of the state is the BJP’s election plank. The BJP’s strategy is to demolish the image of Bengal as an ‘impenetrable fort’ held by the Left for over three decades and then by the TMC for two terms since 2011. Winning Bengal will therefore be the most colourful feather in the Modi-Shah duo’s cap. The BJP’s concentration on Bengal has not in any way reduced its focus on the South, on the two important states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. Dislodging the Left Democratic Front (LDF) from power in Kerala is high on BJP’s agenda. The overall atmosphere in the state seems to be favourable for the BJP, with the Congress giving the impression of having deserted the electoral battlefield even before the battle has begun. But the BJP will do well not to underestimate the deep roots that the Left parties and leaders have in the state, besides their capacity to forge last-minute alliances and deals with ‘friends’ among the ‘major minorities’ who can easily switch their votes (and loyalties) at a convenient moment. Yet, BJP will clock an important milestone even if it just manages to reach double digits in the Kerala Assembly. The most interesting of all elections is the one in Tamil Nadu, where the two regional parties, the ruling AIADMK and the Opposition DMK, are entering the fray without their long-standing leaders, without any strong developmental agenda, and without the backing of any silver screen idol this time. Former CM Jayalalitha’s seat was won by the just-out-of-jail V K Sasikala’s nephew, TTV Dinakaran, who was ousted from the AIADMK and formed his own party, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazagam (AMMK). It would have been a wise move if the BJP had managed to bring AIADMK and AMMK on one platform and formed a grand anti-DMK alliance. But with these potential allies contesting separately, there will be a three or four-way vote split, which could end up helping the DMK. While the BJP will probably improve its performance in the state, Tamil Nadu may end up with an unprecedented split verdict. In the event of a fractured mandate, showing up the ruling AIADMK as being a leaderless and directionless party under EPS-OPS (CM Palaniswami and his deputy Pannerselvam), Sasikala, who has announced a temporary withdrawal from electoral politics, could well march into the “Amma Anbu Maaligai” (party headquarters) and take over the party, just in time to celebrate the party’s half-a-century run in 2022.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/for-bjp-bengal-is-within-reach-and-kerala-tamil-nadu-doors-are-opening-964477.html
21-03-2021||Opinion||The medium is the message||In case you haven’t heard, when major newspapers in Australia, with government backing, demanded to be compensated for Facebook’s usage of their content, the initial and immediate response of Facebook was to shut off its Australian subscribers from sharing news. Never mind that the papers themselves are all owned by a single right-wing media conglomerate, NewsCorp, whose tentacles also reach into the heartlands of the UK and US. When titans clash, the ensuing collateral damage can be immense. Facing a similar problem, Google, on the other hand, agreed to compensate the same newspapers for using their news items. Problem resolved? Not really, since the agreement left out hundreds of smaller papers whose contents were also being used by Google cost-free. What are the chances that either Google or Facebook will pay their users – people like you -- for monetising their searches or social media postings? Zero. The little guys always get left out. Ongoing discussions on whether Big Tech internet platforms should be held accountable to the same degree as conventional media – printed or digital versions of newspapers, books, journals, and magazines – rarely focus on the increasingly monopolistic nature of the publishing industry or, for that matter, broadcast media and cable TV. Welcome to information dissemination, 21st-century style. If you look closely at the communications landscape across the globe, you will find that just a handful of corporations control much of what is printed and what is broadcast on radio and TV, irrespective of whether it has to do with politics, sports, business or entertainment. Big Media is about as independent, and as diverse as Big Tech, so to speak. It used to be the case that, to prevent information monopolies from being formed, governments set restrictions on how many newspapers, and radio and TV stations, could be owned by a single media corporation within a given geographic region. Deregulation has changed all that, leading to a globalisation of shaping news, opinions, and citizen expectations. Sound familiar? Think about the business models of Facebook, Amazon and Google. When it comes to the book publishing industry, here is an eye-popping ownership statistic: Just three English-language publishing companies – Penguin Random House (PRH), Pearson, and Simon & Schuster -- account for more than 70% of the books (fiction, non-fiction, science and technology) published across the globe. In the next few months, PRH is set to take over Simon & Schuster. Pearson, the world’s largest education company, is in the process of eliminating printed versions of textbooks and move to a completely digital format -- the so-called e-books. Evanescent books? Pearson, which is also the leading supplier of testing material for schools and colleges internationally, has been subject to strong criticism for exercising undue influence over nation-states’ education policies. In the long run, just two companies -- PRH and Pearson -- will end up dictating, based on prevalent corporate and political ideologies, what gets published, who gets published, and when and how something gets published. Who needs state censorship when the corporates can do it so much better? Consolidation in the print media has especially serious implications for science and technology since most books and research journals in these fields are published in English, as are most scientific publications on the web. For example, there have been recent attempts to erect paywalls to prevent open access to taxpayer-funded research data, particularly in medicine. An even greater danger is posed by Big Tech when they start actively colluding with publishers to control the availability of information – be it in education or any other sector. The fact that Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg has invested in Byju’s, India’s leading educational technology and online tutoring company, should make us all wonder why everything in this world seems to be connected to just a few players. Given the linguistic diversity in India, the wonderfully cacophonous print media in India have not been subject to the same level of consolidation as has occurred in the US, UK, Canada and Australia. But this cannot be taken for granted since more and more of the advertising revenues that publishing houses depend on for continued operation are being siphoned off by online advertisers in thrall to search engine and social media companies with their automated language translation software. Freedom of expression? Not in my book.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-medium-is-the-message-964479.html
21-03-2021||Opinion||Balancing Ecotourism with Ecology: Please leave Kabini, Sankey alone||In the time of the pandemic, the importance of Bengaluru’s spaces of nature is clearer than ever before. Lal Bagh and Cubbon Park are filled with visitors (many without masks, but that’s a different story), and even the smaller pocket parks and lakes are full of people seeking a break from ‘work-from-home’. What makes a visit to a park or a lake so sought after? The chance to get away from the usual, to see tree canopies that seem to touch the sky, to watch squirrels playing, glimpse a flash of green or blue as a parakeet or kingfisher crosses the horizon – making stress levels melt away, almost magically. It is good to see that the latest budget plan of the state government has declared its intent to focus on tourism development in Karnataka. But tourism in spaces of nature should be very carefully designed, so that it does not interfere in the very ecosystem processes that it seeks to capitalise on. People need places of nature to visit. But nature cannot tolerate too much of a human footprint. It is a delicate balance, difficult to maintain. Too much focus on attracting tourism, through artificial projects, can rob a place of nature of everything that makes it come alive. Two of the plans that have been tentatively announced have especially alarmed conservation groups. First, the plan to develop a ‘Brindavan Gardens’ style botanical theme park at the base of the Kabini dam, at a cost of Rs 48 crore. Such a large theme park can have a major impact on the biodiversity of the forests around Kabini. The associated increase in road traffic and tourist numbers can take the human impact well beyond what the ecological capacity of the region can tolerate. Closer home in Bengaluru is the plan to set up an artificial waterfall in Sankey Tank. The waterfall, announced with fanfare in the press, will be 12-15 feet high, 100 feet in width, and cost Rs 1.5 crore. The stated focus is to boost tourism. But Sankey Tank is already one of the most visited of Bengaluru’s lakes. The lake is much smaller than it was when it was built, in the late 20th century, having lost ground to many private developments several decades ago. More recently, jogging and walking tracks and parks created within the lake area have reduced the amount of water that the lake can hold, contributing to the flooding that this region experiences every monsoon. It is not too far back that the lake was handed over to an energy drinks company for a FlugTag event – memories of that event still linger in Bengaluru’s consciousness. Residents complained that the lake was left littered with garbage, and it took ages to clean it up. Though this was a one-off event, it gave us a glimpse of what could be an inevitable outcome when we have commercial utilisation of lakes going on overdrive. The bird diversity at Sankey Tank, though still impressive, is a shadow of what it used to be some decades back. This is the case with all lakes in Bengaluru. Older residents near Kaikondrahalli and Bellandur lakes, at the other end of the city, say they used to see pelicans, painted storks and other birds visit in large numbers. Children were deputed to stand guard near the mango orchards near the lakes to chase away the flocks of parakeets, which could devastate an orchard in an evening, so huge were the flocks. Now, people have to make the long trek to Muthanallur lake near Chandapura, Gulakamala lake near Kanakapura, or one of the other waterbodies outside Bengaluru, to see a functional, thriving water body. A functioning forest is different from a botanical theme park, and a thriving lake is different from an artificial pool with a waterfall. While Karnataka needs tourism, we must also ensure that an ecological balance is maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/balancing-ecotourism-with-ecology-please-leave-kabini-sankey-alone-964481.html
21-03-2021||Opinion||My country, right or righter||It was clear, way back in 2014, that the BJP’s ‘nationalism’ would be an ugly monster, weaponised against inconvenient people and ideas. It drowned rational, constructive criticism in militant sentiment, and in mere months, it had journalists and institutions trying to out-nationalist each other, without pausing to ask why—let alone whether—they should have to. Ever since, with the eager cooperation of everyone who keeps failing to ask those questions, this Frankenstein-ed pseudo-nationalism has become a reason-proof warrant for witch-hunts, violence, oppression surveillance, and censorship. Criticism is, today, selectively cast as defamation of India, and therefore anti-national. Once, this would have been laughed off the stage. But watching your country slip on the cowpat of absurdity is only funny for about five seconds before you see that actually, it has broken its hip and gone into septic shock. Instead of refusing to take on the perverse burden of proving a non-issue, instead of pushing back against calling critique, dissent and resistance as anti-national, other political parties are trying to get in on these malignant electoral dividends. So, with an eye firmly fixed beyond the borders of its Delhi stronghold, the Aam Aadmi Party has introduced its promised ‘deshbhakti curriculum’. The curriculum itself is unremarkable—it’s mostly about trying to shape inclusive, compassionate, gender-sensitive, law-abiding citizens. That seems like the bare minimum training for social life, barring a dubious emphasis on obedience. Call the programme Civics, or Citizen and Constitution, or some such. Language evokes powerful ideas, so it matters. Why promise, as Chief Minister Kejriwal does, to produce ranks of ‘kattar deshbhakts’? If you don’t have the imagination to work out why this might be dangerous, that’s okay, you don’t need an imagination. If AAP is able to dream of an Olympic Games held in Delhi two decades from now, it should be able to look a few short years into the past to see the results of uncritical nationalism written in blood and ruin, every day, all around us. Why feed that monster? It is much more interesting that the plan is, as Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said, to put understanding rather than rote learning, and wisdom rather than knowledge, at the centre of education. Great. It emphasises respect for women—super! But they’re also going to put up a rash of national flags. Wut? Everyone knows what the flag looks like. Stick a photo of it in the textbooks. The Opposition has let the BJP determine the narrative, and scrambled to pick off what votes they can from competitive nationalism and competitive Hindu chest-bumping. If the BJP is doing a Ram temple donation drive, AAP will do a Sundar-kand ka Paath, and send the elderly off on a taxpayer-funded pilgrimage to Ayodhya. The BJP talks of Hindutva, so the Congress must make sure that everyone knows how dear Ram and Hinduism are to them. Parliament and state assemblies ring with loud religious genuflections. There’s no sorrier spectacle than a secular country behaving like the theocracy next door. If AAP is really attempting to reclaim a benign love of country, that’s a conversation it can and should have in the public domain, by protecting the right to dissent, and to critique both government and country. Give the kids some credit, and leave them alone. Be a country they can love, rather than trying to mandate love of country. Don’t feed the monster. If AAP doesn’t have the imagination to see how ‘kattar’ nationalist power might play out in education, it doesn’t need one—it can just look at the hot mess that is Ashoka University today. Nationalist power wants constant appeasement, and by dropping its foremost academic to appease it, Ashoka has sold its founding ideals and intellectual integrity. How do you think that looks on India’s report card?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/my-country-right-or-righter-964482.html
21-03-2021||Opinion||The brown girl and the prince||A commoner marrying into royalty is the stuff of fairy tales. Recent news about the discussion on the possible colour of Meghan and Harry’s first child when Meghan was still pregnant has interesting undertones. Such a discussion, while totally inappropriate, is commonplace in Indian homes. Indian folklore, however, is replete with stories of well-respected people of dark complexion. The story of the brown girl and the prince I’m referring to is not about Meghan and Harry, but about Satyavati and Shantanu. Satyavati was a fisherwoman, an adopted daughter of Dashraj, the chief of a fishing community living on the banks of the Yamuna. She grew up known as Kali, the dark one, because of her complexion. Beautiful, she was courted by the rishi Parasara when she ferried him across the Yamuna to an island. Succumbing to the forcefulness of Parasara’s desire as they reached the island, she bore a child from the one-time union. The child was named Krishna Dvaipayana, the dark child (Krishna) born on an island (Dvaipayana). Parasara soon bid adieu, continuing his quest for knowledge. Krishna Dvaipayana grew up (apparently very quickly) and followed in the footsteps of his father. Mythologically, it is said that Parasara used his divine powers and enabled Satyavati to deliver the baby immediately and grow him into an adult instantly. Dvaipayana went on to be Veda Vyasa, the compiler of the Vedas and also the author of Mahabharata. Satyavati went back to being the fisherwoman she was, living with her father. Later, Satyavati, still the beauty, was courted by Shantanu, the Kuru king of Hastinapura. Shantanu asked Dashraj for Satyavati’s hand in marriage. Dashraj demurred, saying that Shantanu already had a son from an earlier liaison and that Satyavati and her children would always be second-class members of the Kuru royal family. Shantanu went back to the palace distraught. Devavrata, Shantanu’s son, seeing his father pining away, investigated and learnt of the reason for Shantanu’s sorrow. He went to Dashraj and ceded his right to the Kuru throne. Dashraj persisted further, saying that Devavrata’s future children would still be treated as the rightful heirs to the throne despite Devavrata’s promise. Devavrata then took the ultimate vow to never marry or bear children. Devavrata hence came to be called Bheeshma, the one who took the onerous oath. Satyavati was then happily married off to Shantanu. Bheeshma and the royal family welcomed Satyavati and treated her with the highest esteem. Satyavati became the matriarch and the architect of the Kuru family, even calling upon Krishna Dvaipayana to father heirs to the royal throne when her children from Shantanu died childless. Thus, the Kauravas and the Pandavas of the Mahabharata are biologically the descendants of the dark-complexioned fisherwoman, Satyavati, and the rishi, Parasara. Mythologically, it is said that Satyavati was the biological daughter of a Yadava king on travel duty and an Apsara who was in the form of a fish! Setting aside the mythological layer of assigning royal lineage to Satyavati, she was a dark, beautiful, fisherwoman who grew up ferrying people across the river along which she was found and adopted. She mothered both the spiritual and political leaders around whom the epic of Mahabharata has been written. Satyavati’s story is interesting at many levels, throwing light on the culture of her times, including courtship, pre-marital relationships, pre-nuptial agreements, and the making of royal lineages. Not much has changed culturally, and many lessons of the day translate well to modern times. Meghan and Harry may have a thing or two to learn from Satyavati!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-brown-girl-and-the-prince-964483.html
21-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: Will Kamal Haasan's electoral debut be a full house or a flop show?||Actor-turned-politician Kamal Haasan is making his electoral debut from the Coimbatore South Assembly constituency in the upcoming assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. The 66-year-old star would be taking the political plunge three years after floating his party Makkal Needhi Maiam (People's Justice Centre) on February 21, 2018. Pitching a 'Centrist' line, the MNM has been trying to position itself as the only alternative to the two Dravidian majors – the AIADMK and the DMK. Although he hadn’t jumped into the fray himself, Haasan’s MNM contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and garnered 3.77 per cent votes, entering the fray in 37 constituencies. It got 15,75,640 valid votes out of the 4,18,25,669, total valid votes polled in Tamil Nadu. The MNM, which will be fighting the Assembly polls for the first time, has entered a three-party alliance with actor Sarathkumar-led All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi and Indiya Jananayaga Katchi. Haasan has been declared the chief ministerial candidate of the alliance. In Coimbatore South, Haasan is up against the BJP's Vanathi Srinivasan who was accommodated by alliance partner AIADMK’s Amman K Arjunanan, currently representing the constituency, and Congress's Mayura S Jayakumar in a high-profile contest. An actor par excellence, Haasan has acted in over 200 films, in all the South Indian languages and Hindi, earning him several National Awards, Filmfare awards and a Padma Bhushan, among many other recognitions. After spending over 6 decades in the limelight, Haasan has solidified his standing in the film universe. The film star, however, is still very new to the political space. Haasan, who has been critical of both the DMK and AIADMK, is fighting on the anti-corruption and good governance plank. "I want to make Coimbatore a model city not only at the Indian level but at the international level," Haasan had said while filing his nomination. "Politics is not my profession like others. Politics is my duty, with honesty," he added. Haasan has promised a lot of things through his party’s manifesto – right from Rs 3,000 monthly payouts for homemakers to monthly assistance of Rs 5,000 to a select group of people, including those aged 75. The MNM also said that it will introduce a State Eligibility cum Entrance Test (SEET) replacing the present NEET, which would be helpful to the students of Tamil Nadu.  While releasing the manifesto, Haasan stated that it was ‘implementable’ and had said, “This will not be for five years keeping in view the polls alone, but a vision document and a living document for another ten years, and will bring in a change in Tamil Nadu's political scenario." The widely popular actor is making an effort to connect and canvass voters through casual interactions like when he's out on a walk or by travelling in autorickshaws.     As Kamal Haasan, the politician, tries his luck with his electoral debut, the results on May 2 will make it clear if it was a full house or a flop show. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-will-kamal-haasans-electoral-debut-be-a-full-house-or-a-flop-show-964557.html
21-03-2021||South||Kerala High Court special sitting to hear petitions challenging rejection of 2 BJP nominees||The Kerala High Court, at a special sitting on Sunday, will hear the petitions filed by two BJP candidates, whose nomination papers for the April 6 Assembly polls were rejected by the Returning Officers after scrutiny. The candidates in Thalassery and Guruvayur constituencies had moved the court, challenging the decision. The case will be heard at 2 pm by Justice N Nagresh, High Court sources said. BJP's Kannur district president N Haridas was the nominee in Thalassery in Kannur district, while in Guruvayur in Thrissur district, Nivedita, the party's Mahila Morcha state president, had been fielded. Besides these two, the nomination of party ally AIADMK's candidate R M Dhanalakshmi was rejected at Devikulam in Idukki district. The rejection of the nominations has come as a huge setback to the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-special-sitting-to-hear-petitions-challenging-rejection-of-2-bjp-nominees-964590.html
21-03-2021||South||Coast Guard rescues six crew members of dhow from mid-sea||Six crew members of a dhow that sank in mid-sea about 30 nautical miles off Kasaragod in Kerala have been rescued by the Coast Guard. the dhow 'MSV Safina-Al-Mirzal', used as a sailing vessel, had set sail from Old Mangalore Port on March 19 with 120 tonnes of spices, food grains, vegetables, sand and granite, a Coast Guard release here said. It said that a CG Dornier on a routine sortie picked up a distress call from the vessel at 11.35 am on Saturday, located the debris after a 30-minute search and found the crew members floating in the sea. A life raft was dropped and the crew got on board. Acting on inputs from the aircraft, a fast interceptor boat was deployed reached the site in less than an hour and rescued all the crew members, who were later taken to Mangalore harbour. All the crew members are in good health, the release said. Initial assessment of the rescue team revealed that seepage of seawater into the engine room led to the sinking of the dhow, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coast-guard-rescues-six-crew-members-of-dhow-from-mid-sea-964633.html
21-03-2021||South||If AIADMK wins, it will be BJP's victory, DMK chief Stalin tells people||Even if the AIADMK emerged victorious in a single seat, the victor would be a 'BJP MLA' and hence people should vote for his party and its allies in the April 6 Assembly elections, DMK president M K Stalin appealed to the electorate here on Sunday. In his campaign at Uthiramerur near here, Stalin said he had been saying that his party-led combine would win 200 out of 234 segments in Tamil Nadu. However, considering the feedback from the people to his continuous campaign across the state, the DMK top leader said, "only we are going to win in all the 234 constituencies." Even if the AIADMK won a single seat in Tamil Nadu, the victor would not be an "AIADMK MLA but only the BJP MLA." The lone AIADMK Lok Sabha Member of Parliament from Theni, P Ravindhranath, who is the son of Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam functioned only as a 'BJP MP' and this proved his contention, he claimed. "...we should not allow the BJP (to win) and similarly, the AIADMK also must not come (succeed)," he said and asked the people to remember this aspect. Reiterating his allegation of corruption against Chief Minister K Palaniswami, the DMK chief claimed that the AIADMK is a 'branch' of the BJP. Palaniswami has time and again dismissed such graft allegations as lies and derogatory. DMK has tremendous confidence that all its poll assurances including the Rs 1,000 'rights' assistance per month to women family heads could be fulfilled, he said. "After I announced this promise (Rs 1,000 assistance for women), Palaniswami declared that Rs 1,500 would be provided to women as if the AAIDMK is going to come to power... ...for sure Palaniswami is not going to assume power and they may even promise a helicopter and aircraft for every household," Stalin claimed adding the people were not ready to believe the AIADMK's electoral promises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/if-aiadmk-wins-it-will-be-bjps-victory-dmk-chief-stalin-tells-people-964652.html
21-03-2021||South||No end in sight for plight of Kannadigas in Kasargod||With yet another election campaign at its peak, the linguistic minorities of Kasargod that comes to around three lakh lament that their basic woes are getting least attention of the mainstream political parties. The linguistic minorities that mainly comprise of Kannadigas lament that with the Kerala government giving more stress to Malayalam, they are facing difficulties at government offices. As most government orders and communications come in Malayalam, they have to depend on translators. Officials who do not know Kannada are being posted at the 20 odd panchayats in the Kannadigas dominated parts of Kasargod that shares borders with Karnataka. Now the BJP representatives have held a talk with the representatives of Kannadigas to understand their problems, while the other parties were not even doing that. But any serious interventions to address the woes were still awaited, he said. A commission of Kerala former chief secretary P Prabhakaran in 2012 had listed out the problems faced by the linguistic minorities. As per the report, most of the government officers working in the linguistic minority area are not conversant with Kannada and hence the common public who know only Kannada or Tulu face difficulty in interacting with them. All the official correspondences and application forms are in Malayalam and hence Kannada speaking people are at the mercy of the translators. There are instances wherein people are constrained to sign in the First Information Reports which are written in Malayalam, which they sign even when they are unable to understand the contents. The enactments, rules, government orders, circulars and correspondences are all in Malayalam. The commission report also pointed out that there were government orders which require that in linguistic minority areas, the Malayalam texts of important government instructions be mandatorily translated to Kannada, but are seldom being followed. The number of Kannada-knowing officers working in the village offices and other front-line public service delivery institutions is very inadequate. Even nearly a decade after the commission report, there was not much change in the plight of the Kannadigas. Kerala Tulu Academy Chairman Umesh M Salian said that government offices in Kasargod is often considered as a place for punishment transfers and for this reason most of the officers serving here would be more focussed on getting transfer to other places rather than the concerns of the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-end-in-sight-for-plight-of-kannadigas-in-kasargod-964687.html
21-03-2021||South||Kerala media becoming 'mouthpiece' of CPI(M): Ramesh Chennithala||Senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala on Sunday claimed that the media was becoming the mouthpiece of CPI(M) and 'whitewashing' the corruption scandals of the ruling Left front as gratitude for advertisements worth crores received from the state government. Targetting the media houses over their surveys predicting another term for Pinarayi Vijayan-led government, Chennithala alleged that there was a planned move to attack him. "This time, there is a planned move through the surveys to attack the Leader of the Opposition who has been targetting the Vijayan government. All my allegations were with evidence and all were proved right. The media should at least extend one percent of the support to the opposition that it has been giving to the ruling front," Chennithala said at a press meet here. He also said, "the media has forgotten the journalistic ethics by rejecting space for the Opposition." "Certain anchors are already congratulating and claiming that Vijayan will win another term. ... the state government has given Rs 200 crore-worth advertisements to whitewash the government drowning in corruption," he added. The Congress tweeted that it was 'deplorable' to see the extravaganza of advertisement spend by LDF, even in other regional newspapers. "The source of funds & the spending is concerning for the people of Kerala," the party said in the tweet. Noting that the media was the fourth pillar of democracy, the leader of opposition in the state assembly said, "Media in Kerala are failing in its duty by turning into mouth pieces of CPI(M)." Taking on the Left dispensation on the Sabarimala issue, he said neither the government nor the ruling party have changed their stance on the matter. "The stance of the government and the CPI(M) on Sabarimala has not been changed. It's very dangerous. The CM is hoodwinking the people by saying that the matter will be discussed after the final verdict of the Supreme Court," Chennithala said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-media-becoming-mouthpiece-of-cpim-ramesh-chennithala-964692.html
21-03-2021||South||Party that espouses Tamil nationalism gaining electoral ground in state assembly elections||Fifty per cent reservation to women in the distribution of tickets, fielding Dalit candidates in general constituencies and allowing politically-marginalised communities to get a taste of the democratic exercise known as elections. These should hit headlines when a political party moves beyond conventional politics, but the case of Naam Thamizhar Katchi (NTK) is altogether different. It does show the way for many by ensuring gender parity in ticket distribution and other initiatives, but the party's radical thoughts and policies drown all the “good things.” NTK led by Seeman, the actor-director who plunged into politics following the end of the civil war in Sri Lanka that devoured the lives of thousands of ethnic Tamils, is the most controversial political organisation in the state. It openly idolises Velupillai Prabhakaran, an accused in the eyes of Indian law for his role in the assassination of Rajiv Gandhi, and wants political power to be vested only with “native Tamils” and not “outsiders.” In Seeman's dictionary – M Karunanidhi, M G Ramachandran, and J Jayalalithaa – the three icons largely credited for building modern-day Tamil Nadu apart from K Kamaraj and C N Annadurai – are “outsiders”. He projects his Tamil nationalistic politics as an “alternative ideology” to the Dravidian rule, which he says has “destroyed” the Tamil land. He believes Karunanidhi is a Telugu, MGR a Malayali, and Jayalalithaa a Kannadiga with Tamil roots. Though many of Seeman's policies sound impractical and absurd at times, NTK's acceptance among people is growing – from a mere 1.1 per cent vote share in its debut elections in 2016, the party secured nearly 4 per cent votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. And as Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls on April 6, NTK is gaining traction each passing day, and the Tamil nationalistic outfit's presence in the poll arena is hard to miss or ignore. This is despite many of Seeman's lieutenants leaving him for “veering off” the agenda on which the NTK was founded.  “I strongly feel that our acceptance among people is growing. This is my country, my land, and it is my right to rule. Since states were divided into linguistic lines, is it not fair that politics should also be based on the language and the state's culture? We expect more growth for NTK this election, and we are here for a long haul,” Seeman told DH in a free-wheeling conversation. Several NTK candidates stand out in the large crowd for they raise pertinent issues concerning their constituency, long forgotten or dismissed as “trivial” by mainstream political parties. A fiery orator, Seeman can captivate his audience for hours together, talking about the need to “overthrow” the Dravidian ideology, which he once espoused, and replace it with his Tamil nationalistic politics, with his signature loud laugh after mocking at his political opponents. Asked why he opposed the Dravidian parties that have ensured social justice prevail in Tamil Nadu, Seeman shot back. “What social justice? In fact, what the Dravidian parties implemented is social injustice. How many women have been given tickets by the DMK and AIADMK? How many Dalit candidates have been fielded by these parties in general constituencies? Have they ever given representation to communities that are native to Tamil land?”, he asked. He elaborates that in the April 6 assembly election, the NTK has fielded 117 women candidates for elections to 234 seats, and given the opportunity to 16 Dalits to contest from general constituencies. DMK and AIADMK have fielded Dalit candidates only in reserved constituencies. Seeman is also targeted on social media for his “taking credit” for almost everything that happens in Tamil Nadu and boasting of his association with Prabhakaran and dining with him in the jungles of war-torn northern Sri Lanka. His attack on the Dravidian ideology has only become sharper over the years – he targets DMK than the AIADMK, leading to criticism that he has a “soft corner” for the ruling party. However, he has a different take on why his attack is against DMK. “Why should I target AIADMK when DMK is the father of the Dravidian ideology. Do I slap the father for the mess he created in the family, or do I target the son? If the father is responsible for the ills, obviously, he will have to take most of the attack. Not that I like the son,” he said. Some of Seeman's ideas are quite radical – he says India, which is a Union of States, does not need a national party. “There is no need....Let Tamil parties rule Tamil Nadu, people who espouse the cause of Kannadigas rule Karnataka, and natives of Andhra Pradesh rule the state. Why should only people who speak Hindi rule us all the time? Since it is a Union of States, let us rotate the Prime Minister's post amongst us,” he said. However, Seeman acknowledges that his concept of Tamil nationalism will take time to find acceptance among people as the society is now “split on religion, and caste.” “Religion and caste came much later. It was a language that came first. When Tamil was first spoken, there was no religion. People should understand language is their identity, and when that realisation happens, I will be the obvious choice for them,” he said. To a question of whether people will accept his brand of politics, Seeman said he would continue to espouse the cause of Tamil nationalism and strive to work for Tamils irrespective of election results. “This is not a running race that we can cover in a few hours. This is a battle...battle takes time, and I will keep running as long as I can. I am not bothered by people who do not accept me. There will come a time when they will realise the importance of language and culture. They will come to NTK,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/party-that-espouses-tamil-nationalism-gaining-electoral-ground-in-state-assembly-elections-964719.html
21-03-2021||South||Some flyers with negative Covid reports found positive at Hyderabad airport||Several international passengers who travelled with negative Covid-19 reports have been found positive for the pathogen when tested on arrival at the international airport here, airport sources said. Cases of international passengers being found positive in tests conducted at the airport despite having a negative report were being reported on a regular basis, they said. Confirming that such cases had been noticed, Union Health Ministry official Anuradha Medoju here said that the information on positive cases was shared with state government officials for quarantining and other purposes. "A few cases (of Covid-19 positive on arrival) are reported in spite of them carrying negative report...," she told PTI. The official, however, said that she does not have details immediately on the number of such passengers. State health officials could not be reached for their comments. Airport sources said that those arriving from the Middle-East and the UK are tested mandatorily, while passengers from countries like the US, Singapore and Maldives are allowed to go home if they carry a negative RT-PCR report of 72 hours. While it was doubted that some might be faking their test reports in order to travel, the airport sources said in the case of positive results on arrival, it could be due to the quick incubation of the virus (during the journey). It was also possible that a person might be tested negative for some reasons before the journey despite him carrying the virus in reality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/some-flyers-with-negative-covid-reports-found-positive-at-hyderabad-airport-964721.html
21-03-2021||South||In protest against other political parties, an independent candidate to fight Kerala elections||In protest against the mainstream political parties for the backwardness of Kasargod, an independent candidate is in the fray in the district. Sreenath Sasi, an engineering masters degree holder, is contesting from Kanhangad in Kasargod by mainly raising the backwardness of the district, especially in the medical and education sectors. Sasi is contesting under the banner of Movement for Better Kerala. He was brought up in Kasargod and did higher studies in Bengaluru He had also worked with an MNC before becoming a co-founder of an IT startup. Sasi, who has been quite active in taking up social issues, said that sending a strong message to the opportunistic politics of mainstream parties and putting pressure on the government for Kasargod’s development was his main agenda. He was already involved in the campaigns for AIIMS at Kasargod.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-protest-against-other-political-parties-an-independent-candidate-to-fight-kerala-elections-964734.html
21-03-2021||South||Rejection of BJP candidates’ nominations aggravates political nexus allegations in Kerala||Rejection of the nomination of two BJP candidates in Kerala has not only paved the way for an unusual sitting of the Kerala High Court on Sunday, but also further fuelled the political scenario of Kerala that was already thick with allegations and counter allegations of vote trades and nexuses. Considering the urgency of the matter, the Kerala High Court on Sunday heard the petitions of the BJP candidates whose nominations were rejected by the election officials citing procedural flaws and sought a counter affidavit of the Election Commission. The case was posted to Monday. Following the recent revelations by RSS ideologue R Balashankar of CPM-BJP understanding in certain constituencies and the BJP’s lone MLA O Rajagopal alleging of Congress - Muslim League - BJP alliances in the past, the air was already thick with Congress and CPM accusing each other of BJP nexus. Hence the fresh developments fuelled it further. Nominations of BJP’s Thalasserry (Kannur district) candidate N Haridas and Guruvayur (Thrissur district) candidate Niveditha were rejected citing lack of signature of the party office bearers in the nomination papers. Both are CPM’s sitting seats and BJP candidates of these constituencies secured 22,000 and 25,000 votes respectively, while the victory margin were only 34,000 and 15,000. While Congress leaders alleged that the allegations of CPM-BJP nexus has now come out in the open, the CPM leaders are countering it with revelations of BJP leaders regarding the Congress - Muslim League - BJP nexus of the past, which is often referred to as CoLeB nexus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rejection-of-bjp-candidates-nominations-aggravates-political-nexus-allegations-in-kerala-964739.html
21-03-2021||State||Convert Bengaluru into Delhi, picket Vidhana Soudha: BKU leader Rakesh Tikait tells Karnataka farmers||Senior Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been leading the farmers’ agitation against the farm laws along the Delhi borders for the past four months, asked farmers of Karnataka to create a Delhi in Bengaluru and picket Vidhana Soudha from all corners.  He was speaking at southern India’s first Raitha Maha Panchayat organised by the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and Aikya Horata Samithi here on Saturday. “You (farmers) need not come to Delhi to express your ire against the farm laws brought in by the Centre. But you have to convert Bengaluru into Delhi and intensify the agitation,” said Tikait. He added that it is not the farm laws alone and that the Modi government will bring in laws aimed at snatching milk, seeds, electricity and land from the farming community. "It is not just the agitation of farmers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, but of entire India," he said. He said the government is not keen to hold talks with the agitating farmers and resolve the issue as it is run by the giant companies which are looting the country. The withdrawal of laws would be detrimental to their business.   If any other government was in power at the Centre, it would have resolved the issue, Tikait said.  He said giant companies are doing business over the hunger of poor people. So, they have entered the agro-based sector.    Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader Darshan Pal from Punjab said farmers of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh need the support of their counterparts from southern India to “defeat the Modi government”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/convert-bengaluru-into-delhi-picket-vidhana-soudha-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-tells-karnataka-farmers-964485.html
21-03-2021||State||MLA Nadagouda meets Karnataka CM, stirs curiosity||JDS MLA Venkata Rao Nadagouda stirred a curiosity by holding talks with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa for about an hour at the circuit house in Sindhanur on Sunday morning.  Maski BJP candidate Pratapgouda Patil and BJP State Vice President  B Y Vijayendra were with the CM during hour-long talks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mla-nadagouda-meets-karnataka-cm-stirs-curiosity-964596.html
21-03-2021||State||From the Newsroom: Karnataka health minister says second Covid wave has begun||In your evening news brief, Karnataka health minister says second wave of coronavirus has begun; Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla tests positive for Covid-19, and North Korea's diplomats move out of Malaysia.  Here is the top news of March 21, 2021: Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said the second wave of coronavirus has begun and sought people's cooperation to contain the disease. "We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us," Sudhakar told reporters here as the coronavirus cases started shooting up. He said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the Covid-19 situation and measures to be taken.   Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla was admitted to AIIMS Covid Centre for observation on March 20 after testing positive for Covid-19 on March 19. In a press release, AIIMS said that he is stable and all his parameters are normal.   North Korea's diplomats in Malaysia shuttered their embassy and flew out of the country Sunday, after Pyongyang severed diplomatic ties over the extradition of a citizen to the United States. Pyongyang announced the shock move Friday, labelling Malaysia's extradition of a North Korean man an "unpardonable crime" carried out under "blind obedience" to American pressure. The Southeast Asian country had been one of Pyongyang's few allies but ties were already strained following the 2017 assassination of leader Kim Jong Un's half-brother at Kuala Lumpur airport.   Source: DHNS/ PTI/AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/from-the-newsroom-karnataka-health-minister-says-second-covid-wave-has-begun-964686.html
21-03-2021||State||Yawning gap between raisin production & sale hit grape growers||The online dry grape trading centre constructed at a whopping Rs 2.90 crore in Vijayapura city was expected to boost the raisin industry. But, the facility is of little use for the producers.  The district, known for its export quality grapes, has also made a name for itself for the top quality raisins. Every year approximately 50,000 tonnes of riasin is produced in the district. Marketing the raisins has been quite a task for the raisin producers. Following the persistent demand by the grape growers, the state government established an ‘online raisin trading centre’, with the financial assistance of the National Horticulture Mission (NHM). Raisin buyers from across the country visit Vijayapura every Saturday, the day when raisin is traded at the centre. The buyers however prefer only the first quality raisin. In fact, the online trading centre here has no facility for marketing the second and third quality raisin. This has left the producers high and dry as 50 per cent of their produce falls in second or third quality category. For every four to five kg of grape with necessary pulp and sugar content, (nearly 18-20 per cent) one kilo of raisin is produced. If a grape grower produces one tonne of raisin using nearly four to five tonnes of grape, only 50 per cent of the raisin (nearly 500 kgs) will be of first quality while the remaining 500 kg raisin is classified as second and third quality.  Vaman Mahishi, who’s been cultivating grapes for last four decades, says, “On the bright side, the trading at online facility is transparent and there is no room for any commission agents or middlemen. The farmer is sure to receive the amount due to him from the buyer sooner or later.” On the flop side, the online trading centre does not facilitate the sale of the second and third quality raisin. The centre facilitates the sale of just 1,000 tonne raisin a week. As a result, it requires nearly 50 weeks (almost a year) to sell the entire raisin produce of the district. The delay in the sale would affect the quality of the raisin. Therefore, farmers will have to either take their produce to Maharashtra or submit the produce to the commission agents, Mahishi explained. Add to it, the centre does not pay the producers immediately after the sale of raisin. Though the APMC controls the affairs of the trade at the centre, the market committee has no funds to pay the needy farmers.  The district has more than two lakh acres under grape cultivation. The annual grape production is around thirty lakh tonnes. Nearly 50 per cent of the grapes is sold as table fruit while the remaining is made into raisin. Such big produce needs a better marketing system, says Vaman Mahishi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/yawning-gap-between-raisin-production-sale-hit-grape-growers-964756.html
21-03-2021||State||Farm laws: Farmers plan massive rally in Bengaluru on March 22||Farmers from across the state will descend on Bengaluru to participate in a mega convention at Freedom Park on Monday to register their protest against the state and the Centre’s anti-farmer and anti-labour laws. The prominent faces of Delhi’s farmer protests Dr Darshan Pal, medical surgeon-turned farmer activist, Rakesh Singh Tikait of Bharatiya Kisan Union and Yuddhveer Singh will take part in the rally. Apart from Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, Hasiru Sene and Aaikya Horata Samithi, various farmer and labour rights organisations will take part in the convention. Farmers leaders, including representatives of farmers from northern India, held a Mahapanchayat in Shivamogga on Sunday to discuss the agrarian crisis and the ways to stonewall the ‘draconian’ farm laws. Dr Darshan Pal, who heads the Samykuta Kisan Morcha (SKM), told DH that more mass meetings will be held in the southern states with the second Mahapanchayat in Karnataka set to take place on March 31. “We will have another meeting with the farmers of Karnataka, after which we plan to have a massive Mahapanchayat by the end of April in Bengaluru,” he added.  Dr Pal reminisced his decades-long association with Karnataka farmer leader the late M D Nanjundaswamy and said the agrarian crisis in Karnataka was not too different from other states.  “Reports of suicide and indebtedness is high in Karnataka too, which means there in an agrarian crisis. The government should address this issue by infusing capital and bringing in reforms that benefit the farmers,” hesaid. On the limited response from the southern states to farmers’ agitation in Delhi, he said “The farmers’ way of protests may seem different but they are equally fighting for the cause.”   Speaking about the Karnataka government’s laws, he said they will ultimately lead to unemployment, poverty, increase in caste and gender differentiation. To a question, Dr Pal spoke said agriculture was always close to his heart and he worked in the farm as well while studying MBBS. “In 2007, I lost two of my family members who were actively involved in agriculture, after which I decided to switch to farming,” he said. The mass conventions are planned to culminate in the nationwide bandh called on March 26. Traffic to be hit The farmers are expected to start the march at 11 am from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna railway station to Freedom Park. Traffic in areas surrounding Majestic, Sheshadri Road and the Nrupatunga Road is likely to be affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farm-laws-farmers-plan-massive-rally-in-bengaluru-on-march-22-964758.html
21-03-2021||State||1,715 new Covid cases in Karnataka, 2 fatalities||For the last two days, the state’s Covid-19 numbers have been the highest since November. On Sunday, 1,715 cases were reported, out of which 61 per cent or 1,039 cases were in Bengaluru.   According to data from the department of Health and Family Welfare, a shocking 9,930 cases were found in the last seven days, which constitutes an 88 per cent increase over the 5,257 cases found the previous week. The spike comes even as the government has increased the scale of testing. On Sunday, 1,01,840 tests were conducted, out of which 50,715 tests were conducted by BBMP over the last 24 hours. The state’s overall test positivity rate has been climbing since March 10. On Sunday, the rate was 1.68 per cent. On March 9, it was 0.89 per cent.  After Bengaluru Urban, the next highest numbers were 170 in Udupi district, Mysuru 70, Bidar 61 and 54 in Dakshina Kannada.  The state also discharged 1,048 people on Sunday, out of which 782 were in Bengaluru Urban. Only two new deaths were announced on Sunday. An 82-year-old woman died in Bidar on Saturday. The other fatality was a 76-year-old man with symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI), who died at a private hospital in Bengaluru Urban on Sunday.  The BBMP has declared 15 containment zones at cluster sites across the city. The Palike said 111 positive cases originated from these 15 sites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/1715-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-2-fatalities-964768.html
21-03-2021||State||Centre adopts LiDAR technology to reduce man-animal conflict||In a first of its kind in the country, the Union ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change has adopted Light detection and ranging (LiDAR) technology for reducing the rising incidents of man-animal conflicts along the periphery of the forest areas. “The LiDAR technology will help in mapping the entire forest patches with remote sensing technology and we will get to know what is available in these areas. Depending on the requirement or density of animals, we can initiate steps to ensure sufficient food and water to animals within the forest areas,” said Union Minister for MoEF&CC Prakash Javadekar. He was speaking at International Forests Day and ‘Forest to Farm—the way forward’ event in Bengaluru on Sunday organised as part of the Isha Foundation’s Cauvery Calling campaign. The minister said that every year about 500 people were losing lives in man-elephant conflict and about 100 elephants were dying due to these problems. Javadekar also emphasised the need for conservation of water. “We must preserve every drop of water that rain brings in and none of us have any right to abuse water,” he added. Echoing similar opinion Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said that the state government had set aside Rs 2,945 crore in the budget for conservation of forest areas. A special project would be taken up to map the forest resources and forest areas with advanced technology. The CM also said that Karnataka has developed 1,025 sqkm of forest area, the highest for any state in India. He disclosed that the state government was paying an incentive of Rs 125 per tree to farmers to promote agro-forestry. Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar said that coexistence was the fundamental principle of ecology. Isha Foundation founder Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev said that despite the challenges posted by the pandemic, the volunteers had distributed about 1.1 crore saplings in 189 taluks of Cauvery catchment area with a participation of 33,000 farmers. "We need to change the perception of forests in people’s minds. In the last 74 years of Independent India, the issue of increasing forest cover has not been addressed with the kind of significance and importance as in the past few years. Putting an end to our reliance on forests, we must cultivate what is required for us ranging from timber to other produces that we extract from forests. This movement from forests to farms will benefit our farmers,” the Sadhguru said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-adopts-lidar-technology-to-reduce-man-animal-conflict-964773.html
21-03-2021||State||6th pay panel for RTC staff soon: Laxman Savadi||Transport Minister Laxman Savadi on Sunday assured that the wages and benefits under the Sixth Pay Commission would be extended to the RTC workers. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating a KSRTC drivers training centre and a depot at Basapur Gate in the taluk, the minister said, "The corporation borrowed Rs 1,900 crore from the government to pay the staff in these tough times. But a few employees struck work and went a step further and pelted stones at the RTC buses. It was a case of our people setting our house on fire," Savadi lamented. A section of staff has issued a strike notice to the government saying that they would strike work from April 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/6th-pay-panel-for-rtc-staff-soon-laxman-savadi-964780.html
21-03-2021||State||Denotification case: Congress demands BSY's resignation||The state Congress on Sunday sought the resignation of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, following a High Court order in the 2012 land de-notification case. Congress leader Krishna Byre Gowda said that Yediyurappa had denotified the land acquired by Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board for personal gain. The High Court, last week, quashed an order of the special Lokayukta court - which, in 2016, had dismissed a complaint filed against Yediyurappa, he said. "The CM will now have to appear for questioning as a charge sheet was already filed against him in the past. People in responsible positions should not misuse their powers," he said, adding that Yediyurappa's continuation in power will obstruct investigation into the case. "That is why Yediyurappa must resign," Byre Gowda said. He targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP leadership for turning a blind eye to such affairs and demanded that they seek Yediyurappa's resignation in the wake of the High Court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/denotification-case-congress-demands-bsys-resignation-964786.html
21-03-2021||State||Trapped in room with leopard, dog has lucky escape from jaws of death||A pet dog found itself trapped with a leopard inside the store room of a house for more than four hours at Nailady in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district in the wee hours of Sunday. The incident occurred at the house belonging to Taramma Shetty and her son Agnesh Shetty.  After one and a half hours of operation by the forest department officials, the leopard was trapped in a cage and later released into the forest. According to forest officials, the dog probably wanted to escape from the leopard and entered the store room of the house. But, the big cat followed it inside. There was lot of sound in the room when the leopard tried to catch its prey, waking up the residents. On seeing a leopard in the store room, they quickly bolted it from outside at around 4.30 am. Forest officials, led by range forest officer Chidanandappa, rushed to the spot. A cage was placed near the door of the store room and it was fully covered with nets and plastic sheets, to ensure that the leopard does not leap out through the roof.  When the door of the store room was opened, it jumped into the cage, at the end of a 90-minute operation. The leopard was released into the forest, after veterinarians did a check-up at the veterinary clinic at Saibrakatte. The dog suffered injuries on its neck in the leopard attack.  Residents said incidents of leopards straying into Billadi and nearby villages had increased in the last few years.   A similar incident, of a dog and leopard being trapped in the toilet of a house, was reported from a house at Kadaba taluk in Dakshina Kannada district last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/trapped-in-room-with-leopard-dog-has-lucky-escape-from-jaws-of-death-964792.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sportspersons to get 2% quota in Karnataka police force||Meritorious sports persons in Karnataka will now be alloted a two per cent quota in the state police force as the Karnataka government has issued a final notification to the effect. The special rules were framed last year and were finally notified in the state Gazette on March 3. Introduced in Karnataka State Police Services, these special rules will enable sports persons get directly recruited to the posts of constables, Sub-Inspectors and Deputy Superintendents of Police, as per the notification. "The provisions of these rules shall apply to not more than two per cent of posts in direct recruitment of meritorious sports persons to the cadres of Police Constables, Sub-Inspectors and Deputy Superintendents of Police in police service as specified in the schedule," it said. Expressing his gratitude to Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Director General of Police Praveen Sood, the Additional Director General of Police (KSRP) Alok Kumar tweeted, "At last Final Notification regarding recruitment of sports persons in Police dept published. After 12 years long gap, from now onwards every police recruitment will have 2% quota for outstanding sports persons."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sportspersons-to-get-2-quota-in-karnataka-police-force-964613.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's second wave of Covid-19 has begun: Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday said the second wave of coronavirus has begun and sought people's cooperation to contain the disease. "We are at the beginning of the second wave of coronavirus. Let us all join hands to control it because the next three months are crucial for us," Sudhakar told reporters here as the coronavirus cases started shooting up. He said he would discuss with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa about the Covid-19 situation and measures to be taken. He said the state Technical Advisory Committee on coronavirus has given clear guidelines to the government stating that people would be in for a trouble if certain activities were not controlled. "We all will be responsible for the aftermath if the government and people do not respond to experts' report," Sudhakar said. To a question whether election-related activities would be among those needed to be under check, Sudhakar sought to know, "Can any activity be an excuse for coronavirus? Will it spare VIPs, political parties or religious congregations?" The Minister underlined the need for an all-party meeting in view of the coronavirus situation since the byelections were round the corner and all the political parties would take part in it. Sudhakar's warning came as the cases in Karnataka shot upto 1,798 with seven deaths and Bengaluru urban district alone contributed 1,186 cases, including five deaths, on Saturday. The Chief Minister too had appealed to the people to exercise caution as coronavirus was on the rise at an alarming proportion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-second-wave-of-covid-19-has-begun-sudhakar-964647.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Medical students riled over Karnataka govt's Covid duty plan||Even as the state is witnessing a surge in Covid cases, a tug-of-war has ensued between the government and medical students. The MBBS students who have completed their one-year internship are opposing the government’s decision to draft them on Covid duty for three months. Dr P G Girish, director, Medical Education, told DH that 8,000 medical students completed their one-year internship in January and they were now available for rural service. “Around 3,000 of these students have studied in government quota seats. Additionally, the services of around 5,000 students from deemed universities and private colleges may be utilised. At least, 3,000 students can be put on Covid duty. They are waiting for rural postings and can be deployed on Covid work, so as to overcome staff shortage.”  However, the decision has not gone down well with the students. They allege that their academic records have been held back on the pretext of rural service, but they are now being drafted for Covid work. The students say they need time to prepare for the entrance exams for postgraduate courses. “It’s been one year since the outbreak of Covid. Why is the government still relying on students for Covid duty?” they asked. “Will this Covid posting add to to 12 months rural service? We’ve already sacrificed our internship doing innumerable Covid duties. Now, again we’re being asked to do it. This is not good for our career,” a studentsaid. Last year, during the pandemic nursing colleges were shut and the students went back to their native places. “Now there will be no going back and forth, and no lockdown either. In GNM final year we have 30,000-35,000 nursing students. Last year, we had difficulty posting nursing and paramedical students to Covid centres. Now we can draw them,” Girish added. He said that now it would 15% of Covid work and 85% non-Covid work. “If there is shortage of trained manpower, we may take final-year postgraduate students who are writing exams in April,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/medical-students-riled-over-karnataka-govts-covid-duty-plan-964753.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Nine backward taluks in Karnataka have just one doctor for 10,000 people||Nine backward taluks, including some of Karnataka’s most deprived parts, have just one doctor (government or private) for a population of 10,000, a stark data point reflecting the poor state of healthcare facilities. While four taluks are in the Kalyana Karnataka region, five are from the relatively well-off south Karnataka districts. According to the Economic Survey of Karnataka, 100 of the 114 backward taluks where the number of doctors was assessed showed poor performance in the particular indicator. The state has an average of six doctors for a population of 10,000. The six taluks are Devadurga and Manvi taluks in Raichur district, Kudligi in Ballari district, Yalburga in Koppal, Madhugiri and Turuvekere in Tumakuru, Gauribidanur and Bagepalli in Chikkaballapur district and Arsikere in Hassan district. As many as 33 taluks had just two doctors per 10,000 population, 34 taluks had three and 19 had four doctors. The backward taluks also had fewer hospital beds per 10,000 population. As in the development indicator involving number of doctors, all the 114 taluks had fewer than 13 hospital beds per 10,000 people - which is the state average. Performance of 94 of the 114 backward taluks was classified as poor by the state government. According to Syed Hafizullah, social activist from Raichur, the poor healthcare facility in the state was a reflection of the poor political will to address problems of the region. “We sometimes feel as if we are not in Karnataka, if we compare our district to the coast or central Karnataka districts,” he said, adding that the district had maximum vacancy. Noting that there were protests staged several times in the past, he said that the number of pediatricians and specialist doctors for women - such as gynecologists or obstetricians - were much lower.    According to K Sudhakar, Health and Family Welfare minister, the government has taken various steps to increase the availability of doctors. “Establishment of new medical colleges in four districts including Chikkaballapur, strengthening and upgrading existing government medical college seats and recruitment of vacant positions in health and family welfare department. We are planning to introduce tele-ICU in all government hospitals,” he said. When contacted, Dr K V Thrilokchandra, commissioner, Health and Family Welfare Department, said that the government was recruiting around 2,000 doctors and 100 specialist doctors. The finance department has cleared the recruitment and the process will begin soon. This will help address some of the imbalances.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nine-backward-taluks-in-karnataka-have-just-one-doctor-for-10000-people-964755.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Greens red-flag sterilisation plan to curb monkey menace in Karnataka||The government has planned a sterilization drive on male monkeys to address the monkey menace facing farmers in the Malnad region.  But environmentalists are of the view that the sterilization drive or the proposed monkey park are non-implementable. They cautioned that monkeys may become extinct due to the sterilization drive and this might disrupt the ecological balance, posing a serious threat to the fauna in the Western Ghats. They have urged the government to take steps to plant fruit-bearing trees on around 10,000 acres of land in Malnad region and nurture them. This is the most natural solution to the problem, they say.  B M Kumaraswamy, environmentalist and former member of the Western Ghats task force, told DH that capturing male monkeys and sterilizing them was an uphill task. “They don’t stand in queue like humans. Above all, it is against natural justice. For what fault of theirs are you sterilizing them? Humans have encroached forests, the habitat of animals. So, they are straying into human habitats, seeking food. It is unfortunate that elected representatives are turning a blind eye to this.”  “It is a foolish plan. The destruction and encroachment of forests in Malnad region is the major reason for carnivorous and herbivorous animals straying into human habitats. There are instances where bisons, leopards have strayed into human habitats in Shivamogga district. So, growing natural forest is the best solution for human-animal conflict,” he suggested. According to Karnataka State Biodiversity Board chairman Anant Hegde Ashisara, monkey menace is prominent in seven districts of the Western Ghats region - Shivamogga, Uttara Kannada, Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Hassan and some parts of Belagavi. Each district has around one lakh monkeys. He urged the government to appoint monkey guards under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee scheme at the village level. This is likely to prove beneficial for farmers and help them protect crops from the monkeys. Besides, the government must provide compensation to those who lose their crops due to monkeys, on the lines of the aid for crop loss due to wild animals such as bisons and elephants, Ashisara said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/greens-red-flag-sterilisation-plan-to-curb-monkey-menace-in-karnataka-964760.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt may fix 5-year deadline for high security number plate||Two decades after the Centre issued the first order on implementing a high security registration plate (HSRP), the Karnataka government which got caught in legal wrangles over “faulty” tenders is set to try its hand at enforcement once again. The state government had come under pressure in the court following petitions which challenged the defective number plates. The Transport department had told the court that the HSRP was being installed on all vehicles purchased after April 2019 but replacing the existing number plates has been delayed due to the legal challenges to its previous tenders. Officials in the Transport department told DH that the government had set up a committee for scrutiny and approval of the tenders which are set to be issued in the next few weeks. “We are discussing the deadline for replacing old plates with HSRP. A time frame of five years seems to be adequate. We will consult the government on the issue,” a senior official said. Additional Commissioner for Transport Narendra Holkar said some of the clauses in the tender were yet to be finalised. “We are finalising the technical clauses and the time frame for implementation will be decided while awarding the tender,” he said.  He said the new system will improvise on the service delivery system. “People can place orders for the HSRP online and get the plate fixed at the comfort of their home by paying additional charges,” he said. Legal wrangles In 2013, the department had hit the headlines for modifying the tender several times allegedly to favour a company. The tender was challenged in the high court and the department was forced to cancel it in the coming days. Officials said the legal hurdles have now been cleared. “The department will face contempt action if it fails to enforce HSRP at the earliest. The matter has been brought to the notice of the transport commissioner,” an official said. The department’s bungling in the past has led to repeated violations of the deadlines set by the Union government and even the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-may-fix-5-year-deadline-for-high-security-number-plate-964785.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||JD(S) MLA’s meeting with Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa triggers speculation||A meeting between Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and JD(S) MLA Venkatrao Nadagouda triggered speculations on Sunday. Nadagouda held talks with Yediyurappa for more than an hour at the circuit house in Sindhanur. The chief minister was in the town to take part in the campaigning for byelection to Maski Assembly constituency. BJP state Vice President B Y Vijayendra and BJP candidate for bypoll Prathapgouda Patil were present during the meeting. The JD(S) has been claiming that it would field a candidate for the bypoll. However, Nadagouda told reporters that he discussed irrigation projects with the chief minister and no special significance need to be attributed to the meeting.  Meanwhile, speaking to reporters, Yediyurappa said that his son B Y Vijayendra won’t contest the byelection to Basavakalyan Assembly constituency. Yediyurappa said that there was no plan of fielding Vijayendra from Varuna constituency as of now. “Instead, Vijayendra will camp in Mysuru for strengthening the party in the district,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jds-mla-s-meeting-with-karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-triggers-speculation-964788.html
21-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HD Kumaraswamy attacks PM Modi over corruption in Karnataka||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy dared Prime Minister Narendra Modi to speak about the ‘single window’ system responsible for corruption in Karnataka, which was “hiding behind the chair of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa”. Senior BJP MLAs are taking their grouses on the single-window system to the streets, and are making allegations of corruption against family members of Yediyurappa. “Will Modi talk about the single window system of self-declared great leader in the state ruled by the BJP?” hesaid. Kumaraswamy attacked Modi over his charges of a single-window system in West Bengal under its Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, which Modi had alleged was to benefit Mamata’s nephew and MP Abhishek Banerjee. Commenting about the poll-bound West Bengal when the PM was nurturing a similar ‘single window’ system in the BJP-ruled Karnataka was self-deceit. “Let Modi first end BJP government’s single-window system in Karnataka which is swallowing the tax money of people and funds reserved for development,” the JD(S) leader said. Double farm income Recalling Modi’s assurance of doubling farm income by 2022, he said that only farm expenses had doubled by 2021. “Increase in fuel prices has worsened the situation. How will the income double now?” he asked. Kumaraswamy criticised Agriculture Minister B C Patil’s remark, asking farmers to adapt to price rise. “It is saddening that those who should help resolve farmer issues are being irresponsible,” he said. Modi should answer whether the hardships faced by farmers now is a measure to double farmers income, Kumaraswamy added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hd-kumaraswamy-attacks-pm-modi-over-corruption-in-karnataka-964789.html
21-03-2021||West||Kalasa-Banduri inspection ruckus: Goa Forward Party leader Vijai Sardesai writes to SC||Goa Forward Party's President Vijai Sardesai escalated the face-off between the Goa government officials and Karnataka Police at the Kalasa-Banduri canal site by writing to the Chief Justice of India SA Bobde on Saturday, urging him to institute a probe into the matter. In his letter to Bobde, Sardesai said that the refusal by the Karnataka Police to allow Goa Water Resources Department officials to participate in the joint inspection of the canal on Friday, as directed by the apex court last month, amounted to "gross violation and misbehaviour".  "Goan delegation who were part of the outside the Kalsa project while the joint their lDs confiscated by the Karnataka joint inspection team were made to wait, while inspection was being carried out. Additionally, the Goan delegation reported that they faced numerous instances of verbal abuse and were treated with utmost disrespect," the letter to Bobde said, adding that the Goa delegation was only "exercising its responsibilities prescribed by the apex court". "Honourable Chief Justice, we express concern towards the attitude and behaviour of the Karnataka government and its police force on handling critical multi-state issues like the Mahadayi diversion and worry that they may be attempting to circumvent from the due process directed by the Supreme Court. We look to you and the apex court to examine this matter on behalf of the people, and future generations of Goa," the letter also said. The Opposition in Goa on Friday had urged Chief Minister Pramod Sawant to call Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa and lodge a protest against the conduct of the southern state's officials. The apex court is hearing a special leave petition filed by the Goa government challenging the Mahadayi Water Dispute Tribunal award, along with a contempt petition filed by the state government which accused Karnataka of already diverting the river's water despite the case being pending before the Supreme Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalasa-banduri-inspection-ruckus-goa-forward-party-leader-vijai-sardesai-writes-to-sc-964474.html
21-03-2021||West||Maharashtra board students to get 30 minutes extra to complete exams||The Covid-19 pandemic’s second wave may have started with a jump in infections but the Maharashtra government made it clear that the 10th and 12th board examinations in the state would be in offline mode.  However, the students would get an additional 30 minutes of the three-hour time that they get to write the exam. This is because, during one year of lockdown, the studies/classes were online and students have lost the habit of writing fast. Besides, the government also denied news reports that the passing percentage would be 25%. “There were no such discussions…the passing percentage would be 35% as usual,” School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad told reporters in Mumbai. Theory exams of the Class 12/HSC board are scheduled to be conducted from April 23 to May 21, 2021 while, Class 10 Secondary School Certificate (SSC) board theory examinations will be conducted from April 29 to May 20, 2021. The examination will be conducted in the students' respective schools. Practical examinations for Class 10 will not be conducted, while Class 12 practicals will be held once the written tests are over. The ministry has decided to conduct the practical exam for the HSC/Class 12 students because practicals in HSC are crucial for further professional courses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-board-students-to-get-30-minutes-extra-to-complete-exams-964475.html
21-03-2021||West||Param Bir letter: File corruption offence, says ex-IPS officer||Terming as serious former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's claim that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels, former IPS officer P K Jain on Saturday said an offence should be registered against the minister under the anti-corruption Act. "To my mind, an offence under the anti-corruption Act should be registered right away. Deshmukh has no right to continue in his position because if Param Bir Singh can be removed from his position for carrying out a fair probe, then I think by the same analogy the minister has no business to continue in his position," Jain said. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) under court supervision should probe this matter, Jain told PTI. "Whether the charges are true or false is a different matter altogether," Jain said, adding police are always "under the thumb" of their political masters. "Any officer who is liked by them is given plum postings. When I say plum posting they are all field postings, the 'desirable' postings. Any officer who does not listen to them, who does not tow their line, is always thrown on the sidelines," Jain said. A 1981-batch IPS officer, Jain was the secretary of the Maharashtra State IPS Officers' Association and served as principal secretary (home), joint commissioner (admin) of Mumbai police, managing director of Maharashtra State Security Corporation, and also as ADG (special operations). "I can vouch and say with authority that none of the politicians is interested in the police reforms. Nobody wants the police to be independent. Everybody wants the police to be under their thumb to carry out their wishes - in terms of arrests, in terms of enforcement, in terms of doing whatever they want to do, in terms of collections," Jain said. He said Singh in his letter has given specific examples. "He is giving specific dates and persons who were present in such a meeting when the money was demanded. Singh is a serving officer. If he has leveled charges in writing, it is serious." "And obviously he would be having some order or some material to back up his claims, which he will come out with at the right time. So, I think the situation has come down to a level where it is a slap on the face of Maharashtra government," Jain said. He said Singh mentioned in the letter that he brought this issue (Rs 100 crore demand) to the notice of the chief minister. "He brought it to the notice of the deputy chief minister. He also brought it to the notice of the NCP supremo," Jain added. "But yes, if extortion was being done on his behalf and on behalf of the minister and he was keeping quiet, I think he (Singh) is also a party. But I think this is all a matter of investigation," he said. "In the meantime, we should not forget that the basic picture of the gelatin being planted outside Ambani's house and the probe into that was pointing to a different party and a different line altogether," Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-letter-file-corruption-offence-says-ex-ips-officer-964514.html
21-03-2021||West||Dharavi to have its own Covid-19 vaccination centre amid second wave||Amid mounting Covid-19 cases in Asia’s biggest slum cluster of Dharavi, a separate and dedicated vaccination centre would be operational from Monday, March 22, 2022. On Thursday, Dharavi reported 30 cases, while on Friday and Saturday, it reported 29 and 28 cases, respectively. The progressive total of Dharavi is 4,385 cases, and now it has 149 active cases. The closest vaccination centre of Dharavi is the Covid jumbo field centre at the Bandra-Kurla Complex. However, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) now has set up five booths at an urban health centre, popularly known as “Chhota Sion Hospital”, located off the 60-Feet Road. “The vaccination centre in Dharavi would be operational from Monday,” said Dr Virendra Mohite, medical officer of the G/North Ward, the BMC's administrative ward for Dharavi. Spread over 2.1 sq kms, Dharavi – sandwiched between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai — is a sort of mini-India, with over 7 to 10 lakh people staying and working. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. Dharavi recorded the highest 33 cases in a single day on September 11 last year. Throughout April and the first fortnight of May, the cases zoomed but then it was brought down in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy - Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. The way the situation was contained came to be known as the 'Dharavi model' and also earned the praise of the World Health Organization and the World Bank. On December 25, for the first time, Dharavi reported zero cases and then subsequently on 22, 26, 27 and January 21 and February 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dharavi-to-have-its-own-covid-19-vaccination-centre-amid-second-wave-964563.html
21-03-2021||West||Pressure mounts on Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh to resign||Even as the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi faces its biggest battle in 16 months, pressure is mounting on state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who faces a barrage of alleged corruption charges from ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh. Thackeray on Saturday night spoke to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the MVA government. Pawar is expected to hold consultations with senior leaders including Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and state NCP President Jayant Patil. Shiv Sena’s troubleshooter and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut is expected to hold deliberations with the NCP supremo. "The letter is a reaction after Maharashtra Chief Minister and Home Minister decided to take a tough stand. There is no question of replacing Maharashtra Home Minister," Patil told reporters. Leader of Opposition in Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and his counterpart in Council Pravin Darekar had demanded the resignation of Deshmukh. Meanwhile, BJP MLA Nitesh Rane said, “If Home Minister asked Rs 100 crore every month from Vaze but who was the brain behind the idea of nightlife?  As per Param Bir Singh in spite of him briefing the Chief Minister about the issue, the latter didn’t respond.. so it’s clear that it’s just not about the Home Minister but also about the nightlife gang!” Deshmukh on his part has denied the charges and decided to file a defamation suit against Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pressure-mounts-on-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-to-resign-964588.html
21-03-2021||West||Policeman among two arrested by Maha ATS in Hiren death case||In a major swoop, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police nabbed a bookie and a dismissed policeman in connection with the mysterious death of Thane-based automobile spare parts showroom owner Mansukh Hiren, whose Scorpio laden with gelatin sticks was planted near the home of top businessman Mukesh Ambani. The arrests come a day after the Ministry of Home Affairs directed the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over the case. Suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze (49), who has been arrested in the Antilia-Scorpio planting incident, is the main suspect in the death of Mansukh Hiren. The ATS identified the two accused as Naresh Gor (31) and Vinayak Shinde (51).  Gor is a cricket bookie and it is suspected that Vaze and Shinde had used SIM cards procured from him. Shinde is a dismissed policeman, who was earlier convicted in the case involving the fake encounter of Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya, who was killed in a fake encounter on November 11, 2006. In 2013, a Mumbai sessions court had awarded life sentences to 21 people, including 13 Mumbai Police personnel, convicted in the case. Shinde was currently on parole – and was in regular touch with Vaze and helped the latter in his activities. They are being produced in a court in the Thane district. It may be mentioned that the Additional Director General of Police Jai Jeet Singh, who heads the ATS and Deputy Inspector General Shivdeep Lande are camping in the Thane ATS unit supervising the probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/policeman-among-two-arrested-by-maha-ats-in-hiren-death-case-964607.html
21-03-2021||West||'At whose behest was Scorpio parked near Antilia?', asks Raj Thackeray||Raj Thackeray on Sunday sought a Central probe into how the Scorpio SUV came to be parked near the home of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. “The basic issues are getting sidelined… How did the SUV with explosives (gelatin) come to be parked near Antilia. We suspected it was done by terrorists, but now it seems to have been the handiwork of the police,” said Raj, the estranged cousin of Maharashtra Chief Minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray. Raj said Uddhav Thackeray and Mukesh Ambani enjoy “excellent relations”, then why would Vaze dare to park the SUV there without someone’s authorisation. “At whose order the Scorpio was parked is a key question…this needs to be found out…there should be a thorough central probe,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/at-whose-behest-was-scorpio-parked-near-antilia-asks-raj-thackeray-964625.html
21-03-2021||West||Decision on Anil Deshmukh's resignation by Monday: Sharad Pawar||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar on Sunday said the allegations made by top cop Param Bir Singh against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh were serious and a decision on the minister's resignation will be taken after consulting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday. Pawar, the architect of the coalition government in Maharashtra, also hit out at Param Bir Singh saying the allegations were made by him after being shunted out as Commissioner of Mumbai Police to a less important post. He said there were two sets of allegations, one against the Home Minister and another against the former Mumbai Police Commissioner. “There has to be an in-depth inquiry. It should be led by such an officer who enjoys respect within the police and reputation among the masses. My suggestion to the chief minister would be to order an inquiry led by Julio Riberio,” Pawar told reporters here. The NCP supremo said he would also discuss the issue with the party's state unit chief Jayant Patil and leader of the NCP Legislature Party Ajit Pawar and decide on the demands for the resignation of Deshmukh. Pawar also dubbed the allegations against the Home Minister could be an attempt to destabilise the coalition government, but this would have no effect on the government. “These allegations in the form of a letter by the Commissioner of Police will have no impact on the stability of the government,” Pawar said adding that he chief minister has the complete authority to seek resignation from the home minister. At the same time, the NCP chief said that he had not discussed the matter with the chief minister and resignation of the home minister could be among the two-three alternative plans of action on the discussion table. Pawar also ruled out any link between suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and the coalition government, contending that the police officer was reinstated by the Commissioner of Police himself and not by the Home Minister or the Chief Minister. He said there was no proof about any transaction between Vaze and Deshmukh and termed the allegations of Rs 100 crore per month collection in bribes as “laughable”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-anil-deshmukhs-resignation-by-monday-sharad-pawar-964632.html
21-03-2021||West||Centre should help in finding out truth in SUV-Vaze case: Raj Thackeray||MNS chief Raj Thackeray on Sunday sought the Centre's intervention in unearthing the truth behind the explosives-laden car found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence here last month. Addressing a press conference, Thackeray alleged that the Maharashtra government was incapable of shedding light on several basic points in the case. "The explosives case doesn't revolve only around (former Mumbai police commissioner) Param Bir Singh and (suspended Mumbai police officer) Sachin Waze. Police placing the explosives or being asked to do so is not a small thing," he said.   The Centre should help in finding out the truth in the case. The basic issue of who placed the explosives-laden vehicle and on whose instructions it was done needs to be found out, the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief said. "The basic issue should not be forgotten, otherwise this case will go the same way as actor Sushant Singh Rajput's (death) case," he said. Thackeray said it seems very unlikely that the vehicle with explosives was parked near Ambani's house by Waze without being asked to do so. The vehicle was found near Ambani's multi-storey residence 'Antilia' in south Mumbai on February 25. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) last week arrested Waze in connection with the case. He was later suspended by the government. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak over handling of the bomb scare episode, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner on Wednesday. On Saturday, he wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars and hotels. Thackeray asked why there is no clarity yet from the state government as to why Param Bir Singh was shunted out. "Was it because he is linked to the placing of the vehicle? And if Singh is involved, why didn't the state government take action against him instead of just a transfer?" he asked. Thackeray said the source of the gelatin sticks in the vehicle has also not been revealed yet. He said Mukesh Ambani and Uddhav Thackeray share an extremely warm relationship. Thackeray also raised question marks over the threat letter found in the vehicle, saying, "Is it so easy to extort money from Ambani?" "Will the police on their own are to try to extort money from an industrialist, who shares very warm relations with the chief minister," he asked. He reiterated his demand for the resignation of Anil Deshmukh for ensuring free and fair probe over the allegations against him. Meanwhile, leading a protest in Pune over the charges against Deshmukh, state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil said there was no moral ground left for the government to remain in power. "The government should step down from power," he said. BJP workers, led by former state minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule, also staged demonstrations in Nagpur demanding the resignation of Deshmukh over the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-should-help-in-finding-out-truth-in-suv-vaze-case-raj-thackeray-964651.html
21-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh advises Deshmukh against FIR in Mohan Delkar case||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government may have ordered a Special Investigation Team (SIT) probe into the death of seven-time Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar but the then Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh has advised Home Minister Anil Deshmukh against it. Delkar (58) died by suicide on 22 February at the Sea Green Hotel in Marine Drive in Mumbai. Initially, the Marine Drive police station lodged an ADR and was carrying out the investigation, however, during the recently-concluded Budget Session of Maharashtra Legislature, the MVA government ordered an SIT and converted the ADR into an FIR. The FIR names Praful Khoda Patel, the Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu and officials of the Union Territory and booked them under the provisions of Indian Penal Code and Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. Before that, Delker’s wife Kalaben Delkar, son Abhinav Delkar and daughter Binita had met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Deshmukh. In the letter that Singh shot off to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, he made a mention of it. “… from day one, Home Minister desired a case of abetment of suicide to be registered at Mumbai. My professional view after seeking appropriate legal advice was that while the suicide had occurred in Mumbai, all the alleged acts of abetment had taken place in Dadra and Nagar Haveli. Thus, the abetment of suicide, if any, was required to be investigated by the Police at Dadra and Nagar Haveli who would have jurisdiction in that regard," the letter states. Singh pointed out that due to his resistance, Deshmukh was unhappy as the political mileage desired to be derived from the registration of the abetment of suicide case in Mumbai in the death of Delkar was not being achieved. “Despite being fully aware of the opinion of the legal experts, the general opinion and the reasons behind it, Deshmukh announced the setting up of a SIT and registration of an FIR into Mohan Delkar’s death,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-advises-deshmukh-against-fir-in-mohan-delkar-case-964661.html
21-03-2021||West||What kind of Ram rajya is this: Sanjay Raut on thrashing of Muslim boy in UP temple||Expressing disappointment over the incident of a Muslim boy being beaten up mercilessly for drinking water at a temple in Uttar Pradesh, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday asked what kind of 'Ram rajya' is this. He said the incident showed that some people belittle India's image by indulging in communal polarisation. "This incident happened in a land where a temple dedicated to Lord Ram is coming up. What kind of Ram rajya is this?" he asked in his weekly column "Rokhthok" in Sena mouthpiece Saamana. "What kind of Hindu religion are we representing?" he further asked. In West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee is called anti-Hindu because she refuses to chant 'Jai Shri Ram'. But denial of water to a young boy and mercilessly thrashing him is also anti-Hindu, Raut said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi touches upon different issues in his 'Mann ki Baat' radio programme. "Hope he speaks on this issue too," he added. "We are against Pakistan and not against Muslims. Communal polarisation is done to win elections in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and West Bengal," he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/what-kind-of-ram-rajya-is-this-sanjay-raut-on-thrashing-of-muslim-boy-in-up-temple-964665.html
21-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze stayed in Uddhav's house: Narayan Rane||“The Chief Minister must resign…the law and order has collapsed,” said Rane, an ex-Chief Minister and former Leader of Opposition. “Vaze lived in Varsha and sometimes in the Oberoi Hotel….wasn't the Chief Minister aware of this…he thought Vaze was a saint,” said Rane.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-stayed-in-uddhavs-house-narayan-rane-964710.html
21-03-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh: Most controversial Home Minister of Maharashtra||From being the Zilla Parishad Chairman in Nagpur to becoming the most-controversial Home Minister of Maharashtra, Anil Deshmukh has come a long way. Always impeccably-dressed and possessing a good sense of humour, the 70-year-old Deshmukh, popularly known as Anil Babu, always makes his presence felt. Deshmukh, however, now is under fire in the wake of allegations of corruption levelled by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh. For the better part of his political life, this veteran has always been on the side of power. Hailing from Katol in Nagpur district, he represented the constituency five times in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly. Deshmukh hails from the village of Vad Vihira near Katol in Nagpur district. He attended Katol High school and later, he attended the College of Agriculture, Nagpur and received an M.Sc in Agriculture awarded by Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola. He served as the Chairman of Nagpur Zilla Parishad – when he became known in Maharashtra’s political circles. In 1995, he contested as an Independent from Katol and became a minister in the Shiv Sena-BJP government, and worked under Manohar Joshi and Narayan Rane – handling portfolios of Education and Culture. In 1999, when NCP supremo Sharad Pawar floated the NCP, he joined in and went on to be a minister in the Congress-NCP Democratic Front government serving under four Chief Ministers – late Vilasrao Deshmukh, Sushilkumar Shinde, Ashok Chavan and Prithviraj Chavan – and in these 15 years, he handled portfolios like Excise, Food and Drug Administration, Public Works, Food and Civil Supplies. From 1995-2021, to be precise 26 years, he had been a minister for 21 years barring 2014-19, when the Devendra Fadnavis-led BJP-Shiv Sena government was in power. When the Uddhav Thackeray-led Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government came in power, the NCP made it clear that it would take the Home portfolio. There were many choices in NCP, but Pawar preferred him to handle the Home department. During the Covid-19 triggered lockdown and migration, he gave the police a free hand and also asked cops to apply oil in their lathis and be ready.  He also took lead in drafting the Shakti Bill on the lines of the Disha Act. On the intervening night of New Year, he sat in the Pune Police control room and answered calls. But somewhere, he started running fast and has now tumbled. It’s a matter of hours before his fate is decided.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-most-controversial-home-minister-of-maharashtra-964713.html
21-03-2021||West||With two arrests, ATS claims Mansukh Hiren death case solved||With the arrest of a notorious bookie and a dismissed-convicted policeman, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police claimed to have solved the sensational murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren on Sunday. It was Hiren’s Scorpio that was laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter was planted near the home of top businessman Mukesh Ambani. Additional Director General of Police Jai Jeet Singh, who heads the ATS and Deputy Inspector General Shivdeep Lande are camping in Thane ATS unit supervising the probe. Announcing the breakthrough, Lande in a Facebook post, said: “The sensitive Mansukh Hiren murder case has been solved…I salute all my colleagues in ATS who worked day-night for the last few days. This has been one of the most complex cases in my police career.” The ATS in a press statement said that investigations are underway to zero in on the "key conspirator" in the case.  On 5 March, Hiren’s body was recovered from Reti Bunder in Mumbra-Kalwa area of Thane. The ATS identified the two accused as Naresh Gor (31) and Vinayak Shinde (51). The duo were produced in a court in Thane which remanded them to ATS custody till March 30. Gor is a cricket bookie and it is suspected that Vaze and Shinde used 5 SIM cards procured from him. Shinde is a dismissed policeman, who has been convicted in the case involving the fake encounter of Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya, on November 11, 2006. In 2013, a Mumbai sessions court had awarded life sentences to 21 people, including 13 Mumbai Police personnel, convicted in the case. Shinde was currently on parole – and was in regular touch with Vaze and helped the latter in his illegal activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-two-arrests-ats-claims-mansukh-hiren-death-case-solved-964715.html
21-03-2021||West||Maharashtra reports over 30,000 new Covid-19 cases||For the first time since the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic, Maharashtra’s 24-hour infections crossed the 30,000-mark on Sunday. India’s worst-affected state of Maharashtra reported 30,535 new cases and 99 deaths taking the progressive total to 24,79,682 and 53,399, respectively. Similarly, Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) recorded new highs of 3,779 and 6,970, respectively. The active cases in the state has crossed the 2-lakh mark – and reached 2,10,120. However, only less than 10 per cent are in hospitals as the majority of them are asymptomatic and mild-symptomatic. The state’s case fatality rate is 2.15 per cent. During the day, 11,314 patients were discharged taking the total number of treated patients to 22,14,867. Around 9.69 lakh people – active patients and high-risk contacts are in home quarantine, while 9,601 people are in institutional quarantine. In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) launched Rapid Antigen Tests in public places like railway stations, bus depots, malls and marketplaces. The overall growth rate of cases from March 14-20 was 0.63 per cent and the doubling rate was 106 days, according to the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. Mumbai now has 40 containment zones in slums and chawls, while 316 buildings have been sealed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-over-30000-new-covid-19-cases-964724.html
21-03-2021||West||NCP rules out resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||NCP on Sunday ruled out resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh claiming that the allegations against him were “diversionary tactics” to shift focus from Mansukh Hiren's death and recovery of explosives outside Mukesh Ambani's residence. The announcement by NCP capped a day of fast-tracked events as senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis demanded resignation of Deshmukh, citing allegations of corruption levelled by former top cop Parambir Singh. Within hours of NCP supremo Sharad Pawar's remarks that the allegations against Deshmukh were serious, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut met him to discuss the matter. Pawar also met senior leader Praful Patel, state NCP chief Jayant Patil, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule. “The question of Anil Deshmukh's resignation does not arise. The allegations are diversionary tactics to shift focus from the probe into the Mansukh Hiren case and the recovery of explosives outside Mukesh Ambani's residence,” Patil told reporters. In Mumbai, Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant hit out at the BJP and sought to know whether the then Gujarat Home Minister Amit Shah had resigned when jailed police officer D G Vanzara had made certain allegations against him in 2013. Earlier, Pawar, the architect of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress coalition government in Maharashtra, also hit out at Parambir Singh saying the allegations were made by him after being shunted out as Commissioner of Mumbai Police to a less important post. Pawar had also said the letter by Singh, who is now Director General of Home Guards, was written after former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis' visit to Delhi. Pawar had said the allegations against Deshmukh could be part of a plan to destabilise the ruling coalition in Maharashtra but would have no impact on the government. Admitting that the allegations against Deshmukh were serious, Pawar had suggested that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray order a probe by respected officers such as Julio Riberio. In 2018, when Subodh Jaiswal appointed Parambir Singh to the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner, Riberio had lauded the then chief minister for “keeping bad cop out”. Pawar also ruled out any link between suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and the coalition government, contending that the police officer was reinstated by the Commissioner of Police himself and not by the Home Minister or the Chief Minister. He said there was no proof about any transaction between Vaze and Deshmukh and termed the allegations of Rs 100 crore per month collection in bribes as “laughable”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-rules-out-resignation-of-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-964732.html
21-03-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani rules out lockdown amid rise in Covid-19 cases||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani on Sunday ruled out imposition of a fresh lockdown in the state despite a surge in the fresh Covid-19 cases. Gujarat's overall tally of cases rose to 2,87,009 with the addition of 1,580 new infections on Sunday. "As Chief Minister, I assure you that there will be no new lockdown," Rupani said in his Facebook Live address to people of the state. He also appealed to citizens to not believe in rumours. "The state government had to take steps like discontinuing offline education in schools and colleges, extending the hours of a night curfew, and imposing restrictions on hotels and restaurants in cities due to the rise in the number of cases. "Now that the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, we have once again taken a strict action. When the number of cases decreases, everything will go back to normal," the CM said. Rupani said the government's concern is that people do not suffer due to the pandemic and that their jobs are not affected. He also appealed to people to exercise caution and to adhere to Covid-19 norms. "The government will not take steps that will adversely affect livelihood of the people. They should not lose patience," he said. Rupani said the government was not interested in fining people for not wearing face masks. "A fine of Rs 1,000 is collected from people for not wearing masks on the order of the Gujarat High Court," he said. Rupani said people should follow norms like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and using sanitiser. "(Eligible) People should get themselves vaccinated when their turn comes. They should not go out unnecessarily and avoid gatherings," he said. The CM said the state is now conducting more number of Covid-19 tests. "At the same time, adequate number of beds and essential medicines are being made available. The vaccination is also gathering pace," Rupani added. PTI KA NSK NSK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-rules-out-lockdown-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-964746.html
