22-03-2021||First Edit||Set right vaccination mess||The Covid-19 vaccination coverage in India is not very encouraging and it is imperative that the government opens the process to all age groups to ensure maximum reach within a short time frame, while ensuring that there is no wastage of doses. With over four-crore inoculated so far, the absolute numbers may appear impressive but when this is superimposed on the overall population of the country, what appears is a dismal scenario. Though over two months have elapsed since the vaccination process began, not even 5% of the country’s 120-crore population has been inoculated. This is only a reflection of the complete lack of preparedness in terms of cold chain management, training or other logistical issues, though the government had over eight months to put things in place. What is appalling is that though there is a glut of vaccines in the market, which are fast approaching their expiry date, they are not available to people who are ready to take the jab, due to sheer mismanagement. The situation is no better in Karnataka with Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself rapping the state government over the non-functioning of 70% of vaccination centres. The glitches in the Co-Win portal have contributed in no small measure to the confusion. At the time of registration, the portal shows all slots for the next few days as full, leading to low footfalls at several hospitals. This often contributes to the wastage of vaccines as each vial, which contains 10 doses, should be exhausted within four hours. The remaining vaccine in the vial goes waste when the required number of people are not available within the stipulated time. Another contributing factor is that inadequately trained medical personnel are drawing less than 10 doses per bottle. According to the Centre, four states have reported wastage above the national average of 6.5%. Telangana has recorded the highest of 17.6%, whereas in Karnataka it is 6.9%. While this a serious concern as the wastage of doses amounts to a denial of vaccine to another beneficiary, it once again boils down to the absence of proper planning. It is high time the government gives up its rigid control over vaccinations and utilises the services of the private sector which has expressed its readiness to be involved on more than one occasion. As much as the government tries to present a rosy picture, the entire process is actually a veritable mess. If the current slow pace continues, it might take years to inoculate the entire country, by which time new strains of Covid-19 may render the existing vaccines ineffective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/set-right-vaccination-mess-964813.html
22-03-2021||First Edit||Ashoka emblem of state of democracy||The resignation of Pratap Bhanu Mehta from Ashoka University has again put the focus on the challenges and threats to academic freedom in institutions of higher education and generally on the constraints on freedom of expression of any individual in the present environment in the country. Mehta is among the country’s foremost public intellectuals and has been a critic of the present government. That was the reason why he had to step down. As he says in his resignation letter, his ‘’association with the university may be considered a political liability now’’ by its founders. Former chief economic adviser to the government and a professor in the university Arvind Subramanian also resigned after Mehta quit. Students and faculty members of the university have protested against the circumstances that forced Mehta to quit. Academicians from major universities in other countries have expressed their support for him and condemned the assault on liberal and democratic values that the pressure on him exemplified.  Ashoka University is a young university which functions on a philanthropic model, funded by its founders. These founders have a say in the administration of the university. They are on their part susceptible to influence on account of their business or other interests. Mehta resigned after a meeting with the founders and so it is clear that his decision followed some disagreement or displeasure about him. Universities are not companies whose owners have to often kowtow to power and authority. Academic freedom is at the heart of the functioning of a university. Teachers and students should have the freedom to hold their own views and to talk and write about them. It is especially important that there is scope for debate, dissent and disagreement because it is the freedom to question and criticise traditions and established ideas and practices and to present alternatives that gives vigour to intellectual life. Teachers need to lead students by example in this.  Societies progress only when they have that freedom and citizens exercise it. This is being constrained in universities and in the wider society now. Mehta has said that his “public writing in support of a politics that tries to honour constitutional values of freedom and equal respect for all citizens is perceived to carry risks for the university.” What has happened in Ashoka University is symptomatic of a broader assault on academic freedom in other institutions of learning and on citizens’ freedoms in society. Ashoka University has lost a lot of goodwill and reputation with this incident. It has admitted that "there have been some lapses in institutional processes" and has promised to correct course. The message should not be lost on other universities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/ashoka-emblem-of-state-of-democracy-965180.html
22-03-2021||In Perspective||Bank mergers, sales: End game begins||Reforms in India are a difficult business, especially when it means privatisation. It often leads to loss of employee privileges, more accountability, and results in sustained resistance due to fear of job losses. The bank unions had called for a two-day strike recently and will progressively increase attrition once the government names the banks that it proposes to privatise along with IDBI. Opposition parties, which are strong in several states, are waiting in the wings to oppose the privatisation effort tooth and nail. Can bad banks manage the NPA deluge? During the financial year 2017 to 2020, the government proactively decided to consolidate most of the large public sector banks without much resistance under six anchor banks namely, State Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, Canara Bank, Union Bank and Indian Bank. The total bad debts of these six anchor banks exceeded Rs 2 lakh crore after the mergers. It is unlikely that any of these banks under the consolidation will be sold as the balance sheets show high Non-Performing Assets (NPAs). To clean up the balance sheets, the Indian Banking Association has been pushing for a bad bank since 2018, where the stressed assets that have a low net asset value can be junked.  The government in its 2021 Budget finally agreed to start a bad bank under the Asset Reconstruction Company (ARC) model. The idea is to help banks clean up their balance sheets. But can they, while accountability is missing and bank frauds are mounting?  There have been about a dozen Indian ARCs operating since the last decade. But the total capital employed is less than Rs 6,000 crore and the total assets handled by it is just around Rs 50,000 crore. Another bad bank supported by the tax payer’s money can takeover junk assets of another Rs 50,000 crore. But can it dispose those assets in a reasonable time frame? Highly unlikely. Also with gross NPAs, as per RBI, rising to around 14.7%  in the post-Covid era of March 2021, the ARCs will look puny.  Which are the banks that will be sold? While 15 banks have been merged under six anchor banks, six PSU banks have been left standalone. The government has announced that two banks will be privatised in the current financial year.  The two largest among them— the Mumbai-based Bank of India (BOI) and the Chennai-based Indian Overseas Bank (IOB)— both with a large footprint in the south of India, are the most potential candidates for privatisation. The BOI has nearly 50,000 employees as against 31,000 of IOB. While BOI has over 5,100 branches and 7,400 ATMs, the IOB has around 3,400 branches and 3,000 ATMs. There are two dark horses too in the running. One is the Bank of Maharashtra, with an employee strength exceeding 12,000, with around 1,900 branches and 1,000 ATMs with a strong footprint in western India. The other is the Central Bank with an employee strength of over 30,000 and over 4,600 branches and 3,600 ATMs with a strong presence in Central India. The two banks least likely to be sold are the UCO bank and the Punjab and Sind Bank as both are unlikely to find any buyers. Bank of India had a gross NPA of 14.78 % in the year 2019-20 that amounted to nearly Rs 16,500 crore. Though its NPA has reduced by over a percentage point in the third quarter of the current year and its profits have grown sharply, the net interest income has fallen by nearly 9%. The share price has however doubled in the past six months period to touch the Rs 80 mark as the NPAs dipped and the bank raised debt capital of Rs 750 crore through Basel-III-compliant AT-1 bonds in January. The government currently holds 89.1% of BOI stocks. It needs to shed 40% of its stake for successful privatisation.   IOB started gaining some ground last year after losses for consecutive 18 quarters. After provisioning of over Rs 40,000 crore in the balance sheet, the gross NPA came down to Rs 19,913 crore or 14.78% in the year 2019-20 from Rs 33,398 crore (21.97%) the previous year. The government currently holds a 95.8% stake in IOB which has increased its equity base nearly every year from 2016 onwards. Because of this, the IOB stock price is languishing at around Rs 17. Hence, it is possible that Bank of Maharashtra with a better valuation of around Rs 23 is privatised where the government holds 92.4% stake and the total equity capital is Rs 5,824 crore as against Rs 16,437 crore for IOB. In that case, it will be BOI and  BOM that will be privatised. (The writer is a journalist and author of three books on economic governance)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/bank-mergers-sales-end-game-begins-964804.html
22-03-2021||In Perspective||Kalasipalyam to E-City: Who’s upbeat?||A newspaper headline earlier this month proclaimed that traders in Kalasipalyam Market were “upbeat” about moving to Electronic City. The news story stated that the Kalasipalyam wholesale fruit and vegetable market – some 400-odd sellers in all – would be moving to a larger space near Electronic City. The market was temporarily housed in E-City during the lockdown, and it has now been identified as permanent with the chief minister announcing it in the budget. It went on to say that the wholesale merchants’ association, which was earlier against the move, has now welcomed it, provided infrastructure -- roads, sheds, auction halls, toilets, parking, etc -- is provided. Once again, residents of the area around the E-City plot have to come to know of the ‘development’ of the vegetable market through the press. In early April 2020, as the city went into lockdown, KR Market became a containment zone and Kalasipalyam Market was shut down. Overnight, it was moved temporarily to a site on Huskur Road, beyond Electronics City Phase 2. Residents of the area saw the ‘development’ appear abruptly and dramatically. Literally, one morning, a politician paid a visit to the site, and the next morning, the Kalasipalyam Market had moved in. Overnight, the vegetation, including trees, from the ‘empty’ site was destroyed; the site was razed with bulldozers; the fauna of the area fled into neighbouring community to save themselves, and loudspeakers started blaring loud messages and film music from a makeshift (and mostly empty) police booth on the site at 4 am in the morning, devastating the quiet of the area. Located off Hosur Road, this area is largely rural, on the edge of the city and very peaceful. Suddenly, hundreds of trucks were rumbling down the narrow and totally inadequate roads (which at the best of times resemble the lunar landscape) and people were milling around, with no social distancing, and creating traffic jams. Chaos ensued. As the monsoon approached, the area became even worse. The temporary market was literally awash; vendors occupied the road, and it was impossible for residents to leave their homes. As abruptly as it had started, in August 2020, the temporary sheds were removed, and the ‘market’ disappeared. Residents could finally move around without being stuck in two-hour-long traffic jams in the area. But here we go again! With this ‘little’ announcement in the paper, we are back to square one. No local resident was asked for their opinion: Were they happy with the vegetable market moving in? Did they want it there? Did they have any objection? The issue here is the process of this ‘development’. In yet another example of the opaque bureaucratic processes in place, made public through the press, the announcement has been made with absolutely no public consultation. The comments of the wholesale merchants’ association does not reflect the sentiments of the people of the area. They probably do not even reflect the sentiments of the smaller vendors that sell at Kalasipalyam Market. Of the 400-odd vendors at Kalasipalyam Market, how many can actually move to Electronic city? The bigger vendors can probably afford the move but many of the smaller vendors have lost livelihoods and business with the move. The voices of the smaller vendors and the local residents of the area need to be reflected in such a dramatic ‘development’. Kalasipalyam is old and needs space; that is true. As a market servicing the city, it probably needs to be moved outside the city. The RMP 2031 identifies the Electronic City site within a Planning District (PD) with 21 villages, the Huskur village temple and industrial areas such as the Veerasandara Industrial Area, part   of the Bommasandra Industrial Area and the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) fruit market. Currently, the roads in the area are in very poor condition and are barely adequate for traffic. If the vegetable market is developed on the site without extensive development of the roads and infrastructure of the region around, the quality of life in the area will be destroyed. Previously, residents have sat on the roads leading up to a solid waste management plant in the area to protest the living conditions there and to stop trucks carrying garbage from the city into the plant. It is also the lack of accountability and highhandedness with which the process of transferring the market to Electronic city (during the height of the lockdown) has been conducted that is causing umbrage in the area. The lack of consultation with the local population is in complete contravention of the town-planning laws mandated by the state. Like other ‘developments’ across the city, there will be public protest, petitions, litigations, etc. The need for systematic, legal, democratic and consultative channels (all mandated by state town-planning laws) through which citizens of all classes can participate in urban planning and governance is felt yet again. This is critical to reshaping modern-day Bengaluru. Hopefully, the state/BBMP will take note. (The writer is an urban planner based in Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/kalasipalyam-to-e-city-who-s-upbeat-965182.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister B D Basavaraj passes away||Former minister B D Basavaraj died of health issues in Bengaluru. He was 85. Basavaraj, MLA from the Sakhleshpur Assembly segment, had served as education minister in Ramakrishna Hegde's cabinet. He was away from politics for one decade. His final rites will be performed at his native village Balupet in Sakhleshpur taluk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-minister-b-d-basavaraj-passes-away-964967.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Three killed in road accident in Chitradurga||As many as three persons, including a couple, were killed in a road mishap near Javanagondanahalli in Hiriyur taluk on Pune-Bengaluru stretch of national highway on Monday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Nemiraj (58), native of Hosadurga, Chitradurga district and his wise Sunanda (53), who were travelling in an SUV, and Ranga (35), the driver of a lorry. Two others sustained severe injuries and are undergoing treatment in Hiriyur taluk general hospital. The incident took place when the SUV driver lost the balance and hit a car from behind, and then rammed into the lorry coming from opposite direction after jumping the divider. The couple was heading towards Hosadurga from Bengaluru in the SUV. Hiriyur rural police registered a case and an investigation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/three-killed-in-road-accident-in-chitradurga-964972.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Govt hospital conducts live surgery workshop at hobli-level||For the first time, a hobli-level government hospital has telecast surgeries live from a Community Health Centre, at Santhemarahalli in Chamarajanagar district on Sunday. It is said to be the first of its kind in Karnataka, where a hobli-level hospital has utilised the latest technology for conducting surgery on five women, which was telecast live. A team, led by Dr Chandrashekar of Bengaluru, conducted different surgeries on five women. More than 150 experts from across the state watched it live. An online interaction was held later. Hospital administrator Dr Renuka Devi said that such surgeries are conducted in medical colleges and hospitals in cities like Bengaluru and Mysuru. "For the first time, such a workshop was conducted in a hobli-level hospital. The patients are recuperating. We had contacted the patients a month ago and had convinced them to undergo surgery for the workshop," she said. District Health and Family Welfare officer Dr M C Ravi said, "The doctors and staff had organised the workshop, with live relay of surgeries. As this attempt at the hobli-level hospital is a first of its kind, the department provided support."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/govt-hospital-conducts-live-surgery-workshop-at-hobli-level-965134.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MUDA introduces online portal for tax collection||Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has introduced online portal to pay property tax and for document transfer. The portal will be active from April 1. MUDA Chairman H V Rajeev on Monday said, “The software has been developed and the citizens can pay tax online from April 1. It has been decided to collect double the revenue from the buildings that was found violating the norms. However, it will be applicable only for the buildings where the violation is less than 50%.” It has been decided to prepare a feasibility report for developing the Peripheral Ring Road to ensure free flow of traffic inside the city, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/muda-introduces-online-portal-for-tax-collection-965135.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vairamudi Utsava only for locals||Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi said that the Vairamudi Brahmotsava celebration has been scaled down this year due to rising Covid-19 cases and only locals will be allowed to participate in the festival. Restrictions have been imposed on the devotees from other districts and states, she said. Addressing media persons here, on Monday, the DC said, “The religious rituals as part of the festival has commenced on March 19 and will conclude on March 31. All preparations have been done for the Vairamudi Kireetadharane festival to be held on March 24, as per the Covid guidelines issued by the government.” Checkposts have been opened at two places at the entrance of Melkote. The devotees from other districts and states will be sent back from that point. The Health department personnel and staff will be in place at the checkposts and thermal scanning would be conducted.  Barricades have been installed in and around the temple. Only 50 to 100 devotees will be allowed inside the temple, at a time. The priests and temple staff have been directed to wear masks compulsorily, she said. Asha workers and Health department personnel will screen the people visiting the temple. Mass feeding and distribution of prasada has been banned around 200 mts radius of the temple. The hotels have been told not to provide accommodation facility, she said. Superintendent of Police Ashwini said that 50 police personnel have been deployed for the Brahmotsava. The devotees visiting the temple should carry identity cards, to enable the personnel on duty to identify them, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vairamudi-utsava-only-for-locals-965136.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Former minister Basavaraju passes away||Former minister B D Basavaraju (85) died of age-related health issues in Bengaluru on Monday. Basavaraju is survived by wife Sumangala, two daughters and a son. The final rites were held at his native village Balupet in Sakleshpur taluk, Hassan district. Basavaraj, who was elected as MLA from Sakleshpur Assembly segment, on a Janata Party ticket in 1985, served as Education Minister for a period of just three days. He had managed to sanction a BEd College and a First Grade College for Sakleshpur during his short stint as minister. In 1989, he contested on a Janata Dal ticket, but, was defeated by B R Gurudev of the Congress. In 1994, he again tasted defeat against BJP’s B B Shivappa. In 2004, as BJP denied a ticket, Basavaraju contested independently and was defeated by H M Vishwanath of JD(S). In 2000, he contested for Lok Sabha on Janata Dal (United) ticket from Hassan segment against former prime minister H D Deve Gowda and was defeated. He was away from active politics for the last one and a half decades.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/former-minister-basavaraju-passes-away-965137.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Partial lockdown would be imposed if needed: DC||As the cases of Covid-19 are on the rise in Mysuru district, Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri said that a mini lockdown would be implemented at sensitive areas, if needed, to check the spread. Speaking to reporters here, the DC said, Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar has already announced that the second wave of Covid has begun in the state and the cases are on a rise in Mysuru also. “The Police department is instructed to take strict action against the people not wearing masks and not maintaining social distance,” she said. “The cases are increasing with each passing day. More than 50 cases are being reported each day. The areas, where more number of cases are being reported, will be declared as mini containment zones and mini lockdown would be imposed in such areas, in order to contain the spread of the virus,” she said. Sindhuri said, “A Covid Care Centre at Metagalli is reopened and the district hospital, which was declared as Covid hospital, is functioning. We have to be careful, as it does not take much time to reach its peak. Thus, the people should be careful and masks should be kept on.” As per Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa’s direction, Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests are must for all individuals and tests are being conducted at all education institutions. The people must follow the guidelines issued by the government, as they are prepared to protect the lives and not to harm the people, she said. “The district administration has imposed restrictions on the jatra mahotsavas as per the government’s guidelines. As many as 500 people are allowed in open space and only 200 are allowed indoors. There is a demand to allow more than 500 people to participate in jatra mahotsavas. But, it is impossible at this point of time. Even for Nanjangud Jatra mahotsava, devotees are allowed as per guidelines. We can celebrate the festivals next year also. Now, we have to save our lives,” she said. Claiming that the people need to be more cautious, she said, “I visited HD Kote recently. There was a huge crowd and the people were reluctant to wear masks, despite repeated requests. The antigen tests will be re-commenced at tourist hotspots and other places, as a precautionary measure,” the DC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/partial-lockdown-would-be-imposed-if-needed-dc-965139.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘JD(S) will be in power in 2023’||Former MP of Mandya L R Shivaramegowda said that the JD(S) will be the kingmaker after the 2023 Assembly election and H D Kumaraswamy will be the chief minister again. Speaking to reporters here, on Monday, Shivaramegowda said, “No one can stop the JD(S) from assuming power in 2023. When I told that Kumaraswamy will the CM in 2018, many ridiculed me. Later, the Congress leaders approached Kumaraswamy, seeking support.” In 2023 also, national parties will come to the doors of the JD(S), seeking support and Kumaraswamy will be the CM, he said. Shivaramegowda claimed that he will be the candidate of Nagamangala Assembly segment in Mandya district in the 2023 election. Alternative arrangements will be made for present JD(S) MLA Suresh Gowda. There are many opportunities in the JD(S) and it will be further strengthened in Mandya, he said. Speaking about the rift between the JD(S) leaders and MLA G T Devegowda, Shivaramegowda said, “The JD(S) is inevitable for Devegowda. Likewise, the JD(S) also needs Devegowda. He will be with the party. The leaders will sort out the issues. Devegowda will not join the Congress because he defeated Siddaramaiah in the last election. He will not join the BJP. There are differences in every party and all issues will be resolved.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/jds-will-be-in-power-in-2023-965140.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Hassan: Lake survey unearths encroachment of hundreds of acres||Hundreds of acres of land, of several lakes in Hassan district, have been encroached upon, according to a survey conducted by the district administration. Lakes are the main sources for recharging of underground water table. But, due to insufficient rain, since the last 10 years, several lakes have shrunk. Taking advantage of this, a few farmers and influential persons have encroached hundreds of acres, at several places. According to sources, there are 6,807 lakes in Hassan district, measuring 61,590 acres. In the first stage, the officials have completed a survey of 1,093 lakes and have identified 373 acres of land encroached from 452 lakes. Out of this, 44 acres have been cleared from 77 lakes. Besides, urbanisation has taken a toll on lakes. At some places, lakes have been encroached upon under the guise of development, for constructing bus stands, stadia, residential layouts and even parks. Compared to agriculture lands, lake area has been largely encroached upon in Hassan district. The district administration has completed only 15% of the survey and more than 75% survey work is yet to done. That is 5,714 lakes are yet to be surveyed for encroachment. In Arkalgud taluk, the department of Land Survey has surveyed 170 lakes, out of 1,066. In all, 73 acres have been found to be encroached upon at 99 lakes. Around two acres 11 guntas of land has been retrieved at 11 lakes, so far. The drought-hit Arsikere taluk has 324 lakes. While 43 lakes have been surveyed, 86 acres and 37 guntas was found to be encroached at 37 lakes. But, it is yet to be retrieved. Hassan taluk has 1,264 lakes and survey is completed at 322 lakes. Around 20 acres have been found to be encroached at 43 lakes. Encroachment clearance drive is in progress in Holenarasipur taluk and 53 lakes have been surveyed out of 535. While 34 acres of 45 lakes have been found to be encroached, 22 acres have been retrieved from 29 lakes so far. Deputy Director for Land Survey M D Hemalatha said, "In the first phase, there was a target to survey 3,400 lakes. The officials have been told to survey one lake a week. There are plans to rope in private players to complete lake survey at the earliest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hassan-lake-survey-unearths-encroachment-of-hundreds-of-acres-965141.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru reports 61 fresh Covid-19 cases||Mysuru reported sixty-one fresh Covid-19 cases and one death on Monday. While 42 are contacts of infected persons, 12 are Influenza-like illness (ILI) and the remaining seven are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases. There are a total of 340 active cases in Mysuru district. With this, the total cases have increased to 54,872. A total of 1,042 deaths have been reported till date in Mysuru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-reports-61-fresh-covid-19-cases-965158.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Book Ramesh Jarkiholi for rape, demands Siddaramaiah||Karnataka Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday demanded that former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi should be booked for rape in connection with the sex scandal that became public earlier this month.  Raising the sex scandal in the Legislative Assembly, Siddaramaiah said that the sex scandal should be brought under an “independent inquiry” monitored by the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court.  “The government and the Special Investigation Team (SIT) is only focussing on the ‘conspiracy’ behind the sex scandal. But, what about the victim? She stands humiliated in front of society. A grave injustice has been caused to the victim,” said Siddaramaiah.  The Congress leader brought up the woman’s video statement in which she sought protection and that she had attempted to end her life. “She has said that she was used by Ramesh Jarkiholi for a job that she sought. There's no consent of the victim, which means it amounts to rape. Why wasn’t Ramesh booked under IPC Section 376,” Siddaramaiah asked, blaming the police for having failed in their duty by not taking cognisance of the woman’s video statement?  “There are three complaints: One filed by Ramesh, second by the woman’s father saying she’s missing and then by the woman herself,” Siddaramaiah said. “All of this should be comprehensively probed.”  Siddaramaiah moved an adjournment motion on the sex scandal, which Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri converted into a short-duration discussion on a matter of urgent public importance.  Former Speaker KR Ramesh Kumar sought to know if the government was concerned at all about the woman. “In 1973, a woman named Sumitra Kulkarni went to the then minister RD Kittur’s house and then disappeared. No one knew anything about this woman. Still, he was sacked,” Kumar said.  “Who is this woman? Where is she? Does she even exist? Have you tried to find out and locate who this complainant is? Can the government be so helpless,” Kumar asked. “Isn’t she our daughter? What right do we have to arrive at a conclusion? In the interest of justice, everything should be brought under the SIT,” he said.  Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai conceded that authorities were yet to locate the woman. “We’re searching for the woman in order to give her protection. After all, she addressed a video to me and sought protection, so it’s my duty. But, she’s not coming forward. We’re ready to go wherever she is with a lady police constable to record her statement,” he said.  “We have the same enthusiasm when it comes to that woman's complaint. We have not left any stone unturned. We're trying everything. We've many leads,” Bommai said, adding that the SIT had been asked to cover “all aspects” of the sex scandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/book-ramesh-jarkiholi-for-rape-demands-siddaramaiah-965069.html
22-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi scandal: ‘Injunction’ ministers cross swords with Congress||Six Karnataka ministers, who have moved the court for an injunction against the publication or broadcast of any unverified news about them, defended their stand Monday even as Congress demanded their resignation saying they were “morally unfit”.  Shivaram Hebbar, B C Patil, S T Somashekar, K Sudhakar, K C Narayana Gowda and B A Basavaraja (Byrathi) had moved a local court earlier this month and got an injunction. “As I understand the law, there’s no cause of action at all,” Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said in the Legislative Assembly. “Their (petition) mentions that there are 19 other (sex) CDs that may be released. On this ground, they say there is the cause of action. It’s an imaginary accusation. Without any evidence or provocation, they got the injunction,” he added.  “When they took oath as ministers, they swore to discharge their duties without fear. Why are they afraid if they haven’t done anything wrong? Why did they approach court seeking protection? How will they protect their constituents and people of the state if they themselves feel insecure?” he said, adding that the injunction was akin to anticipatory bail.  The Congress’ point of contention was that the ministers had not approached the police with a complaint. “If they are wary of a conspiracy, why haven’t they lodged a complaint against the conspiracy itself?” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar asked.  Sudhakar hit back at the Congress saying, "We went to court saying unverified news about us shouldn’t be published or telecast,” he said, adding that they were not against the media. “Even Supreme Court judge Swatanter Kumar and Congress MP Naveen Jindal got gag orders," he added. “We had credible information that we 17 MLAs, who brought down the previous Congress-JD(S) coalition, should be careful as a conspiracy was being planned,” he said. “There’s something called Deep Fake technology with which an image can be used to create a video,” he added.  Hebbar pointed out that in the case of former minister H Y Meti, the inquiry concluded that the CD was fake. “But what was the reparation for the damage that was caused? We’ve done what we had to do to protect ourselves.” Former speaker K R Ramesh Kumar took a dig at the ministers. “Have you not landed yourselves in a miserable condition? Whoever advised you must be an utter fool or someone masquerading as a well-wisher out to finish you,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-scandal-injunction-ministers-cross-swords-with-congress-965146.html
22-03-2021||Main Article||Women in politics: A long way to go||Women constitute almost half of the world population. Globally, they constitute 49.6 per cent of the total population as against 50.6 per cent of men. Around 100 countries have the system of allocating seats/berths in the political system to ensure adequate representation of women in leadership roles. As per Census 2011, India’s population constituted 48.5 per cent of women and 51.5 per cent of men.  In India, historically women are not given primacy in the decision-making process; they face institutional, systemic exclusion in the decision-making process. Political under-representation is one of the important factors for the poor developmental outcomes of women. Set in this context, here an effort has been made to analyse the extent of political inclusiveness of women in governance with reference to the political representation in the three tiers of governance. As per the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) report “Women in Politics, 2021”, women constitute 25.5 per cent of Parliament seats across the world. In comparison to Asia (20.4) and the World (25.5), the South Asian region lags behind in representation for women in Parliament with 15 per cent.  In India, the average percentage of women in Parliament (both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha) is 12.8 which is less than that of the South Asia region, Asia and the World. India stands at 148th position out of 188 countries with 12.8 per cent women represented in Parliament. South Sudan (20.25), Pakistan (19.7) and Bangladesh (20.9) have better representation of women in parliament than in India.  The interesting point about the women’s election to Parliament in India is the gradual increase in the percentage of women getting elected. Also, the data pertaining to the female voter turnout in the general elections shows an increasing trend especially from the 10th Lok Sabha onwards. In the Lok Sabha elections of 2019, the percentage of women elected was 14.4 with 78 getting elected. Out of this 78, 45 were elected to Parliament for the first time. As on January 2021, the number of women in the Upper House (Rajya Sabha) was 27 constituting 11.2 per cent of the total members of 241. In terms of the percentage of women in the ministerial positions, India ranks at 160th position among the 182 countries. In 2019, India had just six women ministers at the Centre with three of them in the Union Cabinet. Since 1952, the number of women contesting the elections to the Lok Sabha is gradually increasing. However, the same is not reflected in the percentage of winning candidates. The representation of women in the state Assemblies is lesser than the Parliament with 11.23 per cent of the women being members of the legislative Assemblies in the states. Available data shows that only 5 per cent of women are members of the legislative councils. The 73rd and 74th Constitutional Amendment Act in 1992-93 has expanded the federal polity and space for the participation of women in the local decision-making process. In 2018, women occupied 44.37 per cent of the positions in the three-tier panchayats. In contrast to the meagre representation of women in Parliament and Assembly seats, the profile of women elected members in local governments gives a ray of hope.  The one-third reservation for women in panchayats and municipalities has transformed the gender composition of local governance. A Government of India Committee (2013) saw this as a powerful human resource of the young leadership of women to drive inclusive rural governance and outreach and access to development programmes with the desired focus on gender and social justice. Democratic governance  Political representation is only the first step in ensuring genuine participation in democratic governance and equality. However, there is no direct correlation between representation and participation in the conduct of administration and development. Representation gives an opportunity to raise the voices for different sections of the society. This is more important to a socially diverse country like India where the political institutions are elitist in nature and tend to exclude the voices of minority communities.  The biggest Constitutional omission is not making provisions for the women’s reservation in the Legislative Assembly and Parliament. Political empowerment of women is an instrument to bring social justice by making them partners in the decision-making process and development.  Better governance outcomes: The question to be asked is how far the women elected representatives have exercised their authority and power in political offices in an effective way. Women MPs (78 per cent) slightly lag behind the male MPs (85 per cent) in terms of attendance. Chanda Jain (2015) finds that female parliamentarians utilised 36.9 per cent of the funds allocated to them through the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme in 2014-15 as compared to 34.3 per cent utilisation by male MPs.  Various studies have highlighted that the level of socio-economic development in the women-led panchayats is relatively better than the ones governed by their male counterparts. In a significant finding, a United Nations University-World Institute for Development Economics Research study (2018) found that women legislators can increase the economic growth in the constituencies by 1.8 percentage points per year than the male legislators. The foregoing analysis and evidence show the urgent need for the immediate enactment of reservation of seats for women in the legislative organs which can go a long way in improving the gendered governance. An increase in the participation of women in politics affects positively in terms of prioritising girls and women’s issues in policy-making and implementation.  India has to learn from countries such as Rwanda, Bolivia and Cuba in which more than half of parliamentarians are women. All the national and regional parties should pass resolutions for ensuring 50 per cent of the seats reserved for women candidates in Parliament and in the state Assembly. The more we delay, the more time we take to achieve equitable development outcomes. Let the world know the capacities of women’s leadership, especially the women from SC/ST and OBCs to flourish in the state Assemblies and national parliaments. (The writer is PhD Fellow, Centre for Political Institutions, Governance and Development of Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/women-in-politics-a-long-way-to-go-964810.html
22-03-2021||Main Article||When the police plant bombs||The old adage says that when thieves fall out, honest men come by their own. In Mumbai, there is nothing honest in the air as yet with allegations, wild and otherwise, flying thick in the wake of the scare caused by the discovery of dynamite sticks near the skyscraper home of Mukesh Ambani. The dramatic disclosures in the case should put all of India on notice, and bring to attention the huge risks when police forces that must control crime and maintain law and order are allowed to run amok and use unconventional and illegal means to deliver what the law requires them to do by the rule book. What we see today is at least in part the continued fallout from the time Mumbai police went on a trigger-happy spree of “encounter” killings that led to the force becoming split between two gangs. This was an arrangement under which gangs were being ostensibly eliminated but what it delivered was something very different as gangsters outsourced the killing of their rivals to the police. Soon, the gangs outside were mirrored with gangs inside the force, each police “encounter” team known for its loyalties, information sources and the price at which rivals could be bumped off. This writer is personally witness to how these “encounter” specialists have gone about their work, almost all of it illegal, almost a private den that is sometimes dirtier than the code with which gangs may operate. More than two decades ago, one of these “specialists” in a private conversation revealed that he had the power to listen in to any mobile conversation without due process, kept a set of guns in his locker in the office which he displayed and made no bones about admitting that he was not clean and that his team was known for being the one that made money – which was a cause of jealousy among many others!    It is not a coincidence that the man accused of having had a hand in planting the explosives near Ambani’s home is an old timer from those days of disgrace and shame for the Mumbai police. He is himself a disgraced, low-ranking police officer. Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Waze was once in the ‘A’ team of the man who now headed the force, Commissioner of Police Parambir Singh. This was in the 1990s, when Singh was Deputy Commissioner, and Waze his team’s “encounter specialist.” Singh has since been shunted out, but he has hit back saying that the state Home Minister, Anil Deshmukh of the NCP, had asked Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from liquor bars and assorted other businesses in Mumbai. Singh, of course, cries foul now but was silent all along, which in itself raises its own questions, given that there is political rivalry also at play between the BJP-led Centre and the Shiv Sena. Singh’s “revelations” have therefore taken on a colour of someone speaking out against one party to stand for or seek cover from another. Waze has been arrested by the NIA, a little over one year after he was reinstated in service in a rather odd move, after being suspended and then resigning from the police force back in 2007. And who reinstated him? Singh headed the committee that did the deed, though Waze was being prosecuted for the custodial death of Khwaja Yunus, a 27-year-old computer engineer, a case still pending in the courts. The reason cited for the urgent reinstatement was the need to hire more police staff in times of a pandemic! From the top to the bottom, the rot runs deep and won’t be easy to clean since it is now so much a part of the system that it has created its own efficiencies, paybacks and a way of working that keeps the machinery moving. Singh and Waze have another death to explain now -- one of the cars used in the Ambani case was allegedly being regularly parked at the Police Commissioner’s office; the precise car carrying the dynamite belonged to a little-known businessman who has since died in mysterious circumstances. The truth will for long remain concealed behind allegations, innuendo and surmises. Whatever the picture may be, there is no doubt that Mumbai Police will not command respect. It may well embolden other members of the force to test boundaries and further lower standards. Controlling this slide will require a huge effort. But what looks like a problem of the police in Mumbai is a problem that we see across the nation, where encounters have become the preferred way to eliminate gangsters, cut short the legal process of prosecution and take cover under the plea that the people of India support the killing of gangsters. What this simplistic analysis refuses to see or learn is that due process is not a hurdle to be crossed but the only way in which the forces can be kept honest, the rule of law maintained. Any approach that shortchanges due process is an invitation to disaster, as we see happening in Mumbai. Mumbai, and the nation, needs to put a stop to short-termism when it comes to daily policing. There is only one way to control crime, maintain law and order, and build confidence among citizens. It’s the old-fashioned way of getting this right. It takes time, effort, skill and involves support for the men who live up to the pledge of the uniform. It demands exemplary punishment for those who break the rules. This is called due process, in letter and in spirit, and is the only way. Whenever it is violated, we will get the murkiness that shames Mumbai Police today. Whenever it is followed, we will get a force that makes the city proud of its work and commitment. (The writer is a journalist and a faculty member at Bhavan’s SPJIMR. Views are personal) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/when-the-police-plant-bombs-965181.html
22-03-2021||National||Be careful while raising issues, don't give BJP chance to polarise society: Khurshid to minorities||Senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said minority communities should be careful while raising issues and not give the BJP an opportunity to polarise the society. He also said that members of the Muslim community should try to connect with every section of the society. "We should be careful and watchful while raising our issues so that the BJP doesn't get a chance to polarise the society. We should also not be fearful in raising our issues. The Congress has always worked for the unity of the country but democracy today is under threat," Khurshid said. He was speaking at a felicitation programme of newly-elected Muslim councillors of the Congress in local bodies. "We are fortunate that non-Muslims have always been raising our concerns and fighting for our cause," the senior Congress leader said while talking to reporters after the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/be-careful-while-raising-issues-dont-give-bjp-chance-to-polarise-society-khurshid-to-minorities-964829.html
22-03-2021||National||India battles second Covid-19 wave, vaccine scepticism||India is racing to contain a second wave of the coronavirus, but its vaccination campaign is running into doubters like Akbar Mohamed Patel. A resident of Mumbai’s densely populated slum area of Dharavi, Patel survived a severe bout of the coronavirus in May. The first wave prompted Mumbai officials to seal off his housing complex, confining thousands of people for nearly two months. Still, the current campaign has been marred by a slow initial government rollout as well as skepticism and apathy from people like Patel and his neighbors. “On social media we come to know this is all a big game to make money,” Patel said. Of the vaccine, he said, “many things have been hidden.” The coronavirus, once seemingly in retreat, is again rippling across India. Confirmed infections have risen to about 31,600 daily from a low of about 9,800 in February. In a recent two-week period, deaths shot up 82%. The outbreak is centered on the state of Maharashtra, home to Mumbai, the country’s financial hub. Entire districts of the state have gone back into lockdown. Scientists are investigating whether a new strain found there is more virulent, like variants found in Britain, South Africa and Brazil. Officials are under pressure from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to aggressively ramp up testing and vaccination, especially in Mumbai, to avoid disruptions like last year’s dramatic nationwide lockdown and resulting economic recession. “I am very categorical that we should stop it, contain it, just here,” said Dr. Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at a private hospital in Mumbai and a member of the Maharashtra Covid-19 task force. India’s vaccination campaign could have global consequences. Last week, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said that an expected drop in Britain’s Covid-19 vaccine supplies stemmed from a nearly monthlong delay in delivery of 5 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine being manufactured in India. The reasons for the delay are not clear, but the manufacturer, Serum Institute of India, has said shipments will depend in part on domestic Indian needs. India is a crucial link in the vaccination supply chain. Amid hoarding by the United States and other wealthy countries, India has given away or sold tens of millions of doses to other countries, even as it struggles to vaccinate its own people. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, the foreign minister, has said that the availability of vaccines in India will determine how many doses go overseas. While vaccinations were initially available only in public hospitals, India is now giving jabs in private clinics and enormous makeshift vaccination centers, and it is considering making them available in pharmacies, too. Vaccination hours have been extended, and those eligible can register in person and receive a shot the same day, bypassing an online scheduling system. The Indian government is playing catch-up. Since it launched a nationwide vaccination drive two months ago, uptake has been disappointing. Less than 3% of the population has received a jab, including about half of health care workers. At the current rate, it will take India about a decade to vaccinate 70% of its people, according to one estimate. By comparison, roughly one-quarter of the population of the United States has had at least one jab. Not everybody in India has the internet access needed to register for a shot online. But the campaign has also been plagued by public skepticism. The government approved a domestically developed vaccine, called Covaxin, before its safety and efficacy trials were even over, though preliminary findings since then have suggested it works. The other jab available in India is the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, which was suspended in some countries after a number of patients reported blood clots and strokes, though scientists have not found a link between the shots and the afflictions. Some of the tepid response may come down to apathy. A nationwide study released in February found that 1 in 5 Indian people were likely to have already had Covid-19. Surveys in cities show even higher prevalence rates. The disease is just one among many that people in India worry about, joining tuberculosis, dengue fever and bird flu. Many people are struggling to recover from the huge financial hit of India’s lockdown last year and cannot afford to take time off work to stand in line for a shot. “These are hand-to-mouth people. Bread, butter depends on their daily work. They can’t sit back and relax and wait for the wave to go,” said Kiran Dighavkar, assistant commissioner of the Mumbai ward that includes Dharavi. “They can’t afford quarantine, so the only option is to vaccinate these people as early as possible.” Health experts are prodding Modi to do more, including making the vaccine available to more people. Older adults, health care and front-line workers, and some people with medical conditions are currently eligible for shots. “I would try to put the injection in the arm of every Indian that is 18 years and above, and I would do it now,” said Dr. N.K. Ganguly, president of a medical research institute in New Delhi. Persuading the 800,000 residents of Dharavi, Asia’s largest slum, to get vaccinated is seen as critical. Residents travel for work to every corner of the city of 20 million. Officials are reintroducing what earlier in the pandemic they called the Dharavi model: If the disease can be contained there, transmission can be curbed citywide and even further afield. It will not be easy, even though just 3 miles away, a jumbo vaccination center is administering about 15,000 shots a day, free of charge. Day and night, Dharavi is teeming with life. People overflow from thin, corrugated metal houses, stacked on top of each other like matchboxes, onto crowded, mostly unpaved lanes strung with loose electrical wire. Animals skitter between parked motorcycles and piles of debris. Shops, tanneries and factories are squeezed next to houses of worship and community toilets. “We have been OK all this while,” Abdul Razad Rakim, a 61-year-old diabetic, said from a foldout chair in front of the tiny apartment he shares with his wife, Shamim. “Why do we have to go?” A short walk away, Janabai Shinde, a former janitor for the city health department, was squatting on her front step, rising every few minutes to spit red tobacco juice into a drain. “I take walks in this lane. I sit here for fresh air. I have not stepped out much since the lockdown,” Shinde said. Her son, who works for the city, has already registered her for a turn at a vaccination center. She said she hoped her neighbors would join her. “It’s for our good,” she said. The Mumbai government has enlisted aid groups to set up help desks in Dharavi, where residents can ask questions and complete online registration to make an appointment for a free shot. Plans are underway to set up a vaccination center within the confines of the slum and to reopen an institutional quarantine center with thousands of beds, according to Dighavkar, the assistant commissioner. Last week, as Maharashtra recorded its highest new case numbers since September, the chief executive of a disaster relief group delivered a pep talk at Gold Filled Heights, an apartment complex largely occupied by members of the Jain religious group, who run many of the jewelry businesses in Dharavi. “We can’t let the virus spread again,” said the chief executive, Shantilal Muttha. “If it spreads in Dharavi, it becomes a threat for the entire Mumbai and Maharashtra.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-battles-second-covid-19-wave-vaccine-scepticism-964841.html
22-03-2021||National||S African sale of unused Indian AstraZeneca vaccines finalised, says health minister||South African Health Minister Zweli Mkhize has confirmed that the sale of one million doses of the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine received from the Serum Institute of India last month has been concluded. The vaccines were sold to 14 African countries after South Africa suspended its planned usage to vaccinate healthcare workers when it was found to have limited efficacy against a new variant of the virus that became dominant in the country during a second wave of the pandemic towards the end of last year. Instead, South Africa opted to use alternative vaccines to provide some level of immunity to thousands of healthcare workers, but concerns have been expressed over the slow rate of a planned three-phase vaccination programme amid delays in the delivery of vaccines. "In the past weeks, the department has had to ensure that all member states identified by the African Union (AU) vaccine acquisition team as recipients of the vaccines are compliant and have obtained all regulatory approvals, permits and licenses to roll out the vaccines in their respective countries," Mkhize said in a statement released on Sunday. Mkhize confirmed that the full purchase amount was received by the Department of Health on Monday last week. However, he did not disclose the amount. "The AU and South African teams then ensured that all logistical arrangements are in place for the shipment of vaccines," the minister said. The AU had found that the benefits of using the AstraZeneca vaccine, which has been suspended in a number of countries over safety fears, far outweighed the risks. The suspension came after reports of the vaccine causing blood clots in a few cases. The first batch of vaccines was shipped to nine member states of the AU on Sunday, while the remaining will be collected by five other countries later this week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/s-african-sale-of-unused-indian-astrazeneca-vaccines-finalised-says-health-minister-964858.html
22-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Are Indians masking their happiness?||India has been ranked 139 out of 149 countries in the list of UN World Happiness Report 2021 which is topped by Finland. In 2019, India was ranked 140th.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-are-indians-masking-their-happiness-964895.html
22-03-2021||National||The Lead: All about Assam elections||In this episode of the Lead, get to know who are the personalities of the Assam polls, how the alliances stack up, what is at stake for whom and more.  Assam has 126 constituencies among them 102 general, 8 SC and 16 ST.  2016 election saw 84.49 % voting percentage with the 1,064 candidates in the fray and the BJP led alliance forming the government with Sarbanand Sonowal swearing-in as the chief minister. The state is defined by the politics of identity whose quintessential example was the anti-foreigners agitation in the 80s. Ahmed: Today, we are joined by our correspondent from Guwhati Sumir Karmakar to tell about the state and what's happening this year. Hi, Sumir. Welcome to DH Radio.Sumir Karmakar: Hi.Ahmed: Let go to the first segment of the programme.Parties:Ahmed: How are the alliances stacked up in Assam?Sumir: This time election in Assam is not a fight of all the parties. It's not a straight fight between the parties. This time, the election is going to be among three alliances... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-all-about-assam-elections-964900.html
22-03-2021||National||Daily spike at 4-month high with nearly 47,000 new Covid-19 cases; 212 deaths in 24 hours||India reported the sharpest increase in Covid-19 cases this year as the country marked the first anniversary of the precursor to nation-wide lockdown to fight the pandemic with 46,951 new patients and 212 deaths in a single day. Maharashtra was seen to be driving the fresh surge as it reported 30,535 fresh cases, accounting for more than 65% of the 46,951 cases reported on Monday. Eight states, including Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat, Karnataka and Haryana, are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the health ministry said. The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 130 days with November 12 last year having registered 47,905 new cases of the infectious disease. India’s cumulative recoveries stand at 1,11,51,468 as of Monday with the national recovery rate at 95.75%. As many as 21,180 patients recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours ending 8:00 a.m. on Monday. On the vaccination front, health workers had administered more than 4.72 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines. These include 78,30,626 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 49,30,888 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 81,72,121 front line workers (FLWs) who have got the first dose, 27,93,013 FLWs (second dose), 1,94,07,739 beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 4072747 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific co-morbidities. On the 66th day of the vaccination drive on Monday, a total of 19,65,635 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm. Out of which 17,55,110 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 2,10,525 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. It was on March 22 last year that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had appealed to thecitizens to observe a ‘Janata Curfew’ before announcing a nation-wide lockdown on March 25 which continued till May 31. The government eased the lockdown gradually from June onwards with the health ministry issuing standard operating procedures for opening up religious places, shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and offices and most recently, educational institutions, to prevent the spread of the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/daily-spike-at-4-month-high-with-nearly-47000-new-covid-19-cases-212-deaths-in-24-hours-964919.html
22-03-2021||National||Second coronavirus surge grips India on first anniversary of lockdown||India reported its most Covid-19 cases and deaths in months on Monday, on the first anniversary of the start of a chaotic nationwide lockdown that left many people jobless and shrank the economy. Authorities reintroduced some curbs to slow the spread of the virus, especially in Maharashtra, which accounted for nearly two-thirds of the 46,951 new infections and the majority of the 212 deaths. Some hospitals in the country's worst-affected state have begun to run short of beds. With the biggest rise in cases since early November, India's total has surpassed 11.65 million, the highest in the world after the United States and Brazil. The increase in deaths was the largest since early January, and took the total to 159,967. In some parts of India, most people still go out without masks and flout advice on social distancing, including politicians campaigning in four states where elections will begin later this month. The health ministry has also warned that a huge gathering of devotees for a Hindu festival could lead to a spike in cases as people from all over the country flock to the banks of the Ganges river in the holy northern town of Haridwar. Local authorities have said they expect 150 million visitors at the weeks-long Mahakumbh that began this month and peaks in April. The festival is held only once every 12 years, and many Hindus believe bathing in the river during this period absolves people of sins. The surge in cases has also brought into focus India's low rate of immunisation relative to population, despite being the world's biggest maker of vaccines. Vaccine Exports India has administered more than 44 million doses since starting its vaccination campaign in mid-January, but wants to cover 300 million - a fifth of its 1.35 billion population - by August. India has donated or sold more than 60 million vaccine doses to 76 countries, saying some shipments are necessary to meet contractual obligations. As vaccine demand rises at home, top vaccine manufacturer the Serum Institute of India (SII) has delayed further shipments of the AstraZeneca shot to the United Kingdom, Brazil, Saudi Arabia and Morocco. Gripped by a second wave of infections, some states are seeking to accelerate the vaccination drive to include younger people. Maharashtra, India's richest state, has offered to make doses itself to ease the supply pressure on SII and vaccine developer Bharat Biotech, whose COVAXIN shot is also being used in the country's inoculation programme. The state reported 30,535 new coronavirus infections in the past 24 hours, forcing local authorities to reopen some quarantine centres. The centres had been closed after the national daily caseload began to decline after peaking at nearly 100,000 cases a day in September. Maharashtra, home to India's financial capital Mumbai, has been accounting for more than half of the country's total cases after the full reopening of its economy unleashed a second wave of infections late last month. Nearly a dozen other states, including Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, home to the tech hub of Bengaluru, have also seen a spike in cases in the past few weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-coronavirus-surge-grips-india-on-first-anniversary-of-lockdown-964925.html
22-03-2021||National||'Kabhie Kabhie,' 'Silsila' writer Sagar Sarhadi passes away||Eminent writer, playwright, director and producer Sagar Sarhadi – who was part of several Bollywood superhits - passed away in Mumbai late on Sunday night. He was 88. A resident of Sion in Mumbai, he was suffering from age-related ailments. “He wasn't keeping well for some time and had even stopped eating. He passed away peacefully," his nephew and filmmaker Ramesh Talwar said. “It is a big loss to the film industry,” said filmmaker Ashoke Pandit, the President of Indian Film & TV Directors' Association. Sarhadi shot to fame with 'Kabhie Kabhie,' a 1976 Indian musical romantic drama film produced and directed by Yash Chopra and written by Pamela Chopra starring an ensemble cast of Amitabh Bachchan, Shashi Kapoor, Raakhee, Waheeda Rehman, Rishi Kapoor and Neetu Singh. Sarhadi wrote the screenplay of the family. With Pamela Chopra, he co-wrote Silsila (1981) starring Shashi Kapoor, Amitabh Bachchan, Jaya Bhaduri and Rekha; He went on to write for films including Noorie (1979); Chandni (1989) starring Rishi Kapoor, Sridevi and Vinod Khanna; Faasle starring Sunil Dutt, Rekha, Farooq Shaikh and Deepti Naval; Rang (1993) starring Kamal Sadanah and Divya Bharti and directed by Talat Jani; Anubhav starring Sanjeev Kumar and Tanuja and directed by Basu Bhattacharya; and Zindagi (1976). “Yes…Sagar Sarhadi is no more,” his friend and film critic Rafique Baghdadi said. “We will miss a wonderful down-to-earth human being,” tweeted peace activist Jatin Desai. Filmmaker, writer Javed Akhtar also condoled his death.   Sagar Sarhadi a veteran theater and film writer who wrote films like Kabhi kabhi , Noori and directed Baazaar has passed away . My heart felt condolences to the late bachelor’s nephew Ramesh Talwar .||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kabhie-kabhie-silsila-writer-sagar-sarhadi-passes-away-964940.html
22-03-2021||National||CPI(M) urges EC to re-work EVMs' sequence of placement of components||The CPI(M) on Monday urged the Election Commission to re-work the sequence of placement of components of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), saying the existing practice of the ballot unit directly sending the vote to the VVPAT without routing it through control unit could lead to manipulation. In a letter to Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury also demanded a 100% matching of VVPAT output with the EVM recorded data for each booth as well as a detailed plan of action and a status report on implementation to eliminate the adverse impact of money power. On the VVPAT issue, he said at present, the exercise of the choice in the ballot unit directly goes to the VVPAT and it is not known whether that is what is being recorded in the Control Unit, which counts the votes of the EVM. Technically speaking, he said, the choice exercised in the ballot unit ought to have been routed through the control unit of the EVM, which would, in turn, be transmitted to the VVPAT to be visible to the voter. "The current sequence of the three units is otherwise. Therefore, there is a strong case for re-working the sequence of placement of these components," he said. In the pre-VVPAT era, Yechury said, the biggest defence of the "sacrosanct" nature of the EVM was on the ground that the chip in the EVM machine was unaware of the names and symbols of the candidates before it was placed for verification. He said the introduction of VVPAT has changed all this and introduces the element of prior knowledge of candidates, their symbols and the order of the names that appear on the Ballot Unit. “In terms of actual operation, other factual evidence has shown that the introduction of the names, symbols and order on the Ballot Unit is interlinked with the operation of the VVPAT with the involvement of private agencies," he said. "Therefore, if the VVPAT is manipulated and is subsequently connected to the Control Unit, it is possible that the manipulation is reflected in recording the vote. We have not received any authentic response from the ECI on this count so far," he added. Yechury said the credibility of the conduct of elections in an electoral democracy is almost exclusively dependent on the implementation and the actions of the regulatory body, which in India's case is the Election Commission. "The credibility of the election process is based on transparency and explanations provided by the ECI being verifiable. However, on both these counts, the response of the ECI, following the 2019 elections has been far less than adequate. We, on behalf of the CPI(M), had written to you on several occasions to elicit these which met with little or no response," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-urges-ec-to-re-work-evms-sequence-of-placement-of-components-964975.html
22-03-2021||National||PM launches 'Catch the Rain' campaign, says MGNREGA funds be spent for rainwater conservation||MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) funds will be spent on rain water conservation till the monsoon arrives, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday. The PM, who launched 'Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Catch the Rain' campaign for conserving water, said it is a matter of concern that the majority of rain water in India gets wasted. He said the more the rain water is conserved, the less will be the dependence on groundwater. The prime minister urged that every penny of MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act) funds be spent on rain water conservation till the monsoon arrives. The PM, who launched the campaign on World Water Day, also urged the public to use water judiciously. The event was also attended by a number of panches and sarpanches from across the country. The 'Catch the Rain' campaign aims to take water conservation at grass-root level through people's participation. The campaign will be undertaken across the country, in both rural and urban areas. It will be implemented from March 22 to November 30 - the pre-monsoon and monsoon period in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-launches-catch-the-rain-campaign-says-mgnrega-funds-be-spent-for-rainwater-conservation-964978.html
22-03-2021||National||India's Virchow Group to make 200 million doses of Russia's Sputnik V||The backer of Russia's Sputnik V coronavirus vaccine said Monday it had signed an agreement with an India-based pharmaceuticals giant for the production of up to 200 million doses of the jab a year. The Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the country's sovereign wealth fund, said in a statement it has partnered with the Virchow Group to produce up to 200 million doses of the two-dose vaccine in India every year. Virchow Biotech, a subsidiary of the Virchow Group, is expected to start full-scale commercial production in the first half of 2021, it said. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the agreement was "an important step to facilitate the full-scale local production" of Sputnik V in India and to supply partners around the world. Last week, the RDIF announced a production agreement for at least 200 million doses of Sputnik with another Indian drugmaker -- Stelis Biopharma. According to RDIF, Russia's vaccine, which is named after the Soviet-era satellite, has been registered in 54 countries. Moscow registered the vaccine in August before large-scale clinical trials, but leading medical journal The Lancet has since said it is safe and over 90 per cent effective. Some Western countries have been wary of Sputnik over concerns the Kremlin is using it as a soft power tool to advance its interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-virchow-group-to-make-200-million-doses-of-russias-sputnik-v-964979.html
22-03-2021||National||Anurag Thakur demands action over allegations against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||Union Minister of State Anurag Thakur on Monday demanded appropriate action by the Maharashtra government over the allegations of corruption by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Speaking during the Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Thakur noted that the allegation that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month, is a “matter of concern”. "The MPs not only from Maharashtra, but from all over India are concerned about the serious allegation of corruption (against Anil Deshmukh ) in Maharashtra... The state government should take appropriate action on the issue," he said. The minister noted that many Members of Parliament (MPs) will raise the matter in Zero Hour. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state unit NCP chief Jayant Patil and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut had separately met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Delhi on Sunday in view of Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. The meetings took place hours after Pawar told reporters that Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will decide the fate of Deshmukh, an NCP leader, amid speculation in state political circles that Maharashtra may soon have a new home minister. Last week, Singh had claimed that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Deshmukh had denied these allegations as baseless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anurag-thakur-demands-action-over-allegations-against-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-964980.html
22-03-2021||National||EC bans bike rallies 27 hours before and on voting day in poll-bound states||The Election Commission on Monday banned bike rallies 72 hours before polling date and on the polling day in all states which will witness Assembly elections and bypolls, amid complaints that "anti-social elements" use motor bikes to intimidate voters. "It had been brought to the notice of the Commission that in some places bikes are used by some anti-social elements to intimidate the voters before the poll day and/or poll day," the EC said in a letter to chief electoral officers of poll-bound West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry. The Commission said it has considered the reports and has decided that "bike rallies shall not be allowed at any place 72 hours before date of poll or on the poll day in all poll-going constituencies". The EC also asked its chief electoral officers to inform all stakeholders concerned, including candidates, political parties and the Commission's observers, to ensure strict compliance of the directions. Elections to the five states will begin on March 27 and the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-bans-bike-rallies-27-hours-before-and-on-voting-day-in-poll-bound-states-964996.html
22-03-2021||National||Bill to increase FDI in insurance sector gets Parliament's nod||The Parliament on Monday passed Insurance (Amendment) Bill, 2021 to increase Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) limit in the insurance sector from 49 per cent to 74 per cent with the Lok Sabha approving the proposed law by a voice vote. The Bill was passed by Rajya Sabha last week. The Bill amends the Insurance Act, 1938. Piloting the Bill, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said that hiking the FDI limit in the insurance sector will help insurers raise additional funds and tide over the financial problems. Currently, the permissible FDI limit in life and general insurance stands at 49 per cent, with ownership and management control with Indians. The minister said that the government will provide funds to public sector insurance companies but the private players will have to raise capital on their own and the Bill provides them headroom to raise capital. Three out of the seven public sector insurers are below solvency margin but since they are in the public sector, the government will infuse capital and their solvency margin will be taken care of, she said. Observing that insurers are facing solvency related issues, she said, "if growth capital is hard to come by, there will be a stressful situation. In order that the stress situation is not left unattended, we need to raise the FDI limit." The Covid-19 pandemic, Sitharaman said, has further added to the woes of the insurance companies. Some of the life insurance companies are under stress and they need the money to come out of that, she added.   She clarified that FDI is the upper limit and there is no compulsion that every foreign company has to increase it to 74 per cent automatically. Insisting that there will not be any job loss due to a hike in FDI in the insurance sector, she said policyholders' fund is going to be invested within India and that will not go out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-increase-fdi-in-insurance-sector-gets-parliaments-nod-964999.html
22-03-2021||National||Delay second dose of Covishield for better protection: Centre||The Centre on Monday asked states and union territories to increase the interval between two doses of Covishield vaccine, citing scientific evidence of enhanced protection if the second dose is administered between six-eight weeks. Earlier, the interval between the two doses of Covishield vaccine was four-six weeks. The government made it clear that there has been no change in the interval between two doses of Covaxin, the indigenously-developed vaccine by National Institute of Virology and Bharat Biotech. The interval between two doses of a specific Covid-19 vaccine i.e. Covishield, has been revisited by National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and subsequently by National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) in its 20th meeting. “During this meeting the recommendation has been revised to provide a second dose of Covishield at 4-8 weeks’ interval after the first dose, instead of earlier practiced interval of 4-6 weeks,” an official statement said. In a letter to the Chief Secretaries of states/UTs, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has accepted the recommendations of NTAGI and NEGVAC. He said the States and UTs have been advised to ensure the administration of second dose of Covishield to beneficiaries within this stipulated time interval of four-eight weeks after first dose. Keeping the existing scientific evidence in view, it appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between six-eight weeks, but not later than stipulated period of eight weeks. The Union Health Secretary has urged the states and UTs to instruct the concerned officials accordingly to undertake necessary steps to widely disseminate the message of revised dosing interval amongst programme managers, vaccinators and recipients of Covishield vaccine and ensure adherence of the revised dosing interval.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delay-second-dose-of-covishield-for-better-protection-centre-965004.html
22-03-2021||National||Political war-of-words erupts in Maharashtra over 'February 15'||A fresh controversy erupted in the now highly-politically sensitive Maharashtra with the BJP and NCP spar over February 15, the date on which Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was discharged from a hospital after being treated for Covid-19. The war-of-words erupted after NCP supremo Sharad Pawar’s press conference in New Delhi. Even while Pawar’s media interaction was underway, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, tweeted a video of Deshmukh’s media interaction and said: “Sharad Pawar ji said, from 15-27 February, Anil Deshmukh was in home quarantine. But actually along with security guards and the media he was seen taking a press conference!” Under fire from the opposition BJP, Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, issued a video statement immediately. “I was treated for Covid-19 in the hospital from 5-15 February….I spoke to the waiting media while I was discharged from hospital. After that I was in home quarantine till 27 February,” said Deshmukh. Thereafter, Fadnavis sent out another tweet: “It seems Sharad Pawar ji is not briefed properly on Param Bir Singh letter. In this letter only, the SMS evidence shows that the meeting date was mentioned as end of February. Now who is diverting the issue?”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/political-war-of-words-erupts-in-maharashtra-over-february-15-965009.html
22-03-2021||National||Param Bir Singh's letter rocks Lok Sabha; BJP demands resignation of MVA govt||The BJP on Monday demanded the resignation of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government headed by Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Parama Bir Singh's claim that the state's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh set a Rs 100-crore collection target for the police every month, and sought a CBI inquiry into the allegation. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha amidst protests by the Shiv Sena and the NCP, BJP member Manoj Kotak said that according to Singh's letter to the chief minister, the state's home minister had asked suspended Assistant Police Inspector (API) Sachin Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore from 1,742 bars and restaurants in the metropolis every month. Kotak said the letter reflected that those who are in the government were using officials in collecting money but the chief minister so far has not uttered a single word on the issue. "It is a serious matter. The home minister should resign, the Maharashtra government should resign and there should be a CBI inquiry into the whole issue," he said. BJP member Rakesh Singh that the issue is so serious that it can't be termed a state subject as it has a national implication. Singh said that the former police commissioner's letter showed that the top functionaries of the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government were involved in collecting huge amounts of money through illegal means. "The allegation against the state home minister was made by none other than the former police commissioner. What was the compulsion of the chief minister to defend an API-rank official, who was in suspension for 16 years, in a press conference," he asked. Singh claimed that a senior politician from the state had changed his stand after telling that it was a serious matter and there should be an inquiry into it. "What is the fear. Is there any fear of spilling the beans about those who get cut. If Rs 100 crore collected from Mumbai alone, what would be the figure for the entire Maharashtra," he asked. He demanded that the MVA government should immediately resign and there should be an impartial inquiry into it. Another BJP member Kapil Patil said that it was not for the first that such a letter has been written by a senior police officer and even a DGP-rank officer had also written a similar letter in the past. "A senior leader had said that it is a serious matter but he changed his tune overnight. What is the fear? Fear of spilling the beans," he asked. However, Shiv Sena member Vinayak Raut strongly defended the MVA government and claimed that the BJP has been hatching a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP dispensation for the last 14 months so that a BJP government can be installed in Mumbai. "The issue is nothing but part of BJP's big conspiracy," he claimed. Raut also accused the former Mumbai police commissioner who wrote the sensational letter as the "most corrupt police officer". The Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police. Days after he was shunted out, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that the state home minister had asked Sachin Vaze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had denied these allegations. The NIA is probing Vaze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25. The SUV was in possession of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was found dead at a creek near Mumbai. The case related to the death of Hiren was also handed over to the NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/param-bir-singhs-letter-rocks-lok-sabha-bjp-demands-resignation-of-mva-govt-965010.html
22-03-2021||National||India, Pakistan set for water-sharing talks on March 23, reflecting easing tensions||India and Pakistan will hold the first meeting in three years of a commission that deals with water rights on the Indus River on Tuesday, the two sides said on Monday, illustrating a broader resumption of diplomatic ties. The Permanent Indus Commission, set up under the Indus Waters Treaty of 1960, is set to meet in New Delhi on March 23 to 24, said two officials that deal in bilateral water issues. Pakistan's foreign ministry spokesman Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri confirmed the talks will take place. He noted that the Commission is supposed to meet at least once a year under the treaty that governs water usage on the Indus and its tributaries that flow through the two countries. At the forthcoming talks, Pakistan will raise its objections on the technical designs of India's Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai hydroelectric plants, he said. The talks represent a thawing in bilateral ties, which have been frozen since a 2019 suicide bombing in Indian Kashmir blamed on Pakistan-based guerrillas and India's decision later that year to strip Kashmir's constitutional autonomy in order to bind it closer to India. But over the past few weeks, the two governments have made tentative efforts to re-engage and calm the borders as they struggle to extricate their countries from the worst economic downturn ever amid the Covid-19 pandemic. The river use talks follow a rare military agreement this month to stop firing on the bitterly contested Kashmir border. One of the Indian officials, who asked to remain unidentified, said the Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai projects, along with others, were in line with the provisions of the treaty. "Pakistan still has concerns. We will discuss to allay those objections, we believe in an amicable resolution," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-set-for-water-sharing-talks-on-march-23-reflecting-easing-tensions-965019.html
22-03-2021||National||SC to take up Karnataka Lokayukta's plea against HC order||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to examine a plea by the Karnataka Lokayukta against the High Court's order which declared that the president and the treasurer of Karnataka State Primary School Teachers Association were not public servants and can't be proceeded for their alleged acts of swindling off funds. A bench of Justices Vineet Saran and Sanjiv Khanna issued notice to the Karnataka government and president of Association V M Narayanswamy and treasurer S T Gangannanavar. The Lokayukta led by advocate Shailesh Madiyal challenged the validity of the High Court's order of March 26, 2020. It contended that both the office-bearers were admittedly public servants as membership of the Association was obviously not open to those who were not an employee of the state government. "The High Court erred in creating an artificial distinction whereby an office bearer of an Association is not government servants for the purpose of Lokayukta Act, though membership of the body was by virtue of being a government employee," it said. The Lokayukta received a complaint from the Dharwad district president of the Association, Shankar Gowda B Patil in 2014 that the two office-bearers collected Rs 210 each from the salary of school teachers for smart cards but they did not follow the tender process for spending Rs 3.78 crore. They were also accused of not maintaining accounts for conferences held at Kudalasangama in 2011 and at Hubballi in 2014. They were also alleged to have started a building society in 2010 and collected crores of rupees for allotment of sites but failed to do so. The charges were issued to the office-bearers in 2018 after an inquiry by the deputy superintendent of police. The anti-corruption watchdog claimed that the High Court proceeded on the basis of technicality and erroneous assumption that the complaint about "serious misconduct" was not made within the limitation period. It also contended that the HC acted prematurely on a writ petition by the office bearers against the proceedings for framing of charge, even though they had to face enquiry with ample opportunity to present their defense.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-take-up-karnataka-lokayuktas-plea-against-hc-order-965021.html
22-03-2021||National||Government introduces National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill in Lok Sabha||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday introduced a Bill in the Lok Sabha to set up a National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) to provide long-term funding for infrastructure projects. Introducing the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development (NaBFID) Bill in the Lok Sabha, Sitharaman said that the Indian corporate bond market was not sufficiently deep and was inadequately mature to meet the country's infrastructure financing requirements. “In view of this, Government's intervention is necessary to facilitate and to enable the flow of low cost, long-term, patient capital (primarily debt) from India or abroad into greenfield infrastructure projects to foster sustainable economic development,” the minister said. She said that the Institution shall be wholly-owned by the Central Government, to begin with in order to foster confidence in its stability and sustainability and to raise resources at competitive rates. “The Government will provide the Institution with grants and contributions, guarantees at concessional rates for foreign borrowings and any other concessions,” the minister said. She said dilution or sale of stake may be considered once the Institution has achieved stability and scale in its business operations but the Government would at all times hold 26% of the paid-up voting equity share capital. The Union Cabinet had given its approval to the bill at a meeting last week. The DFI would seek to raise funds from global pension and insurance sectors for investment in new projects, carrying certain tax benefits. The DFI will start with a clean slate and the board will make a decision on the merger or acquisition of other entities such as the India Infrastructure Finance Company Limited. The institution will have a professional board, led by a person of eminence with enough heft and stature to meet the requirements of the new century. Sitharaman referred to institutions such as the IDBI that were established to fund infrastructure projects but gradually changed their nature of business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-introduces-national-bank-for-financing-infrastructure-and-development-bill-in-lok-sabha-965022.html
22-03-2021||National||Renewable electricity needs to grow 55-fold to achieve zero-emission in India by 2050: Study||Renewables in electricity must increase 55-fold for India to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, according to a report by Council on Energy, Environment and Wate (CEEW).  India will need to generate at least 83 per cent of its electricity from (non-hydro power) renewable energy sources by 2050 to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by mid-century, according to the study. This would mean a massive 55-fold increase in the use of non-hydro renewables in electricity generation within the coming three decades, from only 160 Terawatt-hour (TWh) (10 per cent) in 2019, CEEW said in a statement. Further, to achieve net-zero by 2050 the share of electricity in India's industrial energy use must rise three-fold, from 20.3 per cent in 2018 to 70 per cent in 2050, the study - Peaking and Net-Zero for India's Energy Sector CO2 Emissions: An Analytical Exposition - revealed. The share of electric vehicles in passenger car sales will also have to rise to 76 per cent by 2050 from just 0.1 per cent in 2019, it added. These estimates are based on CEEW's best understanding of progress on mitigation technologies. To meet net-zero, India will need to either eliminate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions or balance these by sequestering GHG emissions. The study is the first exercise to outline multiple pathways for India to attain net-zero emissions, rather than fixating on a single scenario or a single year. It highlighted that India will need to reach peak emissions within this decade if it were to achieve net-zero emissions by mid-century, a pace of transition, unlike anything the world has seen before. This will give India an extremely narrow window to ensure a smooth and equitable transition from a peaking year to a net-zero year. Advanced economies, including China, Japan, the UK, and the US, will have taken at least 30, and at times well over 40 years for this transition. Advanced economies peaked emissions at much higher levels of development, slower rates of growth and would have had longer transition periods, it added.  "...We find that India would need to undergo a double transition, through faster electrification of sectors and an increasing share of renewables in power generation, if it were to announce an ambitious net-zero target," Vaibhav Chaturvedi, Fellow at CEEW, and author of the study said. Policymakers will also need to identify manufacturing sectors where electricity could replace fossil fuels. Reducing the cost of electricity to make it competitive would be equally critical, he added. "Achieving net-zero emissions by 2050 or 2060 would need rapid systemic changes across all sectors and sections of society. This, in turn, would require significant international financial investments and technological transfer from or technology co-development with the developed world," Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, CEEW, said. It will be equally important for India to closely examine trade-offs such as increasing cost of household electricity, increasing railways passenger fares, fiscal challenges for coal-dependent states, job losses for over half a million coal mining workers, and the shifting geopolitics around energy trade and the energy transition before announcing its net-zero targets, Ghosh added. The CEEW study also explained why India's case is different from the net-zero pathways of China, the EU, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. First, the per capita emissions for all other economies in their respective peaking years would be much higher than India's, even if it were to peak in 2050. Secondly, India's real GDP growth rate would be much higher than any other country post their peaking years. This indicates that India would need to put in significantly more effort to peak and subsequently reduce emissions. Thirdly, India will have a much lower per capita income to support the transition, even if it began the post-peak transition in 2050, let alone 2030. The study also found that if India were to peak in 2030 and reach net-zero in 2060 like China, its cumulative carbon emissions in 2021-2100 would be 80 GtCO2. For the same period, China and US' cumulative carbon emissions, even after incorporating their net-zero ambition, would be 349 GtCO2 and 104 GtCO2, respectively. According to the World Bank, India’s per capita carbon dioxide emissions stood at 1.82 tCO2 in 2016, much lower than the global average of 4.55 tCO2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/renewable-electricity-needs-to-grow-55-fold-to-achieve-zero-emission-in-india-by-2050-study-965029.html
22-03-2021||National||Arnab Goswami and ex-BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta exchanged only friendly chats: Bombay HC told||The Whatsapp chat between Republic TV's editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and former BARC CEO Partho Dasgupta were merely chats between two very close friends that had nothing to do with TRP manipulation, Goswami's lawyer told the Bombay High Court on Monday. The submission was made by senior advocate Ashok Mundargi, the counsel for Goswami and ARG Outlier Media, the company that runs all Republic TV channels. Mundargi was responding to the court's query on what was the most clinching evidence cited by the Mumbai police's crime branch in the chargesheet in the TRP scam. "The highest evidence is these chats. However, please go through the entire chats because the police has taken these chats out of context to build its case," Mundargi said. He then read out some of the Whatsapp chats between Goswami and Dasgupta and told the court that the two had merely been discussing some "persons, market trends" etc. "This chat was between two very close friends. There is nothing, not one text, or one message, which shows that TRP manipulation was discussed. They were discussing topics that two friends might ordinarily discuss," Mundargi said. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale then asked if, as CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC), Dasgupta had helped "tweak" the TRPs (Television Rating POints) in favour of Republic TV to help Goswami. Mundargi responded saying while that was the police's case, it had not established the same in the two charge sheets filed in the case. Mundargi was making his submissions on the pleas filed by Goswami and ARG media seeking several reliefs in the TRP scam case. The main concern is that the police had filed two charge sheets but was yet to name Goswami and several other employees of ARG media as accused in the case, he said. The police had merely named them as suspects and was prolonging the probe, resulting in their continued harassment, Mundargi added. He said the court must ask the police not to go on with the probe indefinitely, and that it must grant Goswami and others protection from arrest till the investigating remained pending. The HC, however, said there was no law that empowered a court to direct the investigating agency to complete its probe within a specific time. "Even when the agency is using its investigation as a tool of oppression against someone, to what extent can the court comment? The investigating is the domain of the investigating officer in a case," the HC said. It, however, added that a state or Central probe agency must not harass citizens. The high court also asked what was the point of naming Goswami and others merely as suspects. "If you (police) aren't going to name them as accused then, this divine exercise is a waste of time," the HC said. Last week, during the hearing on the above pleas, the HC had said that despite the two charge sheets, the police had failed to show any incriminating material on record against Goswami. On Monday, it asked if Goswami had been summoned for questioning by the police since the pleas had been filed in the high court, to which Mundargi replied in negative. "150 other employees of ARG have been summoned so far. Five of whom are still named only as suspects," he said. The HC also asked that since the Whatsapp chats claimed to be encrypted and safe, what would the police do if the parties in the case deleted the chats. To this, state's counsel Deepak Thakare said the state Forensic Science Laboratory could retrieve even deleted Whatsapp chats. "Then what was this whole 'halla' (noise) about privacy and end-to-end encryption about Whatsapp messages?" the HC asked. Thakare told the judges that he will make a statement on March 25, the next date of hearing, on the time the police will require to complete its probe. According to police, they possess the evidence to show that Goswami had connived with senior officials of the BARC to rig the TRPs of Republic TV.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arnab-goswami-and-ex-barc-ceo-partho-dasgupta-exchanged-only-friendly-chats-bombay-hc-told-965039.html
22-03-2021||National||Centre's petrol, diesel tax collection surged by 300% in 6 years, Anurag Thakur reveals in Lok Sabha||Central government's tax collections on petrol and diesel have jumped over 300 per cent in the last six years as excise duty on the two fuels was hiked, the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. The central government collected Rs 29,279 crore from excise duty on petrol and Rs 42,881 crore on diesel in 2014-15 -- the first year of office of the Modi government. The collections on petrol and diesel rose to Rs 2.94 lakh crore in the first 10 months of the current fiscal (2020-21), according to information furnished by Minister of State Anurag Singh Thakur in a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha. Together with excise duty on natural gas, the central government in 2014-15 collected Rs 74,158 crore which has gone up to Rs 2.95 lakh crore in April 2020 to January 2021 period. He said taxes collected on petrol, diesel and natural gas as a percentage of total revenue have gone up from 5.4 per cent in 2014-15 to 12.2 per cent this fiscal. Excise duty on petrol has been raised from Rs 9.48 per litre in 2014 to Rs 32.90 a litre now while the same on diesel has gone up from Rs 3.56 a litre to Rs 31.80. Taxes make up for 60 per cent of the present retail price of petrol of Rs 91.17 a litre in Delhi. Excise duty makes up for 36 per cent of the retail price. Over 53 per cent of the retail selling price of Rs 81.47 a litre of diesel in Delhi is made up of taxes. As much as 39 per cent of the retail price comprises of central excise. "The total central excise duty (including basic excise duty, cesses and surcharge) was increased by Rs 3 per litre on petrol and diesel with effect from March 14, 2020. It was further revised upwards by Rs 10 per litre on petrol and Rs 13 per litre on diesel with effect from May 6, 2020," Thakur said. These increases took away the gain that would have accrued to consumers from a sharp drop in international oil prices. The hike in excise duty is similar to the increase in taxes the government did between November 2014 and January 2016. Over nine instalments, duty on petrol rate was hiked by Rs 11.77 per litre and that on diesel by 13.47 a litre in those 15 months. The government had cut excise duty by Rs 2 in October 2017, and by Rs 1.50 a year later. But it raised excise duty by Rs 2 per litre in July 2019. "The excise duty rates have been calibrated to generate resources for infrastructure and other developmental items of expenditure keeping in view the present fiscal position," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-petrol-diesel-tax-collection-surged-by-300-in-6-years-anurag-thakur-reveals-in-lok-sabha-965052.html
22-03-2021||National||Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar arrives in India on three-day visit||Afghan Foreign Minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar arrived here on Monday on a three-day visit against the backdrop of renewed efforts to speed up the peace process in Afghanistan. Atmar is scheduled to hold extensive talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday with a focus on the Afghan peace process and ways to further bolster bilateral cooperation in a range of areas. His visit to India comes days after Russia hosted a conference between the Afghan government and the Taliban in Moscow, and pressed for a ceasefire in the war-ravaged country. "Arrived in beautiful & historic city of Delhi for a 3-day working visit," Atmar said on Twitter. The Afghan foreign minister said he was looking forward to holding talks with Jaishankar and senior Indian officials on the Afghan peace process as well as on security and economic cooperation. There have been renewed international efforts in the last few weeks to speed up the peace process in Afghanistan that was spurred by increasing violence by Taliban in recent months though the outfit is engaged in negotiations with the Afghan government. The Afghan peace process figured among other issues during talks between Jaishankar and US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin on Saturday. Afghanistan's top peace negotiator Abdullah Abdullah had visited here last October and discussed with India's top leadership the initiatives to bring back peace and stability in the war-ravaged country. Last month, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, speaking at a virtual meeting with Afghan President Ashraf Ghani, called for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire to end violence in Afghanistan. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks in Doha to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. India has been keenly following the evolving political situation after the then Trump administration signed a peace deal with the Taliban in February. The deal provided for the withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan, effectively drawing curtains to Washington's 18-year war in the country. India has also been maintaining that care should be taken to ensure that any such process does not lead to any "ungoverned spaces" where terrorists and their proxies can relocate. India has been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future. In November, India announced a new package of over 100 high impact community projects worth USD 80 million for Afghanistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/afghan-foreign-minister-mohammad-haneef-atmar-arrives-in-india-on-three-day-visit-965065.html
22-03-2021||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea for guidelines to protect women in NRI marriages||The Supreme Court on Monday sought the Union government's reply to a plea for laying down guidelines for police, immigration department and Indian embassies around the world for speedy justice for women abandoned by their NRI husband. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice on the PIL by NGO, Pravasi Legal Cell. The plea filed through advocate Jose Abraham raised the challenges faced by women in NRI marriages, where they are abandoned by the husband before being taken to the foreign country of his residence. It claimed in several instances where after a quick engagement, followed by a massive wedding and a huge dowry, the NRI husband flied out of India while the wife waited for her visa. In many other cases, the woman would have already got pregnant when the husband left, as a consequence both -- her and the child (who was born later) -- were abandoned. The plea also raised another issue where women after marriage were taken to the foreign country, and later abandoned there. The top court, which has been examining similar pleas since 2019, put up the matter for consideration in July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-for-guidelines-to-protect-women-in-nri-marriages-965066.html
22-03-2021||National||BJP claims sweeping win in Goa municipal polls||With 85 councillors backed by the BJP winning the 105 municipal council seats up for grabs, our party has swept the polls to six municipal councils and one municipal corporation, state Bharatiya Janata Party president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said on Friday. Tanavade also said that BJP-backed candidates had won the Valpoi, Bicholim, Pernem, Curchorem and Canacona municipal councils and swept the elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji, Goa's only municipal corporation winning 25 out of the 30 seats in the state's largest civic body.  The Congress has claimed victory in the elections to the Cuncolim Municipal Council polls. The one major blip in BJP's success story in the municipal polls, results for which were declared on Monday, occurred in the lone bypoll to the Sanquelim Municipal Council, the legislative turf of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant's Sanquelim constituency, in which the BJP-backed candidate lost to a Congress-back candidate in a narrow contest. "People have given a good mandate to BJP backed candidates. Out of 105 councillors, we have won 85 councillors. We will examine why we lost the Cuncolim municipal polls," Tanavade told reporters. The elections were not held on party lines and mainstream political parties had either backed individual candidates or panels of candidates for the municipal polls. Asked about the loss in the Sanquelim municipal bypoll, Tanavade said: "We lost by 16 votes. In fact, a BJP candidate has never won that particular ward from 1999". Reacting to the poll results, Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat hinted that the BJP had appropriated winning candidates and claimed that the BJP had not performed well at all. "We have managed to win the Cuncolim Municipal Council. In most places, independent candidates had also performed well. I have been saying this. The beginning of the end of the BJP in Goa is near," Kamat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-claims-sweeping-win-in-goa-municipal-polls-965072.html
22-03-2021||National||MoU signed for implementing Ken-Betwa river interlinking scheme||In the first major project under the National River Linking Project (NRLP), an agreement to implement the Ken-Betwa river link project was signed on Monday by the Jal Shakti Ministry and governments of Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The agreement was signed by Jal Shakti Minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The implementation of this project is likely to pave the way to many river-linking projects in the country. The NRLP, formally known as the National Perspective Plan, envisages the transfer of water from 'surplus' basins, where there is flooding to 'deficit' basins through inter-basin water transfer projects. The Ken Betwa Link Project (KBLP) was delayed due to protest from environmentalists and failed to get green clearances. Even Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Monday also expressed fear that the interlinking of Ken and Betwa rivers will destroy the Panna Tiger Reserve in Madhya Pradesh. The CMs of UP and MP will sign a pact today to link the Ken and Betwa rivers. This will all but destroy the Panna Tiger Reserve in MP, a success story in translocation and revival. I had suggested alternatives 10 years ago but alas... However, the Centre has been maintaining that the project would help to address the water scarcity of Bundelkhand region, the most backward region of the country. The river-linking project involved the transfer of water from the Ken to the Betwa river through the construction of Daudhan Dam and a canal linking the two rivers, the Lower Orr project, Kotha Barrage and the Bina Complex Multipurpose Project. The KBLP will provide annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectares, drinking water supply to about 62 lakh people and also generate 103 MW of hydropower Speaking on the occasion, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said the project will give a new direction to the future of Bundelkhand. The project will be of immense benefit to the water-starved region of Bundelkhand, especially to the districts of Panna, Tikamgarh, Chhatarpur, Sagar, Damoh, Datia, Vidisha, Shivpuri and Raisen of Madhya Pradesh and Banda, Mahoba, Jhansi and Lalitpur of Uttar Pradesh, according to a Prime Minister's Office (PMO) statement. The project will provide an annual irrigation of 10.62 lakh hectare (8.11 lakh hectare in Madhya Pradesh and 2.51 lakh hectare in Uttar Pradesh). It will provide drinking water supply to a population of about 62 lakh (41 lakh in Madhya Pradesh and 21 lakh in Uttar Pradesh). The reservoir involves a submergence of 9,000 hectares area, out of which 5,803 hectares comes under Panna Tiger Reserve. The later includes 4,141 hectares of forest area, which is about 7.6 per cent of the total Panna Tiger Reserve area. The National Perspective Plan (NPP) was prepared by the then Ministry of Irrigation (now Ministry of Jal Shakti) in August 1980 for water resources development through the inter-basin transfer of water, for transferring water from water surplus basins to water-deficit basins. Total 30 links (16 under Peninsular Component and 14 under Himalayan Component) Feasibility Reports (FRs) prepared so far under river linking project.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mou-signed-for-implementing-ken-betwa-river-interlinking-scheme-965085.html
22-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Stan Swamy denied bail in Koregaon-Bhima case||In your evening news brief, Stan Swamy denied bail; Param Bir Singh accused of shielding people with underworld links, and AstraZeneca says advanced trial data from a US study on its Covid-19 vaccine shows it is 79% effective.  Here is the top news of March 22, 2021:   A suspended inspector of Mumbai Police has alleged that former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh had tried to shield some people having underworld links from law when he was DG of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The policeman also alleged that Singh's aide had demanded a bribe of Rs 2 crore to reinstate him into the police force.   AstraZeneca says advanced trial data from a US study on its Covid-19 vaccine shows it is 79 per cent effective. The US study comprised 30,000 volunteers, 20,000 of whom were given the vaccine while the rest got dummy shots. The results were announced Monday.   A special NIA court here on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Additional sessions court judge Judge DE Kothalikar rejected bail pleas of 83-year-old Swamy on merits as well as well as on medical grounds. Swamy, a Jesuit priest and activist, was arrested from Ranchi in October, 2020, and has since been lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai   Source: PTI/AP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-stan-swamy-denied-bail-in-koregaon-bhima-case-965088.html
22-03-2021||National||NHAI suffers Rs 814 cr toll revenue loss in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan due to farmers' protest||National Highways Authority of India suffered a toll revenue loss of Rs 814.4 crore till March 16 on account of farmers' protest in three states, Parliament was informed on Monday. Considering the heavy loss, state administrations have been requested to restore the user fee collection, Road, Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. "Loss of revenue due to farmers' protest has primarily occurred in the States of Punjab and Haryana and at a few plazas in Rajasthan," the minister said. The loss at Rs 487 crore was the highest in Punjab, followed by Rs 326 crore in Haryana and Rs 1.40 crore in Rajasthan, he added. "No loss of revenue is reported on account of farmers' protest in other States," the minister said. Listing the steps taken in this regard, Gadkari said the matter is being constantly taken up with district and state administration to restore the user fee collection, considering the heavy loss to the government. "Request has been made to Government of Punjab for urgent intervention for the smooth functioning of fee plazas in Punjab," Gadkari said. NHAI has requested Chief Secretary Rajasthan for issuing necessary directions to the concerned officials for the resumption of user fee collection, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-suffers-rs-814-cr-toll-revenue-loss-in-punjab-haryana-rajasthan-due-to-farmers-protest-965093.html
22-03-2021||National||Average daily FASTag fee collection crosses Rs 100 crore-mark: Nitin Gadkari||The average daily toll collection through FASTag has reached Rs 100 crore daily, Parliament was informed on Monday. The government had made FASTags mandatory from February 15 midnight and any vehicle not fitted with it will be charged double the toll at electronic toll plazas across the country. "As on 16th March 2021, more than 3 crore FASTags have been issued. The average daily fee collection through FASTag is more than Rupees 100 crores from 1st March 2021 to 16th March 2021," Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari told the Rajya Sabha in a written reply. The government has mandated the fitment of FASTag in all M and N categories of motor vehicles with effect from January 1, 2021, through the amendment in Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989, he said. Category 'M' stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying passengers and category ‘N’ stands for a motor vehicle with at least four wheels used for carrying goods, which may also carry persons in addition to goods. To promote fee payment through digital mode, provide for a seamless passage through the fee plazas, increase transparency, reduce waiting time and pollution, the government has declared all lanes of fee plazas on National Highways as 'FASTag lane of the fee plaza', effective midnight of February 15th/16th, 2021, the minister said. The fitment of FASTag is a necessity under Central Motor Vehicles Rules 1989, he said, adding as per National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008, the user of the vehicle not fitted with "FASTag" or vehicle without valid, functional "FASTag" has to pay double the applicable fee upon entering a FASTag lane at the fee plaza. User fee on National Highways is collected as per National Highway Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008. Presently, fee collection is based on an open tolling system, Gadkari said. However, user fee collection based on actual National Highway usage is also being done in certain access-controlled expressways and highways, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/average-daily-fastag-fee-collection-crosses-rs-100-crore-mark-nitin-gadkari-965098.html
22-03-2021||National||Sheikh Mujibur Rahman conferred 2020 Gandhi Peace Prize; Oman's Sheikh Qaboos conferred 2019 prize||The Gandhi Peace Prize for the year 2020 is being conferred on Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the culture ministry said on Monday. The prestigious prize for the year 2019 is being conferred on late Sultan Qaboos bin Said Al Said of Oman in recognition of his vision to strengthen relations with India, and his efforts to promote peace and non-violence in the Gulf region, the ministry said. The Gandhi Peace Prize is an annual award instituted by the government of India in 1995, the 125th birth anniversary commemoration year of Mahatma Gandhi. The award is open to all people regardless of nationality, race, language, caste, creed or sex. The jury for Gandhi Peace Prize is chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and comprises of two ex-officio members, namely the chief justice of India and leader of the single largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. Two eminent members are also part of the jury -- Om Birla, Speaker of the Lok Sabha, and Bindeshwar Pathak, Founder of Sulabh International Social Service Organisation. The jury met on March 19, 2021 and after due deliberations, unanimously decided to select Bangladesh’s father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and Oman’s longtime ruler Sultan Qaboos for the prize, an official statement said. Modi said Bangabandhu was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. He also said that the legacy and inspiration of Bangabandhu has made the heritage of both countries more comprehensive and deep-rooted, and that the path shown by Bangabandhu has laid a strong foundation for the partnership, progress and prosperity of both countries over the last decade. As Bangladesh celebrates Mujib Borsho, India is honoured to be commemorating his legacy jointly with the government of Bangladesh and its people, the statement said. The ministry said, late Sultan Qaboos, the longest-serving leader in the Middle East and Arab world at the time of his death in 2020, received the prize, in "recognition of his outstanding contributions for social, economic and political transformation through non-violent and other Gandhian methods”. The award carries an amount of Rs 1 crore, a citation, plaque and an exquisite traditional handicraft/ handloom item. "His Majesty Sultan Qaboos was a visionary leader whose twin policy of moderation and mediation in addressing international issues won him praise and respect across the globe. He played an important role in supporting peace efforts in various regional disputes and conflicts,” the statement said. “Sultan Qaboos was the architect of the special ties between India and Oman. He had studied in India and always maintained a special relationship with India. Under his leadership, India and Oman became strategic partners and our mutually beneficial, comprehensive partnership strengthened and scaled newer heights," it added. According to the statement, Modi had recalled the contribution of Sultan Qaboos to India-Oman ties when he passed away by saying that he was “a true friend of India and provided strong leadership for developing a strategic partnership between India and Oman”. The prime minister had also remembered him as a “visionary leader and statesman” and “beacon of peace for our region and the world.” "Gandhi Peace Prize recognizes the unparalleled vision and leadership of the late Sultan Qaboos Bin Said in strengthening relations between India and Oman, and his efforts to promote peace and non-violence in the Gulf region," the statement said. Recent awardees of the Gandhi Peace Prize include include Vivekananda Kendra, India (2015); Akshaya Patra Foundation, India and Sulabh International (jointly, for 2016); Ekal Abhiyan Trust, India (2017) and Yohei Sasakawa, Japan (2018).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sheikh-mujibur-rahman-conferred-2020-gandhi-peace-prize-omans-sheikh-qaboos-conferred-2019-prize-965101.html
22-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha passes Marine Aids to Navigation Bill||With technological changes taking place at a fast pace in marine navigation, Lok Sabha on Monday passed a bill to replace an over nine-decade-old law governing lighthouses. The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021, seeks to provide for a fresh framework to establish and manage vessel traffic services, besides changing the use of the term marine aids to navigation. Moving the bill for consideration and passage, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said the government plans to turn old lighthouses into tourist destinations to showcase the country's rich history in navigation. The country has 195 lighthouses, he informed the House. Responding to a discussion on the bill, the minister said ship recycling in the country will be doubled in the near future, and added that it has generated direct and indirect employment opportunities. He also stressed on the need to further develop waterways to increase trade opportunities at a lower cost. The bill also seeks to rename the existing post of Director General of Lighthouse and Lightships to Director General to provide a framework for establishment, operation and management of vessel traffic services. It aims at repealing the colonial Lighthouse Act, 1927, and provides for empowering the Directorate General of Lighthouses and Lightships (DGLL) with additional power and functions. The bill provides for empowering the DGLL with additional power and functions such as vessel traffic service, wreck flagging, training and certification, implementation of other obligations under international conventions where India is a signatory. It comprises a new schedule of offences, along with commensurate penalties for obstructing and damaging the aids to navigation, and non-compliance with directives issued by the central government and other bodies. With the advent of modern technologically improved aids to maritime navigation, the role of authorities regulating and operating maritime navigation has changed drastically, the statement said. The proposed legislation encompasses a major shift from lighthouses to modern aids of navigation||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-passes-marine-aids-to-navigation-bill-965104.html
22-03-2021||National||Wanted drug smuggler Kishan Singh extradited from UK to India||Kishan Singh, accused of operating an international drugs cartel, has been extradited to India to face charges of supplying illegal drugs, official sources said on Monday. The 38-year-old British citizen of Rajasthani origin was handed over by the Metropolitan Police Extradition Unit to officials from India and flew out from Heathrow Airport on an Air India flight and arrived in New Delhi on Sunday evening. Singh is accused of supplying recreational drugs such as mephedrone, also known as White Magic and Meow Meow, and ketamine in India in 2016-17 and was arrested on an extradition warrant in London in August 2018. He had opposed his extradition on human rights grounds and adverse prison conditions at Tihar Jail in Delhi, where he is expected to be lodged, but District Judge John Zani had ruled in favour of his extradition at Westminster Magistrates’ Court in London in May 2019. Following over two years of legal processes, Singh’s case marks the second successful extradition from the UK to India, after alleged cricket match-fixing scandal bookie Sanjeev Chawla was extradited from London in February last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wanted-drug-smuggler-kishan-singh-extradited-from-uk-to-india-965118.html
22-03-2021||National||Around 1.07 lakh posts lying vacant in armed forces: Govt data||Over 1,07,000 positions are lying vacant in the three services with the Army topping the list with around 86,000 vacancies, according to details provided by the government on Monday. In response to a question in Rajya Sabha, Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik listed 79,349 positions of junior commissioned officers and other ranks as lying vacant while the number for officers was 6,975. He mentioned the vacancies under the column "deficiency". In the Indian Navy, the shortage of officers against the sanctioned strength is 1,044 while the number for sailors and other ranks is 12,317, according to data furnished by the minister. In the Indian Air Force, the number of vacant posts of officers is 589 while that of airmen is 7,231, the minister noted. The total vacancies come to 1,07,505 in the three forces out of which 86,324 are in the Army. "The vacancies in the armed forces are as a result of retirements, premature retirements, attrition due to casualties and injuries. However, there is no acute shortage of manpower as recruitment in the armed forces is a continuous process," the minister said. He said that the government has taken various steps like improving promotion prospects to make the career in the armed forces attractive and to fill up vacancies. To a separate question, Naik said that 6,796 women are working in the Army while the number in the IAF excluding those working in medical and dental streams is 1,602. The number of women employees in the Navy is 696, he added. Naik said that the government has sanctioned 1,700 women in the Military Police Corps in a phased manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-107-lakh-posts-lying-vacant-in-armed-forces-govt-data-965126.html
22-03-2021||National||Over 4.72 crore coronavirus vaccine doses administered so far in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 4.72 crore with 19,65,635 doses being given on Monday, the Union Health Ministry said. A total of 4,72,07,134 vaccine doses have been given till 7 pm on Monday, according to a provisional report. These include 78,30,626 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 49,30,888 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 81,72,121 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 27,93,013 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides 1,94,07,739 beneficiaries aged above 60 years and 40,72,747 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 with specific co-morbidities have been administered the first dose. "Total 19,65,635 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Monday, the sixty-sixth day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which, 17,55,110  beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 2,10,525 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine," the ministry said, adding final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The 17,55,110 beneficiaries include 13,07,614 aged above 60 years and 3,34,367 aged 45-60 with co-morbidities. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-472-crore-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-administered-so-far-in-india-965133.html
22-03-2021||National||Goa may make negative Covid-19 certificates mandatory for visitors from Karnataka, Maharashtra||Goa may emulate its neighbours Karnataka and Maharashtra and make it mandatory for air travellers to either carry a Covid-19 negative certificate or get themselves tested at the state's Dabolim airport on arrival, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday. The Health Minister said that his ministry would put the proposal before the Chief Minister for approval soon. "There are several neighbouring states such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka who have made it mandatory for people from Goa flying into those states to carry Covid-19 negative certificates without which they don't allow them entry into the states," Rane said. "We need to make Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for people from other states, which already have such restrictions. The trouble has started in these states. They have put us in trouble. I am personally in favour of testing at the airport and on arrival. The proposal will be put before the Chief Minister for approval," the Health Minister also said. Amid more than 100 daily cases being reported on more than one occasion over the last one week, Rane said that Goa faced a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, especially in view of the sloppy observance of SOPs in public areas, while urging locals as well as tourists alike for following Covid-19 related norms. "As a Health Minister, I feel there should be restrictions on the number of people at restaurants, functions and weddings," Rane said, adding that the Food and Drugs Administration had been directed to take strict action against restaurants and public eateries where Covid-19 SOPs are not followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-may-make-negative-covid-19-certificates-mandatory-for-visitors-from-karnataka-maharashtra-965142.html
22-03-2021||National||Parliament passes Bill to boost private investment in mining, Opposition protests||Parliament on Monday passed the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill which aimed at creating employment opportunities and allow the private sector in mining activities. The Bill was passed by Rajya Sabha through a voice vote amid the opposition's demand that it be sent to a select committee for scrutiny. Lok Sabha passed the bill on March 19. Union Minister for Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said that the bill will not curb the powers of states, as claimed by some opposition parties. He also said that the Bill aims to bring changes in the mining and coal sector and will generate 55 lakh direct and indirect employment. Joshi added that the government wanted to bring private players into this because the country has rich minerals like coal, gold, silver and not being able to bring it out. The government wanted to bring these changes and will redefine exploration, he said. The government is proposing to make National Mineral Exploration Trust (NMET) an autonomous and professional body, which would provide fund for exploration, Joshi added. A total of "334 working merchant mines have expired in 2020 and out of that, 46 mines were working and were dispatching. Now despite all clearance out of that 46, only 28 has been auctioned despite all clearance given by us and in between that there was a shortage of iron ore," he said. It would create a level-playing field and end the system of captive and non-captive mines, which was followed in India only and created a lot of problems. The government is also fixing the mechanism to calculate extra royalty into the schedule of the bill, Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-boost-private-investment-in-mining-opposition-protests-965144.html
22-03-2021||National||Ashoka University to appoint Ombudsperson to encourage free expression||The founders of Ashoka University, which has been at the centre of an academic freedom debate following two high profile resignations, on Monday said they respect the autonomy of the institution and will appoint an Ombudsperson by the month-end to encourage free expression. "Our aim is that through this and already existing processes we will be able to ensure that Ashoka lives up to its vision of being a space for free enquiry, free expression, intellectual honesty, respect for the dignity of all human beings and openness to constructive change," the Board of Trustees said in a statement. They said to maintain separation of academic functioning from founders, it is necessary to establish certain protocols and processes. "Many of these are already in place in bodies like the Academic Council, the Board of Management and so on." "These need to be strengthened and this can only happen through a more intensive consultation within the faculty. If necessary and required, the Founders are open to helping out in the task of strengthening these processes," it said. "Once again, the Founders want to articulate their deep commitment and respect for the autonomy of the University and its academic functioning." "With this in mind the Founders are supportive of the appointment of the Ombudsperson (as had been decided earlier) by 31st May 2021," the statement said. "The Chancellor and Vice Chancellor will propose candidates for this position for approval by the Governing Body." This comes days after political commentator Pratap Bhanu Mehta, who had resigned as vice chancellor of the university two years back, chose to step down as professor, saying that the founders made it "abundantly clear" that his association with the institution was a "political liability". This followed noted economist Arvind Subramanian resigning in solidarity. The Board said liberty, which includes the right to express oneself freely, is integral to life itself. "Ashoka University, fashioned as a liberal arts university, has enshrined the freedom of expression in its very ethos. More formally, the rights and responsibilities of faculty to articulate themselves freely is recorded in chapter/section 8 of the Faculty Handbook and Guidelines," it said. The founders, it said, have never interfered with, nor do they intend to interfere, with the academic functioning of the university. This even though they have devoted resources and energy to establish Ashoka University. "'Academic functioning' in this context includes not only how and what faculty teach, how they assess, how they are recruited and how they secure tenure but also their freedom to write and speak in their chosen fora and on their chosen themes," the statement said. "While the Founders stand apart from the academic functioning of the University, they also see themselves as being responsible for protecting and upholding the vision and the aims of the University they have helped to establish." Stating that students also have valid concerns about their freedom of expression and the need to be heard by various decision-making bodies, the statement said the founders are conscious of this. "All this cannot, of course, be achieved overnight. Ashoka will always be a work in progress. The present moment provides an opportunity to make a fresh start by collectively reaffirming our faith in the vision and ethos of Ashoka. "We seek to work together to make Ashoka not only one of the best universities in the world but also an institution that makes a difference to the world," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ashoka-university-to-appoint-ombudsperson-to-encourage-free-expression-965150.html
22-03-2021||National||Affirmative action cannot be limited to reservation: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Monday said state governments should take more steps to promote education and establish institutes for the upliftment of socially and educationally backward classes. The top court observed that affirmative action cannot be limited to just reservation.  A five-judge Constitution bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan and comprising Justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat made the oral observations while hearing of a batch of petitions against the validity of 2018 Maharashtra law granting reservation to Marathas in education and jobs. "Why not promote education and establish more institutes, eventually things have to beyond reservation. Affirmative action is not just reservation. There has to be something more," the bench said. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, representing the Jharkhand government, said the court should leave it to states and the central government, the query in connection with the affirmative action and the way forward. He said there isn’t any straight formula for implementing reservation uniformly, as it differs from state to state in the country depending on the population. Sibal cited statistics regarding OBCs and SC/STs in government jobs and vacancies. Establishing more institutes involved financial resources of the state. The Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission case) was decided in tumultuous times, as the nation was looking for peace. Sibal said it was a balancing act and not a judicial exercise. The court earlier sought a response from all states whether the 1992 verdict in Indra Sawhney case, capping reservation at 50 per cent, should be examined by a larger bench “in the light of subsequent Constitutional amendments, judgments and changed social dynamics of the society”. Earlier, senior advocate P S Patwalia, representing the Maharashtra government, submitted that issue of Maratha reservation is a “burning issue” and a big social issue in the state. The apex court will continue to hear the arguments in the matter on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/affirmative-action-cannot-be-limited-to-reservation-supreme-court-965157.html
22-03-2021||National||Amendment to Mining Act to help private players: Cong||Opposing the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, Congress Rajya Sabha member Syed Naseer Hussain on Monday said the intention of the NDA government to bring amendment is to help a few private companies. During debate on the Bill in Rajya Sabha, he said he had witnessed havoc created by private mining companies in Bellary district a few years ago, by plundering iron ore worth crores of rupees through illegal mining activities. People of the district have suffered hugely due to pollution and damage caused to the environment, he said. Without naming, Hussain attacked Karnataka BJP leaders during his speech. Due to illegal mining, the then chief minister of Karnataka had to resign and later he went to jail. Several ministers involved in illegal mining activities were also sent to jail, he said. The Karnataka Lokayukta report in 2011 and subsequently the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee report found illegalities worth Rs 1 lakh crore in Bellary district alone. Based on these reports, the Supreme Court had completely halted the iron ore mining in Karnataka, he said. He demanded that the Centre send the amendment bill to the Parliamentary Standing Committee for further discussion, and questioned why the NDA government frequently brought amendments to the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amendment-to-mining-act-to-help-private-players-cong-965203.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly polls: 'Syndicate Raj', BJP's favourite weapon against TMC||'Cut money culture' and 'Syndicate Raj'. You must have repeatedly heard these two words in certain rallies, even if you are following the upcoming West Bengal Assembly election with a sense of lethargy. More specifically, these words have frequently played their parts in the BJP rallies where the party has accused the Mamata Banerjee-helmed government of practising and fostering the 'syndicate raj'. The weapon is so potent that even Narendra Modi has used it aplenty. But what is this 'Syndicate Raj'? The beginning of the 'IT era' in West Bengal led to a sudden boom in the construction sector, along with employment, and the syndicates, allegedly helped by the ministers, flourished rapidly. The 'Syndicates' comprised mostly unemployed local youths who would control the supply of building materials and divide the profit, a process termed by the Opposition as an 'organised illegal extortion racket'. But much to the charging of many, CPI(M) termed it as 'samyabaad' (socialism) at the micro-level. The birth of the 'Syndicate Raj' inevitably led to the rise of a lot of 'promoters' in the construction sector, a term used in Bengal for people who arrange money and supervise the construction works. Predictably, it is the 'promoters' who kept the cash-flow steady at the state's ground level of party politics. The clout of 'Syndicate' developed over the years, leading to the rise in rampant corruption and usage of raw materials of poor quality for the construction works. Corrupt groups forced the builders and consumers to buy from a particular vendor connected to the same groups and political party officials. In 2011, when the 34-year-old Left rule collapsed against Mamata's 'Poriborton' (change) promise, the 'Syndicates' simply switched sides and continued to function in the same manner. According to many, it became more powerful with some of the prominent TMC leaders being heavily involved in the corruption scandals. The 'Syndicates' slowly but steadily even infiltrated the education sector, charging the students money in exchange for seats in colleges. In the 2016 Assembly elections, the syndicate took a direct plunge into politics, propelling TMC to power. It happened again in the 2018 panchayat polls when unbridled violence marred the entire electoral process. When the under-construction Vivekananda Road flyover in Kolkata's Girish Park collapsed in 2016, the reason behind it was said to be the low-quality raw materials supplied by such 'Syndicates'. The tragic incident resulted in the death of 27 people, and 50 more were injured. The absence of major opposition powers and the lack of vehement political protests can be considered as important reasons behind the rise of the 'Syndicate Raj' in Bengal. During the Left regime in Bengal, CPI(M) was the unchallenged ruler with Mamata's TMC struggling to find a foothold in state politics. By the time TMC came to power, CPI(M) and the other Left parties' strength had reduced vastly, with low-level leaders jumping the ship in numbers. It is mainly after the emergence of BJP d as a strong Opposition party in Bengal after its astounding result in the Lok Sabha election 2019 that the political bombardment on the 'syndicates' started. BJP has predictably used it as a tool to attack TMC and Mamata Banerjee. Will it result in the saffron party's victory, or will TMC escape somewhat unscathed? The answer will be revealed on May 2, when countings of the Assembly elections take place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-polls-syndicate-raj-bjps-favourite-weapon-against-tmc-964946.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi hits out at Centre over rising fuel prices||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday lashed out at the BJP-led government at the Centre over rising prices of fuel, alleging it was forcibly taking money from the pocket of people to try and run the government. Interacting with students of St Teresa's College, an autonomous women's college, here, Gandhi blamed the government's mismanagement for the collapse of the economy. Gandhi, who is in the poll-bound southern state of Kerala for campaigning, said, "The problem is going to carry on for sometime because the mismanagement is quite profound and deep." He said putting more money into the people's hands is the only way out of the crisis but the government is not listening instead it is saying "produce more stuff". "What we believe is the way to start the economy is by starting consumption. By giving people money, they start to consume things and buy things," he said in response to a query on the rising prices of fuel despite a fall in the crude oil prices in the international market. "...due to demonetisation, due to GST, the economy was severely damaged. It was already weak. After that, when the Covid-19 pandemic came in, the economy totally collapsed," he said. "The government now does not have money because the economy is not running. They are not able to generate taxes, they are not able to generate money. So, they are now forcibly taking money from your pocket--from petrol and diesel-- to try and run the government," Gandhi said. He said an atmosphere of harmony is essential for the economy to work."You need harmony, peace and quiet and you need a strategy. That's where you are running into a problem," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-hits-out-at-centre-over-rising-fuel-prices-965020.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||BJP making false poll promise of free ration, will not fulfil it: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday accused the BJP of making a false promise to supply free ration ahead of the assembly elections in the state and said the saffron party will "never fulfil this". Addressing a rally here in Bankura district, she described the BJP as a "party of outsiders", and alleged that it is bringing "goondas to create terror" in the state. "The BJP has made a false promise of free supply of ration. It will never fulfil this. "BJP goons will come to your house and seek votes for their party. Be ready with household utensils to chase away such people if they threaten you," the TMC supremo told the rally. Accusing the BJP of issuing diktat to women about what to wear and what to eat, the CM also said, "They will make you think that Narendra Modi is bigger than BR Ambedkar." "Have you seen how a cricket stadium in Gujarat was renamed after Modi? One day, they will change the name of the country. They are selling PSUs to private parties," she said. Alleging that the Congress and the Left Front have a deal with the BJP, Banerjee said, "CPI(M) goons unleashed terror in Kotulpur, Chomkaitala, Jairambati areas when I was in opposition. They had attacked me and are now with the BJP."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-making-false-poll-promise-of-free-ration-will-not-fulfil-it-mamata-banerjee-965033.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||BJP functioning like mafia, running syndicates in Assam: Priyanka Gandhi Vadra||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday alleged the ruling BJP in Assam was functioning like a mafia and running syndicates. Addressing a rally here, the Congress general secretary said, the saffron party in the state has two "factions", both of which have betrayed people. The Congress leader compared Assam's BJP leadership with 'Dritarashtra' and 'Shakuni', characters in the epic Mahabharata, without naming whom she meant. Dhritarashtra was known to be a blind ruler while Shakuni was a political manipulator. "...in the Assam government, there is a Shakuni Mama-like leader and a Dritarashtra. Both of them and the BJP have betrayed the people of Assam." "The 'Dritarashtra' who was at one time called 'Jatiya Nayak' (people's leader) betrayed the six ethnic communities whom he had promised to get included in the Scheduled Tribes list. But did not do so," she said. She alleged that the other leader is like "Shakuni Mama who runs a corrupt government that only cheats people". Continuing her attack on the ruling party, she claimed, "BJP has not been able to decide who will be their chief ministerial candidate. They are not able to respect their own chief minister and spell out the name. If there is no stability and unity in the party, then how will it bring stability to Assam and assure the people to give a stable government?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-functioning-like-mafia-running-syndicates-in-assam-priyanka-gandhi-vadra-965070.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||Lok Sabha passes Bill that seeks to clarify that 'government' in Delhi means 'Lieutenant Governor'||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill that seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", amid strong opposition from Congress and AAP which said that the legislation is "unconstitutional". The Bill was introduced in the Lower House on March 15 and now the Bill will have to be passed in Rajya Sabha. Replying to the debate on the Bill, Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said that the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill has become necessary as there has been ambiguity in certain issues related to the functioning of the Delhi government. Reddy said that it was wrong to say that it was a "political bill", as it is being brought to end ambiguity in governance as Delhi is a Union Territory. He said that it would end "confusion or technicality and enhance the efficiency of the administration" in the national capital. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "passage of GNCTD Amendment Bill in Lok Sabha today is an insult to the people of Delhi. The Bill effectively takes away powers from those who were voted by people and gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated. BJP has cheated the people." Taking part in the debate, Congress MP Manish Tewari said that the bill is "unconstitutional" as it encroached upon the powers of the city government. AAP MP Bhagwant Mann alleged that the Centre is "a specialist in abusing the rights of states" and wants to rule Delhi through the soul of the British-era Viceroy. Opposing the Bill, Mann said, "the Delhi L-G lives in the house the Viceroy used to stay during the British rule. Maybe, the Centre wants to run Delhi through the soul of Viceroy." "If the chief minister of Delhi cannot take any decision, then what's the point of conducting assembly polls...The Centre is a specialist in abusing the rights of states, whether it was in the case of farm laws or in running state governments through governors," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/lok-sabha-passes-bill-that-seeks-to-clarify-that-government-in-delhi-means-lieutenant-governor-965075.html
22-03-2021||National Politics||Param Bir Singh an important weapon for Opposition now: Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Monday said that former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh, whose allegation of corruption against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has triggered a crisis in the Maha Vikas Aghadi government, is the "most important weapon" for the opposition right now. As the demand for Deshmukh's resignation grew louder, Raut said that if the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) feels that there is no evidence against him then what is wrong with it. "If the government is ready to take up the challenge for a probe then what is the problem," he posed. Deshmukh belongs to the NCP. The NCP has strongly backed Deshmukh and ruled out any possibility of his sacking. Raut said that Singh's letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray cannot be proof against Deshmukh. He expressed confidence that the Mahavikas Aghadi government will complete its full term and stressed there was no difference among the alliance partners, the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress. "Param Bir Singh is an important weapon of the opposition now. Until yesterday, the opposition did not have any trust in him. Look at the opposition statements against him on the Sushant Singh Rajput and Kangana Ranaut cases... But he is a trusted officer for the opposition now. "The opposition is trying lodge fireballs at the government... If the opposition wants to fire on the government using Param Bir Singh's shoulders then it will boomerang," he said. When asked about the demand from some quarters to impose President's rule in the state, Raut said, "Instead, the Centre should be dismissed because this is an encroachment on the rights of the state through its agencies." Singh, a senior IPS officer, who was transferred to the low-key Home Guards on March 17 following the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in the case related to the bomb scare near Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia, in a letter to the Maharashtra chief minister said he was made a scapegoat. In the eight-page letter to Chief Minister Thackeray, Singh alleged that Deshmukh used to call police officers to his official residence and give them a "collection target" from bars, restaurants and other establishments. On Monday, he moved to the Supreme Court seeking a CBI probe into his charges. In Lok Sabha, Shiv Sena member Vinayak Raut strongly defended the MVA government and claimed that the BJP has been hatching a conspiracy to defame the Shiv Sena-Congress-NCP dispensation for the last 14 months so that a BJP government can be installed there. "The issue is nothing but a part of BJP's big conspiracy," Vinakay Raut claimed. He also dubbed Singh as the "most corrupt police officer". The Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/param-bir-singh-an-important-weapon-for-opposition-now-sanjay-raut-965120.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Why didn't you produce more children to get extra ration: Uttarakhand CM||Days after drawing flak over his "ripped jeans" comment, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat stoked another controversy on Sunday, saying people should have produced more children to get extra ration during the coronavirus pandemic. In a goof up during his speech at a programme in Nainital's Ramnagar, he apparently confused Britain with the US, saying America ruled over India for over 200 years. Referring to the distribution of foodgrain during the pandemic, the Uttarakhand CM said every affected household was given 5 kg of ration per member. “Those having 10 children got 50 kg while those with 20 got one quintal. People with two children got 10 kg. People built stores and found buyers," Rawat said, adding that he never ate such fine rice. "Who is to blame for this?" the CM asked. “Now you are jealous of it. When there was time, you produced only two. Why didn't you produce 20," Rawat said. In the programme, Rawat also said America enslaved India for 200 years.   America, which enslaved us for 200 years, ruled all over the world...the empire on which the sun never set, is today struggling, Rawat said referring to the pandemic. On the other hand, due to the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India with a population of 130–135 crore people still feels relieved, he said. Reacting to the remarks, Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala taunted the BJP over its selection of Rawat as the Uttarakhand CM. Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Surjewala said he picks such “learned talent”. He also mocked Rawat’s statement that the US ruled over India for 200 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/why-didnt-you-produce-more-children-to-get-extra-ration-uttarakhand-cm-964818.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||4 militants killed in encounter in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian||Four local militants, affiliated with Lashker-e-Toiba (LeT) outfit, were killed in a pre-dawn encounter with security forces in south Kashmir's Shopian district on Monday. One soldier was also injured in the gun battle which erupted after army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation (CASO) in Manihal village of Imamsahib belt in Shopian, 55 kms from here, on specific information about the presence of militants in the area. A police spokesperson said that militants turned down repeated surrender offers by the security forces. As the search party of the security forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter, in which all the four hiding ultras were killed, he said.   The slain militants were identified as - Aamir Shafi, Rayees Bhat, Aaqib Malik and Altaf Ahmad Wani, all locals Last week, three militants, including a top commander, were killed in Rawalpora village of the same districts in a similar operation. The operation continued for three days. Police said among the dead was Vilayat Ahmad Lone alias Sajjad Afghani, a commander of Jaish-e-Mohammad outfit. According to official figures 20 militancy related incidents were reported in Kashmir from January 1 till date in which 18 militants were killed. Last year, 225 militants, including 46 commanders, and 60 security forces personnel, including 16 policemen were killed in over 103 anti-insurgency operations in Jammu and Kashmir while 38 civilians had also lost their lives in militancy-related incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/4-militants-killed-in-encounter-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-964904.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Monday said he has tested positive for Covid-19. The Chief Minister took to Twitter to inform the people about his Covid-19 test report and said he has tested positive for coronavirus but he is alright and has no complications. मैं सभी के कुशल स्वास्थ्य की कामना करता हूं। He has isolated himself and is under the observation of doctors. Rawat also advised the people who had come into contact with him over the past few days to get themselves tested. "My coronavirus test report has come out positive. I am alright and have no complications. I have isolated myself under the watch of doctors. Those who have come into contact with me over the past few days should take precaution and get themselves tested," Rawat said in a tweet in Hindi. Tirath Singh Rawat was sworn in as the Chief Minister of Uttarakhand on March 10 replacing Trivendra Singh Rawat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-cm-tirath-singh-rawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19-964950.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Mayawati attacks Yogi Adityanath government over Hathras gang rape case||BSP chief Mayawati on Monday targeted the Yogi Adityanath government over the Hathras gang rape case, saying new facts emerging in the matter have raised serious questions on the working of the state government Her remarks come in the backdrop of the Allahabad High Court directing the Hathras district judge and CRPF Inspector General, central sector, to inquire whether the prosecution witness and the lawyers of the Dalit girl who was allegedly raped and died due to injuries were threatened before a special judge during the trial on March 5. In a tweet in Hindi, Mayawati said the difficulties faced by the family of the Hathras gangrape victim in getting justice are well known, but the new facts in this regard revealed in the court have once again raise serious questions on working of the state government in ensuring justice to the victim. “The high court taking cognisance of new facts in the Hathras case and ordering an inquiry into threats to witnesses and other issues has put the UP government in the dock and the people have been forced to think as to how victims will get justice,"' she said. "Is the common perception that criminals rule in UP and it is very difficult to get justice wrong," she asked. The 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14. She died on September 29 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment. The victim was cremated in the dead of the night near her home on September 30. Her family alleged they were forced by the local police to hurriedly conduct her last rites. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family". Directing the special judge (SC/ST Act) Hathras to conduct in-camera proceedings of the trial henceforth, the bench had warned that if any person tried to disturb the trial or attempted to threaten the life, liberty and property of the victim's family and the witnesses in any manner, it would take very serious action, including initiating contempt proceedings. The bench was hearing an application moved by the victim's brother who alleged that on March 5 that a mob, which included some lawyers, created a ruckus in the trial court and threatened the lawyer and two witnesses who had come to depose in the court on that date||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-attacks-yogi-adityanath-government-over-hathras-gang-rape-case-964953.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||‘Kingmaker’ to ‘non-entity’: Congress's decline in J&K||Once considered as a ‘kingmaker’ in Jammu and Kashmir, Congress party is on decline in Jammu and Kashmir as internal bickering, corruption and other charges on its leaders have marred the prospects of the grand old national party. In 2002, under the leadership of Ghulam Nabi Azad, Congress managed to win 20 out of 87 seats in J&K Assembly and was successful in forming a coalition government with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which had only won 16 seats. In the 2008 Assembly polls, the Congress again formed an alliance government with the National Conference (NC). In 2014 Assembly elections, though fortunes of the Congress had started to dwindle due to the rise of the BJP, it could still win 12 seats. However, as soon Ghulam Ahmed Mir was appointed as J&K Congress president in J&K in March 2015, the debacle for the party started. To begin with, senior Congress leaders and former ministers Gulchain Singh Charak, Abdu Gani Vakil and Prem Sagar Aziz revolted openly against Mir and they were later expelled from the party. Many Congress stalwarts like former minister, Sham Lal Sharma and Usman Majid openly attacked Mir for allegedly promoting non-political people and his involvement in misappropriation of funds in J&KPCC. Sharma, Usman Majid, another former minister Ajaz Khan his brother and former MLA Mamtaz Khan senior leader Vikram Malhotra, Farooq Andrabi and several others left the Congress during Mir’s tenure. The biggest setback for the Congress and Mir came in 2019 Parliament polls when he lost the election against a political novice of the NC, Hasnain Masoodi from south Kashmir’s Anantnag Lok Sabha seat. In last year’s district development council (DDC) elections, the Congress was relegated as a non-entity as it couldn't ensure a single chairman in the entire J&K. Even Mir’s son lost the DCC seat from his Dooru assembly constituency, which was a hotbed of Congress not long ago. A senior Congress leader wishing anonymity said that from the day one there was strong resentment against Mir elevation as party president. “Mir’s involvement in infamous 2006 sex scam, notwithstanding his acquittal by a court, is one of the main reasons for the workers and leaders not to accept him as their president. Kashmir is a conservative society where people are not ready to accept that the court has acquitted him of the charges,” he reasoned. “From kingmaker, now the Congress has been relegated to number five or six position in J&K. Even parties like Peoples Conference of Sajjad Lone and newly formed Apni Party could manage to have DDC chairmen in two districts each, but Congress couldn’t manage a single district. It clearly shows the strength of the Congress at present,” he rued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kingmaker-to-non-entity-congresss-decline-in-jk-964982.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19: Delhi LG suggests random testing at airport, railway stations||Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday said that random testing at airports and railway stations was needed in the UT especially for passengers coming from states with high coronavirus caseload.The State Disaster Management Authority (SDMA) held a meeting over the rise in Covid-19 cases in Delhi.    "In view of the upcoming festivals, the need for more caution and regulation was stressed upon and random testing at airport and railway stations needed to be done," Baijal said. India reported its most Covid-19 cases and deaths in months on Monday, on the first anniversary of the start of a chaotic nationwide lockdown that left many people jobless and shrank the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-delhi-lg-suggests-random-testing-at-airport-railway-stations-965001.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Arrangements will be made to ensure incident-free Amarnath Yatra: Jammu and Kashmir police chief||Fool-proof security arrangements, including round-the-clock monitoring using CCTV cameras and drones, will be in place for the Amarnath Yatra this year to ensure an incident-free pilgrimage, police said on Monday. Addressing a press conference here, Inspector General (IG), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the security grid will be enhanced with 24-hour patrolling on the yatra routes. "We are fully ready for the summer months. We have devised a plan and checkpoints will be increased, some camps will be shifted, and as we will get additional force after elections (in some states of the country), we will plug all the gaps... Pilgrims will not face any problems," Kumar said. The 56-day yatra to the 3,880-metre-high cave shrine of Amarnath in the South Kashmir Himalayas is scheduled to start from the twin routes of Pahalgam and Baltal on June 28 and culminate on August 22. "Our officers go on the ground to physically check for chances of security lapses and to see whether additional forces are required or where drones can be used and equipment be placed and also for the placement of 24-hour nakas. We are fully alert, and there will be fool-proof security arrangements," Kumar added. On the threat of sticky bombs and IEDs, the IG said yatra routes would be fully sanitised, and there would be 24-hour patrolling and nakas. "This time the (yatra) routes will not be left unsecured even during the night. There will be deployment, mobile bunker vehicle patrolling and NVD (night vision devices), and drones will also be used 24 hours," he said. Describing sticky bombs as a problem but "not a big worry", Kumar said security vehicles will be fitted with 360-degree cameras and distance will be maintained with civilian vehicles. "I am sure the public will support us fully. There will be a time factor also – a time frame for the yatra vehicles. They will not be allowed in a mix-way," he said, adding the yatra will be monitored through CCTV cameras and drones round-the-clock. Asked if there are any specific inputs about militant attacks on the yatra or the security forces during the pilgrimage, the IG said that expecting the militants not to attack was not right. "Pakistan would always want to continue infiltration, there is no doubt about that. If not through the Line of Control, then through the International Border or Nepal. But, we are fully alert," he said. "As far as attacks on nakas are concerned, there are still about 200 terrorists in Kashmir and expecting that there will not be any action by them is not right. They will try and most of them we will stop through preventive intelligence, but when there is an attempt, we will neutralise that," Kumar said. The IG said the Army, CRPF and the police are all on alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arrangements-will-be-made-to-ensure-incident-free-amarnath-yatra-jammu-and-kashmir-police-chief-965002.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi lowers legal age of drinking to 21 from 25; no new liquor shops in the capital||Accepting demands from various quarters, the Delhi government on Monday announced that the minimum age for consumption of liquor in Delhi has been reduced to 21 years from 25 years. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia also announced that no new liquor shops will be opened in Delhi and the government will not run any vend from now on, saying that it is not the job of the government to sell liquor. However, the decision attracted criticism from Congress, which said that the decision to lower the drinking age from 25 to 21 and to privatise all liquor vends will lead to Delhi earning the sobriquet of 'Nashe Ki Rajdhani' (Capital of Intoxication). Soon after Sisodia's announcement, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted, "excise reforms announced today will act as a major blow to the liquor mafia in Delhi. The mafia will do everything to obstruct these reforms. AAP govt has ended mafia raj in many sectors like education, water, elect, health etc. We are committed to reforming this sector too." Announcing the new policy, Sisodia said that the new excise policy was approved by the Delhi Cabinet today on basis of the recommendations of the Group of Ministers. After 2016, he said, the Delhi government has not allowed any new liquor shop in Delhi. "There are around more than 60% of liquor shops that come under the state government. We have also noted that 40% of private liquor shops give more revenue than state government-owned shops. So we have decided that the government will get out of the liquor retail business," he said. At present, he said, 60% of liquor shops in Delhi are run by the government. He also said the government will ensure equitable distribution of liquor shops so that liquor mafia are thrown out of the trade. Revenue growth of 20% per cent is estimated after the reforms in the excise department, Sisodia added. On reducing the age limit, he said it will help stop harassment of people and establishments. "Consumption age will be the same as majority states at 21 like Noida of Uttar Pradesh. New rules to be introduced to make sure that people who are under the age of 21 cannot get access to the establishment that serves liquor without supervision," he said. The age of consuming alcohol is 21 years in UP, MP, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, Assam, Orissa and Tamil Nadu while in Goa and Andhra Pradesh it is 18. He said there are some areas of Delhi where liquor is overserved and there are some areas of Delhi where liquor is underserved or unserved. "Delhi has 272 wards out of which there are 79 wards with zero liquor shops. Around 45 wards have just one shop. Around 58% of Delhi is either unserved or underserved," he said. "Based on liquor sale distribution only 8% area of Delhi is normally served. There are around 37 wards where more than three liquor shops are present. On the other hand, there are 54 wards in Delhi where liquor is over-served some of these wards have more than 10 shops. This means in 20% of Delhi, liquor is over-served. Fifty per cent of liquor shops are present in just 45 wards," he added. In a statement, Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar said the move to privatise liquor vends will also open the doors for spurious liquor. He said the government's bid to mop up 20% more revenue from liquor sales, from -- Rs 6,000 crore to Rs 7,500 crore -- will be a "retrograde step". "Instead of tightening the liquor policy to make the capital safer for women, and keep the youth away from substance abuse, the new excise policy will only bring ruin to the national capital, for the sake of a few crores more from excise revenue," Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-lowers-legal-age-of-drinking-to-21-from-25-no-new-liquor-shops-in-the-capital-965049.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Vaccinated Lucknow doctor tests positive for Covid-19||In a first case of infection after vaccination in Uttar Pradesh, a Lucknow based doctor, who had received two doses of vaccine, has tested positive for coronavirus. According to sources, Dr Nitin Mishra, who was Emergency Medical Officer (EMO) at the Civil Hospital in the state capital, tested positive for Covid-19 and had been quarantined at home. Sources said that Mishra had received two doses of Covaxin on February 16 and March 15. "Mishra developed a cough and cold and also had temperature after the second shot of the vaccine," said a senior health official here on Monday. "We are trying to identify the people, who had come into contact with Mishra," the official said. The official said that the doctor did not have any serious complications, as a result of which he had been advised home quarantine. Chief medical officer Dr M K Singh sought to allay fears about the vaccine and said that it was 'safe'. "Most of those, who are vaccinated, will not be infected with the virus and even if some of them are infected, it will not be serious," Singh added. UP has also been witnessing a surge in the Covid-19 cases in the past few weeks. Over 3.600 fresh cases were reported since the beginning of this month. Lucknow was the worst affected accounting for 675 cases alone. The experts have warned that the state may be heading toward the second wave of Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/vaccinated-lucknow-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-965050.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||Sticky bombs a new problem in Kashmir, will ensure peaceful yatra: J&K police||Terming 'sticky bombs' a new problem, Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday said security forces will ensure a peaceful Amarnath pilgrimage commencing from June 28. "Sticky bombs are of course a problem but the situation is not alarming. We will deal with it effectively and ensure peaceful pilgrimage,” Inspector General of Police (IGP)), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar Kumar said while addressing a presser here.  Inputs about ‘sticky bombs’ to use on vehicles by terrorists have emerged as a new concern for security agencies in Jammu and Kashmir with the CRPF, Jammu and Kashmir Police and the Army gearing up to tackle this probable threat which could add a new dimension to the insurgency in the region. The IGP said that there will be round the clock patrolling of yatra routes by the security forces personnel during day time and through 360-degree camera fitted Mobile Bunker Vehicles (MBVs). “No pilgrim vehicle will be allowed to mingle with civilian vehicles. There will be proper timing for the pilgrim vehicles on all routes," Kumar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sticky-bombs-a-new-problem-in-kashmir-will-ensure-peaceful-yatra-jk-police-965062.html
22-03-2021||North and Central||NIA files charge sheet against PDP's Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday filed a charge sheet against Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra of the PDP and two others in a terror funding case, and said the youth leader was a crucial player in sustaining the "political-separatist-terrorist" nexus in Jammu and Kashmir. Besides Parra, the other two named in the charge sheet are Shaheen Ahmad Lone and Tafazul Hussain Parimoo who were involved in gunrunning from across the Line of Control (LoC) for militants and channelising funds to sustaining terrorist activities at the behest of handlers in Pakistan, a spokesperson of the NIA said. He said the NIA filed the supplementary charge sheet against the three accused under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 17, 18, 38, 39 and 40 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and Section 25 (1AA) of the Arms Act and Section 6 of the Explosive Substances Act in a special court here in the DSP Devender Singh case, the spokesperson of the NIA said. Singh was arrested by police along with three others -- Hizbul Mujahideen commanders Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias “Naveed Babu” and Rafi Ahmad Rather and advocate Irfan Shafi Mir -- while they were travelling from Srinagar to Jammu near Qazigund in south Kashmir on January 11, 2020. The NIA had re-registered the case on January 17 and had taken over the investigation. It had already filed a charge sheet against eight accused in this case on July 6. Parra, a close aide of former chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti, was arrested by the NIA in the case on November 25 last year. "The investigations revealed that charge-sheeted accused Parra was part of the conspiracy for raising and transferring of terror funds to Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) militants for procurement of terrorist hardware and was also a crucial player in sustaining political-separatist-terrorist nexus in J&K," the spokesperson said. About Lone and Parimoo, the spokesperson said the investigation revealed that the charge-sheeted accused were involved in gunrunning from across the LoC for the militants of banned terrorist organisations Hizb-ul-Mujahideen (HM) and Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and were also channelizing funds to the militants for sustaining terrorist activities in J&K at the behest of handlers located in Pakistan. "Further investigation in the case continues," the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nia-files-charge-sheet-against-pdps-waheed-ur-rehman-parra-965094.html
22-03-2021||Oasis||People, not possessions, are priceless||‘Govinda’s Disciple', a poem by Rabindranath Tagore, tells us a remarkable story. Govinda, a great guru, is seated on the riverbank. His disciple, Raghunath, draws near and presents him with a pair of gem-studded gold bangles. As the teacher twirls one round his finger, it slips and falls into the river. Raghunath jumps in to retrieve it but returns, wet and weary, after a fruitless search. When the devotee pleads with his master to show him where the bangle landed, the latter throws the other one into the river saying, ‘There it is.’  The conclusion comes as a shock. How, we wonder, can someone discard such a generous gift? A few words in the second stanza help us to comprehend the climax. Although Raghunath refers to his offering as ‘unworthy of acceptance’, we are told that he is ‘proud of his wealth’. The lesson for him and for us is that we should not become too attached to earthly treasures. This, of course, is easier discussed than done. We tend to gravitate towards material things that are often procured at considerable expense. Besides, many a time, a lot of hard work goes into providing the means for necessities, let alone luxuries. It is natural, therefore, that we prize our acquisitions. Our possessions, however, are not as precious as people. Cornelia, who lived in ancient Rome and was famed for her virtue, had her priorities right. One day, she called upon a woman of her acquaintance, who took the opportunity to display her collection of rubies and diamonds. ‘Is it true that you have no jewels?’ the lady asked Cornelia, looking pityingly at her unadorned visitor. Cornelia drew her two young sons to her side and said simply, ‘Here are my jewels.’  A few years ago, I pawned several items of jewellery and feared they might be lost to me forever. They are undoubtedly valuable, but the loving concern of my friend, whose recent intervention enabled me to recover them, is priceless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/people-not-possessions-are-priceless-964814.html
22-03-2021||Oasis||The right not to pray||Recently I read in a Sri Lankan newspaper (The Island) that a fourteen-year-old Tamil boy in a school at Jaffna in Sri Lanka refused to pray. His rationale behind this unusual defiance was: School has no right to force a student to pray as prayer is a sign of submission to a god who did not exist. Hats off to the courage of conviction of a 14-year-old boy, who has realized at such an early age that this practice of prayers is nothing but an attempt to make one submissive to non-existent 'divine' forces. This is indeed a kind of systematic indoctrination of impressionable minds to go through the rigmarole of boring prayers. Why can't children skip prayers, if they're indisposed to pray? "Society is always scared of non-believers. So, there're constant endeavours to arrest the young minds and yoke them to a rigid format of prayers and worship right from their childhood days. This is blatant 'religious baptism.' Schools all over the world must provide a completely non-spiritual platform to their students and leave religiosity for them to explore on their own if at all they ( students) don't lose interest in god and religion when they grow up," opined the radical ex-Muslim Ibn Warraq of Pakistan. A school is a centre of learning. It's not a seminary, madrasa, or a gurukul, where one goes to drink a dose of subtle religious venom. Moreover, the efficacy of prayers is being fiercely debated. Does it really work and contribute to the betterment and evolution of an individual? Prayer, like meditation, is a humbug. Philosophy department of Calcutta University and Tuft University in the States jointly conducted a survey in the late seventies to find the effectiveness of prayers. It was found that the cased of 'miraculous recovery' through prayers needed scrutiny as many were hyped. They found many cases in which prayers failed to make any impact whatsoever. Man's an insecure being and a hopelessly irrational creature. He prays because he thinks that it'll help mitigate his sufferings. He never realizes suffering subside on its own. It's not, but then if some myths and illusions help rudderless people survive, I don't think I should cast aspersions on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/the-right-not-to-pray-965189.html
22-03-2021||Panorama||Off the record||Brothers in battle Bokakhat Assembly constituency in eastern Assam is poised for an electoral battle between two brothers. Former MLA Jiten Gogoi and his younger brother Reba Kanta Gogoi are contesting for the seat, from where Assam agriculture minister and president of Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) Atul Bora was elected in 2016. Jiten (58), who was earlier elected as the Congress candidate, is contesting as an Independent while Reba Kanta is a candidate of Assam Jatiya Parishad, a party formed out of the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) agitation in 2019. The brothers, however, are seeking votes with a promise to scrap the CAA. AGP is an ally of the BJP in Assam and so the two brothers are asking voters to defeat Bora saying that a vote to him would be a vote in favour of the CAA. Sumir Karmakar, Guwahati Copter and trolls Heralding his candidature at Manjeshwar in Kasargod, BJP Kerala President K Surendran landed in the district in a private helicopter a couple of hours before the party leadership announced his candidature at Manjeswaram as well as Ranni in Pathanamthitta district last Sunday. Since political leaders moving around in helicopter is quite uncommon in Kerala, Surendran’s landing gave rise to a series of trolls on social media and also to whisper campaigns that the ride was an option to transport unaccounted cash for electioneering as enforcement agencies are on a high vigil on the roads. Critics see the BJP leader’s helicopter ride as a show of the money power of the saffron party. Arjun Raghunath, Thiruvananthapuram Money heist in J&K Last week unidentified gunmen looted a Grameen Bank branch on the outskirts of Srinagar city in broad daylight. A few days earlier, another Grameen Bank branch was looted in north Kashmir’s Baramulla district. As the bank doesn’t have any security guards and CCTV camera installed in its branches, police have been clueless so-far in tracking the looters.In the Baramulla robbery, police said the case seems to be ‘suspicious’ and ‘fishy’. The looting of banks in Kashmir is nothing new as it has been going on since the eruption of militancy in 1990. But the pace at which Grameen Bank branches are being looted in Kashmir, it looks like soon the Money Heist series will have another addition on Netflix. Zulfikar Majid, Srinagar Fitness-freak cop In a surprising development and unusual move, 1987-batch IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who was Maharashtra’s acting director general of police, was shifted as Mumbai’s police commissioner. The new Mumbai commissioner is an avid sportsperson and a fitness freak. The 58-year-old low-profile and no-nonsense officer Nagrale is an avid golfer and tennis player and is also a black belt in Judo. He has won medals in All India Police Games. He has also received the President’s Police Medal, Vishesh Seva Padak, and Antarik Suraksha Padak. A mechanical engineer, he had handled several important cases. Besides, he was among the first officers to respond to the 26/11 Mumbai terror attacks and removed a live bomb from near the Taj Mahal Hotel off Gateway of India. Mrityunjay Bose, Mumbai Security deposit The CPM has fielded SFI National President V P Sanu for the Lok Sabha bypolls from the Malappuram constituency in Kerala, which is considered a Muslim League bastion. His opponent is Muslim League’s Abdul Samad Samadani while the BJP has fielded its National Vice President Abullakutty, a former CPM MP and former Congress MLA. In a tough electoral battle, Sanu has received cheerful news from protesting farmers who have decided to donate to him security deposit. Sanu has been a regular at the protest sites on Delhi borders along with other SFI cadre. Shemin Joy, New Delhi Strict measures As the second wave of Covid-19 gripped parts of the country, officials are resorting to novel means to ensure compliance with physical distancing norms. While several states have booked Covid-19 patients for jumping home quarantine, Punjab government has directed officials to conduct RT-PCR tests on those found without a face mask in public places. The civil aviation regulator has already asked airlines to put passengers on ‘no fly list’ for flouting Covid-19 safety protocol and the wearing masks below the nose. Sagar Kulkarni, New Delhi||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/off-the-record-964803.html
22-03-2021||Panorama||Don’t break INS Viraat, make it a museum on Karnataka coast||Even while the people in the corridors of power thump their chests, bleating about nationalism and respect to national icons,  they have failed to understand the importance of our war machines that have served our jawans and sailors on the high seas in good stead.  Politicos and their bureaucracy appear to be nonchalant about the great naval ships that we are breaking. It is such a shame that the country’s first aircraft carrier INS Vikrant has been sold to scrap dealers and now the second carrier INS Viraat’s fate is hanging in balance. Thanks to the few nationalist entrepreneurs from Maharashtra, the great ship might just get a new lease of life as the Supreme Court has stayed the breaking of Viraat. The ship is now anchored in Alang in Gujarat.  Karnataka has a special place in raising a flag of dissent against breaking up Viraat, and in a great show of nationalist fervour, the coastal region had petitioned the state government to bring Viraat to the coastal waters of Karnataka and make it a living museum.  This petition was sent even as the news broke out about the decommissioning of Viraat in 2015. The decommissioning happened sometime in 2017 without the state and the Central governments even taking note of the petition. The ship had been up for auction for breaking.   The Karnataka State Coastal Development Authority (KSCDA) had even sanctioned Rs 3.5 crore to develop infrastructure and identified two places on the coast of Karnataka. Though it had been forgotten during the last five years, the proposal has got traction after the SC halted the demolition of the ship.  In 2015, the three coastal districts of Karnataka— Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada, under the flag of KSCDA— had appealed to then chief secretary Kaushik Mukharjee in this regard. The matter did not go any further though the state government had forwarded the letter to the Central government.  “This is the problem with us; the governments dilly-dally the issues of preserving our maritime heritage. The Navy is pained about the indifference of the bureaucracy and the political leadership. No sailor worth his salt can see the ship he has served on, being broken down. But at the same time, all ships cannot be converted into museums — due to corrosion they might sink which would be a worse thing to happen. But I am sure that with our resources, the country can take at least one aircraft carrier as a museum” says an official of the rank of a commander of a ship in the Navy on the condition of anonymity.  India is yet to build its own aircraft carrier and perhaps when it develops one, the country might treat its decommissioned carriers with more dignity. But this appears to be a long way off.  Both Vikrant and Viraat were of foreign make and they were ‘purchased’ and not built, except for ‘refitting’ and maintenance by our dockyards.  The reason to continue the demolition of the ship might stem from the fact that the ‘ski ramp’ on the front side of the ship has been already dismantled. “But when we got the ship (HMS Hermes of the British Royal Navy), the ramp was not there; our engineers scaled up the functionality of the ship and built the ramp which definitely gave an edge. If the government is sure of making it into a museum, the absence of a ramp should not be a problem” sources said. The Supreme Court bench headed by the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde ordered that the “parties engaged in the dismantling of the ship to maintain status quo”. The petition to this effect was filed by Envitech Marine Consultants Private Limited based in Thane, Maharashtra. But the ship-breaking company, Shree Ram Group, based at Alang in Gujarat, says it has already dismantled 40% of the ship. The petitioners, however, are hopeful that it can be restored and transformed into a museum in any coastal part of the country.   No takers But are there any takers to the idea? “Yes, we had mooted the idea soon after the ship was decommissioned in 2015. Our former president Nivedit Alva had pledged financial help to create infrastructure for developing the INS Viraat warship museum provided it was set up at either Mangaluru or Karwar, both port cities of Karnataka”, said Karnataka State Coastal Development Authority president Mattaru Rathnakar Hegde.  He felt that both Karwar and Mangaluru were the right candidates for hosting the imposing INS Viraat as a warship museum.  “I was always saddened by the decision to break down Aircraft Carrier INS Viraat after its decommissioning. This followed an earlier similar decision on INS Vikrant. We in the armed forces are trained to salute and show our respect before stepping on them. Every soldier has an emotional attachment with his war machine” Capt Ganesh Karnik, an ex-army officer said. Sources in the Defence ministry say the company that had sought restoration of the ship as a museum, wanted a No Objection Certificate, but it seems there is no such procedure as the ship which is decommissioned is not the property of armed forces.  This was seen in the case of INS Chapal warship museum at Karwar— the ship was handed over to the local administration for upkeep. (The writer is a senior journalist based in Mangaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/don-t-break-ins-viraat-make-it-a-museum-on-karnataka-coast-964809.html
22-03-2021||Panorama||Everyday must be World Water Day||I say a silent prayer every year in March as World Water Day draws near – both in gratitude for the chance to remind the world to save this most precious resource and in hope that by the month-end, people will not forget all about it for another whole year but adopt simple habits that can make every day World Water Day! Most believe it is the job of governments, RWAs or societies to solve water issues, and while these do have a role, it is far better for us residents to also play our part and reduce our consumption with simple measures that every single person can and must adopt to slash daily usage. There was a time I used three buckets of water to bathe – a confession I flinch to make. Then 12 years ago, I chanced across a YouTube video, ‘Letter in the year 2070’. Do catch it online to experience the world without water portrayed so vividly. It changed my wasteful habits completely. I taught myself to cut back to the bare minimum. I now bathe with a conservative 5-6 mugs of water – that’s when I wash my hair! It’s just 3 otherwise, and I hasten to add, with no compromise on the end result! This fact once made public put me at the receiving end of jokes like, “no wonder autocorrect changes your name to 'Odour'!” This is all taken in good humour as it serves an added purpose – commenting on how little I use inadvertently makes the other person think of how much they use! Over the years, I have evolved a simple ‘ecowaternomics’ framework to economise on the water I use; try my tips and see how easily you too can slash up to 80%, no exaggeration. Firstly, use less. This would mean using taps on the lowest flow possible; a trickle is really good enough though many prefer full blast as default. Aerators help too, but nothing like an ingrained low-flow habit to cut excess use at this stage itself. Next, shut the tap when the flow is not needed--while brushing, soaping, etc. Even in times of coronavirus and extra handwashing, keeping the tap off during those mandated 20 seconds of soaping translates to possibly saving 100 million litres per day, if you extrapolate the city’s 1.3 crore residents washing 10 times a day! Next, avoid running water – choose a mug or bucket over a shower, a bowl to wash fruits, etc. and for your car or balcony, wipe down rather than pour generously. Finally, check leaks –a dripping tap can fill a large bucket overnight. Start with these four simple habits and you will automatically cut back. Secondly, reuse more. You wouldn’t bathe with mineral water, right? Who’d be crazy enough to waste pure, expensive water when lower purity works? But we do it all the time, rinsing dirty dishes or mop-cloths with fresh water out of a tap though secondary sources work perfectly well – like water from fruit or dal wash or clothe wash. Discover the many hidden water sources in your home (RO waste-water, clothe wash water, handwash water, or wasted water from school bottles, pre-shower run-off water, et.) The water for reuse could be clear, cloudy or muddy; simply match it to appropriate to what the water is needed for which will immediately cut down on fresh water consumption. It is a crime that many households simply let the RO waste-water flow down the drain – it’s a useful mantra to never let water go down the drain if it is good for something else. My two buckets of RO waste-water are used for floor-mopping, then reused again to water plants (possible because I use home-made organic bioenzyme not phenyl, better for me, my pet and also the planet because I can reuse the water). That’s a notional saving of six buckets or 150 litres per day, demonstrating the immense water-saving potential if every household takes this seriously. I am often asked: Do we really need to go to this extreme? If we all start doing this more often, future generations will not have to do it all the time. So take the ‘minimum water challenge’ and try to figure out the minimum you need and work to maintain this. I have cut my personal usage by 100 litres a day from earlier luxurious habits. You can slash usage too, and you must – because it all adds up and every drop does indeed count. (The writer is co-founder of Beautiful Bengaluru, a passionate water-saver and creator of the ‘Ecowaternomics framework’)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/everyday-must-be-world-water-day-965186.html
22-03-2021||Right in the Middle||A trip to the City of Joy||It was after many years that we were again making a long train journey. During my military days, such extended train travel between different corners of our vast country was a routine affair. In those days, there existed a special bond between soldiers and the Railways. The sound of a distant whistling train in the dead of the night would put a soldier on a lonely vigil in a flutter. For soldiers, the train used to be a harbinger of reunion and homecoming. The mere presence of a locomotive could trigger waves of nostalgia and memories of his loved ones waiting at home. A few months ago I and my wife had the happy experience of travelling to Kolkata to participate in the wedding of the daughter of an old friend, who was once my colleague in the Air Force. We soldiers get posted out after a short stint at a particular station and we move on with the new life and relations at the new location and generally (in those days) it was difficult for us to keep in touch with our former colleagues. Luckily, my Bengali friend’s postal address and landline number did not change and later modern gadgets made communication easier. The thought of meeting an old friend, a revisit to the City of Joy and attending a traditional Bengali marriage for the first time are reasons enough for an exciting set-off. But the long train journey had something more in store, a pleasant surprise for us. The railway stations at the Coromondal route used to be an eyesore and the journey through the eastern coast was a traveller’s nightmare. But all that is history now. The railway stations along the route are very clean. Gone are the days when our platforms were littered with rubbish and infested with flies. The cleaning staff was seen busy with their task at stations and inside the coaches. Even the vendors came significantly improved with hygienically packed snacks and beverages. The passengers were once forced to witness the ugly sight of open defecation along the tracks whenever the train approached a major station. It was really an embarrassment to view such unpleasant ‘Indian vistas’. What a change! A great relief to watch the rising sun in the Bay without the disgusting sights and nauseating smell! At Visakhapatnam station, I got out of the train for a while to take a little stroll on the platform and I was thrilled to see the passengers carefully choosing the appropriate dustbins. Even the dozens of platforms of the overcrowded Howrah station looked cleaner, a stark contrast from the markets across the bridge.  Who said we Indians won’t change! Given an opportunity, we can outperform anyone else. Still, there are miles to go for achieving the final goal of a Swachh railway but the Team Railway can take great proud not only for the hard works but also for motivating the passengers to co-operate with the nationwide movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-trip-to-the-city-of-joy-964805.html
22-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Crime and punishment||I was a schoolboy many aeons ago, in the previous century to be precise. The rule that applied to us then was based on ‘Crime and Punishment’. If you committed a crime you were punished and if you did not commit any crime, you were not punished. It was as simple as that. I attended a convent school, run by Catholic nuns. The school principal ruled the school with two tools. A whistle and a cane. The whistle was to draw the attention of the offender and the cane was obviously to dispense quick justice. Once she blew the whistle, the entire school would freeze. Cricket balls and footballs would continue to roll on merrily, unheeded. Some of the boys, poised to kick the football would be frozen in time, with one foot on and one foot off the ground. I believe that a few of the faint-hearted would even wet their pants. This silence would last for a few seconds and then everyone would look around for the offender. Once identified, the offender would be pushed towards Sister Claudia and he would receive three hearty strokes of the cane. Life would then carry on as usual, until the next time Sister Claudia blew her whistle. We also had the concept of mass canings. If the entire class had committed a crime, we would be told that we would all be caned the next day. In anticipation of the event, a lot of us would wear two or three pairs of shorts under our trousers.  Many years passed and I was posted as a Regimental Medical Officer in an Infantry Battalion. Life was completely different, after having suffered school and five years of medical school, here I was treated with utmost respect and deference by the jawans. Life was perfect until one day, I found the Commanding Officers’ (CO’s) stick orderly outside my tiny clinic. The stick orderly was the person who carried messages and generally did all the odd jobs in the CO’s office.  “Sahib ji, CO sahib yaad kitta,” he said. Roughly translated, that meant that the CO wanted to meet me. I was immediately apprehensive. Life flashed backwards and I imagined that I a young offender facing Sister Claudia again. “CO sahib ke paas cane hai kya?” (Does the CO have a cane?) I asked The stick orderly remembered that the CO always carried his baton around with him, everywhere he went. “Hain ji Sahibji” he replied with a wide grin, which, to my nervous eyes, appeared to be particularly malevolent.  That grin did the trick. I was convinced that Sister Claudia had come to haunt me again. Without any further ado, I went back to my room and pulled on two pairs of shorts and then pulled on my uniform trousers over them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/crime-and-punishment-965183.html
22-03-2021||Second Edit||Mr CM, focus on governance||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat's comment criticizing women for wearing distressed jeans would have been funny if it did not have dire implications. Speaking at a workshop on substance abuse among children, Rawat recounted that on a recent flight, a woman “wearing gumboots and jeans... torn at the knees” was sitting next to him. “She runs an NGO, her knees are visible, she moves around in the society and kids are with her,” he said, going on to question the “kind of message” she was sending out to society and the “culture” she was imparting to children. Wearing ripped jeans, Rawat said, paved the way for “societal breakdown”. The Uttarakhand chief minister’s agitation over a woman’s bare knees is hilarious. Sadly, his reaction cannot be dismissed as a mere joke. His comments lay bare a narrow, judgmental and misogynistic mindset. That Uttarakhand’s chief minister has such a mindset is of grave concern to the security of women in the state. The kind of policies that will emerge from such a mindset is worrying. Rawat’s observations are problematic for multiple reasons. To link a woman’s attire to a set of values is not just illogical but also reeks of stereotyping. People like Rawat deem women who wear jeans or skirts, speak English, are independent and live alone, as ‘western’ or ‘modern’ and thus ‘immoral.’  They jump to conclusions about a person’s character and capacities based on a few superficial clues. His remarks are hypocritical. If a woman’s baring of her knees is objectionable, why is he silent about RSS Pracharaks marching around in khaki knickers? Accusing women who wear distressed jeans for “societal breakdown” is like blaming a woman’s use of mobile for her rape. Patriarchs believe in controlling women, their bodies, behaviour, decisions, actions and attire.  Any challenge to that control threatens patriarchs. They respond with insults, intimidation and violence. This is what Rawat is doing. He has appropriated to himself the role of guardian of public morals. His remarks could encourage others to engage in moral policing and violence. He must be told to stop this. Else he and others like him will be dictating what we should wear, when and where.  There is no need for the government or anyone else to decide the length of sleeves or skirts or condition of the jeans. What a woman (or man) wears are their decisions. This is not the business of anyone else. There are countless other issues, including violence against women, communalisation of politics and deforestation of the Himalayas that are crying for the chief minister’s attention. Rawat should focus on those issues rather than the dress choices of women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/mr-cm-focus-on-governance-964812.html
22-03-2021||Second Edit||Vehicle scrappage policy welcome||The government has done well to announce the vehicle scrappage policy as a new “voluntary fleet modernisation programme’’. The policy will put in place a regime of mandatory fitness testing for all vehicles once they reach a specified age. More guidelines and details are awaited but the policy broadly says that commercial vehicles that are older than 15 years and personal vehicles older than 20 are eligible for scrappage. The policy is for voluntary compliance, but it carries carrots and sticks. Vehicles above the age limit will have to undergo the fitness test. If they fail the test, they will not get a renewal certificate and won’t be able to move on road. If they pass the test, they will have to undergo the fitness test every five years. The policy has many salutary aims. Old vehicles are a major source of pollution and so moving them out of circulation will promote public health and help counter climate change. India's cities are among the most polluted in the world. It is a road safety measure also. It will give a big boost to the automobile industry and its ancillary industries as the scrapping of old vehicles will lead to a major increase in production and sales of new vehicles. The minister said that the country has 5.1 million light motor vehicles older than 20 years and 3.4 million light motor vehicles and 1.7 million medium and heavy commercial vehicles over 15 years old and without valid fitness certificates. Strict implementation of the fitness policy could boost the automobile sector’s turnover from the current Rs 4.5 lakh crore to over Rs 10 lakh crore and the government’s GST collections by Rs 30-40,000 crore. This can give a new dimension to the economic recovery after the recession caused by Covid-19.  The policy includes a mix of incentives and disincentives. Vehicle owners will get 4-6% of the ex-showroom price of a new vehicle as scrap value. Manufacturers will be advised to provide a 5% discount on the purchase of a new vehicle against the scrapping certificate, which will also be made tradeable. State governments will be asked to offer a road tax rebate of up to 25% for personal vehicles and up to 15% for commercial vehicles. As a disincentive, the charges for re-registration and fitness certificates will be steeply increased. India does not have a scrappage culture and infrastructure. These will have to be created, and the processes will have to be made transparent and efficient to ensure the best results.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/vehicle-scrappage-policy-welcome-965178.html
22-03-2021||South||Kerala Latin church flags concerns against LDF, NDA over fishing projects||The Latin Church on Sunday targeted the Kerala and the Central governments, claiming there was an "organised effort" to destroy the fishing sector and sell it to corporates, drawing strong reaction from state Fisheries Minister J Mercykutty Amma who accused it of speaking for the opposition Congress-led UDF. A pastoral letter, issued by the Kollam diocese of the Latin church in the assembly poll-bound Kerala, said the ruling regimes at the state and the Centre were "devising destructive legislations" to destroy Kerala's fisherfolk. Targeting the LDF government in the state, it said "the controversial agreement with a foreign company, EMCC, was withdrawn following widespread opposition". The fishing community should also be aware of "Blue Economy" project, a move by the central government giving permission for mining for resources from the sea, it said. Reacting to the letter, read out in the churches during the Sunday mass, Mercykutty Amma, the LDF candidate from Kundara in the coastal Kollam district in the April 6 polls, sought to know why the church was speaking for the opposition Congress-led UDF. She said many faithful had called her up. "For whom has the church come out with such a letter? Why should the church speak for the UDF?" the Minister asked. The Church letter alleged attempts were being made to destroy the fishing sector in the name of tourism and the governments have already completed the process for many similar legislations affecting the livelihoods of fishermen. Joining issue, senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala accused the Centre and the state government of taking steps to "sell the ocean" which will affect the livelihood of the fishing folk. "The UDF is always with the fishermen. It was the intervention of the opposition that stopped the deep sea fishing from being sold to corporates," he said, referring to the state government cancelling two MoUs with the EMCC after the UDF raised various allegations. "The UDF assures that once the we come to power, we will take steps to address the concerns of the Kollam Bishop," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-latin-church-flags-concerns-against-ldf-nda-over-fishing-projects-964819.html
22-03-2021||South||We left AIADMK alliance due to EPS' stubborn attitude: Premalatha Vijayakant||Premalatha Vijayakant, the wife of Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) founder and actor Vijayakant, is now the face of the party that was once touted as an alternative to the DMK and the AIADMK. The DMDK, which contested the 2019 elections as part of the AIADMK alliance, quit the ruling front at the last minute and joined hands with T T V Dhinakaran, nephew of V K Sasikala. Premalatha, who is contesting from the Vriddachalam constituency, spoke to DH’s E T B Sivapriyan. Excerpts: What led to the DMDK walking out of the AIADMK-BJP-PMK alliance at the eleventh hour? We have had quite a bad experience with the AIADMK. We have been asking the AIADMK leadership to begin alliance talks in December 2020. They kept delaying the process of agreeing on the number and identifying constituencies for long. They asked us to sign the agreement on the number of seats without identifying the seats to be allotted to our party. They cannot command us like that.  Moreover, the alliance was not accepted by the people in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Though it was considered as a great alliance, people rejected our combine and there was no coordination between alliance partners. Both parties were together in 2019, and now fighting against each other. What changed? We placed our demand by specifying the number of seats we wanted but there was no response from the other side. Chief Minister Edappadi (K) Palaniswami was very stubborn and that is why we had to come out of the alliance. They made us wait for a long time, which irritated our cadre. They asked us to come out of the alliance and contest alone or join hands with Dhinakaran's AMMK. Political parties and analysts feel the DMDK has lost its ground in the past few years and does not command a strong base? We will prove our strength in this election. Everyone will come to know our strength on May 2 when the results are declared. You have been a co-traveller of Vijayakant in politics also for the past 16 years. This is the first time you are contesting elections, and we all know the DMDK founder is unwell. Is Premalatha finally emerging from the shadows of Vijayakant? How can one take me out of his shadow? He is the captain and I am the lady captain. I am here only for Captain, and there is no Premalatha or DMDK without Captain. We are all working for him. He is everything for us. Vijayakant made his debut as a legislator from the Vriddachalam Assembly segment within nine months of the launch of DMDK. And you are testing the electoral waters from the same constituency. How confident are you of your chances? I have full faith in the people of Vriddachalam. Captain has done a lot of work for the people of Vriddachalam when he was MLA from 2006-2011. We hope that people will remember this and vote for me. When there was acute water scarcity during summer, we organised water for the people by sending six tanker lorries. The lorries continued to bring water to the people for six months. There were also other initiatives that we took during the five years, and we hope that people will remember this and vote for me. And it was me who campaigned for Captain here for one month in 2006. I am a familiar face for the people here. So you are not just banking on Vijayakant’s popularity but also your familiarity among the people? People have accepted me as their daughter. I am confident of winning the seat for the DMDK for the third time. While Captain won in 2006, our party candidate emerged victorious in 2011.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-left-aiadmk-alliance-due-to-eps-stubborn-attitude-premalatha-vijayakant-964835.html
22-03-2021||South||Never show laxity in campaign in view of media surveys, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tells party cadres||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday urged Left party cadres not to be overconfident and never show any laxity in campaign work in the wake of pre-poll survey reports released by various media houses which have predicted the continuation of LDF rule in the state. The huge participation of people in LDF's campaign meetings in northern districts was proof of increasing support base of the ruling front and even those who had taken a stand against the government had to accept its activities and initiatives now, he said. "Various survey reports have come now...Election is a political game...So what I would like to request to the Left party workers that do not be complacent and show any laxity in campaign works in the wake of these survey reports," Vijayan told reporters here. The chief minister, who arrived here as part of the election campaign, also said surveys were an expression of opinions and it was natural for the media to say facts as part of it. Vijayan's reaction came a day after senior Congress leader, Ramesh Chennithala had lashed out at the media houses in the state for their various surveys predicting another term for Pinarayi Vijayan-led Left government in the state. He alleged that media houses were 'whitewashing' the corruption scandals of the ruling Left Front as gratitude for advertisements worth crores received from the state government. A section of TV channels recently telecast their surveys, conducted with the help of private agencies, predicting another term for the incumbent Left government. Vijayan said despite many crises and challenges, his government could carry forward and implement welfare activities and the Kerala society was happy with it. Unable to face the government, the Opposition, however, was spreading lies and propagating false stories, he alleged. Kerala had faced unprecedented issues that could not normally be overcome, in the past five years, he said adding that Okhi and Nipah cyclones, followed by the deadliest flood of the century and Covid-pandemic had hit the state one after the other. "At this juncture, we are approaching the voters with full conviction that it is a government which has done its maximum to the people," he said. As the opposition, the Congress and BJP have no way to deal with it and so they are spreading lies against the government, he added. On the rejection of the nomination papers of three BJP-NDA candidates in Thalassery, Guruvayur and Devikulam constituencies by the returning officer after scrutiny, Vijayan said the move for an "unholy undercurrent" is obvious. "BJP has no candidate in three constituencies and there is a serious doubt in the public domain," he added. The Chief Minister also alleged that some prominent Congress leaders were trying to reach the Assembly with the support of the BJP, who had fielded weak candidates in some constituencies. On the recent controversies regarding the Left government's stand on the Sabarimala women entry issue, he said some people were trying to raise the matter again during election time. "No need to raise it now...let's think about other things after the final verdict," he said adding that his government had granted Rs 1,487 crore for improving the amenities of pilgrims at the hill temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/never-show-laxity-in-campaign-in-view-of-media-surveys-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-tells-party-cadres-964965.html
22-03-2021||South||I was trampled by my party, says ex-Kerala Mahila Congress chief||“Couldn’t they have informed me? The way I was trampled symbolises crushing of women across parties in Kerala,” she told the publication. Lathika said she had been hoping for a ticket since October last year. Lathika hoped that with the exit of the KC(M), she would be the natural choice for a ticket to  Ettumanoor. As per the report, she said a party survey showed she would win, and a national-level leader assured her the ticket. She also reportedly told senior leaders Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala about her desire to contest the election. However, Ettumanoor was given to the Kerala Congress (Joseph), the KC(M) faction that stayed with the UDF. Lathika did not understand why Chandy did not lobby for her, but he defended the UDF saying that the Ettumanoor seat had already been allotted to the Kerala Congress by the time Lathika said she wanted that seat.  Lathika, who is an independent, is firm on her contesting the seat. “I will win, no doubt. They think a woman can only climb up to district panchayat president. After that, they will decide whether a woman should be an MLA or MP. That’s why the women’s reservation Bill is pending in Parliament,” she told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-was-trampled-by-my-party-says-ex-kerala-mahila-congress-chief-964966.html
22-03-2021||South||Kerala hub of anti-national activities: Sadananda Gowda||Attacking the Left government in Kerala ahead of the April 6 Assembly elections, Union Minister D V Sadananda Gowda on Monday said the southern state was becoming a hub of "anti-national activities". At a press meet here, Gowda said if the BJP comes to power in Kerala, a law similar to the love jihad law formulated in Uttar Pradesh will be passed. The Union Minister, who reached the state for campaigning, also said the Devaswom boards, which manage the temples in the state would be abolished and handed over to devotees. "Kerala is becoming a hot hub of anti-national activities. Minister K T Jaleel was interrogated in the gold smuggling case. It's a shame. He is a cabinet minister. Former party chief Kodiyeri's son is under arrest. There is no development here," Gowda, Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers alleged. He said the Devaswom boards had become centres of CPI(M) activities, adding they would be abolished if the BJP came to power in the state. "The devaswom boards have become centres of CPI(M) activities. If my party comes to power then certainly all boards will be abolished and believers will take charge," Gowda said. On Love Jihad, Gowda said it was an issue that "harms the whole society". "Love jihad is rampant. This is an issue that harms the whole society. The families affected by this are suffering. But when it is motivated by the governments like Kerala, such people get the upper hand. Christian communities are severely damaged by this issue. We want to come out with legislation. If we come to power, a law similar to the one in UP will be brought in Kerala," Gowda said. 'Love Jihad' is a term used by right-wing activists to refer to an alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love. However, the central government had on February 4 last year said the term 'Love Jihad' is not defined under the extant laws and no case of 'Love Jihad' has been reported by any of the central agencies. Various courts, including the Kerala High Court, have upheld this view. "The term 'Love Jihad' is not defined under the extant laws. No such case of 'Love Jihad' has been reported by any of the central agencies," Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy had replied to a written question in Parliament. The minister, however, said two cases from Kerala involving inter-faith marriage have been probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hub-of-anti-national-activities-sadananda-gowda-964998.html
22-03-2021||South||Telangana enhances government job retirement age to 61 years; announces hefty pay revision||In a joyful news for Telangana government employees, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has enhanced the retirement age from the present 58 years to 61 years. The chief minister has also declared a pay revision of 30 percent for the state employees. While the salary revision would be applicable from 1 April 2021, the retirement age modification would come into effect immediately. The aim is to utilise the services of experienced employees, CM said. Retirement age increase is an election manifesto promise of the TRS. Making the announcement in the state assembly on Monday, Rao said that the 11th pay revision was delayed due to the Covid-19 caused fiscal deficit. “Though the state is in severe financial crisis, it is decided to provide the pay revision related 12 months arrears to the employees,” Rao said, adding that the arrears would be paid along with retirement benefits. In addition to the pay revision for the employees and teachers, CM Rao said that the salaries of contract, outsourcing employees, Home Guards, Anganwadi-Asha workers, SERP, Vidya volunteers, KGBV, Sarva Siksha Abhiyaan employees, village level machinery, grant in aid, daily wage and other employees - totaling to over 9.17 lakh, would be increased. Employee unions who were earlier agitated with the 7.5 percent revision suggested by the CR Biswal panel expressed their gratitude to the CM for the windfall. In 2014 too, the Rao government revised the 10th pay commission scales and provided a fitment of 43 percent. In view of the by-election to the Nagarjuna Sagar assembly on 17 April, the Monday announcement was made following the clearance from the election commission of India. “The government has adopted a broader view in solving the employee and teachers' issues. We now expect the employees to respond accordingly and further dedicate themselves in discharging their duties and work with full commitment in public service without any lapses,” the CM said. Stating that 80 percent of the promotion process is completed, Rao said that the government would immediately start the process for the remaining eligible employees and teachers. “After this process completion, all eligible employees will get promotions. Government will also shortly commence the filling of vacancies created by promotions.” Other important announcements Enhancement of employee retirement gratuity from Rs 12 lakh to Rs 16 lakh. Reduction in the age limit from 75 to 70 years for the 15 percent additional pension of the retired employees and teachers. Immediate initiation of inter-district transfers to accommodate spouse employees and teachers working in different areas, in one district. 180 days maternity leave with wages to Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya women staff. Extension of family pension policy to the family members of Contributory Pension Scheme employees who died on duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-enhances-government-job-retirement-age-to-61-years-announces-hefty-pay-revision-965017.html
22-03-2021||South||Resistance against BJP may help Congress-led UDF in Muslim-dominated North Kerala||The Muslim strongholds of Malappuram and Kozhikode districts in North Kerala are likely to witness polarisation of the minority community in favour of the Congress and its key ally Indian Union Muslim League owing to the current political scenario, especially the BJP’s attempts to increase its influence in the state. Political analysts also feel that hardcore Muslim outfits like the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), the political party backed by Popular Front of India, and the Welfare Party, which is backed by the Jamaat-e-Islami, are likely to favour the Congress-led United Democratic Front and this would indeed help the IUML. Even as SDPI had fielded candidates at 42 constituencies and Welfare Party fielded candidates at 19, their main objective this time would be to prevent BJP’s victory. The hardcore outfits may also prefer the Congress-led coalition rather than the CPM-led coalition coming to power. Of the 16 constituencies in Malappuram district, IUML is contesting in 14. In adjacent Kozhikode, IUML is contesting in four. IUML is contesting in a total of 27 seats and is the second largest party in the UDF after the Congress. Party senior leader P K Kunhalikutty had even quit the Lok Sabha MP post and is contesting from Vengara in Malappuram in the Assembly polls. Political analysts feel that apart from the attempts of BJP to improve its position in Kerala,  the reports of alleged nexus between BJP and CPM and CPM top leaders silence on allegations like love jihad against the community seems to be creating a sense of requirement among the Muslim community to highlight the Muslim identity in the state and this may help the IUML. According to social critic Hameed Chennamangaloor, earlier there used to be a trend of Jamaat-e-Islami favouring candidates from both LDF and UDF depending upon their equations, but generally favoured the LDF. However, it seems that they are now quite pro-UDF. Hence the UDF may benefit in the constituencies in which they have a considerable vote base. Organisations like PFI would not be favouring growth of BJP and Communist parties and hence the UDF would get the benefit, he said. Meanwhile, Welfare Party chairman Hameed Vaniyambalam alleged that the CPM was trying to create a communal divide for vote bank gains, which was what BJP wanted. The CPM is trying to make immediate gains, but such attempts were not good for society in the long run. He also said that the Welfare Party’s stand against the BJP was very clear and hence it would vote for candidates of parties that could ensure BJP’s defeat. The Welfare Party and SDPI had considerably improved their position in Kerala in the recent Local Body elections. CPM leaders, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had been alleging of UDF’s nexus with outfits like Welfare Party quite some time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/resistance-against-bjp-may-help-congress-led-udf-in-muslim-dominated-north-kerala-965106.html
22-03-2021||South||Parliament passes Bill that clubs 7 castes in poll-bound TN under Devendrakula Vellalar nomenclature||Rajya Sabha on Monday passed the Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill-2021 to club seven castes in poll-bound Tamil Nadu under one nomenclature of Devendrakula Vellalars. The passage in Rajya Sabha completes the parliamentary approval process. Lok Sabha had passed the Bill last week and it will now go to the President for his assent. Replying to a debate on the Bill, Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thaawar Chand Gehlot counted steps taken by the Narendra Modi government to give B R Ambedkar his rightful place, including completing projects conceived in his memory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/parliament-passes-bill-that-clubs-7-castes-in-poll-bound-tn-under-devendrakula-vellalar-nomenclature-965107.html
22-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: IUML fields woman candidate after 25 years, hopeful of making it to Assembly||As 58-year-old Noorbeena Rasheed travels through the pocket roads of Kozhikode city seeking votes, the common question she is facing is not about her promises but about why it took a gap of 25 years for the Indian Union Muslim League to field a woman candidate in the Assembly elections. “I am fed up replying to this query again and again. Everything has its own time. That’s how we should be seeing it,” Rasheed told DH. While there was a general perception that the orthodox Muslims may not prefer Noorbeena making it to the Assembly marking history as the first women MLA from the Indian Union Muslim League, an ordinary voter of the Panniyankara in Kozhikode city commented as Rasheed passed by, “She is as bold as a man. We had experienced it while she was the ward councillor,” said the voter. Even as Rasheed is highly confident of winning the elections, some recent opinion polls suggested that it might not be a cakewalk for her. The Kozhikode South constituency from which Rasheed is seeking mandate is IUML’s sitting seat. Party senior leader M K Muneer won in the last two elections. However, prior to that LDF’s coalition partner, Indian National League’s PM A Salam won from the region, which was then known as Kozhikode-II. This time INL’s Ahamed Devarkovil is contesting as an LDF candidate.  Rasheed is a two-time councillor of Kozhikode and hence a quite familiar person. She was also among the founders of the Indian Union Women’s League. “I had been working for the party and the people, especially for women empowerment of the women. I was not working with the aim of getting any seats and I will continue to do my best for the progress of women,” he said. The IUML is hopeful that Rasheed's candidature would highlight a progressives stature of the party and it would help attract the young generations to the party. In 1996 Khamarunissa Anwar was fielded by the IUML at Kozhikode - II seat. Thereafter no women were given seats in Assembly polls by the IUML. This time there was strong demand from within the IUML, especially women, for the representation of women among the candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-iuml-fields-woman-candidate-after-25-years-hopeful-of-making-it-to-assembly-965113.html
22-03-2021||South||50 injured after sports gallery collapses in Telangana's Suryapet||At least 50 people were injured when a temporary gallery collapsed ahead of a kabbadi tournament in Suryapet district of Telangana on Monday, police said. All the injured were hospitalised. Of them, five or six suffered fractures. The severity of the injuries sustained by the others was yet to be known, the police said. The collapse was apparently due to the weak structure made of wood and other materials. However, the exact cause of the mishap would be known only after investigation, the police said. Footage of the accident and people falling down was broadcast by local TV news channels. The spectators were unable to move after the fall and were immediately taken to hospital by ambulances, police vehicles and other vehicles, a senior police official said. "We are monitoring the situation at both the gallery and at the hospital," Suryapet District Superintendent of Police R Bhaskaran told PTI over a phone call. The accident occurred just before the start of the 47th junior National Kabaddi Championship. The tournament was being jointly organised by the Telangana Kabaddi Association and the Kabaddi Association of Suryapet District.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/50-injured-after-sports-gallery-collapses-in-telanganas-suryapet-965125.html
22-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu asks colleges to shift back to online classes after surge in Covid-19 cases||Close on the heels of closure of schools in the backdrop of surging Covid-19 cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday asked higher education institutions to switch to online teaching and said semester exams will also be conducted on the virtual mode. A Government Order to this effect was issued after Chief Secretary Rajeev Ranjan held discussions with Vice Chancellors, all of whom "opined that the classes can be conducted online." The heads also said 70-80 per cent syllabus has been covered, the GO said, adding that practical classes and examination for science students were going on. "The Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine has also opined that there are reports emerging of clusters from colleges/hostels and considering trends in many states, these clusters have the potential to spread disease in their place of residence and surrounding community," the GO said. The government subsequently directed institutions under the control of Higher Education Department and deemed universities "to conduct classes online from March 23 onwards with six days working." All practical classes shall be completed before March 31 and the "semester examination will be (held) online," it added. The government had in December 2020 allowed the functioning of final year classes and for all others since February this year. With Tamil Nadu witnessing a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases over the last few days, the government had on Saturday ordered closure of schools for classes 9, 10 and 11 from Monday until further orders. After witnessing a declining trend throughout February, Covid-19 infections in the state have been on the rise steadily, with the state adding 1,385 fresh infections on Monday, pushing the active cases to 8,619.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-asks-colleges-to-shift-back-to-online-classes-after-surge-in-covid-19-cases-965129.html
22-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh announces half day schools from April 1 as Covid-19 cases surge||In the wake of the spurt in Covid-19 cases, especially in the educational institutions, Andhra Pradesh school education minister Adimulapu Suresh has announced the commencement of half day schools in the state from April 1. After a lull of about three months, AP is reporting close to 400 daily new cases lately. Classes in conventional mode are being conducted for 1 to 10 standards, presently from morning to evening. From April 1 onwards, classes would be held from 7:30 AM to 12:30 PM, with mid day meals served at the end. The minister has asked the school authorities to be extra vigilant, ensuring that the students wear masks, use sanitizers, maintain social distance. Covid-19 tests should also be conducted regularly. Meanwhile, Andhra Pradesh has recorded 310 cases on Sunday, when 35,375 samples were tested. Most of the cases are reported from Chittoor, East Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. The neighboring Telangana too is witnessing a surge in cases, with schools, residential educational institutions contributing in large numbers. 22 cases were reported from a Schedule Tribe boys hostel in Rajendranagar, near Hyderabad. Telangana has recorded 337 cases on Sunday, taking the active cases number to 2,958. 1,226 individuals are kept in home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-announces-half-day-schools-from-april-1-as-covid-19-cases-surge-965130.html
22-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: TTV Dhinakaran banks on charisma to win Kovilpatti as he fights 'outsider' tag||When Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) chief TTV Dhinakaran contested the 2017 bypoll in R K Nagar assembly constituency, he not just won the seat held twice by late J Jayalalithaa, but his margin surpassed that of the late Chief Minister. Dhinakaran and AMMK firmly believe it was his charisma that helped him trounce the ruling AIADMK and Opposition DMK. And now the AMMK chief wants to repeat the R K Nagar magic in Kovilpatti, the constituency known for its mouth-watering kadalai mittai (peanut candy) and cottage industries that produce match sticks. It may not be an easy task to win this southern Tamil Nadu constituency as Dhinakaran is seen as an outsider, albeit for now. His main rivals are Information Minister C Kadambur Raju (AIADMK) and K Srinivasan (CPI-M) from the DMK alliance. MNM has fielded K Kathiravan, and Naam Tamizhar Katchi's candidate is M Gomathi. Both AIADMK and CPI-M candidates project themselves as “sons of the soil” and brand Dhinakaran as a rank outsider. There is a reason for Dhinakaran to shift from R K Nagar to far-away Kovilpatti – he could have contested somewhere in Theni from where he was once elected to Lok Sabha – the AMMK led by him had scored 19,478 votes in this assembly segment in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, and his party is now ruling the Kayathar panchayat union. Besides, he is banking on his party colleague, SVSP Manickaraja, who holds influence among the Mukulathors, the community to which Dhinakaran also belongs, to emerge victorious from this seat. Apart from Mukulathors, Naickers and Nadars form a major chunk of voters in the constituency. Both Raju and Srinivasan are Naickers. Not just the community and a chunk of AIADMK votes, Dhinakaran and his AMMK believe his charisma will help him win Kovilpatti seat. “He is a known figure, and he connects with people easily. People may now feel he is an outsider, but once he begins his campaign here, things will change,” one of TTV's supporters told DH. Srinivasan, on the other hand, has entered the fray with the hope that his work in Kovilpatti for the past four decades, including as a ward councillor twice, and the alliance strength would ensure that he enters Fort St. George, the seat of power of Tamil Nadu. On his part, Raju believes his 10-year long “good record” will help him win the seat for the third time. “The constituency has attained star status because of me, not due to Dhinakaran. I have served the people for 10 years now and everyone here likes me for the work I have done. As far as Dhinakaran, he was misled by his people to contest here. He will not win Kovilpatti,” Raju said. The constituency has long been a bastion of the Communist Party of India and this is the first time the Communist Party of India (Marxist) is entering the fray. Srinivasan has reasons to bank on alliance arithmetic – Raju won the seat in 2016 by a slender margin of 428 votes against DMK's nominee. Also, the MDMK, which was part of the People's Welfare Alliance (PWA), scored 28,137 votes in the seat. MDMK and Left parties are now part of the DMK front. Add to this, MDMK's influence in the constituency, thanks to Vaiko hailing from this region. Also, a split in AIADMK votes is inevitable as its splinter group AMMK will take away a chunk, and Dhinakaran himself is the candidate. While this will hurt Raju, it might help Srinivasan. “Community or money will not speak as far as Kovilpatti is concerned. It is only the work that will bring votes. People believe I can be their voice in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. The alliance partners are working for my victory, and I will win this seat,” Srinivasan told DH. Apart from caste equations, people in the constituency want better roads, uninterrupted water supply, and other infrastructure needs. Also, the traditional match sticks industry stares at an existential crisis with prices of raw materials shooting up, and factories downing their shutters.  “Whoever wins from here should focus on ensuring the decades-old match sticks industry survives. We are dependent only on the industry to eke out a living. We need a solution to keep the industry running,” Arumugam, a labourer, told DH. Shanmugam, who runs a bakery in Kovilpatti town, said it was difficult to predict who will emerge victorious in the segment. “Both Raju and Srinivasan are locals. People feel it will be easy to approach them, but the same is not the case with Dhinakaran. He is from Chennai, and he will not stay here. But nothing can be said now as the polling day is a fortnight away. Anything can happen,” he said.   Kovilpatti Assembly Constituency 2016 winner: C Kadambur Raju (AIADMK) 2016 runner-up: A Subramanian (DMK) Margin: 428 votes   2021 Candidates TTV Dhinakaran (AMMK) C Kadambur Raju (AIADMK) K Srinivasan (CPIM) K Kathiravan (MNM) Electorate (2021): 2,64,900 votes||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-ttv-dhinakaran-banks-on-charisma-to-win-kovilpatti-as-he-fights-outsider-tag-965132.html
22-03-2021||State||Covid bed rule in Bengaluru proving costly for patients from districts||One year after Covid-19 hit the state, the government is yet to streamline the system for admitting patients, forcing many to go to private hospitals and seek treatment at an exorbitant cost. Delay in hospitalisation was one of the key reasons behind Covid deaths last year, but the government hasn’t learned any lessons at all on this front. It is still mandatory for all Covid-19 patients to have a district ID number (‘BU number’ in Bengaluru Urban) in order to secure a bed at one of the seven government hospitals accepting Covid-19 patients in the city. If a patient doesn’t have a BU number, a letter from their District Health Officer (DHO) stating the necessity of admission in Bengaluru has to be presented, a cumbersome rule that proved costly for Sayeed (name changed), who tested positive for Covid-19. The 58-year-old resident of Ramanagara district sought to get a bed at K C General hospital in Bengaluru, but was turned away because he did not have a letter from the Ramanagara DHO. “Out of options, he was forced to take a bed in a multispeciality hospital in the city which charged him Rs 1.5 lakh for Covid medical care for a two-day period,” said the patient’s attender. Several officers of the government hospitals that DH spoke to confirmed that patients without BU numbers cannot be admitted, and that this especially pertains to patients from otherdistricts. “This requirement was set up to prevent private hospitals from sending Covid-19 patients en-masse to government centres in Bengaluru as it would overwhelm existing bed numbers,” explained Dr Radhakrishna H R, Medical Superintendent of C V Raman Hospital. But one government source termed the requirement outrageous, as it consumes too much time. “There is no law that says that a Bengaluru hospital bed is only for a resident of Bengaluru. We are all operating under the aegis of the National Disaster Management Act, and that act is applicable across all districts,” the source said. The source added that Sayeed had sought a bed in the city because there are no doctors on Covid duty during the night hours at Ramnagara’s district hospital. He has since been shifted to Victoria Hospital. Dr B R Venkateshaiah, the medical superintendent of K C General, confirmed that the hospital was not taking out-of-district patients without the respective DHO’s letter. This letter is subsequently sent to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, which allots the bed. “Out-of-district patients must have a valid reason for trying to get a bed at a city hospital. If this requirement is not there, we would get many patients from other districts,” Dr Venkateshaiah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-bed-rule-in-bengaluru-proving-costly-for-patients-from-districts-964827.html
22-03-2021||State||Inclusion of more castes will deny reservation for actual beneficiaries: U T Khader||Mangalore MLA U T Khader said that if the government includes several communities under the 2A category of backward classes, the actual backward classes will be deprived of reservation. "If the government includes the Panchamasali community under Category 2A, then backward castes in Poojaru, Theeya, Ganiga, Gatti, Achari, and others in Dakshina Kannada and other districts will face injustice," he said. He also said that several communities are seeking reservations because of the BJP’s dual stand. "As they promised of providing reservations to certain communities prior to the elections, people are demanding the same. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that backward communities do not face any injustice. MLAs and MP from the district are silent on the issue. They should come to save the interest of the backward classes," he said.  “The state government has stopped scholarship programmes that were given to the students. As a result, the student community is affected," Khader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/inclusion-of-more-castes-will-deny-reservation-for-actual-beneficiaries-u-t-khader-964924.html
22-03-2021||State||Farmer associations call for Karnataka bandh on March 26||Leading a massive protest rally of farmers against the state government on Monday in Bengaluru, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait called on the agrarian community to get their produce to Vidhana Soudha for selling. Appealing to the farmers to scale up their protests, Tikait said that if Karnataka farmers were unable to come to New Delhi, a new Kisan Morcha could be launched in Bengaluru itself. Addressing the protesting farmers at the Raitha Mahapanchayat at Freedom Park, Tikait said, “If any police personnel stops you while carrying your agriculture produce, tell them that as per the new amendment you can sell the commodities anywhere not necessarily in APMC only. If they still refuse to listen to it, then sell it on the spot or otherwise convert police stations into markets.” Hitting out at the Centre against its politics in the name of religion, Tikait lashed out, “Today, political cards are played in the name of Rama. But all of us have to march further by shouting slogans--Jai Ram-Jai Bheem and Allah-Hu-Akbar -Har Har Mahadev.’  Voluntary bandh  Various farmer associations came together to issue a call for voluntary bandh on March 26, to support the bandh call given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha protesting in Delhi. Farmers leaders from the state held an open meeting with Dr Darshan Pal of Samyukta Kisan Morcha, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Rakesh Singh Tikait and Yuddhveer Singh on Monday. “A declaration was made in the presence of the Delhi leaders that farmers from Karnataka will take part in the bandh, which will be voluntary in nature. We ask for the support of all the people,” a coordinator of the meet told DH. Traffic comes to halt Traffic movement in and around the central business district (CBD) came to a grinding halt with hundreds of farmers hitting the street to protest against the state and Central government. Farmers began a protest march from city railway station to Vidhana Soudha. With the police prevented them from marching towards Vidhana Soudha, the adjoining areas were choked with traffic for more than two hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/farmer-associations-call-for-karnataka-bandh-on-march-26-965165.html
22-03-2021||State||Karnataka to face Covid-19 vaccine shortage for 2 days: Here's why||Karnataka is currently facing vaccine shortage with many primary health centres (PHCs) in the state having run out of stock while a few districts having stock that could last for one or two days. Health Secretary Jawaid Akhtar has said this shortage will be there for two days and that requests for additional supplies has already been made to the Centre. In a meeting with all district health officers on Sunday, Akhtar instructed them to redistribute vials from PHCs that have stock to those where stocks have dried up. Ballari District Immunisation Officer Dr Anil Kumar said, “We already distributed the 8,000 doses, which is enough for Tuesday. From Wednesday, we will have no doses left. The government said it would take two days to supply. There are as many as 113 centres and there are PHCs that have suspended vaccination due to want of stock.” The story of Kolar district is no different. Immunisation Officer Dr Vijayakumari M said the district has run out of stock. “We can vaccinate people only till tomorrow (Tuesday). Everyday we need a minimum of 7,500 doses at least and we don’t even have that quantity for Tuesday.  The government said it will send 4,200 doses but that is not enough to meet our daily requirement,” she said. Speaking to DH, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health, said, “Vaccine shortage will be there for two days. We have already requested the Government of India for supplies and they have also allocated. We are waiting for the consignments to come. Right now, the districts have been instructed to shift vaccines from centres where consumption is less to the places where the requirement is more. Locally, we have asked them to manage.” “We have not received any tentative date on when the next tranche will be sent. We are pressing for early supplies,” he said. State has so far received 37 lakh doses of vaccine. Widening of the time gap between Covishield’s first dose and second dose from four weeks to eight weeks, as allowed by the Centre on Monday, will help as this will enable the state to prioritise the first dose, he said. Dr Janardhan HL, District Immunisation Officer, Hassan, said, "We will run out of stock tomorrow (Tuesday), and have already redistributed stock. Out of 82,000 doses received from January 15, we have vaccinated more than 65,000 at 129 vaccination sites. We have to rely on buffer stock that will be exhausted on Tuesday."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-face-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-for-2-days-heres-why-965167.html
22-03-2021||State||Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan rules out closure of colleges as Karnataka sees Covid second wave||Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan on Monday clarified that no college will be closed due to the Covid-19 second wave. Academic circles across the state were abuzz with the rumours of the closure of colleges after several colleges reported multiple fresh cases of Covid-19 in the last few days. Speaking to media persons at Vidhana Soudha on the sidelines of launching an online coaching platform for CET students, Narayan said, “We have already suffered for a year and it shall not repeat again. No college will be closed in any part of the state.” When asked about Covid positive cases in some colleges in and around Bengaluru, he said, “Offline classes are not mandatory for any student. They can attend classes online as well. But either way, attendance will be mandatory. The individual education institutes must address the situation with better planning and preparedness by scaling up testing, ensuring sanitization, thermal check and physical distance on campuses.’ Appealing to the teaching community to make use of the vaccine facilities, Narayan said, “The colleges and institutions must put in place all safety measures and the teaching and non-teaching staff of the colleges belonging to the priority group must undergo vaccination. There is no logic in closing the colleges citing the onset of the second wave of Covid-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/deputy-chief-minister-dr-ashwath-narayan-rules-out-closure-of-colleges-as-karnataka-sees-covid-second-wave-965170.html
22-03-2021||State||'Wild Karnataka', 'Akshi' bag national awards||Wildlife documentary ‘Wild Karnataka’ clinched a double while Kannada film industry’s ace action choreographer Vikram Mor emerged winner for the second consecutive time at the National Film Awards. Directed by the Bengaluru-based duo of Amoghavarsha and Kalyan Varma, ‘Wild Karnataka’ was adjudged the best ‘Exploration Film’ in the non-feature film competition on Monday. Celebrated broadcaster and natural historian Sir David Attenborough was declared the ‘Best Narrator/Voice-over Artist’ for the documentary. “To be recognised by the government and receive such an honour is a great validation for our effort. The award, in fact, goes to our state and the forest department, for preserving wildlife,” Amoghavarsha told DH. The documentary, which enjoyed a 50-day run in theatres in 2019, is being streamed on the Discovery Channel. Vikram Mor, who bagged his maiden National Award for the Kannada magnum opus ‘KGF Chapter: 1’, was thrilled to retain the prize. His work in the blockbuster ‘Avane Srimannarayana’, a fantasy-adventure film directed by Sachin Ravi, was adjudged the best in the ‘Stunt Choreography’ section.   “I don’t have words to express my happiness. We took a lot of time to make this ambitious film. But we were very precise. I dedicate the award to the team and hero Rakshit (Shetty) sir, who fought many challenges in the stunt sequences,” said Vikram. Manoj Kumar’s ‘Akshi’ was chosen as the Best Kannada Film. The debutant’s movie, which is yet to hit the theatres, spoke about the importance of eye donation. The film’s song ‘Kannigagi Kannugala’, sung by the late S P Balasubrahmanyam and Manasa Holla, was released by PRK Audio last week. “When the great Dr Rajkumar passed away, we realised he had donated his eyes. That’s when I was inspired to make this film,” said Manoj. Preetham Shetty’s ‘Pingara’ won the Best Tulu Film award. “The Tulu film industry recently completed 50 years. So, this recognition couldn’t have come at a better time. This award is for the Tulu language,” said Preetham. The film, which is a gripping take on caste in society, won the ‘NETPAC International Jury’ award at the Bangalore International Film Festival last year. Kannada filmmaker and writer P R Ramadas Naidu’s ‘Jagathika Cinema Vikasa-Prerane Prabhava’ received a special mention in the “Best Book on Cinema” section.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/wild-karnataka-akshi-bag-national-awards-965172.html
22-03-2021||State||Delimitation: Karnataka govt to issue revised guidelines||The state government will issue revised guidelines for delimitation of taluk and zilla panchayat constituencies, after elected representatives raised complaints about shortcomings in the process. Raising the issue during Zero Hour in the Legislative Assembly, BJP MLA V Sunil Kumar said that guidelines for the delimitation of taluk and zilla panchayat constituencies were rife with flaws. Addressing concerns over the exercise, he said that approving the exercise would make administration difficult in the coming days. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri observed that geographical delimitation had caused problems and warned of major confusion during ZP and TP elections if the concerns were not addressed.  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said that the Commission was entrusted with the delimitation task, and state government could only issue directions to DCs about change in guidelines. Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that he would consult with the State Election Commission and ensure "scientific" delimitation of constituencies ahead of polls. He also assured that delimitation guidelines will be revised by March 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/delimitation-karnataka-govt-to-issue-revised-guidelines-965176.html
22-03-2021||State||Amendment to Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act challenged in High Court||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered notice to the state government in a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) challenging the February 18, 2021, notification under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act. As per the amendment, an offence punishable under Section 5 (3A) of the Act is permitted to be compounded by way of collection of penalty. In the previous hearings, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka had observed that the state government was not taking any action on setting criminal law in motion for offences punishable under the said Act on the ground that an ordinance is proposed.  The PIL filed by Letzkit Foundation, a Bengaluru-based NGO, said that while no further notification has been issued empowering the officers who could compound the offence, the authorities have already started permitting compounding of the offences. The petitioner submitted that compounding of an offence is like an agreement entered into between the offender and the state by which the case gets closed. The petitioner said that while there may not be any case pending against a common citizen, there are dozens of cases pending investigation against VIPs and celebrities. “Thus, the very fact of giving retrospective validity to the amended provision is only to ensure that none of such VIPs are punished by a court of law. The necessity to amend the Act became crystal clear once this Hon’ble Court issued multiple directions to register criminal cases against the violators,” the petition said. Meanwhile, the court wondered how the state government could compound an offence without even registering the basic first information report (FIR). The bench was referring to a protest rally held by Panchamasali community in Bengaluru city on February 21. The state government submitted that they have collected Rs 10,000 as penalty from a representative of the organisers of the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/amendment-to-karnataka-epidemic-diseases-act-challenged-in-high-court-965177.html
22-03-2021||State||Joint House panel to probe lapses in nursing colleges in Karnataka||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced a Joint House Committee to probe alleged irregularities in nursing colleges in Karnataka. The decision came after JD(S) MLCs took to protest in the Legislative Council for the third day in a row, demanding a House Committee.  The Chief Minister first announced a committee led by a retired High Court judge. However, the JD(S) MLCs insisted on a House Committee and refused to withdraw their protest. To end the stalemate, Council chairperson Basavaraj Horatti adjourned the session briefly, calling the ruling and opposition party representatives for a consensus.  Following this, Yediyurappa relented and announced the House Committee.  Last week, the government had announced a departmental inquiry into the issue, in response to the MLCs' demands. The protest led by JD(S) MLCs began in the Upper House on Thursday. With the state government initially refusing to constitute a House Committee, the MLCs continued their protest. It all began with a question in this regard raised by BJP MLC N Ravikumar. The legislator argued that there were several nursing colleges in Karnataka flouting norms, operating without licenses where students came only once a year to write their exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/joint-house-panel-to-probe-lapses-in-nursing-colleges-in-karnataka-965179.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal claims Yediyurappa's exit inevitable||Launching yet another tirade against Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, rebel BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on Sunday said that a change of guard in the state was "inevitable" after the elections to five states, as the BJP could not go for the next polls under his leadership. "This Chief Minister will be changed for sure. If the BJP goes for election with him, then defeat is guaranteed," Yatnal, who has been targetting Yediyurappa on a regular basis, told reporters. He even said if the BJP has to survive in Karnataka, Yediyurappa's exit was essential. According to the MLA, change will happen after the elections to the five states are over. Accusing the CM of being 'partial,' he said the allocation of funds to MLAs was 'unequal'. "He (Yediyurappa) doesn't distribute funds equally to the MLAs. He gives funds to only 38 MLAs of BJP and 40 MLAs of Congress and JD(S)," Yatnal alleged. To substantiate his claim, Yatnal said Yediyurappa gave Rs 220 crore for airport in Vijayapura whereas for the one in his hometown Shivamogga, he allotted Rs 380 crore. For irrigation, Rs 25,000 crore was supposed to be allocated, but in the budget this time Rs 5,600 crore was only earmarked, he added. Stressing the need to raise voice against injustice, the rebel MLA said, "He (Yediyurappa) is not the last Chief Minister of BJP in South India. For the next 20 to 30 years, a BJP chief minister has to rule. So we have to choose someone who can do that." The Vijayapura BJP MLA and former union minister has been up in arms against Yediyurappa since the time he expanded his cabinet excluding Yatnal. Several MLAs loyal to Yediyurappa had been asking the party high command to take action against him and put an end to his accusations. The party high command had issued a show cause notice to Yatnal and the MLA gave a reply too. However, no decision has been taken any yet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/basanagouda-patil-yatnal-claims-yediyurappas-exit-inevitable-964820.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka launches online coaching programme for CET, NEET and JEE||Providing an online coaching platform to students to prepare for Common Entrance Test (CET), National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and Joint Entrance Exam (JEE), the state government on Monday launched ‘GetCETGo’ platform close on the lines of last year’s initiative. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa launched the special online coaching platform in Bengaluru. Launching the online initiative, CM Yediyurappa said, “Last year we had focused only on CET and NEET coaching. But this year we have included coaching for JEE exams as well. All students must make use of this facility.” Adding further, the Chief Minister pointed, “The initiative has come in handy for the students from a poor socioeconomic background. Alongside the coaching, students can also avail the facility of Learning Management System (LMS).” Explaining the initiative, Deputy Chief Minister Dr Ashwath Naryan said, “The GetCETGo online coaching will be made available all through the year by the Karnataka Examination Authority (KEA) from the forthcoming academic year. We are taking this step with the objective of helping more and more students from Karnataka get into IITs. This will definitely help the students of Karnataka in securing more ranks at JEE and NEET examinations.” The platform has been designed on the concept - Learn, Revise and Test. The platform has all the relevant study materials pertaining to JEE, NEET and CET including videos, a summary of the lessons, study materials and a mock-examination facility. “Karnataka is the first state in the country to have implemented this model,” Deputy Chief Minister revealed. Any student aspiring to appear for CET examination conducted by the KEA can get admission to the online platform by registering the personal details. “Students can get coaching either through the Website, YouTube or GetCETGo app. The app is available on both the android and iOs platform or they can log into getcetgo.in the portal for more details,” Dr Ashwath Narayan said. Last year about two lakh students had availed of the training that was imparted by the Deeksha Institute and the same institute will be providing coaching this year as well. “Keeping in mind the Covid pandemic scenario and understanding the plight of parents and students, the state government has decided to continue the platform,” an official explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-launches-online-coaching-programme-for-cet-neet-and-jee-965038.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||120 bus services to Maharashtra stopped: NWKRTC MD Krishna Bajpai||North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) Managing Director Krishna Bajpai said the corporation has stopped 120 schedules of bus services between Karnataka and Maharashtra owing to an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring state. Speaking to media persons here on Monday, he said the state government has decided to keep a strict vigil on the movement of passengers between the two states, as Maharashtra has not made RT-PCR test mandatory for travelling. “With the number of cases rising in Maharashtra, it was decided to reduce the number of bus schedule from Belagavi, Chikkodi, Gadag, Vijaypur, Haveri, Bagalkot and Dharwad districts to Maharashtra,” he said and added that another reason for reducing the schedule is the lesser number of passengers movement. “Not even 60% of the pre-Covid-19 level passengers are travelling between the two states,” he said and added that out of the 500 odd buses that ply between the two states every day, NWKRTC has decided to stop 120 schedules till Holi festival. Traffic controllers of each division will take a call on the number of buses that can ply to neighbouring state. He said they will also keep in mind the recent trouble that was created by the Shiva Sena members at the Belagavi border. No fare hike Bajpai also clarified that as of now, there will be no hike the fare price of buses. “With the state government deciding to lift the excess burden of fuel price hike, the corporation has decided against fare hike,” he said and added that in last few months the prices of fuel has gone up by nearly 15% and there was at least need to increase the prices of ticket by 8%. Compared to pre-Covid-19 levels, the NWKRTC is witnessing only 60% of the passenger load. Earlier, every day the 4,300 buses used to commute nearly 17 lakh km, carrying 22 lakh passengers. However, now every day the corporation is carrying only 14 lakh passengers and commuting nearly 13 lakh km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/120-bus-services-to-maharashtra-stopped-nwkrtc-md-krishna-bajpai-965103.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to make rainwater usage mandatory||The Cabinet on Monday is said to have approved a new law that will mandate all large buildings in Bengaluru to use rainwater that is harvested.  According to sources, the Cabinet approved the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (Amendment) Bill. With this, all large buildings constructed in an area of 10,000 sq ft and above will have to compulsorily make use of harvested rainwater by installing a dual-pipe system.  At present, the BWSSB has already made rainwater harvesting mandatory for all buildings. However, a majority of them drain the collected rainwater leading to wastage of pure and clean water, according to BWSSB officials. Speaking to DH, BWSSB chairman N Jayaram said, "Many buildings collect rainwater and then let it into the drain system. Not only is this a waste of pure water but we end up spending extra to treat this water as it is let into the drainage. To stop this, we are insisting on a dual-pipe system." Accordingly, buildings will have to implement a two-pipe system, one for regular water and another that can be used for toilets, gardening and the like. The Bill, once passed, will be applicable to all new buildings, according to Jayaram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-make-rainwater-usage-mandatory-965114.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||50% cap on quota needs reconsideration, Karnataka govt tells Supreme Court||The Karnataka government on Monday told the Supreme Court, that the 1992 Indra Sawhney (Mandal Commission) judgement by a nine-judge bench, fixing 50% cap on reservation had to be reconsidered due to subsequent developments and change in social dynamics. "Constitutional goal of social transformation cannot be achieved without taking into account the social dynamics and changing social realities and recognising the duty of the State to provide succour to its backward classes," it said. Favouring more than 50% reservation in jobs and education, the B S Yeddyurappa government said if the court felt that there was no need to refer the judgement to larger bench, then the court should declare that it would be open for the states to exceed the quota in a given case, depending upon the necessity and quantifiable data. "The experience of the state in providing reservations to the backward classes of citizens demonstrates that there is a necessity to provide quota in excess of 50%," a written submissions filed by advocate Shubhranshu Padhi on behalf of the state said. The government's response was filed in view of questions framed by a five-judge bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan while examining the Maharashtra law on providing reservation to Maratha community. Citing the 103rd Constitutional Amendment on 10% Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota, the state government said the Constitution itself now permitted reservation beyond 50%. It also referred to the S V Joshi case (2012) to point out that the Supreme Court itself clearly laid down that reservation beyond 50% was permissible. The state also maintained social realities and dynamics have also undergone tremendous changes over the past several decades, which itself was a ground to revisit the Indra Sawhney judgement. "The Mandal Commission which quantified reservation for backward classes to 52% was relying upon older caste wise enumeration of population as far back as 1931. There has been a huge change in size of population over the last 40 years," it said. Asserting that Articles 15 and 16 did not provide any ceiling on reservation for the SC/ST and OBCs, the Karnataka government said several states have provided reservation of more than 50%. The state also maintained that the 102nd Amendment granting constitutional status to the National Commission for Backward Classes did not alter the power of the state to enact a legislation determining the socially and economically backward classes and conferring the benefits of the said community under its enabling power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/50-cap-on-quota-needs-reconsideration-karnataka-govt-tells-supreme-court-965115.html
22-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Commission begins hearing on quota demands in Karnataka||The Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes, on Monday, started its 3-day public hearing on the demands made by various communities seeking a revision in their quota.  Speaking to DH, Commission chairperson Jayaprakash Hegde said that demands of the Panchamasali Lingayat community were heard on Day One. “We will hear from the nomadic tribes on the second day. The third day will be reserved for those communities opposing the reservation demands of Panchamasalis,” he said. Leaders of the Panchamasali Lingayat community are rallying for category 2A (15%) reservation. They currently come under category 3B (5%). Mines and Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani, a Panchamasali Lingayat who attended the hearing, said that he requested the Commission to identify all smaller sub-castes in the Veerashaiva-Lingayat sect to provide reservation. “The Backward Classes Commission is seeking opinions from all communities. We are confident that it will ensure social justice,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/commission-begins-hearing-on-quota-demands-in-karnataka-965173.html
22-03-2021||West||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray calls review meeting of Law and Judiciary Department||Amid the ongoing controversy surrounding Sachin Vaze, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has called a review meeting of the state's Law and Judiciary Department today, at his residence. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray calls a review meeting of the state's Law and Judiciary Department today, at his residence. Meanwhile, the NCP on Sunday ruled out the resignation of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh claiming that the allegations against him were “diversionary tactics” to shift focus from Mansukh Hiren's death and recovery of explosives outside Mukesh Ambani's residence. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-chief-minister-uddhav-thackeray-calls-review-meeting-of-law-and-judiciary-department-964927.html
22-03-2021||West||Rupee rises 6 paise against US dollar in early trade||The rupee appreciated by 6 paise to 72.46 against the US dollar in opening trade on Monday, supported by sustained foreign fund inflows and lower crude prices. However, muted opening in domestic equities and a strong dollar overseas weighed on the rupee, forex traders said. At the interbank forex market, the local unit opened strong at 72.47 against the US dollar and gained further ground to quote at 72.46, a rise of 6 paise over its previous close. In the previous session, the rupee had settled at 72.52 against the American currency. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have bought close to a net $2.5 billion worth of Indian equities so far this month. FPIs bought a net $179.40 million as of March 18, 2021. For the month of March, FPIs were net buyers of a total of $2.454 billion, Reliance Securities said in a note. “The dollar moved higher after the Turkish Lira weakened against the greenback by 15 per cent after Turkey’s President Erdogan replaced the hawkish central bank governor with a critic of high-interest rates. Worries that events in Turkey could cause disruptions in other financial markets also supported the dollar,” it added. Meanwhile, the Asian currencies were weak this Monday morning and will weigh on sentiments, the note said. On the domestic equity market front, the 30-share BSE benchmark Sensex was trading 124.35 points lower at 49,733.89, and the broader NSE Nifty fell 11.80 points to 14,732.20 in early deals. Meanwhile, the dollar index, which gauges the greenback's strength against a basket of six currencies, rose 0.08 per cent to 91.99. The global oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.39 per cent to $64.28 per barrel. Foreign institutional investors were net buyers in the capital market on Friday as they bought shares worth Rs 1,418.43 crore, as per exchange data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rupee-rises-6-paise-against-us-dollar-in-early-trade-964936.html
22-03-2021||West||A threat note, death, cop transfers and political row: The Param Bir Singh case so far||As the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government battles former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has called a review meeting of the state's Law and Judiciary Department on Monday at his residence. The MVA government which comprises Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, has been trying to grapple with the political storm as the opposition BJP staging protests in various cities demanding Deshmukh's resignation. Here is what has happened so far in the Param Bir Singh case: 2. Senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale has replaced Singh as Mumbai police commissioner. 3. On March 20, in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh said he was made a scapegoat and alleged that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers including Sachin Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore per month, half of it from nearly 1,750 bars, restaurants and similar establishments operating in Mumbai. 4. Countering the allegations, Deshmukh said that Singh was transferred in view of "serious and unforgivable mistakes" committed by some colleagues of the top cop. The Home Minister had also denied the allegations of corruption raised against him. He had said that he will file a defamation case against Singh for accusing him of corruption. 5. Two days after Param Bir Singh was shunted out from the post of Mumbai police commissioner, the Shiv Sena defended him saying that his transfer does not make him a criminal, and alleged that a "particular lobby in Delhi" was upset with him as the TRP scam came to light during his tenure. 6. On March 21, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut admitted that the allegations made by Singh against minister Anil Deshmukh, and the Sachin Vaze case have tainted the image of the MVA government in the state, and said all allies need to introspect if their feet are on the ground. 7. Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, state unit NCP chief Jayant Patil, and Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut separately met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Delhi in view of Singh's allegations against Deshmukh. The home department of the state belongs to the Sharad Pawar led-NCP.  8. BJP leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis sought Deshmukh's resignation over the claims made by the IPS officer. 9. Dismissing a rift among the MVA allies, Shiv Sena on March 22 said the govt enjoys a "good majority" and it will not fall because of "one official". 10. Maharashtra BJP delegation will be meeting Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on March 24 over the present situation in Maharashtra. 11. Param Bir Singh on March 22 filed a plea in the Supreme Court seeking a probe into the allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Who is Sachin Vaze? Former Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the recovery of explosives-laden Scorpio near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence. Vaze, an "encounter specialist", has also been facing heat in the murder case of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, from whose possession the SUV had been allegedly stolen. Hiren was found dead in a creek in the Thane district on March 5. The NIA has also taken over the case related to Hiren. Facing heat over the Mansukh Hiren death case, Vaze had met Param Bir Singh at the city police headquarters before his arrest. (With PTI/ANI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/a-threat-note-death-cop-transfers-and-political-row-the-param-bir-singh-case-so-far-964947.html
22-03-2021||West||Elgar Parishad case: Court denies bail to activist Stan Swamy||A special NIA court here on Monday rejected the bail plea filed by tribal rights activist Stan Swamy, arrested in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. Additional sessions court judge Judge DE Kothalikar rejected bail pleas of 83-year-old Swamy on merits as well as well as on medical grounds. Swamy, a Jesuit priest and activist, was arrested from Ranchi in October, 2020, and has since been lodged at the Taloja Central Jail in Navi Mumbai. As per his lawyers, Swamy is suffering from Parkinson's disease and he has lost the ability to hear from both his ears. He also suffers from several other ailments. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) had opposed Swamy's bail plea saying probe had revealed that Swamy was a staunch supporter of organisations such as 'Vistapan Virodhi Jan Vikas Andolan' and 'People's Union for Civil Liberties', which were working as "fronts of the CPI (Maoist)". Swamy's lawyer Sharif Shaikh had argued that the NIA had failed to establish Swamy's connection to the Elgar Parishad-Maoists links case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elgar-parishad-case-court-denies-bail-to-activist-stan-swamy-964951.html
22-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh's letter dented Maharashtra Home Department's image: Shiv Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government enjoys "good majority" and it will not fall because of "one official" even as it admitted that ex-Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's allegations of corruption against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh have maligned the image of the latter's department. The Sena also said this issue has now become a "matter of prestige" for the party-led government, a day after Sharad Pawar-led Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) ruled out resignation of Deshmukh. In the editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', the party said a fire will erupt if the BJP tries to undermine the majority enjoyed by the MVA government. The MVA comprises the Sena, NCP and Congress. A major political storm erupted in Maharashtra after Singh wrote a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray last week claiming that Deshmukh had asked police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50-60 crore from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Singh was recently shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner in the midst of a probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the recovery of an explosives- laden SUV from outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month. Deshmukh had said that Singh was transferred in view of "serious and unforgivable mistakes" committed by some colleagues of the top cop. The home minister had also denied the allegations of corruption raised against him. The hue and cry being generated by the BJP over Singh's letter seems to be part of a conspiracy, the Sena said, adding the letter came close on heels of Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Delhi last week. "It seems to be the goal of the BJP to impose President's rule in Maharashtra by contending that law and order situation is not right. For this, new pawns are being created. It is clear, Singh is being used in that manner," it said. Singh, whose suspension the BJP was seeking over the bomb scare outside Ambani's residence, has now become a "darling" of the opposition party which is now targeting the government by keeping the gun on his shoulder, the edit said. The Sena, however, admitted that Singh's allegations against Deshmukh have "definitely maligned" the image of the state home department and that they have given a tool to the Opposition to target the government. "It (the overall issue) is now become a matter of the government's prestige," the Sena said. ".....The MVA enjoys a good majority even today. Fire will erupt if (you) try to undermine that majority. This is not a warning, but a fact. The Opposition should not forget that governments are not formed and don't fall because of one official," it added. The Sena further said that Singh making allegations against Deshmukh in the letter and "leaking" the same to the media was not in line with discipline. Hailing Singh as a "dynamic" officer, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said Singh had discharged several responsibilities in a "very good" manner. Mumbai Police carried out a proper probe into the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput under Singh's leadership, the Sena said and praised him for handling the Kangana Ranaut episode well. "..It is true that the Opposition has made allegations against him (Singh) in connection with the 'Antilia' (Ambani's residence) episode, but it is not right to level allegations against the government," the Sena added. The Sena alleged that the BJP was using Singh to defame the state government. "Reacting to Singh's letter, Deshmukh on Saturday said that Singh was raising such accusations to save his skin in police officer Sachin Waze (arrested by the NIA in connection with the bomb scare case). "If this (Deshmukh's comment) is true, then the BJP is using Singh to defame the Maharashtra government," the Sena said. The party alleged that it was the BJP's policy to not only defame the government, but to cause trouble in its functioning. "The Opposition party has been making the extreme use of Central probe agencies in Maharashtra. It seems the Centre may send CBI or NIA in the state even if four hens and two crows die due to electric shock somewhere," the edit said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singhs-letter-dented-maharashtra-home-departments-image-shiv-sena-964954.html
22-03-2021||West||Deshmukh was in quarantine: Pawar rejects Param Bir Singh's allegations||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Monday rejected the claims of Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh, who alleged that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh was corrupt and wanted police officers to collect money. Param Bir Singh, who was under flak over the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze in the case related to the bomb scare near Mukesh Ambani's house Antilia, was transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to the low-key Home Guards on March 17. On March 20, in a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh said he was made a scapegoat and alleged that Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers including Sachin Vaze to collect Rs 100 crore per month, half of it from nearly 1,750 bars, restaurants and similar establishments operating in Mumbai. Pawar said that Deshmukh was in the hospital when Param Bir Singh claimed Vaze had met him in mid-February. He also produced certificates from Alexis Hospital where Deshmukh was recuperating from Covid-19. Deshmukh was in the hospital from February 5-15 and later in home quarantine till February 27, according to his claims. Where is the question of inquiry when the allegations against Deshmukh by Parambir Singh have been found wrong? Pawar asked. (With agency inputs) More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/deshmukh-was-in-quarantine-pawar-rejects-param-bir-singhs-allegations-964958.html
22-03-2021||West||Former Mumbai Commissioner Param Bir Singh moves SC for CBI probe against Anil Deshmukh||Days after his letter with explosive contents, senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh on Monday approached the Supreme Court for a CBI probe into "various corrupt malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh". Singh, who triggered massive political storm in the state, also asked the court to quash the March 17 order transferring him from the post of Police Commissioner, Mumbai to head of Homeguards as illegal and arbitrary. He claimed his transfer was "more of a politically influenced move by certain political parties, aggrieved by the revelation of the corrupt practices of Deshmukh to senior leaders and the Chief Minister." He said since the Maharasthra government had withdrawn its consent to the CBI, there was no other equally efficacious remedy for him than to approach the top court. Reiterating his allegations, Singh said Deshmukh had been holding meetings in February, 2021 at his residence with police officers including arrested API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai and Sanjay Patil, ACP Social Service Branch, Mumbai, bypassing their seniors and had instructed them that he had a target to accumulate Rs 100 crores every month and had directed to collect money from various establishments and other sources. In his writ petition, he also alleged that on August 24-25, 2020, one Rashmi Shukla, the Commissioner Intelligence, State Intelligence Department had brought to the notice of the Director General of Police, who in turn brought it to the knowledge of the Addl Chief Secretary Home Department, Government of Maharashtra about malpractices in postings by Deshmukh based on telephonic interception, but she was shunted out. "The Home Minister in calling and directly instructing the officers of lower rank such as Vaze or Patil for his malicious intent of extorting money from establishments across Mumbai and from other sources, interfering in the investigations and directing it to be conducted in a particular manner, and corrupt malpractices in posting and transfers of officers, cannot be countenanced or justified in any democratic State," his plea stated. He apprehended if immediate directions for CBI probe was not ordered, the CCTV camera footage at Deshmukh's residence may be destroyed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/former-mumbai-commissioner-param-bir-singh-moves-sc-for-cbi-probe-against-anil-deshmukh-964973.html
22-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh takes charge as DG of Maharashtra Home Guard||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh on Monday took charge as the Director General (DG) of Maharashtra Home Guard, a police official said. Singh reached the Home Guard office in south Mumbai around noon but avoided speaking to media persons. Under flak for "mishandling" of the bomb scare outside Mukesh Ambani's residence here, the Maharashtra government on March 17 transferred Singh from the post and appointed senior IPS officer Hemant Nagrale, who was holding additional charge of Maharashtra DGP, as the new commissioner of Mumbai Police. Days after he was shunted out, Singh wrote a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray alleging that state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had asked Sachin Vaze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had denied these allegations. The NIA is probing Waze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside Ambani's residence on February 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-takes-charge-as-dg-of-maharashtra-home-guard-964985.html
22-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh accused of shielding people with underworld links||A suspended inspector of Mumbai Police has alleged that former city police commissioner Param Bir Singh had tried to shield some people having underworld links from law when he was DG of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). The policeman also alleged that Singh's aide had demanded a bribe of Rs 2 crore to reinstate him into the police force. Police Inspector Anup Dange, who was attached to Gamdevi police station before he was suspended in July 2020, had written a letter raising allegations against Singh to Maharashtra Additional Chief Secretary, Home, on February 2 this year. Dange said Jeetu Navlani, a pub owner, threatened him on November 22, 2019, when he was trying to get pubs closed on time in posh Breach Candy area in Mumbai. Dange stated that Navlani tried to pressurise him by claiming close links with Param Bir Singh, who was then DG, ACB. He stated that on November 22, 2019, an altercation broke out among three guests of Navlani at his pub and they started fighting. When constable Santosh Pawar intervened, he was assaulted by Yash Rajiv Mehta, grandson of film and diamond financier Bharat Shah, Dange stated, adding that he registered an FIR in the matter. After a while, Bharat Shah himself came to the police station and tried to convince Dange to release Yash Mehta, Dange claimed. When Dange refused to oblige, Shah, his son Rajiv Shah and grandson Yash Mehta assaulted him, the letter stated. Subsequently, Dange registered a second FIR. On February 29, 2020, Param Bir Singh took charge as commissioner of Mumbai Police. Singh ordered that no chargesheet be filed in the Navlani case, Dange stated. He also claimed that Singh met Navlani at a private flat located on the first floor of Moti Mahal building opposite the Marine Drive police station. He stated that Navlani acted as liaison for Bharat Shah. The flat is rented by Shardul Singh Bayas, who claims himself to be a cousin of Singh, the letter said. Dange stated that Navlani wanted his name to be dropped from the chargesheet. He claimed that Bayas demanded Rs 50 lakh from him to avoid a punishment posting. In July 2020, Dange was suspended. He claimed in the letter that Bayas demanded Rs 2 crore for reinstating him in the police force. He said that "Shah, Navlani are dubious characters with Underworld links". Dange further stated that an ongoing departmental inquiry against him be transferred to any IAS officer. Singh was last week transferred from the post of Mumbai police commissioner in the midst of a probe by the NIA into the recovery of an explosives-laden SUV which was found parked outside the south Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-accused-of-shielding-people-with-underworld-links-964992.html
22-03-2021||West||Did Param Bir Singh write letter under pressure? Maharashtra Congress minister Balasaheb Thorat asks||Former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh might have written the letter raising corruption allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh "out of some pressure", state minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat said on Monday. In a video message, Thorat said Congress' Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil held discussions with party leaders in the state over the controversy and tried to understand their views. "HK Patil spoke to us over the issue yesterday from Delhi. He tried to understand our views. He tried to understand the chronology," Thorat added. Thorat said if any decision is to be taken in connection with this episode it will be taken after Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA`) constituents Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress hold discussions. In his eight-page letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Singh on Saturday claimed Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. Deshmukh had dismissed Singh's allegations as baseless. "The matter is being probed properly. We have doubts about the motive behind Singh's letter. It is our view today that Singh might have written the letter out of some pressure," Thorat said. To a question whether Deshmukh should step down following Singh's allegation, Thorat said it will be "wrong" if a minister is made to resign just because some official makes an allegation. "It is important for us to know what was his (Singh's) motive, whether he was under any pressure," Thorat added. In his letter, Singh had also claimed that Deshmukh wanted a case of abetment to suicide registered in Mumbai after the death of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar in a city hotel last month. Thorat wondered what was wrong in registering the FIR if the incident had taken place in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/did-param-bir-singh-write-letter-under-pressure-maharashtra-congress-minister-balasaheb-thorat-asks-965008.html
22-03-2021||West||Conspiracy to defame Maharashtra government: NCP on Param Bir Singh's letter||Alleging a "conspiracy" to defame the Maharashtra government, senior NCP leader and state minister Nawab Malik on Monday questioned "timing" of former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh's letter in which he accused state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. Malik, who is national spokesperson of the NCP, also said the party has decided that Deshmukh need not resign at this juncture. "A call on Deshmukh's fate will be taken once probe is completed". On Sunday, NCP president Sharad Pawar said Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will decide the fate of Deshmukh. The allegations levelled by Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh are serious and require an in-depth probe, he had said. A major political storm erupted in Maharashtra after Singh, who was recently shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner, wrote a letter to CM Thackeray last week claiming Deshmukh had asked Sachin Vaze, currently in the NIA custody, and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 to Rs 60 crore from bars and hotels in Mumbai. Deshmukh had denied these allegations. "Why Singh did not issue the letter before he was transferred to the Home Guard department. He (Singh) has claimed that (Sachin) Vaze met Deshmukh in the last week of February. Deshmukh was in hospital till February 15. He was in home quarantine till February 27," Malik told a news channel. He said Deshmukh started meeting people from February 28 after testing negative for coronavirus on February 27. "So, this letter raises doubts," Malik added. "The NCP has decided that any decision on the fate of Deshmukh will be taken based on outcome of probe," he said. Malik alleged Singh had been to Delhi and that NCP leaders have information regarding whom he met in the national capital and what discussion took place. "......All this will definitely come up in the discussion in the time to come. A conspiracy was hatched to defame the state government," he alleged. On Sunday, senior NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and state unit president Jayant Patil met Sharad Pawar at his residence in Delhi when it was decided that Deshmukh will not step down. After that meeting, Patil said there was no need to divert attention from the main incident of bomb scare outside Mukesh Ambani's residence and the killing of Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based businessman. The focus is on these two events and after that appropriate steps will be taken, he had said. The NIA is probing Vaze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside Ambani's residence on February 25. The federal agency was handed over the Hiran murder case on Saturday. Hiran was the purported owned of that SUV, a Scorpio.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/conspiracy-to-defame-maharashtra-government-ncp-on-param-bir-singhs-letter-965026.html
22-03-2021||West||BJP wants Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to submit report about corruption||Making a major attempt to push the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government against the wall, the BJP wants Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari to submit a report on the current happenings and situation to President Ram Nath Kovind. A BJP delegation would call on the Governor on Wednesday to discuss the prevailing situation in Maharashtra. “We are not demanding the President's rule….. the Governor, based on truth, principles, and provisions made available in the Constitution, should send a report to the President (on the ongoing happenings),” senior BJP leader and former state Finance and Planning Minister Sudhir Mungantiwar said. According to him, ex-Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh has sent a copy of the letter to the Governor's office that he had sent to Maharashtra Chief Minister complaining about state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. It may be recalled, senior BJP leader Narayan Rane, who is an ex-Chief Minister as well as former Leader of Opposition, had demanded President’s Rule in Maharashtra – and had written a letter to Union Home Minister Amit Shah last week. Mungantiwar during the Budget Session had claimed that the MVA would fall within three months. The development comes a day after, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis called for a high court-monitored probe into Singh’s allegations against Deshmukh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-wants-maharashtra-governor-bhagat-singh-koshyari-to-submit-report-about-corruption-965041.html
22-03-2021||West||VBA demands Prez Rule over allegations on Anil Deshmukh||A Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi delegation led by former Parliamentarian, Prakash Ambedkar, on Monday called on Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and demanded President’s Rule in Maharashtra. “Because of the current situation emerging from the serious allegations, the state should be placed under President’s Rule…however, the Assembly should be kept under suspended animation…may be in next four or five months we can have a government that would look into the interests of people,” said Ambedkar, the grandson of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar. He also said that there should be a probe into the allegations by former Police chief Param Bir Singh to find out whether “collecting money” was the decision of the three parties – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – or the state Cabinet. “If the Governor fails to take action, there would be perception whether the opposition (BJP) is also involved in the scam,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vba-demands-prez-rule-over-allegations-on-anil-deshmukh-965061.html
22-03-2021||West||CBI raids premises of SEBI officials in Saradha chit fund scam||The CBI raided on Monday premises linked to three officials of the country's capital market regulator as part of a probe into a Ponzi scheme run by a local company, a police source with direct knowledge of the matter said. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) raided six premises of the officials who work at the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) in relation to the alleged scam by Kolkata-based Saradha Group that dates back to 2010. It raided the Mumbai premises of three of SEBI's officials who were based out of Kolkata at the time, the police source said on condition of anonymity. The raids were conducted at residences and offices of the SEBI officers who were based out of SEBI's Kolkata office between 2009 and 2013, Indian media reported. Saradha allegedly collected small savings from the public in an unlicensed fund and went bust in 2013 after bad investments in real estate and media, and both SEBI and CBI have been probing the case for years. Saradha denied at the time it was running such a fund. On Monday, SEBI did not respond to a request for comment. The scam wiped out nearly $4 billion of deposits raised from mostly low-income Indians and has led to probes against several high profile politicians, celebrities and even police officials. The raids come against the backdrop of heightened scrutiny of the markets regulator by New Delhi. SEBI recently faced heat from the federal government for introducing new rules on certain bonds valuations, and was also asked to beef up disclosures it makes in its annual reports. CNBC-TV18 on Monday reported that SEBI will make amendments to the recently-issued circular on the valuation of AT-1 bonds that had drawn the ire of the finance ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cbi-raids-premises-of-sebi-officials-in-saradha-chit-fund-scam-965063.html
22-03-2021||West||ATS picks up SIM card provider in Mansukh Hiren death case||Widening the probe to unravel the mystery behind the shocking death of Thane-based business Mansukh Hiren, the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has detained a person from Gujarat who has provided 14 SIM cards to the accused. After the arrest of Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed-convicted police constable on parole, an ATS team rushed to neighbouring Gujarat state. “A person who has provided 14 SIM cards is being investigated,” ATS sources said. An ATS team is also learnt to have visited a godown in Bhiwandi in the Thane district. According to the ATS team, Gor has helped procure the SIM cards for suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been described as the main accused in the case. The SIM card details are helping the ATS to know about the movement of the accused and the digital trail. An NIA team also visited some of the locations in Thane city and district while another visited a five-star hotel in Mumbai, where Vaze used to stay in intervals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ats-picks-up-sim-card-provider-in-mansukh-hiren-death-case-965102.html
22-03-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 24,645 Covid-19 cases; tally crosses 25 lakh-mark||As Maharashtra’s Covid-19 tally crossed the 25-lakh mark on Monday; the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government reiterated that it was open for yet another cities-specific selective lockdown, if needed, to combat the pandemic situation. “The cases are raising, we are hoping that if this is the peak, the cases would come down in the next few days…however, if the cases do not come down then we may have to go in for lockdown in some cities,” state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope told reporters in Mumbai. The cases in cities like Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur are rising fast, he pointed out. According to him, even while combating the spread, the state wants to pursue aggressive vaccination and cover the vulnerable class – frontline workers, senior citizens and people with comorbidities. On Monday, the state recorded 24,645 cases and 58 deaths taking the progressive total to 25,04,327 cases and 53,475 deaths. On the other hand, the financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) recorded 3,262 and 6,212 cases, respectively, pushing the progressive total to 3,65,937 and 8,01,195. “I wish to emphasise that Maharashtra is carrying out all of the steps in a correct and transparent manner,” Tope said and wondered about the reporting of figures in other states. “I saw it on TV. There was a huge turnout, more than 75,000 people and no social distancing during cricket match (in Gujarat). Now, look at the public rallies happening in the election-bound states (West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Puducherry), the rallies are having a huge crowd, no one is wearing masks, there is no social distancing being followed,” he said. Tope said that the government in the state has been repeatedly asking to follow norms. “The Chief Minister requested people to wear masks, sanitize and wash hands and maintain social distancing….Over the last couple of days I had discussions with him, he is worried about the situation,” said Tope.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-24645-covid-19-cases-tally-crosses-25-lakh-mark-965121.html
22-03-2021||West||BJP demands President's rule in Maharashtra; NCP, Sena counter attack||Maharashtra top cop Param Bir Singh's allegations against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday rocked proceedings in the Parliament with BJP demanding imposition of President's rule in the state. NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Shiv Sena launched a sharp counter-attack, ruling out ouster of Deshmukh and accusing Singh, the former Mumbai Police Commissioner, of supporting criminals involved in operating dance bars and harassing policemen probing the case. Addressing a press conference here, Pawar flashed a medical certificate from a Nagpur-based hospital stating that Deshmukh was admitted there for treatment of Covid-19 from February 5 to February 15 and later placed under home quarantine till February 27. Deshmukh hurriedly issued a clarification saying he had interacted with the media after being discharged from hospital and en-route home for staying in self-isolation. “I would like to request the central government to impose President’s Rule in Maharashtra immediately. Maharashtra has become a lawless state. Police are asking for money because the ministers and Chief Minister himself are supporting them,” Bapat, a Lok Sabha member from Pune, said. Shiv Sena floor leader Vinayak Raut rejected the allegations leveled by the BJP and accused the Centre of destabilising the state government led by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi. Both NCP and Shiv Sena accused the BJP of trying to divert the attention from investigation in the cases of recovery of explosives outside Mukesh Ambani's residence and the “assassination” of Mansukh Hiren. “The main case here was not the allegations made by the former Commissioner of Police,” Pawar said adding that the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorist Squad was investigating the cases in the right direction. “I got to know that ATS have arrested two people in connection to this case and investigating their involvement in assassination of late Mansukh Hiren,” the NCP supremo said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-demands-presidents-rule-in-maharashtra-ncp-sena-counter-attack-965145.html
22-03-2021||West||Amaravati MP Navneet Rana accuses Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant of threatening her||Amravati MP Navneet Rana on Monday wrote to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, accusing Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant of threatening her after she raised the Sachin Waze issue in the House. She also sought police action against the south Mumbai MP. After she raised the issue, Sawant threatened her in the Lok Sabha's lobby, saying "I will see how you roam in Maharashtra," Rana alleged. The former Union minister also threatened that she will be put in jail, she claimed. Rana, an independent MP, also said that she had in the past received death and acid attack threats on the Shiv Sena's letterhead and also over phone. "The way Shiv Sena MP Arvind Sawant has threatened me, it is not only my insult, but the insult of all the women of the country. Hence, I demand strict action against Sawant," she added. Rana raised the Waze issue in the Lok Sabha as the BJP demanded resignation of the Maharashtra government headed by Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's claim that the state's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh set a Rs 100-crore collection target for the police every month. Singh had also claimed that Deshmukh asked Waze to help with collection of money. Rana claimed that Thackeray had spoken to then Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis seeking reinstatement of Waze who was under suspension following the Khwaja Yunus custodial death case. "The then chief minister flatly refused. But when the current chief minister (Thackeray) took charge, the first decision he took was to reinstate Waze. Because of the chief minister such things are happening in Maharashtra," she said. The NIA is probing Waze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amaravati-mp-navneet-rana-accuses-shiv-sena-mp-arvind-sawant-of-threatening-her-965152.html
