23-03-2021||Hubballi-Dharwad||Hubballi's Sriharsha R Devaraddi bags bronze medal in World Shooting Para Sport Championships||Hubballi-based Sriharsha R Devaraddi on Tuesday made India proud by bagging a bronze medal at the World Shooting Para Sport Championships, which is being held at United Arab Emirates Al Ain.  Participating in the R4 10 Mtr Air Rifle Standing SH2, he scored 230.8 points to stand third in the ranking. The first two prizes were bagged by shooters from Italy and Ukraine. A total of the top eight shooters from across the world participated in the finals. In the preliminary rounds, Sriharsha had scored 629.6 points overall and was placed in the fourth position before the final round. In 2019, Sriharsha had bagged a silver medal at the Para-Shooting Level 3 World Competition held in IWAS, Sharjah. Sriharsha, who was working in an insurance company, sustained injuries in an accident in 2013.  He had his earlier training at Hubballi Sports Shooting Academy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/hubballis-sriharsha-r-devaraddi-bags-bronze-medal-in-world-shooting-para-sport-championships-965625.html
23-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 awareness drive in Dakshina Kannada from today||On the heels of experts warning on a Covid-19 second wave, the district administration is set to launch an awareness drive on covid-appropriate behaviour, vaccination and testing of those with Covid-19 symptoms, simultaneously in all 279 wards of ULBSs and 228 gram panchayats from Tuesday (between 10 am and 11 am). The team of officials will create awareness among the public, Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V told media persons in DC office on Monday. A drive to create awareness among people on wearing masks in public places especially in malls, business establishments, buses was initiated by DC and his team of officials including DCP (Law and Order), MCC commissioner, DHO on Monday. “If bus drivers and conductors failed to wear masks, then fine will be collected from bus owners. Multiple violations will amount to suspending the license temporarily. If shop owners and their employees are not wearing mouth masks, measures will be initiated to suspend the licenses temporarily,” he warned. The marriage hall, conventional hall owners should ensure that those who take part in programmes should strictly adhere to guidelines. The DC said that the district administration has written to the Endowment Commissioner on restricting the number of people participating in religious programmes in temples in April. Report cases Dr Rajendra said that representatives of IMA, private hospitals, clinics established under KPME Act should report ILI, SARI cases to the health department. “Strict action will be initiated against those KPME establishments who are found violating the guidelines,” he warned. After conducting Covid-19 tests for students from Kerala, the district administration will now focus on conducting tests for staff in petrol bunks, toll plaza, online food delivery boys. The Covid tests will also be conducted on students studying in schools situated in border areas. DC said the screening of all daily passengers at Talapady border was a difficult task and thus, random tests were conducted on passengers, Two lab technicians, one data entry operator were posted at the border in Talapady. Service of SDRF The DC said that he has written to DG Karnataka state fire and Emergency Services, on utilising the services of 23 SDRF personnel and enforcing the Covid-19 guidelines in Dakshina Kannada district. “If we get a positive response, we will use the services of SDRF personnel. Or we will continue to use services of Home Guards," he added. RT-PCR negative report DK Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra said the district administration will instruct all elected representatives and political party leaders campaigning in Kerala to collect RT-PCR negative reports before arriving at DK district. Many leaders from DK have been campaigning in Kerala for the upcoming assembly elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-awareness-drive-in-dakshina-kannada-from-today-965430.html
23-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positivity rate high among Kerala students in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 338 students from Kerala have tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) from January till March 14 this year. The positivity rate of the Kerala students in DK is 6% to 8% while the total positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district is 1.18 % in March. With the reopening of colleges, students from Kerala have been attending colleges in the district since December.  According to the available statistics, a total of 111 students were confirmed with Covid in January, 160 students in February and 67 students till March 14. Even after March 14, many students from Kerala are testing positive for the virus. January Since January, more than five colleges in the district have been declared as containment zones. Many hostels too were sealed down following the reporting of more than five Covid-19 cases. The Covid-19 positivity rate of DK in January was 1.02 % while that of the Kerala students was 8.46%. Of 111 positive cases among Kerala students, Mangaluru had a major share of 108 cases while Sullia had 3 cases. In January, swabs of 1,311 students were tested for the virus. February The positivity rate in the district in February was 1.14% while that of the Kerala students was 7.10%. Out of 160 cases, 157 were from Mangaluru and three were from Sullia. A total of 2,252 students’ swabs were tested in February. In March (till March 14), the positivity rate in the district is 1.18% while that of the Kerala students is 3.82 %. A total of 1,752 students’ swabs were tested. Out of 67 positive cases, 61 are from Mangaluru, five from Bantwal and one from Sullia. The positivity rate by March-end will shoot up, as Covid cases have been increasing in the district. The district administration’s strict Covid-19 guidelines were not being strictly adhered to, vouched many. Though 60 students had tested positive for Covid in a college recently, the management had sent all 800 students to their houses. “This, in turn, will cause the spread of Covid-19 cases,” sources said. DK district Nodal officer Dr Ashok said if positive cases were reported in educational institutions, the team from the health department immediately initiates steps to check the spread of the virus. If more cases are reported, then the containment zone will be declared. RT-PCR tests of the Kerala students are conducted regularly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positivity-rate-high-among-kerala-students-in-dakshina-kannada-965432.html
23-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 positivity rate high among Kerala students in Dakshina Kannada||As many as 338 students from Kerala tested positive for Covid-19 in Dakshina Kannada (DK) from January till March 14 this year.  Students from Kerala have been attending colleges in the district since December.  According to the available statistics, a total of 111 students were confirmed to have tsted positive for Covid in January, 160 students in February and 67 students till March 14. Even after March 14, many students from Kerala are testing positive for the virus. Since January, more than five colleges in the district have been declared as containment zones. Many hostels too were sealed down following the reporting of more than five Covid-19 cases. The Covid-19 positivity rate of DK in January was 1.02 per cent, while that of the Kerala students was 8.46 per cent. Of 111 positive cases among Kerala students, Mangaluru had major share of 108 cases. while Sullia had three cases. In January, swabs of 1,311 students were tested for the virus. The positivity rate in the district in February was 1.14 per cent, while that of the Kerala students was 7.10 per cent. Out of 160 cases, 157 were from Mangaluru and three were from Sullia. A total of 2,252 students’ swabs were tested in February. In March (till March 14), the positivity rate in the district was 1.18 per cent, while that of the Kerala students was 3.82  per cent. A total of 1,752 students’ swabs were tested. Out of 67 positive cases, 61 are from Mangaluru, five from Bantwal and one from Sullia. The positivity rate by March-end will shoot up, as Covid cases have been increasing in the district. The district administration’s Covid-19 guidelines were apparently not being strictly adhered to. Though 60 students had tested positive for Covid in a college recently, the management had sent all 800 students to their houses. “This in turn will cause the spread of Covid-19 cases,” sources said. DK district Nodal officer Dr Ashok said if positive cases were reported in educational institutions, the team from health department immediately initiates steps to check the spread of the virus. If more cases are reported, then the institution will be declared as containment zone. RT-PCR tests of the Kerala students are conducted regularly, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-positivity-rate-high-among-kerala-students-in-dakshina-kannada-965438.html
23-03-2021||National||Lowering legal drinking age in Delhi will turn it into 'capital of intoxicants', says opposition||The Opposition on Monday hit out at the AAP government for lowering the legal drinking age in Delhi from 25 to 21 years, claiming the new excise policy will make the city the "capital of intoxicants". Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has stressed that the excise reforms announced by his government will act as a major blow to liquor mafia, who will do everything to obstruct these steps. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said he and his party leaders will meet Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday in protest the new excise policy. "The new policy will not only lead to (sale of) spurious liquor and promote crime but will also spoil youngsters as the legal age for drinking has been lowered from 25 to 21 years. "The right thing would have been for the government to tighten liquor policy to make Delhi safe for women and keep youngsters away from the liquor," Gupta said in a statement. He claimed the move would also lead to increase in domestic violence. "While the Kejriwal government is looking at an expected hike of at least 20 per cent in its annual excise revenue with these so-called reforms, it is really baffling that it is not looking at the social aspect of the move," the statement quoted Gupta as saying. On his part, Congress president Anil Kumar claimed that the move to privatise liquor vends will open the doors for "spurious liquor" in the national capital. "With the Arvind government's decision to lower the drinking age from 25 to 21, and to privatise all liquor vends, Delhi is heading towards becoming 'nashe ki rajdhani (capital of intoxicants)," Kumar said. Lowering legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years and the government withdrawing from running liquor vends in Delhi are among the main features of an excise policy approved by the AAP dispensation on Monday, with Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia saying the measure is expected to lead to an annual revenue growth of 20 per cent. The government decided to shut all its shops in the national capital as they were generating less income in comparison to private liquor stores. Currently, 40 per cent of around 850 establishments in the national capital are privately run. According to the government, state-run vends were indulging in "brand pushing" and there were also instances of revenue leakage. At a press conference, Sisodia said the new measure will put an end to the liquor buying experience from a "jail-like setup" at state-run shops. Private liquor shops being allowed should have a minimum area of 500 square feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lowering-legal-drinking-age-in-delhi-will-turn-it-into-capital-of-intoxicants-says-opposition-965258.html
23-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Of Delhi Lieutenant Governor and an engineered dream||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill that seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", amid strong opposition from Congress and AAP which said that the legislation is "unconstitutional". Meanwhile, 'An Engineered Dream' received the National award for the best non-feature film.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-of-delhi-lieutenant-governor-and-an-engineered-dream-965278.html
23-03-2021||National||Biden admn urges US court to certify India's request to extradite Tahawwur Rana||The Biden administration has urged a federal court to certify India's request to extradite Pakistani-origin Canadian businessman Tahawwur Rana, who is sought for his involvement in the 2008 Mumbai terror attack. Assistant US Attorney John J Lulejian, in his submission before a federal US court in Los Angeles, said Rana, 59, meets all the criteria to be extradited to India for his trial in the Mumbai terrorist attack. On February 4, Rana's attorney had opposed his extradition. US District Court Judge in Los Angeles Jacqueline Chooljian has scheduled the extradition hearing for April 22. "The United States respectfully requests that following the April 22, 2021, extradition hearing, the Court certify India's request for Rana's extradition for the Secretary of State's surrender decision," Lulejian said in his 61-page court submission on Monday. Rana, a childhood friend of David Coleman Headley, was re-arrested on June 10 in Los Angeles on an extradition request by India for his involvement in the Mumbai terror attack in which 166 people, including six Americans, were killed. He has been declared a fugitive by India. "Fugitive Tahawwur Hussain Rana is wanted in India to stand trial for offences related to his role in the 2008 terrorist attacks in Mumbai, India, that resulted in the death of 166 people, the injury of 239 people, and the damage to property in excess of USD 1.5 billion," Lulejian said. As per the India-US Extradition Treaty, the Indian government has requested the formal extradition of Rana, and the United States has initiated this extradition proceeding. Lulejian said the criteria warranting certification of extradition are satisfied in this case. These are: the court has both personal and subject matter jurisdiction, there is an extradition treaty between the United States and India that is in full force and effect, and the crimes for which Rana's extradition is sought are covered by the terms of the treaty. India's extradition request contains evidence to establish probable cause that the individual appearing in court is the fugitive who committed the offence for which extradition is requested, Lulejian argued. In his court submission on February 4, Rana's attorney had argued that Rana's extradition is barred under Article 6 of the United States-India extradition treaty because he had previously been acquitted of the offences for which his extradition is sought, and under Article 9 of the treaty because the government has not established probable cause to believe that Rana committed the alleged offences. Lulejian said that the court should find that Rana's extradition is not barred under Article 6 of the India-US Extradition Treaty. Although there is ample evidence that Rana aided and abetted the Mumbai attack, he claims that he should not be extradited because probable cause is lacking. Rana's claim is based on an improper attempt to attack the credibility of a key witness against him. Rana also does not contest that he is the person who India alleges committed the charged crimes. Instead, he challenges only whether Article 6 of the treaty bars his extradition and whether probable cause exists to believe that he committed the offences for which India requests his extradition, the Assistant US Attorney said. Lulejian said Headley's plea agreement is irrelevant because Rana cannot benefit from its terms. Not only is Rana in a different position than Headley because he did not plead guilty or cooperate with the United States, as is his right, but his inability to benefit from the negotiated terms of Headley's plea agreement is confirmed by the text of the plea agreement itself. He said Rana's extradition proceedings are separate from Headley's criminal proceedings and are being litigated by a different United States attorney's office from the one who negotiated the plea agreement with Headley. According to its very terms, Rana has no rights under Headley's plea agreement and is therefore prohibited from relying on it in an attempt to undermine the United States' position on his extraditability under the treaty, he added. "Rana has failed to demonstrate that he cannot be extradited to India as a result of his prior prosecution in the United States," the attorney said. Rana attempts to undermine India's evidence of probable cause by questioning the credibility of the key witness, David Headley. Not only is Rana's challenge improper in this extradition proceeding, but his claims are also not supported by the law or the evidence, Lulejian said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-admn-urges-us-court-to-certify-indias-request-to-extradite-tahawwur-rana-965302.html
23-03-2021||National||Taranjit Singh Sandhu urges corporate sector to help realise full potential of India-US relationship||India's top diplomat in the United States urged the corporate sector to help realise the full potential of the India-US relationship that, he said, has witnessed the strength of bipartisan support under the Biden administration. India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu said this will create value for companies and jobs for people. "If there is one message that I have for all of you today that is please help us realise the full potential of this relationship," Sandhu said in his address at the annual full board of directors meeting of the US-India Strategic and Partnership Forum (USISPF). "Your efforts will bring in, of course, value to your companies, money for your shareholders, benefits for your customers, jobs for the people and in a much larger plane, strategic strength to our two nations. India and US' relationship can only be strong if you are strong and if you make us strong," he said. Deloitte CEO Punit Renjen, USISPF chairman John Chambers, Cohen Group CEO William Cohen, FedEx president Rajesh Subramanian were among the attendees. Complimenting the USISPF for its extraordinary work to bring India and the US together, Sandhu said that 10 significant events that have happened in the last 10 days signify the truly multi-faceted partnership between India and the US. "First and foremost is the Quad Leaders Summit. This was the first Summit of Quad at the leaders' level. This was also one of the first international summits hosted by the US that was held after President Biden took over. It was historic in many ways," he said. The summit put forth three practical areas of cooperation: vaccine manufacturing and delivery, critical and emerging technologies, and climate change, he said. The Quad vaccine initiative aims to utilise the strengths of each partner -- India's manufacturing capacity, US technology, Japanese financing and Australia's logistics capability -- to manufacture vaccines and export them amongst Indo-Pacific countries, he added. "Second is the successful visit of Secretary of Defence General Lloyd Austin to India, the first in-person visit since the new administration took office," Sandhu said. Third, the special forces bilateral exercise, 'Vajra Prahar', just concluded in India this weekend signifying increasing military-to-military cooperation. Fourth, India and the US launched a bilateral initiative on artificial intelligence last week under the Indo-US Science and Technology Forum. Fifth, Apple started manufacturing iPhones in India. Sixth, India has resumed imports of apples from the US. The issue was stuck for a while because of certification and was sorted out just four days back. "This also reflects the maturity of our two democracies to resolve issues and challenges," Sandhu said. Seventh is Ocugen, a biopharma company based in Pennsylvania, announcing that it would approach the FDA for emergency use authorisation of a COVID-19 vaccine developed by their partner in India, Bharat Biotech. They hope to be the fourth COVID vaccine to be allowed in the US, which will also complement other vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson, he said. Eighth, the US became India's second-largest supplier of oil overtaking Middle Eastern countries. "Ninth, again this will interest many of you, the Indian Space Research Organisation, what we call ISRO, shipped the radar payload made in India to NASA, for the world's first earth observation satellite with two different radars, which will give very high-resolution images for a variety of space applications," Sandhu said. "After integration with their own radar payload here by NASA, it will be sent back to India and the NISAR-NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar satellite will be launched later by ISRO. This will be an important milestone," he said. "Tenth, Indian students continued to be the second-largest group in the US by the country of origin as per the latest ICE figures despite the pandemic," he added. India, Sandhu said, is currently unrolling the largest vaccination programme in the world and is confident that as life returns to some version of the normal, the V-shaped economic recovery will pick up. "There are enough indications that the GDP growth this year will be well over 10 per cent. Recognising the immense opportunity for adding value to global supply chains, the government has announced production-linked incentive (PLI) schemes in 13 key sectors," he said. The PLI scheme goes hand in hand with a range of measures to improve the ease of doing business from changes to the insolvency and bankruptcy code to increase in FDI limits and deregulation of agricultural trade, he said, adding that he hoped the corporates would make use of these opportunities. According to Sandhu, the India-US relationship under the new administration has witnessed the strength of bipartisan support. "Even before the elections, candidate Biden had spoken about the importance of US ties with India. This was reiterated through the calls he had with Prime Minister Modi after the elections," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/taranjit-singh-sandhu-urges-corporate-sector-to-help-realise-full-potential-of-india-us-relationship-965310.html
23-03-2021||National||India reports 40,715 new Covid-19 cases, 199 deaths||India recorded 40,715 coronavirus cases in a day, taking the nationwide infection tally to 1,16,86,796, while the active caseload at 3,45,377 registered an increase for the 13th day in a row, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The active caseload now comprises 2.96 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.67 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am stated.  The Covid-19 death toll of the country increased to 1,60,166, with 199 daily new fatalities, it said.  The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,11,81,253, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh  on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on -November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,54,13,233 samples have been tested till March 22, with 9,67,459 samples tested on Monday||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-40715-new-covid-19-cases-199-deaths-965315.html
23-03-2021||National||SC verdict on loan moratorium case today||The Supreme Court is expected to deliver its judgment in the loan moratorium case today, according to news agency ANI. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and MR Shah will pronounce the verdict. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had announced a loan moratorium scheme on March 27, 2020, in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. This allowed lending institutions to grant a temporary waiver to borrowers on payment of installments of term loans falling due between March 1, 2020, and May 31, 2020. The six-month loan moratorium scheme was extended by the RBI. A petition before SC sought a direction to declare the portion of an RBI notification, issued on March 27, "ultra vires to the extent it charges interest on the loan amount during the moratorium period...".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-verdict-on-loan-moratorium-case-today-965321.html
23-03-2021||National||SC rules against extension of loan moratorium||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said banks will not be allowed to charge any form of interest on loans of any size during a six-month moratorium period that ended on Aug. 31, 2020, but refused to extend the moratorium or interest waivers. The top court said granting relief such as an interest waiver or extension of a loan moratorium can have far-reaching consequences for the economy. It also said the government and central bank decide on economic policy based on expert opinion and that the court cannot be expected to have economic expertise, and thus cannot decide on the soundness of economic policy. The Supreme Court was hearing a batch of pleas by various trade associations, including from real estate and power sectors, seeking extension of loan moratorium and other reliefs in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre had earlier submitted before the top court that if it were to consider waiving interest on all the loans and advances to all categories of borrowers for the six-month moratorium period announced by RBI in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, then the amount foregone would be more than Rs 6 lakh crore. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rules-against-extension-of-loan-moratorium-965333.html
23-03-2021||National||'Thali bajao' anniversary: Twitter shares a laugh over 'janta curfew' memories||A year ago, the Modi government had called for a 'Janta curfew' (people's curfew) that ultimately ushered in India's first coronavirus lockdown on March 24. While addressing the nation ahead of the curfew on March 22, Narendra Modi had asked Indians to clang utensils on their balconies for five minutes at 5 pm to show the frontline workers battling Covid-19 some solidarity and appreciation. However, many misinterpreted the Prime Minister's request, over-enthused by the activity during lockdown, and ended up on the streets in huge crowds, doing the exact opposite of what was expected of people at that point in the pandemic. Videos and photographs of people banging utensils on the roads and bursting crackers had then gone viral. Some even used the 'thali bajao' (clang plates) opportunity to make comedy content. Here is how Twitter reacted to the anniversary of the chaotic 'curfew' Today we are celebrating our "National Circus Day" 🤡Happy Anniversary "Thaali Bajao". Ram Ram 🙏 Good morning friend...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/thali-bajao-anniversary-twitter-shares-a-laugh-over-janta-curfew-memories-965340.html
23-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi pays tribute to Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev, Rajguru on 'Shaheed Diwas'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday paid homage to freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru and said their sacrifice will remain an inspiration for every generation of the country. It was on this day that Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru were executed by the British government. March 23 is observed as 'Shaheed Diwas' to pay tribute to the trio who were hanged for killing British police officer J P Saunders. The trio wanted to avenge the death of Lala Lajpat Rai. "Salutations to the revolutionaries of independence, 'Amar Shaheed Veer' Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru on Martyrdom Day," Modi said in a tweet in Hindi. "The sacrifice of these great sons of 'Maa Bharati' will remain an inspiration for every generation of the country. Jai Hind!" he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-pays-tribute-to-bhagat-singh-sukhdev-rajguru-on-shaheed-diwas-965342.html
23-03-2021||National||Talks between Indus Commissioners of India, Pakistan underway||The important meeting of India and Pakistan to discuss the Indus water sharing issue started in New Delhi on Tuesday. This is the first meeting between the two commissioners after the scrapping of Article 370 which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. The talks as part of the annual Permanent Indus Commission meeting are being held after a gap of over two years. The Indian delegation is being led by PK Saxena who will be joined by his advisors from the Central Water Commission, the Central Electricity Authority and the National Hydroelectric Power Corporation, while Pakistan delegation is led by its Indus Commissioner Syed Muhammad Meher Ali Shah. During the two-day talks that began on Tuesday, Pakistan is likely to raise objections on the design of the Indian hydropower projects on Chenab river whose water is largely assigned to Pakistan under the Indus Waters Treaty. This year's meeting will be the first between the two commissioners after the August 2019 nullification of the operative provisions of Article 370 that gave special status to the state of Jammu and Kashmir. The erstwhile state was also carved into two union territories -- Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir. India has since cleared several hydropower projects for the region and also informed Pakistan about the projects. Of these, Durbuk Shyok (19 MW), Shankoo (18.5 MW), Nimu Chilling (24 MW), Rongdo (12 MW), Ratan Nag (10.5 MW) are in Leh; while Mangdum Sangra (19 MW), Kargil Hunderman (25 MW) and Tamasha (12 MW) have been cleared for Kargil. India had informed Pakistan about the projects. The issue is expected to come up for discussion during the meeting. Ahead of the meeting, Saxena said, "India is committed towards full utilisation of its rights under the Treaty and believes in an amicable solution of issues through discussion." The Indus Waters Treaty (IWT) warrants the two commissioners to meet at least once a year, alternately in India and Pakistan. However, last year's meeting scheduled to be held New Delhi in March was cancelled, a first since the Treaty came into being, in view of the coronavirus pandemic. In July 2020, India had proposed to Pakistan that the meeting for discussing pending issues pertaining to Indus Waters Treaty (IWT) be held virtually in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, but Pakistan insisted on holding talks at the Attari check post. However, in response, India said it is not conducive to hold the meeting at the Attari Joint Check Post due to the pandemic. With the improvement in the situation, this mandatory meeting is being held with all Covid-19 related protocols. The meeting will take place after a gap of nearly two and half years. The last meeting took place in Lahore in August 2018. Under the provisions of Indus Waters Treaty, signed between India and Pakistan in 1960, all the water of the eastern rivers - Sutlej, Beas, and Ravi amounting to around 33 million acre feet (MAF) annually -- is allocated to India for unrestricted use. The waters of western rivers - Indus, Jhelum, and Chenab -- amounting to around 135 MAF annually has been assigned largely to Pakistan. According to the Treaty, India has been given the right to generate hydroelectricity through run of the river projects on the western rivers subject to specific criteria for design and operation. The Treaty also gives right to Pakistan to raise objections on design of Indian hydroelectric projects on western rivers. With PTI inputs||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-between-indus-commissioners-of-india-pakistan-underway-965356.html
23-03-2021||National||SC stays proceedings before HCs on regulations of OTT||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed all proceedings pending before various high courts related to regulations and functioning of OTT (over-the-top) platforms like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hotstar, etc.  A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud stayed further proceedings in high courts, including in Kerala, Delhi, Punjab and Haryana high courts, and said the court would hear the matter in April second week. Justice M R Shah, also comprising the bench, said the proceedings pending before multiple high courts are to be stayed. The court was hearing a batch of PILs filed by advocate Shashank Shekhar Jha, NGO 'Justice for Rights Foundation' for regulating OTT platforms by an autonomous body. The Union government filed a petition seeking transfer of cases pending in different high courts for regulation of OTT platforms. The Bench had earlier issued notice on Centre's plea and tagged it with other petitions. In a related development, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting filed an affidavit in  the court, saying the new Information Technology (Guidelines For Intermediaries And Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 has been notified to address the issue. On October 15, 2020, the court issued notice to the Centre on the plea for setting up an autonomous body or board to monitor and filter "inappropriate and obscene" content, and regulate the videos on various online platforms for viewers in the country. Jha claimed over 40 OTT and video streaming platforms providing paid, ad-inclusive, and free content abused the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-stays-proceedings-before-hcs-on-regulations-of-ott-965357.html
23-03-2021||National||Here's why interval between Covishield vaccine doses raised to eight weeks||The Centre on Monday asked States and union territories to increase the interval between two doses of the Covishield vaccine, citing scientific evidence of enhanced protection if the second dose is administered between six to eight weeks. Earlier, the interval between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine was four to six weeks. The government made it clear that there has been no change in the interval between two doses of Covaxin, the indigenously-developed vaccine by the National Institute of Virology and Bharat Biotech. The interval between two doses of a specific Covid-19 vaccine i.e. Covishield has been revisited by the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunization (NTAGI) and subsequently by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) in its 20th meeting. Keeping the existing scientific evidence in view, it appears that protection is enhanced if the second dose of Covishield is administered between six to eight weeks, but not later than the stipulated period of eight weeks. Covishield is Serum Institute of India’s version of the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca in collaboration with the University of Oxford. AstraZeneca's trials in the United States, Chile and Peru showed the vaccine was 79 per cent effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19 infection, enhancing confidence in the vaccine after confusion over its efficacy data, dosing regimen and possible side-effects. According to data from trials of the vaccine in other countries, the efficacy of the vaccine increased when the second dose was given more than six weeks after the first. Efficacy in this case is the vaccine’s ability to bring down cases of symptomatic Covid-19 in those inoculated, compared with those who are not. But, the US health department has expressed its doubt over the AstraZeneca vaccine's efficacy. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in the US said that the data and safety monitoring board, an independent panel of medical experts under the National Institutes of Health that has been helping to oversee AstraZeneca’s US trial, had notified government agencies and AstraZeneca late Monday that it was “concerned” by information the drugmaker had released that morning. The institute urged AstraZeneca to work with the monitoring board “to review the efficacy data and ensure the most accurate, up-to-date efficacy data be made public as quickly as possible.” Regulators in Europe initiated a safety review of AstraZeneca’s vaccine earlier this month after a small number of people who had recently been inoculated developed blood clots and abnormal bleeding. The trial did not show any sign of such problems, although experts say that safety issues can only be detected in the real world, once a drug or vaccine has been given to millions of people. The interval between the first and second dose can appear as a blessing for India as it will help the Centre and state governments to vaccinate more people belonging to the priority group. NTAGI’s Dr Arora said, "Now there is flexibility… you can get the vaccine anytime between 28 to 56 days.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/heres-why-interval-between-covishield-vaccine-doses-raised-to-eight-weeks-965360.html
23-03-2021||National||AIADMK wants PM Modi to keep promise, support UNHRC resolution against Sri Lanka||The AIADMK on Tuesday urged the central government to support the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) resolution against Sri Lanka for war crimes against Tamils in the island nation, saying it was the moral duty of India to establish peace. A day after DMK president M K Stalin and other political leaders of Tamil Nadu sought India's support to the resolution in the UN Human Rights Council's 46th regular session in Geneva, M Thambidurai of the AIADMK -- which is fighting the assembly elections in the state in alliance with the BJP -- said the Prime Minister had previously assured that he would take up the cause and protect interest of Sri Lankan Tamil people. "We urge the Government of India to instruct our Indian delegates to vote in favour of a resolution of the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva asking for an inquiry in the criminal acts committed against minority Sri Lankan Tamils in Sri Lanka in the past and the present," he said. Raising the issue through a zero-hour mention, he said Sri Lankan Tamil people cannot be assured of their fundamental rights without a vote in favour of the resolution. "The Prime Minister, when he visited Tamil Nadu, had assured that he is going to take up the cause of the Sri Lankan people and protect the interest of Sri Lankan Tamil people. Therefore, I request the Government of India whatever the Prime Minister committed that can be followed up by our delegation in Geneva supporting the Tamil cause," he said. The voting on the resolution, submitted by the Core Group comprising the United Kingdom, Germany, Malawi, Montenegro and North Macedonia, is likely on Tuesday. The resolution comes after a scathing report released by the Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on January 27. The UN report warns that lack of accountability of Sri Lanka's previous violations has increased the risk of repetition of those crimes. "AIADMK always stands by the people of any race and in any country who fight for justice and equality. It is not only for Tamils we are voicing our support. It is more than a race issue. It is an issue of justice and peace," Thambidurai said. When India can support the human rights of people in other countries like Palestine, it is its "duty to support the cause of the Tamil population of Sri Lanka also," he said. "It is our moral duty and responsibility towards establishing a permanent solution for peace because a war-like situation in any place of the world threatens the peace of the whole world." He equated former US President John F Kennedy's 1962 statement that pockets of poverty anywhere threaten prosperity everywhere, to say "pockets of injustice anywhere threatens peace everywhere." "Unless people have a peaceful situation to live, unrest will keep growing in their thoughts and actions. How do we establish peace? Only through justice can we establish peace. That is why we insist that India should vote in favour of the resolution in the Geneva council through which we can a sense of justice to the war effected Sri Lankan Tamil people. "Hence I urge the government of India to be with the side of the Sri Lankan Tamil people who long for justice," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aiadmk-wants-pm-modi-to-keep-promise-support-unhrc-resolution-against-sri-lanka-965363.html
23-03-2021||National||No compound interest on all loans during moratorium: SC||In a relief to big borrowers, the Supreme Court on Tuesday declared that no compound or penal interest could be charged on any loans, including those above Rs 2 crore, during the six-months moratorium period, announced due to the Covid-19 pandemic, last year.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M B Shah, however, rejected a plea for a complete waiver of interest, and extension of the moratorium period beyond August 31, 2020, saying financial health of lending institutions and interest of bank depositors have to be protected. The court also refused to tell the Union government to provide sector-wise relief for different industries, and businesses over and above the different packages. Justice Shah, who authored the judgement, said economic policy and fiscal regulatory measures are a field where judges should encroach upon very warily as they are not experts in these matters. "It is not the function of the courts to sit in judgment over matters of economic policy and it must necessarily be left to the expert bodies," the bench said.   The court also allowed RBI and banks to declare bad loans as it lifted its interim stay earlier granted on declaring the accounts of borrowers on default as non-performing assets. It also did not agree to a contention that there was no national plan under the National Disaster Management Act. The court, however, termed as "arbitrary and discriminatory" the decision to restrict the relief of not charging interest on interest with respect to the loans up to Rs 2crore only and that too in categories such as MSMEs, education, housing, consumer durables, credit cards and auto loans etc. "Once the payment of an instalment is deferred as per circular dated 27.03.2020, non­-payment of the installation during the moratorium period cannot be said to be willful and therefore there is no justification to charge the interest on interest," the bench said.   The court ordered for a refund of such amount, even though the Union government maintained any waiver of interest on all the category of loans and advances would mean forgoing an estimated over Rs 6 lakh crore.     The court passed the directions in its 148-page judgement on a batch of petitions including by various industry bodies, such as the Association of Power Producers, various chapters of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India and Shopping Centres Association of India etc for relief in repayment of loans. With regard to the plea for a further relief package for different sectors, the court said the government has to decide its own priorities. It said the pandemic affected the entire country while the government was required to take various measures in different fields like public health, employment, providing food and shelter to the common people, migrants, transportation of migrants etc. "Even the government suffered due to lockdown, and even lost the revenue in the form of GST. Still, the government seems to have come out with various reliefs or packages. The government has its own financial constraints," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-compound-interest-on-all-loans-during-moratorium-sc-965364.html
23-03-2021||National||Centre's rules around content moderation a 'legitimate scrutiny', says Facebook India MD||Social media giant Facebook, which has recently been under fire for "being a platform for spread of misinformation", has said that the Central government's rules for moderating content is a "legitimate form of scrutiny". The company also said that it will continue to take action against unlawful content in line with both local laws and its internal 'community standards'. Contending that the government was adopting a “soft-touch regulatory approach”, Information and Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said that social media companies, OTT platforms and digital media will have to set up a grievance redressal mechanism for ordinary users and timely resolution. "We are constantly trying to raise the bar in terms of making sure that we address the concerns, including those we have heard from governments from around the world and India on the kind of content that is on our platforms. We want to limit and eliminate content linked to violence or content linked to hate speech, or content that calls for violence on the ground," Mohan told the publication. Mohan said that platforms have to balance free speech and public safety. “We want to make sure that the canvas of free speech is as expansive as possible. At the same time, there will be places where there are limits to that speech, for example when it comes to hate speech,” he said. Mohan also said that it is not in Facebook's interest that unlawful or inflammatory content should circulate on its platform and that the company wants to make sure the internet remains a safe platform to do business.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-rules-around-content-moderation-a-legitimate-scrutiny-says-facebook-india-md-965365.html
23-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea over guidelines for compensation on wrongful prosecution||The Supreme Court on Tuesday sought a response from the Centre on a plea for framing guidelines for compensation to victims of wrongful prosecutions. A bench presided over by Justice U U Lalit issued notice to the Centre on separate PILs filed by Delhi BJP leaders advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay and former MLA Kapil Mishra. Both the petitioners contended the cause of action for instant pleas arose on January 28, 2021 when a division bench of Allahabad High Court declared one, Vishnu Tiwari, who remained in jail for 20 years, as innocent after being booked for rape and atrocities under SC/ST Act, due to a land dispute. Upadhyay also sought a direction to implement the recommendations of the Law Commission’s report number 277.  The petitioners were represented by senior advocates Vijay Hansaria and Arijit Prasad. The PILs were filed by advocate Ashwani Kumar Dubey. In his plea, Upadhyay said the injury caused to the citizens for wrongful prosecution was extremely large due to the Centre’s inaction as citizens’ right to life, liberty and dignity, guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution was being brazenly offended.  He pointed out that the Law Commission submitted its report number 277 on August 30, 2018 after undertaking a comprehensive examination of the issue of relief and rehabilitation to victims of wrongful prosecution and incarceration on a direction by the Delhi High Court on November 30, 2017. The plea claimed there has been a spurt in false cases. "Wrongful prosecution and incarceration of innocent persons with no effective statutory and legal mechanism, is causing “miscarriage of justice” and has created a black-hole in the criminal jurisprudence of our country," it said. According to Prison Statistics India, 2015 (PSI), there were 4,19,623 prisoners across the country, out of which 67.2 per cent i.e. 2,82,076 were under trial; substantially higher than the convict population i.e.1,34,168 (32.0%). The petitioner said the absence of any effective statutory and legal scheme for providing mandatory compensatory scheme to victims of wrongful and malicious prosecutions and incarceration infringes fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 14 and 21 of the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-over-guidelines-for-compensation-on-wrongful-prosecution-965371.html
23-03-2021||National||Tamil Nadu polls: K Marimuthu, the CPI nominee who lives in a hut||In a political battle that has quite a few crorepatis in the fray, CPI's K Marimuthu is a relatively poor candidate, with the Left nominee having a few thousand rupees in his possession and lives in a hut. Single-phase polling to 234 Assembly constituencies is scheduled in Tamil Nadu on April 6 and the CPI is contesting from six seats as part of the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance. The party has fielded Marimuthu from the traditional Left stronghold of Thiruthuraipoondi, a reserved segment in the Tiruvarur district. While some of his own comrades contesting the polls have declared movable and immovable assets valued at a few crores of rupees, many other rivals even own swanky four-wheelers that could cost a fortune to many. Marimuthu, living in a hut, is keen to serve people from Thiruthuraipoondi. CPI has no representation in the outgoing Assembly.  Marimuthu's wife owns 75 cents of land while he has Rs 3,000 cash in hand, besides Rs 58,156 in the bank balance. His spouse has Rs 1,000 and total movable assets valued at Rs 79,304, according to the poll affidavit filed by the CPI nominee. Her immovable assets total Rs 1.75 lakh while the aspiring legislator has none. "People in my constituency are poor. They have no patta or means to build houses and so continue to live in huts," the 50-year-old Marimuthu told PTI. While he has been in active politics since 1994, Marimuthu and his family reside in a hut in Kaduvakudi village and use an earthen stove as they cannot afford to refill LPG. Two years ago, when cyclone Gaja blew his hut, Marimuthu who obtained Rs 50,000 through an NGO to mend it, gave the entire sum to another person in the village who was ineligible for compensation as he did not have a patta and helped him repair the hut.  "If I win, I will safeguard the farmlands and ensure employment in the constituency," Marimuthu, who had been at the forefront of agitations against the hydrocarbon project, assures. He had been CPI Kottur union secretary for a decade. Thiruthuraipoondi has been CPI's bastion since 1971, though DMK's P Adalarasan had won the seat in the 2016 Assembly election.  CPI is now contesting in alliance with the DMK and this may brighten Marimuthu's prospects at the hustings. His main challenger is ruling AIADMK's C Sureshkumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tamil-nadu-polls-k-marimuthu-the-cpi-nominee-who-lives-in-a-hut-965374.html
23-03-2021||National||Doubling time of Covid-19 cases decreases from 504.4 days to 202.3 days||The doubling time of Covid-19 cases in India has decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23, the Health Ministry said on Tuesday, highlighting that six states have reported a surge in daily new cases and together account for 80.90 per cent of the new infections reported in a day. Meanwhile, more than 32.53 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine were administered on March 22, which is the highest single-day vaccination so far, taking the total number of people inoculated to over 4.8 crores. Six states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Tamil Nadu — collectively account for 80.90 per cent of the 40,715 infections reported in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 24,645 (60.53 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,299 cases and Gujarat with 1,640 new cases. Ten states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new Covid-19 cases, the ministry said. India's total active caseload is rising after touching its lowest mark in mid-February, the ministry highlighted. It increased to 3.45 lakh (3,45,377) on Tuesday, a net rise of 10,731 cases recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Three states -- Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab -- accounted for 75.15 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounted for 62.71 per cent of the total active cases in India. The doubling time decreased from 504.4 days on March 1 to 202.3 days on March 23. Over 4.8 crore (4,84,94,594) vaccine doses have been administered through 7,84,612 sessions, as per the provisional report till Tuesday 7 am. The first dose administration crossed 4 crore mark on Tuesday (4,06,31,153). The 4,84,94,594 people include 78,59,579 HCWs (first dose), 49,59,964 HCWs (second dose), 82,42,127 FLWs (first dose) and 29,03,477 FLWs (second dose), 42,98,310 beneficiaries aged more than 45 to 60 specific co-morbidities (first dose) and more than 2 crore ( 2,02,31,137) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day 66 of the vaccination drive (March 22), more than 32 lakh (32,53,095) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 29,03,030 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 48,345 sessions for the first dose (HCWs and FLWs) and 3,50,065 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of the vaccine. India's cumulative recoveries surged to 1,11,81,253, with 29,785 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. Besides, 199 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states accounted for 80.4 per cent of the daily deaths, with Maharashtra and Punjab each reporting 58 casualties. Kerala and Chhattisgarh followed with 12 deaths each. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/doubling-time-of-covid-19-cases-decreases-from-5044-days-to-2023-days-965381.html
23-03-2021||National||Bhatija and Co. swindled Amphan relief fund in Bengal, claims Amit Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday slammed the Mamata Banerjee government in West Bengal for allegedly "swindling" the money sent for cyclone Amphan relief in the Sunderbans region. Criticising the TMC's "cut money" culture, Shah claimed that "Bhatija (nephew) and company swindled central funds sent for Amphan relief". If voted to power, Shah said that the BJP would constitute a committee to probe the alleged siphoning off relief funds. "The central government had sent relief funds for the affected people. But the TMC leaders siphoned off the funds and did not allow it to reach them. "If we are voted to power, the BJP will constitute an inquiry committee to probe corruption in disbursement of funds. All those involved in the scam would be sent to jail," he said while addressing the election rally here. "The Centre had sent Rs 10,000 crore for Amphan relief. Did you get a single penny? Where did all the money go? 'Bhatija' and company swindled the central funds sent for Amphan relief. We will probe everything," he said. He attacked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her government for "not allowing implementation of central schemes in the state". Shah alleged that Banerjee has been working only for her nephew's welfare instead of the common people. "Didi is only interested in making his nephew the next chief minister. Do you want the nephew to be the CM? If not, then vote for the BJP," he said. The Union minister said the BJP is ready to take on the "goons and syndicates" of the ruling TMC. "We have to end this syndicate rule of the TMC. We will end this culture," he said. Elections to the 294 assembly seats will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhatija-and-co-swindled-amphan-relief-fund-in-bengal-claims-amit-shah-965383.html
23-03-2021||National||Those above 45 years can get Covid-19 vaccine from April 1||The Union Cabinet on Tuesday opened up the Covid-19 vaccination for anyone above 45 years of age from April 1 as the second wave of the epidemic gallops in at least 17 states clocking nearly 41,000 fresh cases in the last 24 hours. "On the recommendations of the Covid-19 task force, the Union Cabinet has decided that the vaccine will be for all citizens above the age of 45, irrespective of co-morbidities,” Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said after the Cabinet meeting. The minister assured that adequate stock of the vaccine was available with the government. The Health Ministry has informed the Parliament that it had supplied more than 74 million doses to the states and exported 59.5 million doses so far. More vaccines are being procured. An allocation of Rs 35,000 crore has already been made in the 2021-22 Budget for Covid-19 vaccination. Expanding the vaccination circle will make nearly 347 million people or close to a quarter of India’s population eligible for the shots. The cut-off date for the 45 plus category is those born before January 1, 1977. "People in the 45 plus age group are economically productive individuals who are going out and meeting people for work. At a time when the transmission rates are very high, they are not burdened with the need to produce a medical certificate to get the vaccine. This would simplify the procedure and reduce the transmission rate,” a public health specialist told DH. The Cabinet has also put its stamp of approval on the Health Ministry’s decision to delay the second dose of Covishield up to eight weeks on the advice of the National Technical Advisory Group on immunisation and subsequently by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19. Weeks before such an advisory was given by the World Health Organisation. "This will free up more doses for the first shot for a wider population,” said the public health specialist. Soon after the Cabinet meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the States informing them about the Cabinet decision and consequent changes that were being made in the Co-Win platform, which will do away with the feature of the auto-scheduling of the second dose on the 29th day. "This is a very sensible and wise step as many vulnerable people may not even be knowing about their conditions and won't approach a doctor for a medical certificate. This may also be having some benefits in reducing the transmission risks, though more studies are needed for scientific proof,” K Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India told DH. India, on Tuesday, reported 40,715 new Covid-19 cases, of which 81 per cent were from six states – Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The only silver lining is that Kerala no longer figures in the top-six list though the state still harbours a large number of active cases. The total number of active cases now stands at 3.45 lakh. Barring Odisha, Assam and Kerala, the epidemic is growing in 17 of the 20 most populous states. In the last 24 hours, 199 deaths were reported, out of which Maharashtra and Punjab each reported 58 casualties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/those-above-45-years-can-get-covid-19-vaccine-from-april-1-965384.html
23-03-2021||National||Brief uproar in RS as BJP members raise Deshmukh issue||BJP MPs in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday demanded the dismissal of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and sought to raise the issue of alleged charges of corruption against him, leading to uproar in the House for a while. The trouble started towards the end of the morning session when BJP MP Sushil Kumar Modi said he had given a Zero Hour mention seeking Deshmukh's dismissal. This lead to noisy scenes in the House with members from the opposition benches objecting to it. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu told Sushil Modi that he had not given permission to raise the issue. As several members from both treasury and opposition benches were on their feet with some raising slogans, Naidu asked them to sit down. "I have not permitted" he said, and reminded the members that the House had lost precious time on Monday. He asked the members not raise slogans in the House. Naidu also said the issue was a matter related to a state. "It is a political issue. Settle it outside," he said. The House later started with its scheduled Question Hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/brief-uproar-in-rs-as-bjp-members-raise-deshmukh-issue-965397.html
23-03-2021||National||Two sisters found dead in Uttar Pradesh; foul play suspected||Two sisters, who worked at a brick kiln, were found dead under suspicious circumstances in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit district. According to the police sources, the sisters, aged 17 and 20 respectively, went missing after they left the kiln to answer the call of nature on Monday evening. The family members launched a hunt for them when they did not return till late in the night. They found the body of one of the sisters lying in a field a few hundred metres away from the brick kiln.  The other sister was found hanging from a tree close to the spot from where the body of her sister had been recovered, sources said. Police officials said that preliminary examination revealed injury marks on the necks of the sisters. They also did not rule out foul play. ''We cannot rule out foul play though the cause of deaths can only be ascertained after the postmortem examination,'' said a senior police official in Pilibhit on Tuesday. The incident comes close on the heels of mysterious death of two sisters in Unnao district in the state last month. Two minor dalit sisters were found dead inside a forest area in the district. Another girl, who was the cousin of the deceased, was found lying in an unconscious state near their bodies.  While the police had claimed that the sisters might have died after consuming some poisonous substance, the family members cried foul and demanded a CBI probe into the incident.  A few months ago, a dalit girl was allegedly gangraped before being killed in UP's Hathras district. The incident had also triggered a massive outrage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-sisters-found-dead-in-uttar-pradesh-foul-play-suspected-965403.html
23-03-2021||National||Supreme Court declines to consider SCBA plea against SoP on hybrid hearing||The Supreme Court on Tuesday declined to consider a plea by the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) against the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for hybrid hearings, even as the lawyers' body warned of "agitational path". "The matter related to the administrative working of the court and on the judicial side, little can be done on this aspect," a bench presided over by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul said. SCBA President Vikas Singh, however, lodged his protest with the court, saying, "We have no choice but to take an agitational path." To this, the bench said, "It would take you nowhere." Acting on a writ petition by the SCBA, the court had earlier called for a report and minutes of meeting from its Secretary General on the issue of hybrid hearing from March 15, as Singh claimed that Bar members were not consulted before a decision was taken. The court subsequently found the Bar members were in fact consulted. In its plea, the SCBA said a written suggestion given on March 2 for the resumption of physical hearing has not been considered by the top court. The body maintained that if virtual hearing allowed to continue permanently, it would disturb the level-playing field, besides causing immense sufferings to lawyers. During the hearing, Singh also said many members of the Bar were suffering due to non-resumption of physical hearing. The court last conducted a virtual hearing in March 2020 during the Covid-19 pandemic. In a circular issued on March 5, the Secretary General of the Supreme Court said that Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has issued directions on commencing of the hybrid mode of hearing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-scba-plea-against-sop-on-hybrid-hearing-965404.html
23-03-2021||National||Congress leader held for indecent WhatsApp chat with woman bank manager||A Congress leader has been arrested for allegedly using obscene language in a conversation with a woman bank manager on a social media platform, police said on Tuesday. According to Uttarakhand Congress general secretary Vijay Saraswat, Azad Ali was expelled from the party, immediately after the case was lodged against him. Ali was a special invitee to the state Congress, he said. Ali was arrested on Monday after a case was registered against him on the basis of a complaint lodged by the bank manager, Kotwali police station Senior Sub-Inspector Lokendra Bahuguna said. The bank official had come in contact with Ali after he had approached her for buying an insurance policy. She provided him with information related to an insurance scheme on WhatsApp. The Congress leader is charged with using obscene language during one of their WhatsApp chats, the police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-leader-held-for-indecent-whatsapp-chat-with-woman-bank-manager-965412.html
23-03-2021||National||15.5 lakh cyber security incidents in 2019, 2020: Govt tells Lok Sabha||Over 15.5 lakh cyber security incidents have been reported in the last two years and 11.58 lakh of them were recorded in 2020 alone, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy said the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) is serving as the national agency for responding to cyber security incidents in accordance with the provisions of Section 70B of the Information Technology Act, 2000. According to the information reported to and tracked by the CERT-In, 3,94,499 and 11,58,208 cyber security incidents were observed during 2019 and 2020, respectively, he said in a written reply to a question. Reddy said the CERT-In receives inputs from its situational awareness systems and threat intelligence sources about malware infections in networks of entities across sectors. Whenever any incident comes to the notice of CERT-In, it issues alerts and advisories to the entities concerned and sectoral Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) for remedial measures, he said.  The Centre on Tuesday informed Parliament that over 15.5 lakh cyber security incidents have been reported in the last two years and 11.58 lakh of them were recorded in 2020 alone. According to the information reported to and tracked by the CERT-In, 3,94,499 and 11,58,208 cyber security incidents were observed during 2019 and 2020, respectively, Union Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy informed Lok Sabha in his written reply. The Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), nodal agency for responding to cyber security incidents receives inputs from its situational awareness systems and threat intelligence sources about malware infections in networks of entities across sectors. Whenever any incident comes to the notice of CERT-In, it issues alerts and advisories to the entities concerned and sectoral Computer Emergency Response Teams (CERTs) for remedial measures, he said. Earlier the government had informed the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology that when India was under lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, the country faced a series of cyber attack attempts from foreign countries, particularly China and Pakistan. The government also informed the panel that  "Additional security controls were deployed for monitoring and blocking of attack attempts from these countries. Additional resources were deployed in shifts to meet these requirements round the clock. Security Audit initiated and completed using trusted networks (VPN) and restricted required port accesswas opened for Audit."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/155-lakh-cyber-security-incidents-in-2019-2020-govt-tells-lok-sabha-965416.html
23-03-2021||National||AAP says SDMC brought proposal to hike property tax; BJP rejects claim||The AAP claimed on Tuesday that the BJP-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has brought a proposal to hike the property tax by 34 per cent, a claim denied by the saffron party. Addressing a press conference, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said, "The BJP-ruled MCD waived six months' licence fee for outdoor advertisement contractors and it is now making up for the loss from residents". "The BJP-ruled SDMC has brought a proposal to hike the property tax by 34 per cent. The Kejriwal government reduced circle rates by 20 per cent while the BJP-ruled MCD increases property taxes by 34 per cent," he said. Bhardwaj said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government has "massively" increased the prices of diesel, petrol and LPG in the last several days and claimed that the AAP govt has not hiked any tax in the last seven years. Hitting back, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said it seems "in his malafide anxiety to level charges against MCDs, AAP leader Bhardwaj does not even cross-check facts before speaking". "Today, at a press conference, Saurabh Bhardwaj has alleged that South DMC is raising House Tax in its area and a proposal to this effect is coming in the House meeting today. The allegation is totally false as the SDMC Standing Committee has already long back rejected the proposal of the Commissioner to raise House Tax," he said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-says-sdmc-brought-proposal-to-hike-property-tax-bjp-rejects-claim-965419.html
23-03-2021||National||India emerged stronger despite facing odds during pandemic: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told BJP MPs on Tuesday that despite facing odds such as tension at borders, cyclones and earthquakes during the coronavirus pandemic, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential, said Union minister Arjun Ram Meghwal. Addressing the BJP parliamentary party meeting, Modi said he relished all these challenges during the pandemic and the country also overcame them. "Sharing his experiences of the pandemic, Modi told MPs that during the period, the country was not only facing the challenge of the virus, but on others fronts as well. There were tensions on the LAC, cyclones, earthquakes and then there was locust swarm attack but despite all these odds, India emerged stronger and the entire world realised its potential," he said. Meghwal said the prime minister also mentioned that he has been holding public office for more than two decades, first as the chief minister of a state and now as the prime minister, and he has never taken a day off. Besides Modi, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar also addressed the BJP parliamentary party meeting. Jaishankar asserted that India's stature rose in the world during the pandemic because of its medical diplomacy of providing antibiotics and testing kits to other nations earlier and for its vaccine diplomacy later, Meghwal said. The external affairs minister also shared details of the Centre's Vande Bharat mission of bringing back stranded Indians from abroad, Meghwal said. Giving a presentation on the Union Budget to the party MPs, Sitharman emphasised that despite the economic impact of coronavirus pandemic the government did not impose any additional tax on the public and came with a comprehensive budget for all, Meghwal said. The prime minister also emphasised on the need for MPs to regularly attend Parliament, sources said. Modi also cited the panchayat elections in Pali, the constituency of BJP MP PP Chaudhary, saying the party won more than 90 per cent seats amid protests on farm laws as he and the party clearly put forward the benefits of these laws to the people and sought votes, the sources said. He also underlined to party MPs that the government's intent behind bringing these farm laws is good and those who are opposing it now will applaud these legislations later, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-emerged-stronger-despite-facing-odds-during-pandemic-pm-modi-965421.html
23-03-2021||National||Regardless of Assembly poll results, RSS to go all-out in West Bengal||The RSS has drawn up an elaborate roadmap for its future course of action in West Bengal even as it is yet to come to a conclusion about BJP’s prospects in the Assembly elections. According to sources in the state unit of the RSS, the organisation is preparing for the future political challenges in the state regardless of BJP’s performance in the Assembly elections. “Not withstanding the outcome of the Assembly elections, we are determined to ensure comprehensive expansion of our organisation in Bengal,” a senior RSS leader said. The RSS under its “Griam Vikas” project will give special focus on Bengal, and especially on farmers. RSS sources said that the initiative will focus on improving the quality of agricultural land which will benefit farmers. It will also focus on environment, water supply, maintaining communal harmony and family values. Interestingly in its Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha in Bengaluru, the RSS gave special emphasis on Bengal. It has decided to open as much 'shakhas' (local units which assembly daily) in Bengal as possible till 2024, when the BJP will seek to retain power at the Centre in the next Lok Saba elections. Due to the pandemic situation all activities in the 'shakhas' had almost stopped but the situation has improved since last November. Out of the 58,562 ‘mandals’(regional units) the activities of 90% have become normal. “We are hopeful that the activities of the remaining 10% will soon be in full swing,” the RSS leader said. RSS sources said that the leadership is of the opinion that in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections the BJP may face significant anti-incumbency which will make it a difficult battle for the saffron party. “In such a scenario, we want to strengthen the ‘shakhas’ in such a manner that they pay rich dividend in future,” the RSS leader said. The development comes at a time when the BJP has emerged as the principal opposition in Bengal and seeking out the Trinamool Congress (TMC) from power. Since its inception, the saffron party for the first time, has been able to create a possibility where it may be able to come to power in the state, which it never ruled before.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/regardless-of-assembly-poll-results-rss-to-go-all-out-in-west-bengal-965433.html
23-03-2021||National||Govternment planning to launch Poshan Abhiyan to tackle malnutrition among elderly population||The government is planning to launch 'Poshan Abhiyan' to provide nutrition support to the indigent elderly population not staying in old age homes and are victims of severe malnutrition, the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment said on Tuesday. Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Rattan Lal Kataria said in the Lok Sabha that the scheme will focus on procuring locally available healthy food material and serving mid-day meals to the elderly. "The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment aims to launch Poshan Abhiyan for the elderly, to provide nutrition support to the indigent elders, who are not staying in Old Age Homes and are victims of severe malnutrition, by focusing on procuring locally available healthy food material and serving hot-cooked mid-day meals," he said in a written reply. "The gram panchayats and urban municipalities are the implementing agencies of the scheme. The funding for the scheme is from the Senior Citizens Welfare Fund," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govternment-planning-to-launch-poshan-abhiyan-to-tackle-malnutrition-among-elderly-population-965436.html
23-03-2021||National||Four Indian cosmonauts complete training in Russia for Gaganyaan mission||The four astronauts shortlisted for India's first manned space mission, Gaganyaan, have completed their full-fledged training at Russia's Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Centre in the Star City. The four, all Indian Air Force (IAF) pilots, had arrived in Russia in February 2020. Scheduled for a 2022 launch by the Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro), the Rs 10,000-crore Gaganyaan project is gearing up to meet the deadline fixed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi: Months before the 75th Independence Day. The completion of the training was first reported by Russian agency Sputnik which quoted the Telegram post of Dmitry Rogozin, the General Director of the Russsian State State Corporation Roscosmos. “In the evening we met with Indian gaganauts who had completed their training at Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center. We also discussed with the (Indian) ambassador the future bilateral space projects,”Rogozin informed in his post.  Besides the ambassador D B Venkatesh Varma, the meeting was also attended by representatives of Roscosmos subsidiaries.   Isro's Manned Space Flight Centre and Glavkosmos, a part of Roscosmos, had signed an agreement for the training of the shortlisted Indian gaganauts on June 27, 2019. The training had commenced as planned on February 10, 2020. After a pause in March 2020 due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the training was resumed in May. Under training, the gaganauts had to rehearse operations during an emergency landing of a descent capsule in various climatic and geographic conditions. They also had undertake flights aboard an Il-76MDK plane designed to simulate short-term zero gravity modes and other emergencies. Studying Russian language, the design, layout and systems of the Soyuz transport manned spacecraft was also part of the training. Once back in India, the gaganauts are expected to continue further training at the Bengaluru-based Institute of Aviation Medicine, the Army Sports Institute in Pune and the Institute of Naval Medicine in Mumbai. Preparing for the Gaganyaan mission, Isro is required to undertake two unmanned missions, both carrying a humanoid. A prototype of the humanoid, Vyommitra was showcased in Bengaluru last year. The manned mission will see the fully trained gaganauts spend seven days in the crew capsule in a low-earth orbit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-indian-cosmonauts-complete-training-in-russia-for-gaganyaan-mission-965443.html
23-03-2021||National||Delay consideration of Delhi Bill in view of WB polls: Derek O'Brien to RS Chairman||TMC MP and national spokesperson Derek O'Brien has written to the chairman of the Rajya Sabha to delay the consideration and passing of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill in the view of absence of party members in the Upper House due to the upcoming assembly polls in West Bengal. "I am writing to you as the Parliamentary Party Leader (Rajya Sabha) of the All India Trinamool Congress on a matter of urgent legislative importance. "As you are well aware, the Election Commission of India announced election dates for five states, including West Bengal on 26 February, 2021. The first phase of polling in West Bengal begins on 27 March, 2021, which is four days from today. Our Members of Parliament in the Rajya Sabha are committed to participating in the election process in the state at the moment. Under present circumstances, it is not possible for them to attend Parliament session," he said in the letter. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, has been transmitted to the Rajya Sabha and listed for discussion on Tuesday. "This is an extremely important piece of legislation that has a significant impact on all of India. Each and every member of Parliament should be given the opportunity to express themselves when the House takes up discussion on the Bill. Depriving members of that opportunity goes against the spirit of deliberative, responsible governance that the Parliament embodies. It further lays down a bad precedent regarding passage of important laws. "I urge you to personally look into this matter and consider postponing the discussion and passing of this Bill till all members are able to attend Parliament. The Rajya Sabha is a Council of States and the people of this country have reposed their faith in us representatives. We should not betray that faith by allowing a gross miscarriage of justice through hastening the process of legislation," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delay-consideration-of-delhi-bill-in-view-of-wb-polls-derek-obrien-to-rs-chairman-965455.html
23-03-2021||National||Discoms get Rs 46K cr under liquidity package so far out of total sanctioned loans of Rs 1.35 lakh cr||Power distribution utilities or discoms in the country have been sanctioned loans of Rs 1.35 lakh crore and disbursed Rs 46,321 crore so far under the liquidity infusion scheme, Parliament was informed on Tuesday. "So far, loans of Rs 1,35,497 crore have been sanctioned and Rs 46,321 crore have been released to states/DISCOMs by REC and PFC (Power Finance Corporation)," Power Minister R K Singh said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The central government had announced a liquidity infusion scheme as part of AatmaNirbhar Bharat Abhiyan on May 13, 2020, in the backdrop of the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country. Due to the consequent nationwide lockdown, the revenues of the power distribution companies (DISCOMs) nosedived, as people were unable to pay for electricity consumed, the minister told the House. Under the scheme, PFC and REC have extended special long-term transition loans at concessional rates to DISCOMs against the receivables of the discoms from the state government in the form of electricity dues and subsidy not disbursed, to enable them to clear their outstanding dues as existed on June 30, 2020 towards Central Public Sector Undertaking (CPSU) Generation (Genco) & Transmission Companies (Transcos), Independent Power Producers (IPPs) and Renewable Energy (RE) generators. Further, to enable DISCOMs that do not have adequate headroom available under working capital limits of 25 per cent of last years’ revenues, as imposed under Ujwal DISCOM Assurance Yojana (UDAY), or do not have adequate receivables from the State Governments, Government of India has also approved a one-time relaxation to PFC and REC Ltd for extending these loans. The minister told the House that this intervention enabled Gencos to pay for coal companies and meet their operational expenses. This has enabled continuation of uninterrupted power supply throughout the Covid period across the country. Further mitigation of liquidity issues enabled the power sector to cater to highest ever peak demand on 189.395 GW on January 30, 2021, he added. "Transactions of power purchases and payment thereof is a continuous process. As per information available with this ministry, overall DISCOMs dues to Independent Power Producers (IPPs) including thermal power producers as on June 30, 2020 was Rs 40,635.57 crore," the minister added. In another reply to the House, the minister said, "Government has transformed India from power deficit in 2013 to power surplus. The installed generation capacity is around 379 Giga Watt which is more than adequate to serve the electricity peak demand of 190 GW." The government has also made plans to have sufficient generation capacity to meet future demand of electricity. The all India power generation installed capacity by the end of 2026-27 is estimated to be 6,19,066 MW which includes 2,38,150 MW coal, 25,735 MW gas, 63,301 MW hydro, 16,880 MW nuclear and 2,75,000 MW renewable energy sources to fully meet the electricity demand projected as per the 19th Electric Power Survey on All India basis, he added. As per the recent study carried by Central Electricity Authority on Optimal Generation Capacity mix for 2029-30, the likely All India installed capacity in 2029-30 is estimated to be 8,17,254 MW which includes 2,66,911 MW coal, 25,080 MW gas, 71,128 MW hydro, 18,980 MW nuclear and 4,35,155 MW renewable energy sources, he informed the House. The focus of government is to increase the share of renewable energy which is available in plenty within the country to meet the requirement of the country and also export to our neighbouring countries, he added. In another reply, he also told the House that state-run NTPC Group has an installed capacity of 64,880 MW and the generation of more than 300 billion units (BUs) is expected during the year 2020-21. NTPC plans to add 12,850 MW thermal capacity and 6862 MW renewable energy capacity by the year 2024. As per the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), investment planned during 2020- 2025 by NTPC is cumulatively about Rs 1,30,377 Crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discoms-get-rs-46k-cr-under-liquidity-package-so-far-out-of-total-sanctioned-loans-of-rs-135-lakh-cr-965458.html
23-03-2021||National||'Hurting common man': Opposition seeks cut in fuel prices||Members of the Opposition on Tuesday said high prices of diesel, petrol and LPG are hurting the common man across the country and asked the government to reduce them. Petrol and diesel prices hover at a historic high following a relentless increase in ratover the past nine months. There have been calls by opposition parties as well as sections of society to the government to reduce excise duty to ease consumer pain. Participating in the debate on the Finance Bill 2021 in the Lok Sabha, Supriya Sule (NCP) said excise component in the prices of petrol is close to Rs 38 per litre while state value-added tax (VAT) is about Rs 19 per litre in Delhi. The government should consider slashing this high excise duty, she said. She urged the government to bring down prices of petrol, diesel and LPG cylinder. Besides, Sule also raised concern over the pace of disinvestment and privatisation of profit-making public sector entities (PSEs). She also asked the government to reconsider its decision to impose tax on subscribers' contribution over Rs 2.5 lakh Employee's Provident Fund (EPF) and Voluntary Provident Fund (VPF). According to the provisions of the Finance Bill, from April 1, 2021 onwards, the interest on any contribution above Rs 2.5 lakh by an employee to a recognised provident fund is taxable. Ritesh Pandey (BSP) too raised the issue of high prices of petrol and diesel "burning a hole in pocket of the poor". "The government is imposing 48 per cent as excise... and the rising prices of petrol and diesel are hurting the poor very badly," he said. "Selling of PSUs and their privatisation will impact reservation policy for Dalits as private companies will not follow reservation policy. Privatisation is going to have a long term impact on poor and Dalits of the country," he added. Equalisation tax is going to make digital payment costly and the government should rethink about this, Pandey said. Nama Nageswara Rao (TRS) too demanded that petrol and diesel prices be reduced. Rao also urged the government to consider lowering the import duty on cotton. The government raised the import duty on cotton from 10 per cent to 15 per cent in the Budget 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hurting-common-man-opposition-seeks-cut-in-fuel-prices-965459.html
23-03-2021||National||Parliament extends time to frame CAA rules||The government has been granted time till April 9 by Lok Sabha and July 9 by Rajya Sabha to frame rules under the citizenship law. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said in Lok Sabha that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) was notified on December 12, 2019 and came into force from January 10, 2020. The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have granted time up to April 9 and July 9 respectively to frame these rules, he said in a written reply. Rai said the foreigners covered under this CAA may submit applications for grant of Indian citizenship after appropriate rules are notified by the central government. Rules are mandatory for the implementation of any new or amended law and normally framed within six months of its enactment. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities -- Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian -- from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Those from these communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014, facing religious persecution in their respective countries, will not be treated as illegal immigrants but given Indian citizenship. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country leading to the death of nearly 100 people in police firing and other violence. The riots in Northeast Delhi last year was also attributed to the CAA protests which initially triggered with the clashes between pro and anti-CAA groups. A women-led protest at Delhi's Shaheen Bagh against the CAA had also got wide publicity last year. However, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had described the protests against the CAA as "mostly political" and asserted that no Indian will lose his or her nationality due to the legislation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-extends-time-to-frame-caa-rules-965460.html
23-03-2021||National||Test-Track-Treat: MHA rolls out new guidelines to curb Covid-19||Amid a fresh surge in Covid-19 cases in some parts of the country, the government on Tuesday asked states to strictly enforce the Test-Track-Treat protocol in all parts of the country, scale up the vaccination drive and ensure observance of Covid appropriate behaviour by everyone. Issuing fresh guidelines for effective control of Covid-19 effective for the month of April, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the fresh surge in cases and slow pace of vaccination in some parts of the country were a "cause of concern" though there was a decline in the number of active cases continuously for the past five months. Emphasising that the "substantial gains" achieved against the spread of Covid-19 need to be consolidated, the MHA said the chain of transmission of the pandemic needs to be effectively broken with a view to expeditiously restore complete normalcy. Though no fresh restrictions have been placed, the guidelines said the states should take all necessary measures to promote Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in workplaces and in the public, especially in crowded places. All activities are permitted outside the containment zones but the new guidelines made it clear that people will have to follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) prescribed by the government for various activities.  While India has launched the world’s largest vaccination drive, the MHA was concerned at the slow pace of the exercise in some states. "Vaccination against Covid-19, in the present scenario, is critical to break the chain of transmission. Therefore, all State/UT governments should rapidly step up the pace of vaccination, to cover all priority groups in an expeditious manner," the guidelines said. Another concerning area was testing and the fresh guidelines said the states and UTs where the proportion of RT-PCR tests is less should rapidly increase it to reach the prescribed level of 70 per cent or more. The new Covid-19 positive cases identified through intensive testing need to be isolated and quarantined at the earliest and provided timely treatment. Their contacts also need to be traced at the earliest and quarantined. It noted that the effective demarcation of containment zones in vulnerable and high-incidence areas is the key to breaking the chain of transmission and controlling the spread of the virus. Containment zones should be carefully demarcated by the district authorities, at the micro-level. Within the demarcated containment zones, containment measures should be scrupulously followed, which include strict perimeter control, intensive house-to-house surveillance, contact tracing, surveillance for ILI/ SARI cases etc. In a letter to Chief Secretaries and Administrators of states and union territories respectively, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said that states were not strictly following the containment measures and asked them to follow it in letter and spirit.  For strict enforcement of wearing of face masks, hand hygiene and social distancing, states should consider administrative actions, including the imposition of appropriate fines. Based on their assessment of the situation, states may impose local restrictions at district or sub-district and city or ward level, with a view to contain Covid-19 spread. However, there will be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/test-track-treat-mha-rolls-out-new-guidelines-to-curb-covid-19-965462.html
23-03-2021||National||Goa officials obstructed during Kalasa-Banduri joint inspection: CM||Despite obstruction at the Kalasa-Banduri canal site by Karnataka government officials during a joint inspection last week, Goa officials managed to get sufficient photo and video evidence to bolster the state government's case, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. "Our Superintendent Engineer (Water Resources) had visited the site. Some people were obstructed and restricted, but our SE went inside and carried out video shooting and took photos," the Chief Minister said when asked to comment on the alleged ruckus which took place last week during the Supreme Court-ordered joint site inspection at the controversial Kalsa-Banduri canal site. "Engineers from all three states, Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka did not concur on some issues. That is why they were going to meet again and discuss the issue," Sawant also said. The Opposition in Goa had lashed out at Sawant accusing him of "not being strong enough" in wake of reports that state government officials were allegedly threatened by Karnataka police and their IDs snatched during the joint inspection of the canal site. The Goa government, which has filed two separate petitions in the apex court, has accused Karnataka of diverting water from the Mahadayi river and thereby committing contempt of the Supreme Court, which is already hearing a special leave petition related to the river diversion issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-officials-obstructed-during-kalasa-banduri-joint-inspection-cm-965463.html
23-03-2021||National||BJP leader booked for misbehaving with cop during vehicle checking in UP's Ballia||A case has been registered against a local BJP leader after a video went viral on social media in which he can be seen misbehaving with a police sub-inspector during a vehicle checking drive in Ballia. The incident took place in Chitbaragaon area on Sunday, police said. BJP's Vivek Singh Kaushik and two others were booked for obstructing government work based on SI Murari Misra's complaint on Tuesday, Station House Officer (SHO) Rakesh Singh said. The purported video was posted on social media by Vivek Singh in which he can be seen reaching the crossing of Chitbadagaon township and questioning the SI how he had challaned a motorcyclist. Misra tells him the action was taken as the person was not wearing helmet. Vivek Singh is seen getting into a heated discussion with the SI and is heard saying that all of them come from the "party". In some pictures posted on his social media account, Vivek Singh can be seen with Uttar Pradesh Minister of state for Parliamentary Affairs Anand Swarup Shukla.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-leader-booked-for-misbehaving-with-cop-during-vehicle-checking-in-ups-ballia-965466.html
23-03-2021||National||Hopes low for progress at India, Pakistan's first river-sharing talks in three years||A government official played down on Tuesday prospects for a breakthrough at the first talks in three years with neighbouring Pakistan aimed at resolving long-running disputes over hydroelectric projects on the shared Indus River. Pakistan is concerned that India's plans for hydroelectric plants in the disputed Himalayan region of Kashmir will damage the flow of the river, which feeds 80% of its irrigated agriculture, along with tributaries. India has defended the construction of its Pakal Dul and Lower Kalnai dams, saying they are allowed by the Indus Water Treaty brokered by the World Bank. "It is our job to find a middle path. But to say we can achieve something is maybe a bit too optimistic," an Indian official involved in the talks in New Delhi told Reuters. "There are many things on which we can't compromise," added the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the discussions. India issued no statement on the talks, which are set to end on Wednesday. The talks come after a gap of three years because of tension over Kashmir, the Muslim-majority territory both south Asian nations claim in full. In recent weeks, the nuclear-armed rivals have taken tentative steps to improve ties, such as a rare military pact last month to stop firing on the Kashmir border that has killed scores of civilians.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hopes-low-for-progress-at-india-pakistans-first-river-sharing-talks-in-three-years-965467.html
23-03-2021||National||Turmoil inside Bihar Vidhan Sabha, streets of Patna over Police Bill||A Bill seeking to arm Bihar police with alleged draconian powers on Tuesday left the assembly virtually paralysed and the state capital's streets in turmoil as RJD workers, led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, clashed with security forces upon being thwarted from reaching the Vidhan Sabha premises in a huge procession. Yadav had, at a press conference in the morning, announced that he would be leading a gherao of the Vidhan Sabha premises, while on the floor of the House an adjournment motion was moved by his party legislators over the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021. No sooner than the House assembled at 11 am, the opposition legislators began raising slogans in protest against the Bill. Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha's plea for raising the issue at an appropriate time went unheeded and, in exasperation, he adjourned the proceedings till noon. In the meantime, a large number of RJD workers, led by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, his elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav and some other MLAs, gathered at the JP Golambar in the vicinity of the Gandhi Maidan from where they marched in a procession towards the Vidhan Sabha premises, about three kilometers away. Before leading the march, Yadav had also tweeted the famous Urdu couplet 'sarfaroshi ki tamanna ab hamaare dil mein hai, dekhna hai zor kitna baazu e qatil mein hai', dropping ample hints that he was bracing for a do-or-die battle. A huge contingent of police was deployed along the route in view of the procession having been taken out without seeking permission from the administration and the agitators not following Covid-19 norms like wearing of face masks. At the Dak Bungalow crossing, the RJD leaders were stopped by the police personnel and they retaliated by pelting the security personnel with stones. Water cannons were pressed into use following which the agitators began to disperse. Meanwhile, uproarious scenes rocked the Vidhan Sabha again when it reassembled at noon and the oppositions adjournment motion was rejected, prompting the Speaker to adjourn the proceedings till 2 pm. The bill, which was introduced last week, seeks to rename the Bihar Military Police, give it more teeth and allegedly empowers the force to arrest people without a warrant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/turmoil-inside-bihar-vidhan-sabha-streets-of-patna-over-police-bill-965469.html
23-03-2021||National||In highest single-day vaccination, over 32.53 lakh Covid-19 doses administered on March 22||As many as 4.85 crore people have received the anti-Covid-19 vaccine till now, with over 32.5 lakh taking it in the last 24 hours, the government told Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Replying to supplementaries during the Question Hour, Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said the pace of inoculation in the country is not slow and 40 per cent of the total vaccines administered across the world in a single day are in India. "I have to say that it is not correct that the speed of vaccination is slow. Till today morning, 4.85 crore people have taken vaccines in the country, and in the last 24 hours, as many as 32,53,095 people have taken vaccines," he said when asked about the vaccination drive being slow. "Of the total vaccines administered in a single day, 40 per cent of it is administered in India," Vardhan told the House. The minister in a written reply said that the government of India is coordinating with state governments at all levels and the highest example is the prime minister's continuous dialogue with chief ministers on Covid-19 and how the vaccination drive can be sped up. The Centre is providing vaccines to all states, he said. "The government of India is in touch with state governments. We have a national expert group on vaccine administration which guides us on vaccination," Vardhan said. On a question about private hospitals allegedly overcharging and not providing free services to the poor despite being given free or subsidised land, he said health is a state subject and state governments make agreements when such land is given, and they monitor the process. "When required, the government of India holds meetings with different hospitals on capping hospital charges," he said, citing the example of capping the price of Covid-19 vaccines. Vaccines are being provided to all states, including Maharashtra, on the basis of a ratio of vaccines provided and used by states, the minister informed when a member asked for more vaccines for the state which has the highest number of coronavirus cases in the country. "Adequate vaccines are available to all states and there is no shortage. Efforts are on to improve coverage of vaccination and the central government is fully committed to help states," he said. On free vaccination in private hospitals, Vardhan said while the vaccine is being provided at no cost in government hospitals, Rs 250 is being charged at private facilities. Those who can afford it should go to private hospitals, he said. To a question on hesitancy among people to take vaccines, he said many are taking the shots following several awareness campaigns by the government. "In this regard, 7,84,612 sessions have been held and 2,02,31,137 people above 60 years of age have been administered vaccine after the vaccination process started on March 1 (for them)," the minister said. He said the Covid-19 vaccine is being provided to beneficiaries prioritised by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) at private Covid-19 Vaccination Centres (CVCs) at a ceiling cost of Rs 250 per dose per person. This includes Rs 150 towards the cost of the vaccine to be remitted to the government and Rs 100 for administration and service charges to be retained by the private CVC, he said. Vardhan said records of earnings of private hospitals is not centrally maintained by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. "Since March 1, 2021, to March 21, 2021, a total of 62.43 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines have been administered at private CVCs. Presently, the Covid-19 vaccine administration at private CVCs has a ceiling cost of Rs 250 per dose per person," he said. The Covid-19 vaccination drive in India is going on for beneficiaries prioritised by the NEGVAC and they include healthcare workers, frontline workers, persons aged 60 years and above, and those aged 45-59 years with identified comorbidities, Vardhan said. Unemployed ration cardholders in any of the above mentioned prioritised groups can avail of Covid-19 vaccine free of cost at government Covid-19 vaccination centres, he said. "All people amongst the prioritised groups of beneficiaries recommended by NEGVAC can avail Covid-19 vaccine free of cost at government centres," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-highest-single-day-vaccination-over-3253-lakh-covid-19-doses-administered-on-march-22-965470.html
23-03-2021||National||A year after controversial meet, Markaz chief yet to join probe||A year after Tabligh-e-Jamaat's Markaz in Nizamuddin West came under criticism for holding a religious congregation amid the Covid-19 outbreak, its cleric Maulana Saad Kandhalvi against whom an FIR was registered in connection with the incident is yet to join the probe despite several notices by Delhi Police. The meet in March 2020 was attended by thousands of Jamaat members from different states, along with hundreds of foreigners. After several of them tested positive for the infection, a nationwide search operation was carried out by respective state governments to locate and quarantine them in the direction of the Centre.  Taking action against the organisers of the congregation, Delhi Police's Crime Branch on March 31, 2020, lodged an FIR against seven people, including Kandhalvi, on a complaint by Station House Officer Nizamuddin under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, Disaster Management Act (2005), Foreigners Act and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.  Kandhalvi was later booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder after some of the attendees of the congregation died due to coronavirus.  According to the police, Kandhalvi is yet to join the probe despite several notices issued to him by the investigators but statements of his sons and office-bearers of the Markaz were recorded in connection with the case.  Most of the forensic reports of documents and electronic devices seized from the centre have been received while a few is still awaited, a senior police officer said. However, in December last year, a Delhi court acquitted 36 foreigners, who were listed in a charge sheet for attending the Tablighi Jamaat congregation by allegedly being negligent and disobeying the government guidelines issued in wake of the coronavirus pandemic in the country.  Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Arun Kumar Garg had said the prosecution failed to prove the presence of the accused at the Nizamuddin Markaz premises from March 12 to April 1. According to the list of evacuees, none of the accused had Covid-19 symptoms and hence, there was no question of any negligent act on their part, the court had said in its order.  Apart from them, FIRs were also filed against those Indian nationals who housed the attendees of the congregation.  Two among them - Feroz Siddique and Rizwan - along with six others moved the court seeking quashing of the FIRs against them in connection with the event.   Delhi Police said till date, it has filed 48 charge sheets and 11 supplementary charge sheets against 956 foreign nationals from 36 countries. According to the charge sheets, all the foreigners were booked for violating visa rules, violating government guidelines issued in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic and regulations regarding the Epidemic diseases Act, Disaster Management Act and prohibitory orders under section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and other relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.  The Centre had cancelled their visas and blacklisted them.  At least 9,000 people participated in the Nizamuddin congregation. Later, many of them travelled to various parts of the country.  Tablighi Jamaat workers, both foreigners as well Indians, indulge in preaching tours or 'chilla' across the country throughout the year. Various nationals, particularly from Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Nepal, Myanmar, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Kyrgyzstan come for Tablighi activities.  All such foreign nationals report their arrival at Tablighi Markaz at Banglewali Mosque in Hazrat Nizamuddin, Delhi and then they are detailed for 'chilla' activities to different parts of the country, according to the home ministry. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had slammed the organisers of the 2020 gathering saying it was "highly irresponsible" on their part to hold such an event at a time when thousands died in other countries due to the pandemic.  However, Markaz in a statement had then said it has not violated any provision of law and offered its premises for setting up a quarantine facility.  It said when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the 'Janta curfew' on March 22, the ongoing programme was discontinued immediately, but a large number of people were stuck on the premises due to the closure of railway services on March 21.  On the evening of March 23, the prime minister had announced a nationwide 21-day lockdown, the statement had mentioned and further added there was no option for Markaz Nizamuddin but to accommodate the stranded visitors with prescribed medical precautions. The administration and police were also criticised by the residents of the area for not heeding their complaints about a large number of people converging at the Markaz amid the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-year-after-controversial-meet-markaz-chief-yet-to-join-probe-965474.html
23-03-2021||National||WB came on board PM-KISAN just before code of conduct came into force: Tomar||The West Bengal government showed interest to implement the central scheme Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana (PM-KISAN) just before the code of conduct for assembly election came into force, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Tuesday said in Parliament. Tomar, in his written reply to the Lok Sabha, said the PM-KISAN Scheme is being implemented successfully all across the country since December 1, 2018. "Implementation has not started in West Bengal as the state refused to provide verified data of farmers. Just before the code of conduct for election came into force, Government of West Bengal decided to come on board, but the process to be completed at the level of the state was not fully complied with," he said. Under the PM-KISAN scheme, a financial benefit of Rs 6,000 per year is provided to small and marginal farmers, payable in three equal instalments of Rs 2,000 each. The fund is transferred directly to the bank accounts of the beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-came-on-board-pm-kisan-just-before-code-of-conduct-came-into-force-tomar-965480.html
23-03-2021||National||Modi govt went all out to misuse central probe agencies: Yechury||Hitting out at the Narendra Modi government, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Tuesday said that the Centre had gone all out to "misuse" the probe agencies in Left ruled Kerala but had failed to destabilise the state government. "Today they know that the Left and the LDF are the actual alternatives and they are trying to misuse the agencies of the central government to try and destabilize the LDF government. They went all out and failed in the last five years. They will try again and you have to fail them", he said addressing a rally in Nileshwaram in the northernmost Kasaragod district in Kerala, in the run-up to the April 6 assembly polls. The three central agencies --Enforcement Directorate, Customs and National Investigation Agency, are probing the Gold smuggling case in which 30 kg of the yellow metal worth Rs 14.82 crore was seized from diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram International airport in July 2020. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also alleged that central probe agencies, which should function as per established norms, were being misused "to destabilise state governments ruled by opposition parties." He had also written to the Prime Minister on the matter. The ED is also investigating alleged irregularities in the Life Mission project, which envisages the construction of flats for the homeless at Wadakancherry in Thrissur. Not sparing the Congress either, Yechury said that the Opposition led UDF had worked in tandem with the BJP in attacking the state government. "They are together on the same side on all issues while attacking the LDF government and against the Chief Minister," he said. Exuding confidence that the LDF government would be voted back to power, Yechury said 580 of the 600 promises the Left front had pledged when it rode to power had been fulfilled, which was a record which no one else in the country can claim. Whether it was the manner in which the government handled the pandemic initially, the floods or the remuneration for farmers, they are all in direct contrast to what is happening elsewhere, the Left veteran said. Referring to the farmers' agitation in Delhi, he said though they have been camping there for over four months, demanding repeal of the three contentious agri laws, the Centre has not begun talks with them in a serious manner. Yechury alleged that every single constitutional independent authority was being undermined by the Centre, which was 'selling off public sector institutions, including banks, insurance companies and airlines. He noted that Parliament had on Monday passed a bill," "virtually destroying the statehood of Delhi." In the Lok Sabha, when members demanded a vote, it was not allowed and it was carried through by voice vote, he said. "We have never seen Parliament so decimated, non-functional, he alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-went-all-out-to-misuse-central-probe-agencies-yechury-965482.html
23-03-2021||National||Notify health policy for rare diseases by March 31, set up R&D body: Delhi HC to Centre||The Delhi High Court Tuesday asked the Centre to finalise and notify the National Health Policy for Rare Diseases by March 31, and directed it to set up a National Consortium for Research, Development and Therapeutics (NCRDT) for such ailments. It also asked the government to consider increasing the budget for rare diseases for the upcoming financial year 2021-22 and said the policy should deal with giving financial incentives for manufacturing drugs and contributing towards treatment of rare diseases. Justice Prathiba M Singh, in an interim order on a batch of petitions concerning children suffering from rare diseases, said that as part of the policy, besides the NCRDT, a committee at AIIMS as well as a fund be set up for such ailments. It said the consortium should consist of the Department of Biotechnology, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) other related ministries and departments and look after research, the development of indigenous treatment, manufacturing of drugs and inclusion of persons in clinical trials. “The National Health Policy for Rare Diseases, 2020 shall be finalised and notified by the Government of India on or before March 31,” the high court directed. The high court passed the directions after considering a report filed by an expert committee set up by the court, an affidavit by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and also the earlier orders passed in the matter. It said these directions shall form part of the Policy. It said the rare diseases committee shall be set up at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) for examination of applications and recommend the treatment and funding of the rare illnesses. The court said when the application will be received by AIIMS, a decision has to be taken by the committee within two weeks and in case, an application is received through other institutions notified under the Policy, the decision on treatment and funding has to be taken by the panel within four weeks. It directed that the entire unspent budget allocated for rare diseases for the past three years shall be immediately moved into the rare diseases fund, which shall be managed, supervised and utilised by nodal agency AIIMS. The digital platform created under the Policy for receiving crowdfunding shall be linked to the fund and those individuals and companies wishing to contribute shall make direct contributions into it. The court said the Policy shall be placed before it and the petitioners shall make a representation to the Committee for further processes in terms of the directions and listed the matter for further hearing on April 19. It also asked the petitioners, suffering from rare diseases, to make representations to the committee regarding the treatment. The high court had earlier constituted an expert committee to assess and find solutions on various aspects, including how to immediately provide treatment and therapy options to patients suffering from rare diseases including Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Hunter’s syndromes. It had said the committee shall also discuss steps to be taken to indigenise the development of the therapies in India and reasonable timelines required to be followed thereof. DMD, one of the various forms of muscular dystrophy, is a rare genetic disease that affects boys almost exclusively and causes progressive weakness. The high court’s order came on various pleas filed on behalf of children suffering from rare diseases, including DMD and Mucopolysaccharidosis II or MPS II (Hunter Syndrome), and seeking direction to the Centre to provide them uninterrupted and free of cost treatment as the therapy is very expensive. MPS II is a rare disease that is passed on in families and it mainly affects boys and their bodies cannot break down a kind of sugar that builds bones, skin, tendons and other tissues. The high court had earlier also directed the Centre to finalise by March 31 its new National Health Policy for Rare Diseases of 2020 and make operational the digital platform envisaged under it for crowdfunding of the expensive medicines and treatment for rare illnesses. The court had also noted in its order that the earlier policy on rare diseases of 2017 was kept in abeyance from December 2018 onwards and the new policy was still awaiting comments from the public and other stakeholders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/notify-health-policy-for-rare-diseases-by-march-31-set-up-rd-body-delhi-hc-to-centre-965483.html
23-03-2021||National||India's total cases of mutant Covid-19 strains reach 795||The total number of cases with the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has reached 795, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday as India is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. From 400 cases reported on March 18, the infections by mutant strains have increased to 795 in the country. Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey told Rajya Sabha on March 16 that no case of reinfection by mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 virus has been reported from India so far. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), in the three countries where the pandemic is being driven by the variant mutants of SARS-CoV-2 virus, namely the UK, South Africa and Brazil, the South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to reinfect persons, he said in a written reply. A genomic consortium of 10 regional laboratories with the National Center for Disease Control as the apex laboratory was established in December-end for laboratory and epidemiological surveillance of circulating strains of SARS-CoV-2 in the country. The UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 was first reported in India on December 29. A total of 40,715 coronavirus infections were reported in a day, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,16,86,796, while the number of active cases registered an increase for the 13th day in a row and was recorded at 3,45,377, according to Union health ministry data updated on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-total-cases-of-mutant-covid-19-strains-reach-795-965484.html
23-03-2021||National||Chhattisgarh: Three security personnel killed in landmine blast||At least three security personnel were killed and several others injured as Naxals blew up the bus in which they were travelling in Chhattisgarh's Narayanpur district on Tuesday, a top police official said. The landmine explosion took place between Kademeta and Kanhargaon villages when the security personnel -- mostly policemen -- were returning after an anti-Naxal operation, state Director General of Police D M Awasthi told PTI. Over 20 security personnel were onboard the bus, he added. "Three security personnel were killed and many others sustained injuries. Reinforcement has been rushed to the spot and further details are awaited," the DGP added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-three-security-personnel-killed-in-landmine-blast-965486.html
23-03-2021||National||Bihar court asks 16-year-old boy's parents to take care of his minor 'wife'||In an exceptional case of showing leniency towards a minor accused, who was charged with kidnapping a minor girl, a local court in Bihar absolved the 16-year-old boy of all the charges and asked his parents to treat the minor girl as their ‘daughter-in-law’. Incidentally, the minor couple has an eight-month-old infant as a result of the two teenagers staying together as a couple. “Treat the infant as your legitimate granddaughter and fulfil all the needs,” the judge told the boy’s parents in one of the rarest case where the court observed that “the order is an exception and should not be used to take advantage by anyone.” According to the Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) Rajesh Pathak, the minor girl’s parents lodged an FIR against the minor boy in February 2019 at Hilsa (in Nalanda) alleging that he had kidnapped their daughter. However, in July 2020, the girl appeared before the court and said she had run away with the boy to Delhi on her own and had been staying there as a couple. She also informed the court that she had an infant born out of this relationship. In the meantime, the juvenile accused, who was 14-year-old during the lodging of the FIR (in 2019), appeared before the court last month and surrendered (at the age of 16). “The act of the minor boy was punishable in law. But he has been acquitted in the larger interest of the lives of three minors – the boy himself, the girl and their eight-month-old daughter....The order is an exception and should not be used to take advantage by anyone,” observed the Principal Judge of the Nalanda Juvenile Justice Board (JJB), Manvendra Mishra. After the judge asked the boy’s parents to treat the minor girl (who is one-and-a-half-year older to the 16-year-old boy) as their daughter-in-law and the infant as their grandchild, the girl’s parents too decided not to pursue the case further.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-court-asks-16-year-old-boys-parents-to-take-care-of-his-minor-wife-965492.html
23-03-2021||National||TMC youth leader Binay Mishra moves HC seeking quashing of FIR in cattle smuggling case||TMC youth leader Binay Mishra, wanted by the CBI for alleged involvement in the cattle scam, has approached the High Court, requesting it to quash an FIR filed against him in the case. The CBI filed an FIR against Mishra in a court in Asansol, as he had been evading the agency net, despite a look-our circular and a warrant issued against him. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) recently arrested his brother, Bikash Mishra, who had also been dodging summonses. Sources in the central agencies said both the brothers are also involved in the multi-crore coal smuggling case, and is believed to be close to kingpin Anup Majhi, alias Lala. The CBI had earlier raided the premises of the TMC leader. Its anti-corruption branch has filed its charge sheet in the trans-border cattle smuggling case. During the course of the investigation, the agency booked a BSF commandant and suspected kingpin Enamul Haq, arrested in November and now in judicial custody. Their names have been as listed as accused in the charge sheet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-youth-leader-binay-mishra-moves-hc-seeking-quashing-of-fir-in-cattle-smuggling-case-965494.html
23-03-2021||National||Will break, but not bend against BJP, asserts Mamata Banerjee||Trinamool Congress supremo Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday alleged that the Centre is selling off government concerns and only Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "factory of lies" will remain. Banerjee said that the BJP is advertising tall claims about what it will do for the people of Bengal, but the party has reneged on promises made in its manifesto for the assembly elections in Assam and Tripura. Addressing election rallies at Para, Kashipur and Raghunathpur in Purulia district, the West Bengal chief minister claimed that BJP governments in the two northeastern states have rendered thousands of government employees jobless. Claiming that the Centre is planning to sell off the nationalised telecom firm and banks, national carrier Air India and state-run companies in other core sectors like defence production, she said that thousands of employees will face an uncertain future owing to this. "They (BJP government) are closing down all central concerns. Only one factory will be there, that of Narendra Modi's lies and the BJP's fraud," she said. Banerjee asserted that she is not afraid of any intimidation and will fight back if threatened. "I will not let go of an inch of land without a fight. We will fight, khela hobe (the game will happen)," the TMC boss said, asserting that she will "break, but will not bend". She asked the TMC's women supporters to make use of their cooking utensils like ladles to throw out "outsider goons" from the state during the eight-phase elections to be held between March 27 and April 29. She has on several occasions accused the BJP of bringing in outsiders to the state for the assembly elections in West Bengal. Pointing accusatory fingers at the BJP again for an injury she suffered in the leg at Nandigram during campaigning on March 10, Banerjee, who has been addressing public meetings sitting on a wheelchair since then, said that she will continue to fight on one leg. "The BJP was thinking that it injured Mamata and so she will not be able to go out. But it doesn't know me. I can play the game with just one leg and kick the ball out of the field," she said. "I will hit the ball with one leg in such a way that you (BJP) will vanish from Delhi too," the TMC supremo said. The chief minister claimed that she has done everything for the development of the state. The high prices of fuel have put a huge burden on the general public, she said and demanded that the Centre provide cooking gas to people for free. Alleging that electronic voting machines could be tampered with to help the BJP win the election, she asked TMC polling agents to check the EVMs twice on poll days and guard the machines till May 2, the date of counting. "If members of the central force ask you to leave, tell them that you respect them but they should not work for Modiji," Banerjee told party workers. She also cautioned them not to accept food offered to them by BJP supporters and workers. "They may mix sedatives in the food to make you fall asleep and taking advantage of that, they may cast votes in their favour in EVMs," she said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi recently said that the TMC supremo is anticipating defeat in the elections and that is why she has started questioning the functioning of EVMs which has brought her to power twice. Banerjee questioned why central government departments will not come under the Election Commission in the five states where assembly elections will be held when the administration of the state is run by the poll panel. The TMC chief claimed that police personnel are being sent to Bengal for the elections from BJP-ruled states. She said that Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren will address public meetings in Purulia and Bankura, which have a sizeable Adivasi population, in support of the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-break-but-not-bend-against-bjp-asserts-mamata-banerjee-965496.html
23-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Anyone above 45 years can get Covid-19 vaccine from April 1||In your evening news brief, Anyone above 45 years can get Covid-19 vaccine from April 1; BJP President J P Nadda says in Assam that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been passed by the Parliament and will be implemented "in time", and a Bangladeshi court hands down death sentence to 14 Islamist militants for attempting to kill Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Here is the top news of March 23, 2021: With the Covid-19 surging across India again, anyone above 45 years will now be able to get the Covid-19 vaccine from April 1, Union minster Prakash Javadekar said on Tuesday. Briefing reporters on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet, he said even people without comorbidity and above the age of 45 years, can get vaccinated. He requested people entitled to get themselves registered to take the Covid-19 shot.   BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) has been passed by the Parliament and will be implemented "in time". Nadda after releasing the party's manifesto for the Assam elections said that the law, (which does not find a mention in the manifesto), is a central legislation and the Congress claims that they will not allow its implementation in the state, if voted to power, may be either "due to their ignorance or they are trying to fool the people of the state".   A Bangladeshi court on Tuesday handed down death sentence to 14 Islamist militants for attempting to kill Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina at her southwestern constituency in 2000. "The verdict will be executed by a firing squad to set an example, unless the law barred it," Judge Abu Zafar Md Kamruzzaman of Dhaka's Speedy Trial tribunal-1 pronounced the verdict as nine of them were Otherwise, the convicts could be hanged in line with prevailing practice, subject to the approval of the High Court Division of the Supreme Court following mandatory review of death sentences under Bangladesh law, the judge said. All the convicts are operatives of outlawed Harkatul Jihad Bangladesh (HuJI-B).   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-anyone-above-45-years-can-get-covid-19-vaccine-from-april-1-965498.html
23-03-2021||National||Pakistan Foreign Minister to attend ‘Heart of Asia’ conference in Tajikistan, may hold meeting with Jaishankar: Report||Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi will travel to Tajikistan later in the month to participate in the ‘Heart of Asia’ conference, which is expected to be attended by his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar, sparking speculation of a possible meeting between the two amidst peace overtures from the Pakistani Army, according to a media report. However, there was no official confirmation from New Delhi on whether Jaishankar will travel to Tajikistan for the conference or about the possible meeting with his Pakistani counterpart. The Ninth Ministerial Conference of the Heart of Asia - Istanbul Process is scheduled to take place on the 30th of March 2021 in Dushanbe, the capital of Tajikistan. Dawn newspaper reported that the participation of Jaishankar and Qureshi in the March 30th event, in the backdrop of the recent developments, has led to speculation that they could meet. "In view of recent events, we cannot say it's impossible," an official was quoted by the newspaper as saying. The militaries of India and Pakistan on February 25 announced that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. On March 18, Pakistan's powerful Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa said it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward". Addressing a session of the first-ever Islamabad Security Dialogue here, Gen Bajwa also said that the potential for regional peace and development always remained hostage to the disputes and issues between Pakistan and India - the two "nuclear-armed neighbours". "We feel it is time to bury the past and move forward," he said, adding that the responsibility for a meaningful dialogue rested with India. India last month said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence and that the onus is on Pakistan to create an environment free of terror and hostility. India has also told Pakistan that "talks and terror" cannot go together and has asked Islamabad to take demonstrable steps against terror groups responsible for launching various attacks on India. Ties between India and Pakistan nose-dived after a terror attack on the Pathankot Air Force base in 2016 by terror groups based in Pakistan. Subsequent attacks, including one on an Indian Army camp in Uri, further deteriorated the relationship. The ties hit rock bottom after India's war planes pounded a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist training camp deep inside Pakistan on February 26, 2019 in response to the Pulwama terror attack in 2019 in which 40 CRPF jawans were killed. The border tensions increased manifold after India abrogated Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories in August, 2019.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-foreign-minister-to-attend-heart-of-asia-conference-in-tajikistan-may-hold-meeting-with-jaishankar-report-965501.html
23-03-2021||National||Government exits Tata Communications Ltd; sells 26% stake for Rs 8,846 crore||The government has exited Tata Communications Ltd (TCL) by selling about 26 per cent stake in the company for about Rs 8,846 crore as part of the disinvestment plan. Public sector company VSNL was privatised in 2002 by disinvesting 25 per cent shareholding along with transfer of management control to Panatone Finvest Ltd, the strategic partner. Subsequent to the strategic disinvestment, the name of the company was changed to TCL. "Disinvestment of government holding completed of 16.12% in TCL through OFS at Rs 5,457 crore and 10% to strategic partner at OFS discovered price for Rs 3,389 crore. With this, government exits from TCL with total proceeds of Rs about Rs 8,846 crore," DIPAM Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said in a tweet on Monday. As per the shareholding pattern of TCL, the promoters hold 74.99 per cent stake in the company. Of this, the Government of India holds 26.12 per cent while Panatone Finvest holds 34.80 per cent and Tata Sons holds 14.07 per cent. The remaining 25.01 per cent is with the public. Last week, the government sold its 16.12 per cent stake through an offer for sale (OFS) to retail and non-retail investors at the floor price of Rs 1,161 per equity. The revised disinvestment target for this financial year has been set at Rs 32,000 crore, substantially lower than the budgeted Rs 2.10 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-exits-tata-communications-ltd-sells-26-stake-for-rs-8846-crore-965505.html
23-03-2021||National||SC to hear ex-Mumbai top cop's plea for CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister on March 24||The Supreme Court will hear on Wednesday a plea by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh for a CBI probe into "various malpractices of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh". Singh's petition filed on Monday was shown as listed in Supreme Court's website for hearing before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy on March 24. In his petition, the senior IPS officer asked the court to quash the March 17 order transferring him from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to head of Home Guards as "illegal and arbitrary".  Singh triggered a political storm in Maharashtra with his letter making grave allegations of extortion against the Home Minister on March 20. In his writ petition, he claimed his transfer was "more of a politically influenced move by certain political parties, aggrieved by the revelation of the corrupt practices of Deshmukh to senior leaders and the Chief Minister."  He reiterated his allegations against Deshmukh that he had given a collection target of Rs 100 crore per month from bars and restaurants to API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, arrested in Antilia bomb scare case. He said that if immediate directions for CBI probe was not ordered, CCTV camera footage at the residence of Deshmukh may be destroyed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-hear-ex-mumbai-top-cops-plea-for-cbi-probe-against-maharashtra-home-minister-on-march-24-965510.html
23-03-2021||National||Election Commission revises rule for polling agents||The Election Commission of India (ECI) has decided to revise its rules for polling agents, allowing a party to nominate a polling agent for any booth within the assembly segment where the person is an electorate, a senior official said on Tuesday. Earlier, a polling agent had to be a voter of the booth where he was to be a polling agent. "This new norm will help the political parties to appoint one polling agent to each booth. It will help any political party to appoint a polling agent amid the Covid-19 pandemic since getting one agent at this hour may be difficult," he said. The number of polling stations in West Bengal has increased from 78,903 in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls to 1,01,790 for the 2021 Assembly election. Meanwhile, fearing that bike rallies may intimidate electorates, the poll panel has decided not to allow bike rallies 72 hours before polling, the official said. The eight-phase election for the 294 seat West Bengal Assembly will be held between March 27 and April 29. Votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-revises-rule-for-polling-agents-965511.html
23-03-2021||National||Oxford University probes alleged cyber bullying of Indian student||The University of Oxford on Tuesday said a probe is underway and that it “investigates thoroughly” every complaint related to harassment or equality, following allegations of cyber bullying surrounding Rashmi Samant, the first Indian woman to be elected President of the Oxford Student Union (SU) who was forced to resign amidst controversy over some of her past social media posts. Some British Hindu groups have also raised concerns around comments made online by a university staffer from the history faculty with the local Thames Valley Police, urging an investigation into a possible hate crime. The police force confirmed that it has “received a report of an alleged hate incident”. The comments under scrutiny, posted with an image of Samant's family on Instagram by Dr Abhijit Sarkar, made references to their Hindu faith and also categorised their home state of Karnataka as a "bastion of Islamophobic forces". "An investigation into these online comments is ongoing and we must allow time for this formal process to be followed. In cases such as these, student support is provided through their college and department,” an Oxford University spokesperson said. "The university is fully committed to creating an environment where people of all backgrounds, including our Hindu students and staff, can feel welcome, valued and respected," the university said, adding that it has strong policies in place to protect staff and students against “all forms of harassment, including online harassment”. Samant has been working on completing her MSc course in Energy Systems at the university remotely from her hometown in Udupi, after she flew back to India in the wake of her resignation. She said the continued "cyber bullying" makes it difficult for her to consider returning to the university at this stage. "I'm just very glad that the university and the police have launched an investigation into my complaint, and I look forward to resolving it in the best manner possible," said Samant, in a statement from India. "I think it's a long road for me to feel safe about the prospect of coming back and getting respite from the cyber bullying," she said, adding that the Indian community in the UK had been "super supportive" through the course of the incident since last month. The issue even found its way to the Indian Parliament last week, when BJP MP Ashwini Vaishnav raised it as a question of "racial discrimination" in the Rajya Sabha. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had responded to say that India would "never ever turn our eyes away from racism wherever it is" and that these developments will be monitored "very, very closely". This resulted in a joint statement from the Oxford India Society, Oxford University Hindu Society and Oxford South Asian Society against what they branded a "misleading narrative" being played out in India. "We reiterate that these calls [Samant's resignation] did not have anything to do with the fact that she is Indian or Hindu or a woman," the statement reads. However, the groups agreed that the faculty member at the centre of the controversial online comments must apologise for his social media posts. "We further strongly disapprove of the actions of Dr Abhijit Sarkar, Postdoctoral History Researcher at New College. Dr Sarkar's social media posts about Ms Samant's parents and their religious beliefs had no place in a conversation about Ms Samant's reprehensible actions… It is imperative that Dr Sarkar take responsibility for his words and apologise to Ms Samant,” the statement adds. Earlier this month, the online remarks of the staffer were raised by a former Oxford University alumnus and British Indian entrepreneur Alpesh Patel, who had issued a formal complaint to the Vice-Chancellor’s office. “This matter deserves a police investigation into the bullies on incitement to racial hatred," said Alpesh Patel, Chair of the City Hindus Network (CHN). Satish K Sharma, Senior Managing Director of the Global Hindu Federation, has taken up the matter of following up on the police complaint and accused the faculty member of “unlawful conduct and inexcusable bigotry”. “Rest assured that the British Hindu community will persist until a just conclusion has been reached,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oxford-university-probes-alleged-cyber-bullying-of-indian-student-965517.html
23-03-2021||National||Delhi govt has urged Centre to allow those above 18 to take Covid vaccine: Satyendar Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said the Delhi government has urged the Centre to allow everyone aged above 18 to take the Covid-19 vaccine as such a step will set an example for the entire world. "The Centre has allowed vaccination for everyone aged above 45 from April 1. We have demanded that vaccines be given to everyone aged above 18. It will set an example for the entire world to defeat coronavirus," he tweeted. केंद्र सरकार ने 45 साल की उम्र से ऊपर के सभी लोगों को कोरोना वैक्सीन देने की मंजूरी दी है। दिल्ली सरकार ने इस कदम को आगे बढ़ाकर 18 साल से ऊपर के सभी लोगों को कोरोना वैक्सीन देने की मांग की है I कोरोना को मात देने में यह कदम देश ही नहीं बल्कि पूरी दुनिया के लिए एक उदाहरण होगा। The decision comes amid a surge in coronavirus cases in several states. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated, while vaccination of the frontline workers started from February 2. The next phase of vaccination commenced on March 1 for senior citizens and those aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-has-urged-centre-to-allow-those-above-18-to-take-covid-vaccine-satyendar-jain-965519.html
23-03-2021||National||BJP represents true Bengali culture, Mamata Banerjee anarchy: Nadda||BJP national president J P Nadda on Tuesday asserted that the people of Bengal have decided to vote for his party, which is all "set to put an end to the TMC's politics of extortion". Nadda, who held a roadshow at Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur during the day, also said that the "BJP, inspired by Bharatiya Jana Sangh (BJS) founder Shyama Prasad Mookerjee, represents true Bengali culture, while Banerjee and her camp only believes in anarchy". The BJS is the fore-runner of the BJP. The top saffron camp leader, who occasionally flashed the victory sign and sprinkled flowers on supporters, said he was confident that his party would emerge victorious in the assembly polls. "We will put an end to the politics of extortion practised by the TMC, break the bua-bhatija (Mamata and nephew Abhishek Banerjee) nexus, end the syndicate raj and save Bengali culture. The BJP will build 'Sonar Bangla' by ushering in 'asol paribartan' (real change) in the state," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-represents-true-bengali-culture-mamata-banerjee-anarchy-nadda-965523.html
23-03-2021||National||Covid-19 a recurring infection, people need to learn to live with it: Satyendra Jain||Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain on Tuesday said that Covid-19 is a recurring infection and people need to learn to live with it. Delhi was witnessing around 200 cases daily some days ago. The number has again risen to 800-900, Jain said at an event on the Delhi Assembly premises where he felicitated 'corona warriors' from the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital and GTB Hospital. "Coronavirus is a recurring infection. The minute we feel the situation is getting better, there is a sudden surge. We need to be aware, but also need to learn to live with it," he said. "Just like the other diseases, we will have to learn how to protect ourselves. If we continue to take precautions like washing our hands, wearing a mask, a lot of other diseases too can be kept at bay," he said. Delhi reported over 888 coronavirus cases on Monday, while seven people succumfbed to the disease, the highest since February 4, the Health Department said. There were 823 cases on Sunday, 813 on Saturday, 716 on Friday, 607 on Thursday, 536 on Wednesday and 425 on Tuesday, according to official data. Jain thanked all doctors, nurses, paramedics and staff for their contribution in combating the Covid-19 pandemic. Reacting to the passage of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Amendment (GNCTD) Bill, 2021, he said, 'The British rule is being implemented again." "In the British Era too, there was a parliament and elections were conducted. MPs were elected, but decision-making powers were not in their hands. It was the Viceroy who took all the decisions. The same thing is being brought today," he said.  The bill that seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" was passed by the Lower House on Monday amidst strong opposition from the Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party. The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-a-recurring-infection-people-need-to-learn-to-live-with-it-satyendra-jain-965525.html
23-03-2021||National||HC grants time to Bollywood producers to reply to pleas of Bennett Coleman, others to reject suit||The Delhi High Court Tuesday granted time to leading Bollywood producers to respond to the applications filed by Bennett Coleman and Company Ltd and two other media houses seeking rejection of the lawsuit filed by celebrities to restrain them from allegedly making irresponsible remarks. Justice J R Midha allowed the request and asked them to file the replies within four weeks and listed the matter for further hearing on May 25. The high court also asked the parties to file brief note of submissions of not more than three pages along with relevant judgements relied upon by them three days before the next hearing. Advocate Kartik Yadav, appearing for the Bollywood producers, sought three weeks more to file replies to the applications. The applications seeking rejection of the lawsuit were filed by Bennett Coleman and Company Ltd, Times Now editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar, TV9 group and another media house in January. The high court had earlier issued notices and sought response of the producers on the applications. The lawsuit by four Bollywood industry associations and thirty-four leading producers, including those owned by Aamir Khan, Shahrukh Khan, Salman Khan, Karan Johar, Ajay Devgn, Anil Kapoor, Rohit Shetty, as also Yash Raj Films and R S Entertainment, has also sought that the channels be restrained from interfering with the right to privacy of persons associated with the industry. The court extended its interim order asking media houses AGR Outlier Media Pvt Ltd and Bennett Coleman and Company Ltd to ensure that no defamatory content will be uploaded on social media platforms or displayed on their channels. The high court had earlier sought replies of AGR Outlier Media Pvt Ltd (Republic TV), its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar, and intermediaries Google, Facebook and Twitter on the leading Bollywood producers' plea. In the application, the Times group has raised the issue of jurisdiction and claimed that the Delhi High Court has no territorial jurisdiction to entertain the lawsuit against it and no cause of action has arisen in favour of the producers and against the media houses, considering that the plaint allegedly complains of defamation of unidentifiable group of person and as such, defamation is not made out. “Even otherwise, no defamatory content has been published by the defendant (Times group) herein against the plaintiff (producers) which amounts to defamation as alleged or otherwise or at all. Hence the present suit is not maintainable and as such, the present suit is liable to be dismissed,” the application stated. It said “All the plaintiffs reside within the territorial jurisdiction of Mumbai. Substantially, the defendants also reside within the territorial jurisdiction of Mumbai. The high court was earlier assured by the counsel for the media houses that they will follow the programme code and the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act. It had questioned the plaintiffs for not making individual celebrities parties in the suit and they are being represented through associations. The suit has said, “This comes in the wake of these channels using highly derogatory words and expressions for Bollywood such as 'dirt', 'filth', 'scum', 'druggies' and expressions such as 'it is Bollywood where the dirt needs to be cleaned'... and 'cocaine and LSD drenched Bollywood'.” Those who have filed the suit are The Film and Television Producers Guild Of India (PGI), The Cine and TV Artistes' Association (CINTAA), Indian Film and TV Producers Council (IFTPC), Screenwriters Association (SWA), Aamir Khan Productions, Ad-Labs Films, Ajay Devgn Flims, Andolan Films, Anil Kapoor Film and Communication Network, Arbaaz Khan Productions, Ashutosh Gowariker Productions, BSK Network and Entertainment, Cape of Good Films, Clean Slate Filmz and Dharma Productions. The list includes Emmay Entertainment and Motion Pictures, Excel Entertainment, Filmkraft Productions, Hope Production, Kabir Khan Films, Luv Films, Macguffin Pictures, Nadiadwala Grandson Entertainment, One India Stories, R.S. Entertainment (Ramesh Sippy Entertainment), Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra Pictures, Red Chillies Entertainment, Reel Life Productions, Reliance Big Entertainment, Rohit Shetty Picturez. The other plaintiffs are Roy Kapur Films, Salman Khan Films, Sikhya Entertainment, Sohail Khan Productions, Tiger Baby Digital, Vinod Chopra Films, Vishal Bhardwaj Pictures and Yashraj Films. In the plea, the producers have sought that the defendants (media persons) shall take down all the defamatory content published by them against the film industry. It claimed that the privacy of the members of Bollywood is being invaded and their reputations are being irreparably damaged by painting the entire industry as “criminals seeped in drug culture”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-grants-time-to-bollywood-producers-to-reply-to-pleas-of-bennett-coleman-others-to-reject-suit-965532.html
23-03-2021||National||No new strain of novel coronavirus detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab: Govt||No new strain of the novel coronavirus has been detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab and the recent surge in infections in these states are due to SARS-CoV-2 that has been driving the pandemic for over a year, Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. In written reply to a question, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said that after the detection of variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil, the Government of India put in a surveillance mechanism for international travellers and in the community to detect these known variants. Till March 18, the number of samples testing positive for mutant virus variants is 400 across the country, he said. "No new strain of Covid-19 virus has been detected in Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab. The surge in Covid-19 cases witnessed now in these states are due to the SARS-CoV-2 virus that is driving the pandemic since last year," Choubey said. The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said the total number of cases with the UK, South Africa and Brazil variants of SARS-CoV-2 in the country has reached 795. The government has taken a series of actions to prevent entry and spread of known mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 in India, Choubey said in the written reply. On measures to detect coronavirus variants, he said these include point-of-entry surveillance and pre-arrival and post-arrival testing for all international travellers coming through flights originating from the United Kingdom, Europe and the Middle East, mandatory home quarantine for 14 days with an option of testing after seven days of arrival in India. For those travellers testing positive, separate isolation facilities and separate quarantine facilities for their contacts have been arranged. Besides, a consortium of 10 laboratories is testing the positive samples of such travellers arriving via flights originating from the UK, Europe and the Middle East and monitoring the variant virus. In addition, five per cent of the positive samples from the community are being tested and monitored for genomic changes in SARS-CoV-2, he said. For management and containment of the Covid-19 pandemic, financial support has been provided to all states and union territories under the National Health Mission (NHM) and the India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health System Preparedness Package during 2019-20 and 2020-21. No case of misuse of funds has so far been reported, he said in reply to another question.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-new-strain-of-novel-coronavirus-detected-in-maharashtra-kerala-and-punjab-govt-965541.html
23-03-2021||National||India must reset strategy on China, says study||India must scale back state intervention in business, restore the balance of powers between the legislature, executive and judiciary, build new coalitions to rise up to the challenge posed by China, said a study by a think-tank. Contending that India was outmatched by China economically, the study titled 'Strategic Patience and Flexible Policies' suggested interventions to restore “rough parity” to ensure that Beijing did not spring up surprises, as it did in Ladakh last year, again. The paper, authored by Gautam Bambawale, Vijay Kelkar, Raghunath Mashelkar, Ganesh Natarajan, Ajit Ranade and Ajit Shah, India needed to get back to the high growth environment of 1991-2011 to pitch itself within reach of China's economic, cultural, technological and military power. The paper identified the increased tendency towards government micromanaging the economy; the expanding administrative state and growing erosion of the rule of law as key challenges to India's growth story. It noted that the Indian state was prescribing details of products, processes, technology and even placing additional activities in public sector monopolies. “This creates business model risk for private persons and reduces the incentives for private persons to commit resources to compete in fairways,” the experts said. They said that the concentration of power in the executive has led to an unequal application of the rule of law to private persons. “This reduces the incentives for private persons to commit resources into building organisations in India,” the paper said, suggesting the restoration of the balance of power between the legislature, executive and the judiciary. The report argued for certain restrictions to be put in place like limiting state-controlled Chinese companies from taking a controlling stake in sensitive infra assets in India, staying clear of Chinese technological standards and blocking surveillance of Indian people and entities by Chinese entities, Bambawale said. The study also suggested that India should build coalitions with 20 countries with whom it shared values and interests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-must-reset-strategy-on-china-says-study-965542.html
23-03-2021||National||UPSC declares results of civil services main exam||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on Tuesday declared the results of civil services (main) examination 2020. Personality Tests (interviews) of the successful candidates will be commenced shortly, which will be held in the office of the UPSC at Dholpur House, Shahjahan Road, New Delhi, it said. The civil services examination is held annually in three stages - preliminary, main and interview - to select officers for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. The candidates will be required to produce original certificates in support of their claims pertaining to age, educational qualifications, community, economically weaker section, person with benchmark disability (PwBD) and other documents at the time of their personality test (interview), said the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry. "They are, therefore, advised to keep the said documents ready with them. The e-summon letters of personality tests (interviews) of the candidates will be made available shortly, which may be downloaded from the commission's website www.upsc.gov.in & www.upsconline.in," it said. No paper summon letters will be issued for the personality tests (interviews) by the commission, it said. "No request for change in the date and time of the personality test (interview) intimated to the candidates will ordinarily be entertained," the statement said. PTI AKV||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/upsc-declares-results-of-civil-services-main-exam-965551.html
23-03-2021||National||Maharashtra govt's Maratha quota constitutional, Centre tells Supreme Court||Maharashtra has the legislative competence for granting reservation quota to Marathas and its decision is Constitutional as the 102nd amendment does not denude a state of the power to declare its list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC), the Centre told the Supreme Court on Tuesday. The 102nd Constitution Amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list. A five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was told by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, that in its view the SEBC Act, 2018, of Maharashtra granting reservation to people of the Maratha community in the state in jobs and admissions is Constitutional. “The Centre is of the view that the Maharashtra SEBC Act is constitutional. We construe Article 342A gives enabling role to Central government to determine the SEBC,” Mehta said, adding that the Centre adopts the submissions of Attorney General K K Venugopal and it should be considered as the view of the Union government. On March 18, the AG had told the top court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the SEBC and conferring benefits on them. Mehta said that Article 342A inserted by the amendment is an enabling provision and does not denude the States of power to declare SEBC. The bench however asked Mehta as to why no notification of SEBCs has been issued till date by the Centre under Article 342A as the President in consultation with the governor has to issue the list. “Will you not make it a dead letter by not issuing the notification for all times to come? Doesn’t it means that there is a blank slate as of now?” the bench asked Mehta, to which he replied that the existing list of SEBC continues. In that case, the existing list of SEBC has to be a part of the Constitution Amendment Act itself, the bench said, adding that it is not clear as of now as to what will be the correct interpretation of Article 342A, and what will be the effect of not having a list. Mehta said that all these questions will be answered when the top court will consider the petition challenging the validity of 102nd Constitution Amendment. The bench said it will hear the submission of Mehta again on this aspect when those petitions are considered. Mehta replied that if the court holds that states are not denuded of power to issue SEBC list after the 102nd amendment, then it may not have to address the question as the amendment act is challenged on the ground that it has taken away the state’s power to issue SEBC list. He said that he would file a written submission to answers various questions on the issue. Senior advocate Manish Singhvi, appearing for the Rajasthan government, said that the determination of SEBC in each state for subject matter(s) covered by List-II and is sole prerogative of the concerned state government. He said the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment (also called the Mandal verdict) put cap of 50 per cent on reservation and hence it requires re-consideration by a larger bench. Advocate Manish Singh, appearing for the Bihar government said that since 1993 there are two separate lists of SEBC -- one prepared by the Centre for central services and the other by state for state services. “In relation to Bihar the Central list contains 136 castes and State list has 174 castes, for grant of reservation,” he said, adding that the affirmative action by Bihar at its own resources, is to be decided by the state and taking away that power would be against the federal structure mandated by Constitution. He said that interpretation of 102nd amendment cannot be made to defeat or limit the legislative powers of the States and 1992 verdict needs to be referred to a larger bench and requires re-consideration in light of changed social dynamics of the society. The arguments in the case remained inconclusive and would resume on Wednesday. On Monday, the top court had said that states should take more steps to promote education and establish institutes for the upliftment of SEBC as “affirmative action” is not limited to just the reservation and several other things can be done by for this purpose. The top court had earlier sought to know for how many generations would reservations in jobs and education continue and had raised concerns over “resultant inequality” in case the overall 50 per cent limit was to be removed. The apex court is hearing a clutch of pleas challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which had upheld the grant of quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state. It had on September 9 last year stayed the implementation of legislation and referred to a larger bench the batch of pleas challenging the validity of law, but made it clear that status of those who have availed of the benefits would not be disturbed. The High Court, while upholding the law in June 2019, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and the quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-govts-maratha-quota-constitutional-centre-tells-supreme-court-965552.html
23-03-2021||National||Steps taken during pandemic helped economy recover: Anurag Thakur||Steps taken by the government during the pandemic have helped the economy recover, and the country is expected to clock double-digit growth in the next fiscal, said Union Minister of State for Finance and Corporate Affairs Anurag Singh Thakur in Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. The government will spend Rs 1.97 lakh crore on production-linked incentive (PLI) and has identified more than 10 sectors to be included, which would in turn create job opportunities for the youth, he said. The minister said people who are raising apprehension about the recovery of the economy should see GST collections of the past few months. "People are raising questions about the coming times. But, if you look at the past six months, the steps that we took during the Covid-19 pandemic, such as putting money into the hands of people, helped the business class. "The GST collection rose, which was over Rs 1.10 lakh crore in the last five year. This was because of the policy adopted by our government," said Thakur. Experts have said that India will have a V-shaped recovery, but the IMF data shows that India would have an 11.5 per cent growth in the financial year 2021-22, he added. "Moody's has predicted a 12 per cent growth in the next year. OECD (Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) has said that growth would be 12.6 per cent," he said. He said this while replying to the debate over appropriation Bills for Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry for the financial year 2021-22. On the public sector undertakings, the minister said no one can deny about their contribution. "But, with the passage of time, several things have changed," he said adding that disinvestment has been the policy of every government and even the previous government had tried this. The government has a clear and transparent policy in this regard. "We have brought schemes as PLI in mobile manufacturing. Earlier, India had only two mobile manufacturing industry and within five years, we have become the second-largest mobile manufacturer of the world," he said. "We are trying to bring more such projects to provide more employment opportunities," he said. During the lockdown, ministries such as finance and home were working continuously and had tried to ensure that there is no scarcity of food and money, he said. "India was the only country where 80 core people were given free food for almost eight months," the minister added. While talking about the ongoing farmers' protests over the minimum support price (MSP) issue, the minister said people participating in this are getting exposed. "We have tried to lessen the debt of FCI (Food Corporation of India) and strengthen BSNL. We tried to strengthen the government institutions," he said. Taking a dig at the Congress, he said it had left the banking system into a staggering state, and this government has recapitalised them with Rs 4.38 lakh crore. "We have done asset quality review and our government has continuously tried to reduce the gross NPA (non-performing assets)," he said adding that it has brought 11 banks out of 12 in profits. "The inflation rate in those five years was in double digits between 9 and 14 per cent. Now, in our term of 2014-19, it was an average of 4.4 per cent," he said adding, "We have reduced the fiscal deficit to 3.5 per cent." He also said that last year was an extraordinary year and people took some loans also but they did not face any shortage of food. India has a foreign exchange (forex) reserve of USD 298 billion and has now got double to USD 590 billion in the next five-six years. "You have left India as 11th largest economy and we have made it at number six under the leadership of (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi," he said. He also said the government is now constructing over two-three times more roads than the previous one. For fertiliser, the government has returned Rs 64,592 crore to companies, so that the farmers get fertilisers on time next time. While talking about the scheme as MGNREGA, the minister said the government has raised the daily wages to Rs 210 and spends over Rs 1.10 lakh crore on this. The government is working on textiles parks, which would create jobs opportunities, and is also setting up bulk drug parks for the production of API, to reduce its dependence on China. "We are focusing on self-reliance," he said. During the debate, BJP MPs Sanjay Seth and Shwait Malik also participated. While, Narain Das Gupta of AAP said that in the Budget 2021-22, the allocation for Delhi was even lesser than small cities such as Chandigarh, and said that it was getting "step-motherly treatment" from the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steps-taken-during-pandemic-helped-economy-recover-anurag-thakur-965554.html
23-03-2021||National||Lok Sabha approves hiking threshold for tax-free PF interest to Rs 5 lakh||Lok Sabha on Tuesday approved a proposal to increase the threshold limit in provident fund to Rs five lakh per annum for which interest would continue to be tax exempt. “The limit is being increased to Rs five lakh in those cases where there is no contribution by the employer in that fund,” she said. The Lok Sabha passed the Finance Bill 2021 with a voice vote, effectively approving the tax proposals for the coming fiscal. The minister also stressed that tax on interest on provident fund contribution affected only 1% of the contributors, and the remaining are not impacted as their contribution is less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. During the debate, opposition members voiced concern over the high fuel rates and urged the government to reduce taxes to bring them within reach of the common man. At the same time, she also pointed out that the state governments also levy taxes on fuel. On the agriculture infrastructure cess proposed in the Budget, the minister said the Centre would spend the money collected from it to strengthen agriculture produce market committees and market yards. “The agri cess will have to go to states,” the minister said responding to claims by opposition members that the cess collected did not form part of funds that were to be devolved to the states. The finance minister also said rationalisation of customs duty structure will be undertaken to help domestic businesses, especially the MSME segment. On taxes, she emphasised on the need for widening the tax base. With regards to the equalisation levy, she said this is meant to provide a level playing field to domestic businesses which pay taxes in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lok-sabha-approves-hiking-threshold-for-tax-free-pf-interest-to-rs-5-lakh-965565.html
23-03-2021||National||Bihar Police Bill passed by Assembly amid unprecedented chaos||Unprecedented chaos erupted inside the Bihar Assembly on Tuesday when police was called inside to assist the marshals in evicting unruly opposition members who tried to physically prevent the Speaker from taking his Chair. Sources in the five-party Grand Alliance said on condition of anonymity that there were instructions from “leadership” that the House must not be allowed to function on the penultimate day of the month-long budget session. The bone of contention was Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which the Nitish Kumar government has introduced in a bid to give its police more teeth, deemed necessary in view of the increasingly complex security needs of the state which has been witnessing rapid economic growth. The opposition, however, termed it as a “black” legislation, taking strong exception to provisions that empower the Special Armed Police, previously known as the Bihar Military Police, to conduct searches and arrests without producing a warrant. The Bill was, nonetheless, passed by the Assembly late in the evening, well past the stipulated time, amid a “walkout” by opposition MLAs who squatted outside the building and raised slogans, slighted by the manner in which they were ousted from the hall by the men in uniform. Things had come to the pass after the Speaker was thwarted from taking his seat by a handful of women legislators of the RJD who had clambered on to the podium even as many other MLAs created ruckus in the well, threw away the chair of the Vidhan Sabha secretary and prevented staff from bringing in another piece of furniture. Tempers flared up in the treasury benches as well. The normally affable cabinet minister Ashok Choudhary was seen getting physical with an RJD MLA who tried to snatch away the papers from BJP’s Prem Kumar, who occupied the chair while Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha took his time to recover from the shock over the turn of events during the day. Sinha had around 3 pm adjourned proceedings till 4.30 pm, for the umpteenth time during the day. He was held hostage inside his chamber by opposition legislators who surrounded it from all sides preventing his exit. Top officials of the district and police administration had to contend with an RJD procession led by Tejashwi Yadav earlier in the day, taken out in protest against the Bill and rising unemployment, which resulted in injuries to many protestors and police officials as stones were hurled and lathi charge and use of water cannons was ordered. The Dak Bungalow crossing, where the protestors clashed with the police upon being prevented from marching to the Assembly, witnessed lawlessness as vehicles parked by the roadside were vandalized and many journalists covering the event also suffered injuries. The officials were summoned to the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon to rope in police personnel for helping the marshals who were far outnumbered by the legislators laying siege to the Speakers chamber. A few MLAs of the RJD and its ally CPI(M) fell unconscious outside the Vidhan Sabha premises where they were dumped by the security personnel. Later, they alleged that they were “severely beaten up”. Another RJD MLA appeared before the camera with his hand wrapped in plaster and declared “members of the ruling coalition broke my arm in presence of the chief minister who chose to look away”. Disturbing images of some legislators being pulled by the hair and kicked and male police personnel dragging a female MLA have also gone viral on the social media. Tejashwi Yadav, who was inside the Vidhan Sabha premises in the afternoon, having spent the first half leading the procession and courting arrest, tweeted angrily “Nitish Kumar, if you are indeed a man, get us shot instead of getting us beaten up”. It was a day of uncharacteristic anger shown by the cool-headed young leader who was seen engaged in an angry spat with an Additional SP in the evening after the police was done with helping the marshals in eviction of problematic opposition legislators. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, who witnessed many of the unsavoury incidents with distaste, said “there seem to be many new legislators who need to be trained in parliamentary behaviour. “Had the opposition allowed the House to run, the government would have addressed its concerns. But that opportunity was frittered away”. The Speaker, visibly shattered by the utter chaos of which he happened to be at the receiving end, said before winding up, “many unfortunate things have happened. This cannot be allowed to recur. “Action will be taken against those members who might have indulged in vandalism on the floor of the House”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-police-bill-passed-by-assembly-amid-unprecedented-chaos-965567.html
23-03-2021||National||Rabble-rouser Uttar Pradesh IPS officer given voluntary retirement in 'public interest'||Uttar Pradesh IPS officer Amitabh Thakur, who was known for taking the governments head on by his arguments, was given voluntary retirement (VRS) from service in ''public interest''. According to the official sources, the ministry of Home Affairs, in its order, which was issued last week, decided to give VRS to Thakur after finding him 'unsuitable' to keep him in service in ''public interest''. ''I have just received the order of my VRS in public interest...the government does not need my services...Jai Hind,'' Thakur said in a message on his Twitter handle on Tuesday. Thakur, who was a native of Bihar, had often been in the news for taking the governments, whether headed by the Samajwadi Party (SP) or the BJP, head on over different issues. The firebrand IPS officer, who was usually given insignificant postings, had irked the BJP government, when he had predicted that gangster Vikas Dubey, who had killed eight cops and was nabbed in Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh last year, would be killed in an encounter even before it happened. Similarly, he had again embarrassed the bureaucracy and the government after he demanded action against the district magistrate of Hathras following brutal rape and murder of a woman there. Thakur had also released a list of 'wasooli' (extortion) by the cops at Mughal Sarai kotwali sending the authorities in a tizzy. In 2015, Thakur had taped his alleged conversation with the SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav in which the latter was heard threatening him over his criticism of the then SP government. After he leaked the tape, he was accused of raping a woman. He had then put up a board before his office stating that no woman should enter his office alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rabble-rouser-uttar-pradesh-ips-officer-given-voluntary-retirement-in-public-interest-965570.html
23-03-2021||National||Nearly 6 crore Covid vaccine doses supplied to other nations till March 17: Ashwini Kumar Choubey||Over 7.47 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been supplied to states and Union Territories so far, while 595.91 lakh have been sent to other countries till March 17, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. External supplies of Made in India Covid-19 vaccines started from January 20. Supplies have been undertaken in form of grants-in-aid, commercial sales by manufacturers and through vaccine alliance GAVI's COVAX facility, Minister of State for Health Ashwini Choubey said in a written reply. The GAVI's COVAX facility has more than 190 member nations, including India. A sub-group of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 was constituted to consider all matters related to the export of Covid-19 vaccines and take necessary decisions keeping in mind domestic production and ensuring adequate availability for the national vaccine programme. This sub-group closely monitors the supplies, Choubey said in response to a question on the extent to which it would be viable to export vaccines to other countries, where India itself needs a huge number of doses for inoculating its own people. On the policy of preference in case the government decides to export vaccines to other countries, the Union minister said once an epidemic takes the form of a pandemic, its management has to be done keeping the entire globe as a unit and in most circumstances it is not possible to take either states-specific or country-specific approach. "Hence, export of Covid-19 vaccine which facilitates global action to vaccination is important to simultaneously protect the high-risk population in all the countries of the world, thereby breaking the chain of transmission and minimizing chances of import of Covid-19 cases from foreign countries as well as neighbouring countries to India," Choubey said. Low and middle-income countries as well as nations with limited access to pharmaceutical technologies are at debilitating disadvantages in dealing with the pandemic. "To this end, the Government of India has allowed only limited export of vaccines while according highest priority to domestic needs," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nearly-6-crore-covid-vaccine-doses-supplied-to-other-nations-till-march-17-ashwini-kumar-choubey-965571.html
23-03-2021||National||Delhi govt's new excise policy 'progressive', in line with current times: Industry||The liquor industry has welcomed the Delhi government's new excise policy, saying it is "progressive" and in line with current times and existing reality. The new policy would improve consumers' purchase experience like upgrading of retail shops, as well as steps to improve ease of doing business, it said. On Monday, the Delhi government approved a new excise policy that had lowered the legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years. It had also withdrawn the government from running liquor vends in Delhi. According to the government, the movie is expected to lead to annual revenue growth of 20 per cent. Diageo India, which owns United Spirits Ltd, said the new excise policy is progressive. "We welcome the many consumer-friendly measures including bringing the legal drinking age in Delhi at par with neighbouring states, the introduction of 'age-gating' at restaurant and bars, equitable geographic spread of retail outlets in the state and 100 per cent private retail," Diageo India Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Anand Kripalu said. The government's mission to tackle the scourge of the illicit liquor trade will ensure the safety of citizens while minimising revenue losses of the government, he added. Homegrown IMFL manufacturer Radico Khaitan said the Delhi government's decision to lower the legal drinking age is now on par with most of the Indian states. "The drinking age in the neighbouring state of Uttar Pradesh is 21 years, young adults would often purchase liquor from neighbouring cities such as Noida and Ghaziabad which would divert the revenue. Now, this revenue will remain in Delhi," the company said. Moreover, with the establishment of many more premium liquor shops, it will also be more convenient for women consumers to purchase as many are generally reluctant to go to the regular retail shops, it added. The Confederation of Indian Alcoholic Beverage Companies (CIABC), which represents the domestic liquor makers, said it "wholeheartedly welcomes" all steps that bring the excise policy in line with current times and existing reality which includes reducing the drinking age. "It also welcomes all measures that improve consumers' purchase experience like upgrading of retail shops, as well as steps to improve ease of doing business. So far we have got the broad framework only and are waiting for details but we believe that if the same thought underpins the policy details, all stakeholders will have reason to raise a toast to this transformative move," CIABC Director-General Vinod Giri said. All India Brewers' Association (AIBA) said it was a "good policy" and was recommending the government to take such steps for years. "This is a very clear policy and we as an industry support it," AIBA Director-General Shobhan Roy said. AIBA represents 83 manufacturing breweries, including United Breweries, Carlsberg, Bira, and Molson & Coors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govts-new-excise-policy-progressive-in-line-with-current-times-industry-965573.html
23-03-2021||National||RS returns appropriation bills for J&K, Puducherry||Rajya Sabha on Tuesday returned appropriation bills for the union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Puducherry for the financial year 2021-22. The bills authorise payment and appropriation of certain sums from and out of the consolidated fund of the two union territories for the services of the financial year 2021-22 in their respective jurisdictions. The Jammu and Kashmir Appropriation Bill, 2021, the Jammu and Kashmir Appropriation (No.2) Bill, 2021, the Puducherry Appropriation Bill, 2021, and the Puducherry Appropriation (Vote on Account) Bill, 2021, were considered and returned by the Upper House of Parliament. These bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha. Both the appropriation and the finance bills are classified as money bills which do not require explicit consent of Rajya Sabha. The Upper House only discusses the bill and returns them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-returns-appropriation-bills-for-jk-puducherry-965587.html
23-03-2021||National||Covid vaccine for all above 45 years: All you need to know||The Covid-19 vaccination drive is going on in the country for healthcare workers, frontline workers, senior citizens and those aged 45 to 59 years with specified 20 comorbidities. Till March 23, as many as 4.85 crore doses of vaccine have been administered to the prioritised groups.   On Tuesday, the government announced that from April 1, all people above 45 years of age will be eligible to get Covid-19 vaccines. Union minster Prakash Javadekar said now even people without comorbidities who are more that 45 years of age can get inoculated. In a letter to chief administrators of all states and Union Territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has been guiding all aspects of the vaccination drive on the basis of available scientific evidence. "From April 1, there will now be no need for a comorbidity certificate for people aged 45 years to 59 years," he said. The Union Health secretary said the Co-WIN software is also being suitably modified for doing away with the need for confirmation of comorbidities at the time of online registration and on-site registration or for uploading the comorbidity certificate at the time of vaccination. The registration on Co-WIN would begin from April 1, Bhushan said, adding the cut-off date is January 1, 1977.  "You are requested to kindly direct the officials concerned to immediately undertake necessary measures for expansion of Covid-19 vaccination drive to include beneficiaries aged 45 and above. "Special focus should be given on optimal utilisation of the capacity of Covid-19 vaccination centres while minimising the wastage of vaccines," Bhushan said in the letter, adding, "The registration on Co-Win would begin from April 1, 2021."  The ministry, in a series of key messages to states, said the time interval between two doses of Covishield vaccine has been extended from the present four to six weeks to four to eight weeks.  Within this extended time interval of four to eight weeks, protection would be greater if vaccine is taken between six to eight weeks, but not beyond the eighth week. Even if a person is automatically scheduled for the second dose, one is free to choose a day and date according to convenience between the extended period of four to eight weeks, the health ministry said.   It also stressed that there was no shortage of vaccines in the country and that people should not panic unnecessarily. The government has a well-oiled system that regularly monitors total vaccine allocation, total consumption and balance of vaccine, and need for replenishment, it stated.   "Upon vaccination, you must insist on receiving a hard copy or a digital copy your vaccination certificate. In private hospitals, this has been included in the fees charged from you. You may use your observation period of 30 minutes to ensure that you get the certificate. Do not return home without it! "If the hospital does not provide a certificate, the beneficiary may lodge a complaint at toll-free number 1075, the ministry said. If a beneficiary has taken online appointment for vaccination on CoWIN, then there is no need to take any further appointment at private or public hospitals. If any hospital does not follow these guidelines of vaccination, then one must lodge a complaint at toll-free number 1075, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-vaccine-for-all-above-45-years-all-you-need-to-know-965592.html
23-03-2021||National||Evidence shows my wife's death neither suicide nor homicide, claims Shashi Tharoor in Delhi court||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed before a Delhi court on Tuesday that evidence showed the death of his wife Sunanda Pushkar was neither a suicide nor homicide and sought discharge in the case. Tharoor, represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, said not even a single witness has made any allegations of dowry, harassment or cruelty against him. The submissions were made before Special Judge Geetanjli Goel during arguments on framing of charges in the case. The court put up the matter for further hearing on March 26. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Pahwa said post mortem and other medical reports have allegedly established that it was neither a suicide nor homicide. He further said the prosecution cannot assume that it was a suicide and have to establish it. "There is no material for framing of charges against Tharoor," the senior counsel said. Pahwa had earlier said there was no evidence against Tharoor to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of IPC. Pahwa had said her death should be treated as accidental. He had also said that during the course of the investigation there have been a plethora of reports by experts before the investigating officer (IO) but there was 'no definite opinion on the cause of death'. He had added that even after years of investigation by the police, the prosecution has failed to conclusively identify the cause of death. Pahwa had further submitted before the court that Pushkar was grappling with various medical ailments at the time of her death. Pahwa added that "the Investigating Officer erroneously formed an opinion vis-a-vis the commission of an offence. However, reports and other material relied upon in fact exonerates Tharoor from all charges." "The opinion of the Autopsy Board took into consideration circumstantial evidence beyond the four corners of the autopsy room which is not permissible. "The Board has failed to substantiate their opinion during the course of the investigation due to which the IO decided to move onto seeking opinion from another Medical Board, Pahwa told the court. Tharoor has been charged under sections 498A and 306 of the Indian Penal Code, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evidence-shows-my-wifes-death-neither-suicide-nor-homicide-claims-shashi-tharoor-in-delhi-court-965602.html
23-03-2021||National||PM Modi sends letter to Imran Khan; greets people of Pak on Pakistan Day||India desires cordial relations with Pakistan but an atmosphere of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is "imperative" for it, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a letter to his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan. Modi wrote the letter to Khan to extend greetings to the people of that country on the occasion of Pakistan Day. "As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an environment of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative," he said. Government sources said it is a routine letter sent every year. Modi also conveyed his best wishes to Khan and the people of Pakistan in dealing with the challenges of the coronavirus pandemic. There have been indications of positive movement in ties between India and Pakistan. Last month, the Indian and Pakistani armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. On Monday, a delegation of Pakistani officials arrived in India for a meeting of the permanent Indus commission. It is the first such dialogue in over two-and-a-half years. Last week, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said India desires good neighbourly ties with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally but added that any meaningful dialogue can only be held in a conducive atmosphere. He said the onus is on Islamabad to create such an atmosphere. The relations between the two countries nosedived after India withdrew special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories in 2019. Pakistan Day is celebrated to mark the Lahore Resolution on March 23 1940 when the All-India Muslim League demanded a separate nation for the Muslims of India. It is learnt that a separate message was sent by President Ram Nath Kovind to his Pakistani counterpart Arif Alvi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-sends-letter-to-imran-khan-greets-people-of-pak-on-pakistan-day-965614.html
23-03-2021||National||Nawaz Sharif made concessions to India but failed to get anything in return: Abdul Basit||As Pakistan prime minister, Nawaz Sharif made unilateral concessions to his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi and even weakened Islamabad's principled position on Jammu and Kashmir, thinking that he would extract something in return but that did not happen, a former Pakistani diplomat said on Tuesday. Pakistan's former high commissioner to India Abdul Basit, in an online interview with Karan Thapar of The Wire, severely criticised Sharif on his policy towards India and said Islamabad's reading of Prime Minister Modi was "off the mark". Following an invitation, Sharif had attended Modi inauguration as prime minister in 2014, signalling his intent to improve ties with India. On his part, Modi had made a surprise stopover at Lahore in December 2015. However, a series of terror attacks on India by Pakistan-based terror groups in 2016 brought the ties under severe strain. Basit, referring to a meeting Sharif had with Modi when he visited India in 2014, said the Pakistani leader kept silent on Kashmir and did not utter a single word on it when the Indian prime minister raised the issue of terrorism and Mumbai terror attack trial. "He (Sharif) thought that by making such concessions he would eventually be able to get concessions from prime minister Modi. But that was not the case in my view. Because the way Islamabad was reading PM Modi in my assessment was off the mark," Basit said. He said Sharif wanted to maintain good relations with Modi but did so unilaterally without anything in return. Asked on what ground, he accused Sharif of 'pandering to India unilaterally and unconditionally' in his new book, Basit said: "I watched our leader very very closely and worked with him very closely on Pakistan-India relations. I make these assumptions based on what I have seen." Basit was Pakistan's envoy to India from 2014-2017, the first three years of the Modi government. When asked whether Pakistan's concessions to India meant its interests were compromised as Modi did not offer anything in return, the former high commissioner said, "That is correct and (it) weakened our principled position on Jammu and Kashmir in particular." The former envoy also said that the joint statement of December 2015 and the Ufa joint statement was poorly negotiated by Pakistan and they made concessions to India. Basit said Sharif had an emotional attachment to India and Indians which, at times ... went beyond his stature as the prime minister. He said Sharif would meet almost any Indian who wanted to see him and added he was "out to oblige everyone". Basit also criticised Sharif's foreign affairs advisors, Sartaj Aziz and Tariq Fatemi saying they were too keen on extending concessions to India rather than standing up for Pakistan's interests. To a question on his criticism of the high-ranking officials, the former envoy said "The way we handled our interaction with India subsequently and it was not because of the prime minister himself. I think the entire team, I do not know whether that kind of instructions they had from the prime minister. "But since he (Sharif) was at the helm, I would say that he was kind of convinced that he would eventually extract some concessions from India which he failed to do, unfortunately." Basit also indicated how he was repeatedly ignored on important India-Pakistan matters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nawaz-sharif-made-concessions-to-india-but-failed-to-get-anything-in-return-abdul-basit-965616.html
23-03-2021||National||Congress pursuing same 'divisive politics' that led to partition: Adityanath||Senior BJP leader Yogi Adityanath Tuesday accused the oppositon Congress of indulging in "divisive politics" that led to the partition of the country in 1947 and "having the same mindset" now as evident from its alliance with the AIUDF to fight the coming state polls in Assam. Addressing a series of election rallies in Barak valley of poll-bound Assam, Adityanath, also the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister asserted, the country was "forced" to be divided in 1947 because of the Congress' pursuit of power. "I can see a lot of Bengali-speaking people here in the rally. In their pursuit of power, the Congress, due to its divisive policy, made your ancestors experience Partition in 1947 when (present-day) Bangladesh and Pakistan were a part of India," claimed Adityanath. Noting that leaders like Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose had warned the Congress of the dangers of such a divisive policy before 1945, Adityanath said, "Congress is not a party to correct itself and so resolved to let India be partitioned." "What the British could not achieve through the Partition of Bengal in 1905, Congress did in 1947 by joining hands with the English (British). How your ancestors suffered due to this divisive policy, you can see even today in Bangladesh, the way Hindus are persecuted, their homes set ablaze and their temples destroyed," he alleged. Slamming the grand old party, the saffron party leader said, "The Congress still has the same mindset that divided the country in 1947, imposed article 370 in 1952, instigated Bodoland movement in Assam. With that mindset it made poll alliance with AIUDF to once again create instability in the state through illegal migration". Adityanath also took a swipe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi accusing him of remembering Assam only during elections to seek votes. "Did Rahul Gandhi or any Congress leader remember Assam during floods or the pandemic? Such leaders should be forgotten. Congress has no development agenda," he said. The BJP leader further targeted the Congress for allegedly failing to solve the problems of recurring floods, illegal migrants and the condition of tea garden workers during its governance in Assam. Highlighting that the saffron party will permanently solve the problems of illegal migrants and flood menace if it is re-elected in Assam, Adityanath said, his party will also undertake a scheme for giving a new identity to tea gardens and its workers in the state. "Five years ago when the Congress was in power, there was no discussion on the development of Assam and divisions were created among people on the basis of areas for political gains. "Differences were created between upper and lower Assam and there were problems of Bodoland, illegal migrants, insurgency," Adityanath said. Alleging that during Congress rule in the state, there were bomb blasts, bandhs called in protest against various issues, besides law and order problems, he claimed that in the last five years after the BJP formed a government here, "there is peace in Assam ...and the state is reaching new heights of development". "Change came under Prime Minister Narendra Modi who converted the 'Look East' policy to 'Act East' policy changing the image of the northeast region", the UP chief minister said. In the last five years, Assam has reached new heights of development due to the prime minister's vision for the state and the country to solve problems, and the efforts of the Sarbananda Sonowal-led government here for restoring peace, unity and bring development to the state without any discrimination, he said. Pointing out that during Congress rule in Assam, the state government had not undertaken welfare measures for tea garden workers, Adityanath said. It was Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal of the BJP-led dispensation who raised wages of tea garden workers to Rs 217 which will be further raised to over Rs 300 per day, if voted to power, the BJP leader said. Coming down heavily on the Congress, Adityanath said, unlike the BJP which only works for infrastructure development, people's welfare and improving connectivity, "the Opposition party during its rule had resorted to divisive politics, lawlessness and still continues to do so today." Continuing his attack on the grand old party, Adityanath said that the Congress in 1952 had introduced Article 370 granting special status to Jammu and Kashmir which allegedly "paved the way for militancy there". "Congress had put restrictions on buying land there. But now with revocation of Article 370, anybody from any part of the country, even from Assam, can buy property there", he said. Adityanath pointed out that Jan Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee had strongly opposed Article 370, saying it was a threat to national unity as in a country there cannot be two Constitutions, two flags and two prime ministers. It was PM Modi who fulfilled Mookerjee's dream by revoking Article 370, thereby ending militancy in Kashmir, he said. The BJP is contesting this election in an alliance with Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) and United People's Party Liberal (UPPL), who are part of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA) -- the regional arm of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Elections to the 126-member assembly will be held in three phases with 47 seats going to polls in the first phase on March 27, another 39 constituencies in the second phase on April 1 and 40 seats in the third phase on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-pursuing-same-divisive-politics-that-led-to-partition-adityanath-965626.html
23-03-2021||National||Indian Railways announces initiatives against smoking, carrying inflammable items||The Railways announced on Tuesday a slew of initiatives against smoking and carrying inflammable items, which were apparently the cause behind some of the recent fires on board trains. The national transporter has instructed zonal railways to initiate intensive awareness drive of seven days to educate all the stakeholders, including railway users and employees, about precautions to be taken against fire incidents. Carrying inflammable objects in trains is a punishable offence under Section 164 of the Railways Act and the offender may get an imprisonment of up to three years or a fine of Rs 1,000 or both, and a fine of Rs 500 is applicable under Section 165. The directives come after a slew of fire-related incidents were reported not only from on board trains, but also at rail premises. These include the blaze in the Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi Express, where an initial probe found a burning cigarette thrown into a toilet dustbin to be the cause of fire. Another case of a short-circuit reported in the Delhi-Bhubaneswar Rajdhani, smoke emanating from the Duronto train from Allahabad Junction to Lokmanyatilak terminal station in Mumbai and other minor fires reported from the premises of coach factories, in garbage dumps and in bushes on railway property. The deadliest incident was in the Eastern Railway headquarters in Kolkata earlier this month, in which nine people lost their lives. In a directive, the Railway Board said these include enforcing the 'no-smoking' rule, preventing carriage of inflammable material through rail, creating awareness through distribution of leaflets, pamphlets, pasting of stickers; conducting street plays, announcement through public address system at stations, and advertisement in print, electronic and social media. "In the view of incidents of fire resulting in loss of property and danger to life in various zonal railways, out of which few incidents appeared to have been caused by smoking onboard or transportation of inflammable material by the train. "To curb such incidents, Indian Railways launched a massive drive against smoking and carriage of inflammable material through Railways. The above drive has been launched from March 22 (Monday)," the Railways said. Instructions have also been given to zonal railway to conduct intensive drives against smoking in trains and railway premises, and violators may be booked under relevant provisions of Railways Act or Tobacco Act. "An officer not below the rank of ticket collector of the commercial department or an officer of equivalent rank of operating department or an officer not below the rank of ASI in RPF have been notified as competent to act under the provisions of Cigarette and Other Tobacco Products Act 2003," it said. It also suggested regular checks in trains against carriage of inflammable and explosive goods, including pantry cars (for carriage of LPG cylinders) and violators may be booked under relevant sections of the Railways Act. Regular checks may be undertaken in platforms, yards, washing lines, stables, coaches to check cases of lighting fire, using stoves for cooking food, collection of inflammable debris among others. The fuelling points may also be covered under these checks. Legal action may be taken against the culprits. Action against vendors using stoves in train and at platforms may also be taken, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-announces-initiatives-against-smoking-carrying-inflammable-items-965629.html
23-03-2021||National||84% Indians day-dreaming about travel: Survey||A majority of Indian respondents (three-fourths) were found to be "day-dreaming" at least once a week about travel, according to a survey. The survey, commissioned by global card major American Express, covered 1,000 Indians in mid-January with a yearly household income of USD 20,000. The seven-nation survey found Indians are most-interested in future travel with 84 per cent respondents day-dreaming about travel at least once a week. Manoj Adlakha, chief executive for American Express Banking Corp India, said the survey highlights pent up travel demand and some behaviours are unique here. He said 91 per cent respondents in India are interested in choosing a trip or experience that supports the local community, showing an understanding of the pandemic's impact on the travel industry and their intention to support recovery. Adlakha said the company has been seeing similar trends in card member enquiries to our concierge desks as well. Meanwhile, data shared by travel portal Booking.com said Goa, New Delhi, Jaipur, Rishikesh and Mumbai are among the top-booked domestic destinations by Indians from Holi to Easter. Hotels are the top-booked facilities, followed by resorts, guest houses, hostels and homestays, it said. "The year 2020 was difficult for all of us in travel but there is hope for the future. "We are seeing a heightened desire to travel where travellers are utilising long weekends to make travel plans on our platform across the country," its Regional Manager for South Asia Ritu Mehrotra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/84-indians-day-dreaming-about-travel-survey-965634.html
23-03-2021||National||Parliament panel rebukes Rajasthan police official for not providing enough security to Hanuman Beniwal||A parliamentary panel on Wednesday came down heavily on a Rajasthan police official for failing to provide adequate security to RLP MP Hanuman Beniwal which allegedly led to attack on him, sources said. Barmer SP Sharad Choudhary and Amit Dhaka, Special Secretary to Chief Minister of Rajasthan, were summoned by the parliamentary committee of Privileges on Tuesday on this issue. The sources said while Choudhary deposed before the panel, Dhaka skipped the meeting. The committee members took serious note of Dhaka not attending the meeting and questioned Choudhary about his absence. They also grilled him for not providing adequate security to Beniwal, they said. Earlier this year, Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) Beniwal was attacked during his visit to Barmer. The parliamentary panel had summoned top officials of the Rajasthan government on the same issue earlier as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-panel-rebukes-rajasthan-police-official-for-not-providing-enough-security-to-hanuman-beniwal-965637.html
23-03-2021||National||Centre's coronavirus helpdesk chatbot on Whatsapp crosses 3 crore users in India||The government's official chatbot on Whatsapp to help people with coronavirus-related information has crossed 30 million users in India, a senior government official said on Tuesday. The official WhatsApp chatbot by the Ministry of Health and MyGov, developed by artificial intelligence-focussed start-up Haptik, was made available to all WhatsApp users for free in English and Hindi languages. Abhishek Singh, CEO of MyGov and Digital India, during a virtual conference said he had first call with Haptik for the chatbot on March 13 and the service was launched in 5-6 days after approval from the health ministry. "Through its one-year journey, MyGov Corona Helpdesk has evolved into a vaccination interactive system and is also giving key information about Co-WIN. "I congratulate Team MyGov, Haptik, our Technical Partner and the WhatsApp team on completion of one year of MyGov Corona Helpdesk. The labour of collective hard work has resulted in 3.15 crore users," Singh said. He said that there was a surge in number of users after Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared information about the service during his public interaction. To contact the helpline, citizens were required to save the WhatsApp number +91 9013151515 on their phones, and then start a chat by typing "Hi" and sending it to the number. This prompted them to either type in a query or choose from a list of frequently asked questions. Depending on the question, users were provided verified and real-time information in the form of a video, infographic or text. "The MyGov Covid-19 helpline has helped more than 3 crore Indian citizens get instant answers to their most pressing questions about the biggest pandemic of our times. "We are honoured MyGov and Facebook selected us as the technology partner for this effort, and the last year has been one of the most rewarding experiences for team Haptik, which makes all of what we do totally worth it," Aakrit Vaish, co-founder and CEO of Haptiks, said. Coronavirus infections have started increasing again in India. According to data available at Aarogya Setu app, there were 3.45 lakh active cases in India as on March 23. MyGov Corona Helpdesk chatbot has processed over 4.5 crore conversations on WhatsApp from users across the country with more than 6.7 crore messages have been sent, since its launch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centres-coronavirus-helpdesk-chatbot-on-whatsapp-crosses-3-crore-users-in-india-965642.html
23-03-2021||National||Govt hikes PF threshold limit to Rs 5 lakh for earning tax-free interest||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Tuesday raised the limit for tax exemption on interest earned on provident fund contribution by employees to Rs 5 lakh per annum in specified cases as against Rs 2.5 lakh proposed in the Budget. In her Budget for 2021-22, Sitharaman had capped the tax-free interest earned on provident fund contribution by employees and employers together to a maximum of Rs 2.5 lakh in a year in an attempt to dissuade high earners from parking their surplus in what is supposed to be common man's retirement fund. Replying to a discussion on the Finance Bill 2021 in Lok Sabha, the minister said the tax-free limit is now being amended to a maximum of Rs 5 lakh per annum. This exemption, however, is subject to condition that the up to Rs 5 lakh contribution does not include employer's contribution beyond the statutory limit of up to 12 per cent of the basic pay. "I intend to raise this limit to Rs 5 lakh only in those cases, where there is no contribution by the employer in that fund. "So, most often, it is employee contribution and employer's contribution, but there are contributions which are only employee and no employer contribution is made, in such cases that amount is raised to Rs 5 lakh," she said. The new provision would come into effect from April 1. She clarified that the Rs 2.5 lakh limit is covering 92-93 per cent of the people who are subscribers and they are entitled for assured interest that is tax free under this scheme. So, the limits have been kept keeping in mind that small and medium taxpayers are not impacted by the step, she said. The Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has over six crore subscribers. The Finance Bill was later passed by the Lower House with 127 official amendments by voice vote. With the passage of the Finance Bill, which contains tax proposals for the next financial year, the Lok Sabha has completed the budgetary exercise for 2021-22. With regard to disinvestment, Sitharaman expressed hope of meeting the target set for the next financial year as the market is buoyant. "I fully concede that in a year where your disinvestment was to be achieved, but when the markets were tepid, we couldn't move...I'm hopeful now, because even during corona we saw the way in which the market has been buoyant. So I'm hopeful that we'll be able to achieve that," she said. The government has budgeted Rs 1.75 lakh crore from stake sale in public sector companies and financial institutions, including two PSU banks and one general insurance company, in the next fiscal year beginning April 1. The amount is lower than the record Rs 2.10 lakh crore which was budgeted to be raised from CPSE disinvestment in the current fiscal year. For fiscal year 2021-22, out of the total Rs 1.75 lakh crore, Rs 1 lakh crore is to come from selling government stake in public sector banks and financial institutions. Rs 75,000 crore would come as CPSE disinvestment receipts. She also criticised a member for talking about a report by Freedom House, saying the MP should take up the matter of showing incorrect map of India with the think-tank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-hikes-pf-threshold-limit-to-rs-5-lakh-for-earning-tax-free-interest-965645.html
23-03-2021||National||Lahore holds event in memory of Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev||A good number of people attended an event on Tuesday held in connection with the death anniversary of freedom fighters -- Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev -- at Shadman Chowk in Pakistan's Lahore city where they were hanged 90 years ago. Singh was hanged along with his comrades - Rajguru and Sukhdev - by British rulers on March 23, 1931 at the age of 23 in Lahore, after being tried under charges for hatching a conspiracy against the colonial government and allegedly killing British police officer John P Saunders. The Bhagat Singh Memorial Foundation held the function to remember the sacrifices of the freedom fighters after the Lahore High Court directed the Lahore police chief to provide the event a fool-proof security. The Foundation's chairman, Imtiaz Rashid Qureshi, had filed a petition in the Lahore High Court, seeking permission to hold the event at the Shadman Chowk to pay tribute to the freedom fighters. A good number of people attended the event and paid rich tributes to the three legendary freedom fighters. A portrait of Bhagat Singh was also installed at the venue. A resolution was adopted during the event giving rich tributes to the trio. The foundation has been presenting this resolution on every death anniversary of Bhagat Singh and two others for the last few years. The resolution demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modi to announce India's highest civilian award 'Bharat Ratna’ to Singh. Similarly, it asked Pakistan premier Imran Khan to give the country's highest civilian award – Nishan-e-Pakistan – to Singh. The resolution urged the British Queen to visit Shadman Chowk and tender a public apology for the murder of the trio. "The Queen should also apologise to India and Pakistan and to the families of the freedom fighters and pay pecuniary compensation for the unjust killings." It also demanded the British Queen to apologise from the families of the victims of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre (1919). The resolution also demanded the Pakistan government issue Bhagat Singh commemorating coin and postal ticket and name any road after the trio. It has also demanded naming of a major road in Lahore after the three revolutionaries and their act of chivalry also be made part of school syllabus. It also demanded the government to honour the freedom fighters and renaming Shadman Chowk as Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lahore-holds-event-in-memory-of-bhagat-singh-rajguru-and-sukhdev-965646.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Remove age restriction for Covid-19 vaccination: Gehlot||Voicing concern over rising cases of Covid-19 across the country, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said that there should be no age restriction for getting the Covid-19 vaccination. He also demanded that the Centre provide more vaccine doses to the state while noting that another lockdown would prove fatal to the livelihood of people. “Corona cases are increasing rapidly in the country. Experts are of the opinion that the government of India should focus more and more on vaccination. The public will be safe from corona only with maximum vaccination,” he said in a series of tweets. Gehlot said that everyone should be vaccinated by removing the age restriction. Referring to the opinion of Dr Devi Shetty of Bengaluru, the chief minister said it seems reasonable that people in the age group of 24 to 45 years should also be vaccinated soon as these people step out of home for work and can become super spreaders. “India also has a large number of vaccine production capacities that should be used,” he added. The chief minister appealed to the Centre to provide more vaccines to the states so that the second wave of corona infection can be controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/remove-age-restriction-for-covid-19-vaccination-gehlot-965382.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Inequality rising under NDA government: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday alleged that economic inequality in the society has been increasing under the NDA government, a charge refuted by the BJP, which said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been sincerely working for the welfare of the poor. Initiating the debate on the Finance Bill, 2021, Congress member Amar Singh said that the economic situation in the country is deteriorating and charged that 73 per cent of the country's wealth is going to just 1 per cent of the population. "Inequality is increasing very fast," he said. Singh said that except for agriculture, all sectors have been suffering due to "wrong" policies adopted by the central government. He said if the central government does a sample survey of the unorganised sector, which contributes 45 to 50 per cent to the economy and provides employment to a similar number of people, it will find that the sector is the worst sufferer. Singh charged that the government has given tax relief only to the rich whereas the common people have been suffering because of the price rise of essential commodities and petroleum products. The Congress member claimed that allocation to the health and agriculture sectors has reduced which will create problems for the poor. He also demanded that the three agricultural laws should be withdrawn as demanded by the agitating farmers. BJP member Rajendra Agrawal said the BJP-led government has been working relentlessly for the welfare of the poor, deprived, backward and women. "Ever since Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed charge in 2014, he has been working for the all-round development of the poor and downtrodden without taking any break," he said. Agrawal said the three agricultural acts enacted last year have been beneficial for farmers and many peasants have already benefitted from them. He also blamed the Congress and Left parties for the poor condition of the country's agriculture and industrial sectors. The BJP member charged the Congress cannot go beyond the prism of votes bank politics and when in power, carried out a development where it would get votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inequality-rising-under-nda-government-congress-965428.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||AAP in talks with opposition parties to counter Bill on Delhi L-G powers in Rajya Sabha||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday approached all opposition parties requesting them to oppose Rajya Sabha a bill that seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", party sources said. They further said that most of the opposition parties support the AAP's stand against the bill and will be raising their voice against it. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed in Lok Sabha on Monday amidst strong opposition from Congress and the AAP which said that the legislation was "unconstitutional". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. The AAP is in power in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-in-talks-with-opposition-parties-to-counter-bill-on-delhi-l-g-powers-in-rajya-sabha-965437.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Will make legal drinking age 30 years in Delhi if BJP makes it 25 in other states: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party spokesperson Sourabh Bharadwaj on Tuesday said that if the BJP made the minimum age of buying liquor 25 years in party-ruled states, then the AAP would increase it to 30 years in Delhi.  He said that the legal age of drinking alcohol in BJP-ruled states like Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh was 21 years, while in BJP-ruled Goa it was 18 years. Bhardwaj said that the BJP was speaking against the decision to lower the drinking age in order to protect black markets and financial misappropriation.  He claimed that when youths under 21 years go to restaurants and pubs, police extorts money from restaurant owners which then makes its way to the "top". "By our decision, this malpractice will be stopped and that is why BJP is upset," Bhardwaj said. He said that BJP leaders should ask the central government to bring a law which makes the age of drinking 25 years in the whole country as this will bring uniformity.  "I am surprised to see the hypocrisy of the BJP. Till now no one has seen such hypocrisy in any political party. It is very clear that the BJP is shameless. Within the BJP-ruled states, the legal of liquor consumption is 21 years from many years. It is 21 years in dozens of states, including Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh. The BJP has ruled for 15 years in Goa, where the legal age is 18 years," he said "I challenge Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and LOP Shri Ramvir Bidhuri to bring this age back to 25 years in the BJP ruled states, then we will make it 30 years," Bhardwaj said. This is BJP's attempt to steal revenue and protect black marketing, he alleged. The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved a new excise policy lowering the minimum age for consumption of liquor to 21 years from 25 years, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia announced. The opposition on Monday hit out at the AAP government for lowering the drinking age, claiming the new excise policy will make the city the "capital of intoxicants". The Delhi BJP president said he and his party leaders will meet Lt Governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday in protest the new excise policy. "The new policy will not only lead to (sale of) spurious liquor and promote crime but will also spoil youngsters as the legal age for drinking has been lowered from 25 to 21 years. "The right thing would have been for the government to tighten liquor policy to make Delhi safe for women and keep youngsters away from the liquor," Gupta said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-make-legal-drinking-age-30-years-in-delhi-if-bjp-makes-it-25-in-other-states-aap-965476.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Maharashtra govt is of extortion, by extortion and for extortion: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The three-party alliance government in Maharashtra is "of extortion (vasuli), by extortion and for extortion", senior BJP leader and Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said on Tuesday and added that the Uddav Thackeray-led dispensation has lost the moral right to govern the state. The BJP's scathing attack on the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government came following former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh's allegation that the state's Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had set a Rs 100-crore collection target for the police every month. Prasad said it was the first time in the country's history that a police commissioner levelled such a charge against a home minister. "When the target of one minister is Rs 100 crore, how much will it be of the remaining ministers," asked Prasad. Addressing a press conference at the BJP headquarters here, Prasad said, "A 'khela' (game) is going on in Maharashtra. What's happening in the state is not 'vikas' (development), it is 'vasuli' (extortion)." Dubbing the Maharashtra dispensation as "the most confused government", Prasad said the ruling coalition partners themselves don't know what is happening in the state and who is running the show. Prasad said the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena leader Uddhav Thackeray has lost the right to govern the state as "it is a government of vasuli (extortion), by vasuli and for vasuli." Taking on NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, Prasad said the political credibility of the senior leader has taken a hit and that he was forced to speak a patent falsehood for defending his party colleague and state home minister Deshmukh. Prasad further said Pawar's credibility can be restored only if he ensures resignation of Deshmukh. Days after he was shunted out, former Mumbai Police commissioner Singh wrote a letter to Thackeray alleging that the state home minister had asked Sachin Vaze, currently in custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), and other police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly, including Rs 50 crore to Rs 60 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. Deshmukh had denied these allegations. The NIA is probing Vaze's alleged role in placing an explosives-laden SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence on February 25. The SUV was in possession of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren, who was found dead at a creek near Mumbai. The case related to the death of Hiren was also handed over to the NIA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/maharashtra-govt-is-of-extortion-by-extortion-and-for-extortion-ravi-shankar-prasad-965478.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha adjourned twice amid protests over Bill to give more power to Delhi L-G||Rajya Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments on Tuesday as opposition Congress and AAP members protested against a bill that proposes to give more power to the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) in Delhi. The uproar in the Upper House started when Deputy Chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh asked Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy to move a motion for the consideration of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment ) Bill 2021. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) member Sanjay Singh protested against allowing the motion, saying his notice has been pending in the House. The Deputy Chairman assured the AAP member that his notice would be considered after the motion is moved, but Singh called it "unconstitutional". Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said that the bill is dangerous and it will grab the rights of the elected government of Delhi and destroy democracy. He alleged that the government wants the L-G as government and the elected dispensation as his servant. The deputy chairman adjourned the House till 5.24 PM. As the House reassembled, the protest by opposition members continued, prompting the chair to adjourn the House for a second time till 5.40 PM. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action. The AAP is in power in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-adjourned-twice-amid-protests-over-bill-to-give-more-power-to-delhi-l-g-965487.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's Nandigram nominee Suvendu Adhikari harbouring criminals, TMC tells EC||The Trinamool Congress has lodged a complaint with the Election Commission accusing BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari of "harbouring criminals" in Nandigram, where he is pitted against West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. The ruling party in the state also alleged that outsiders of the high-profile constituency have been staying at four locations there. The TMC also charged Adhikari, the protege-turned- adversary of Banerjee, of visiting one of these locations. "It has come to our knowledge that Suvendu Adhikari, the candidate fielded by BJP in Nandigram has been harbouring criminals, who are non-residents of Nandigram," the letter dated March 22 said. TMC Rajya Sabha MP Derek O' Brien alleged in the letter that no action has been taken by the local police and sought the Election Commission's intervention into the matter. "We request you to immediately intervene and direct necessary steps to be taken by police to forthwith apprehend all the outside anti-social elements hired and harboured by Suvendu Adhikari," the letter said. The Nandigram assembly constituency will go to the poll on April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-nandigram-nominee-suvendu-adhikari-harbouring-criminals-tmc-tells-ec-965495.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Centre must answer for 'insult' of 'martyrdom' of farmers protesting at Delhi borders: Rahul Gandhi||On the occasion of 'Shaheed Diwas', Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday hailed the sacrifices of soldiers at the country's borders and farmers protesting at Delhi's borders, and said the Centre must answer for the "insult" of their "martyrdom". March 23 is observed as 'Shaheed Diwas' to pay tribute to Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru who were executed by the British government for killing British police officer J P Saunders. The trio wanted to avenge the death of freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said, "Sacrifice -- of the soldiers at the country's borders and farmers sitting at the borders of Delhi. The central government must answer for the insult of their martyrdom." Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. Enacted in September, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove the middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers, on the other hand, have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-must-answer-for-insult-of-martyrdom-of-farmers-protesting-at-delhi-borders-rahul-gandhi-965508.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Rajya Sabha to discuss bill to give more power to Delhi L-G on Wednesday||Rajya Sabha will take up on Wednesday a Bill which seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor", as the House witnessed repeated brief adjournments during the day following uproar by opposition parties which termed the proposed legislation "unconstitutional". The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed by Lok Sabha on Monday, also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the lieutenant governor (L-G) before any executive action. "We have discussed with leaders of all parties and arrived at a consensus that the House will meet tomorrow at 10 am ... First we will discuss the Finance Bill, NCT and other Bills," Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said. Joshi also informed that there would be no Zero Hour, Question Hour and Lunch Hour. The uproar in the Upper House of Parliament started when Deputy Chairman Harivansh asked Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy to move a motion for the consideration of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021. AAP member Sanjay Singh protested against allowing the motion, saying his notice has been pending in the House. The deputy chairman assured the AAP member that his notice would be considered after the motion is moved, but Singh called it "unconstitutional". Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said that the Bill is dangerous and it will grab rights of the elected government of Delhi and destroy democracy. He alleged that the government wants the L-G as government and the elected dispensation as his "servant". Harivansh adjourned the House till 5.24 pm. As the House reassembled, the protest by opposition members continued, prompting the chair to adjourn the House for a second time till 5.40 pm. It was adjourned again till 5:50 pm and then till 6:10 pm. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan had urged the Chair to extend proceedings till 6.30 pm to discuss the Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-to-discuss-bill-to-give-more-power-to-delhi-l-g-on-wednesday-965518.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata's 'bhaipo' and company swindled central relief funds for Amphan: Amit Shah||Alleging that the “bhatija and company” (nephew and company) siphoned off central funds following the cyclone Amphan, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday threatened to put those who were responsible for the alleged scam behind bars. He also said that if voted to power in West Bengal, the BJP government will set up a committee to investigate the alleged corruption involving the central aids for Amphan. “The Central government sent Rs 10,000 crore to Bengal for relief work following the cyclone Amphan. But it did not reach the affected people as it was swindled by the Bhatija and company and other Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders,” said Shah. He was speaking at a rally in the Sundarban area of West Bengal’s South 24 Paraganas district. “If voted to power, the BJP government will set up a committee to investigate the case and put the culprits behind bars,” said Shah. Targeting Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, Shah said that she was only interested in making her nephew the next Chief Minister of Bengal and instead of the people’s welfare, she was only concerned about the nephew’s welfare. “Didi is only bothered about making her nephew the next Chief Minister of Bengal. Do you want the nephew as the Chief Minister? If not, then vote for the BJP,” said Shah. Shah also said that despite repeatedly promising to make Sundarban a separate district, Mamata failed to keep her word. He said that if voted to power, BJP would ensure that Sundarban becomes a separate district. “Earlier Didi made 282 promises. But how many did she fulfill? Didi has no answer.So you answer her by voting for the BJP,” said Shah. The Union Home Minister also said that if voted to power, BJP would implement the CAA as promised in its manifesto. He further alleged that TMC has set up a regime of “cut money and syndicate raj” in Bengal and urged the people to "throw" it out of the state. “We are determined to end the syndicate raj of the TMC. We have to put a stop to this cut money culture,” said Shah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamatas-bhaipo-and-company-swindled-central-relief-funds-for-amphan-amit-shah-965522.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||BJP selling all govt organisations, only Modi’s 'factory of lies' will remain: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday fired a fresh salvo at Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that the BJP government at the Centre was selling off all the government organisations and only “Modi’s factory of lies” will remain open. Addressing three back to back rallies in Purulia district, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo scoffed at the saffron party’s manifesto for the Assembly elections in Bengal and said that the BJP did not keep the promises it made in Tripura and Assam. “The BJP government is selling off all government organisations. Only Modi’s factory of lies and BJP’s fraud will remain open,” said Mamata. She said that the Centre was planning to sell off the PSUs, Air India and nationalised banks which will leave thousands of employees in lurch. She further alleged that the EVMs could be tampered to ensure BJP’s victory and urged people to keep guarding the machines till results are declared on May 2. “If the Central force jawans ask you to leave, tell them that you respect them but they should not work for Narendra Modi,” said Mamata addressing a gathering. Making it clear that she will not back down, the Chief Minister said that she will not concede even an inch of land to the saffron party without a fight. She also said that despite her injury she "will hit the ball out of the ground in such a way that the BJP will be wiped out from the Centre". “The BJP thought that they have injured Mamata and she will not be able to do much. But they don’t know me yet. Even with one leg, I will hit the ball out of the ground in such a way that the BJP will disappear from Delhi (Centre),” said Mamata. Alleging that the BJP was bringing outsiders to Bengal to intimidate voters, she urged the women workers and supporters of TMC to chase away these “goons” with cooking utensils and not to get intimidated by the BJP. She also slammed the Centre over high prices of cooking gas and demanded that it should provide LPG cylinders for free.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-selling-all-govt-organisations-only-modi-s-factory-of-lies-will-remain-mamata-965544.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Focus of Budget changed from welfare of people to elections: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday slammed the government in Parliament for allegedly changing the focus of the Budget from welfare of the people to elections. Piloting a debate on the appropriation Bill of the central government as well as on the issues of Puducherry and Jammu and Kashmir in the Rajya Sabha, Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil said there cannot be an election-oriented Budget. "The Budget can never be an election speech. It is meant for the welfare of people. But this tradition has been changed," he said. Gohil said the government mentioned four states -- West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Kerala -- repeatedly in the General Budget where assembly elections are scheduled next month. Further, the government allocated Rs 300 crore for celebration of 60 years of Goa's liberation, keeping in view the assembly elections due in 2022, he added. While expressing concern over the widening fiscal deficit, the Congress leader said the common man will be badly affected with the increase in the target of union excise duty at Rs 3,61,000 crore during the 2021-22 fiscal from Rs 2,67,000 crore last year. "Due to coronavirus pandemic, the income of the common man has been badly affected and the government is increasing excise duty and central GST," he said, adding that the government had reduced fund allocation for rural local bodies and fertiliser subsidy. The Congress leader urged the government to speed up the Covid-19 vaccination drive, saying that at the current pace, it would take 18 years to achieve 100 per cent vaccination in the country. Supporting the bill, AIADMK leader M Thambidurai urged the government to release GST arrears and reduce GST rates. He also said a lot of funds have been allocated for Sri Lanka Tamil rehabilitation and stressed that the Sri Lankan government should ensure devolution of powers to the minority Tamil community in the island nation. BJP leader Sudhanshu Trivedi said the country's economic growth during the third quarter of 2020-21 fiscal was 0.4 per cent which was something "positive at least" given the pandemic. For the 2021-22 fiscal, the pre-budget survey projected the country's growth rate at 11 per cent, while International Monetary Fund pegged it at 11.5 per cent. The BJP leader said that global agencies have started seeing positive growth in India and urged the opposition to change its negative perspective and start looking at positive aspects. "Modi is going in the right direction and the government's policies are also in the right direction," he added. Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) suggested that government should do something about the small establishments and industries which were closed down during the pandemic. He suggested it can do something for these establishments, where many people lost jobs and were sitting at home, in the 2021-22 budget itself or through revised estimates.  He was of the view that if this situation (lower manufacturing output) prevailed then people would be left with no resources in the next four to five years, except from the farm sector. He said that there was a big crisis as small industries closed down during the pandemic and he added that there should be some provision or allocation of funds to revive these units. He was of the view that the only sector which performed well during the pandemic was agriculture which provided employment to 55 per cent of the population. But agriculture sector would not be sufficient and there was a need to do something for real estate, manufacturing and small industries, he said.  Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) said that Bihar is the third world of India and the country cannot rise at international level while taking Bihar along with it. Jha said, "The economic situation of the country is very bad." He said it was worrisome and it should be transformed into "doables and imperatives". He suggested that there is need to increase man days and wages under MGNREGA (rural employment guarantee scheme) as the scheme has done well even during pandemic. He also brought attention of the House toward the digital divide in the society which was increased during the pandemic. About the railways, he said that one should not sell the ancestral properties in the country but should add to it. The governments that spent such reserves earned after a long time are not respected later.  V Vijayasai Reddy (YSRCP) suggested that goods and services tax should be removed from charitable institutions like the Tirupati Balaji temple which was paying Rs 120 crore annually and gets a GST refund of Rs nine crore. He told the House that prior to GST regime, the temple was exempted from the state sales tax. The others who participated in the discussion were Joginipally Santosh Kumar (TRS), Ashok Bajpai (BJP) and K R Kumar (TDP) and Sayed Nasir Hussain (Congress).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/focus-of-budget-changed-from-welfare-of-people-to-elections-congress-965550.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's stand on CAA varies from state to state, claims Assam Congress||The Congress on Tuesday wondered why the BJPs manifesto for the Assam assembly election is silent on the issue of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and claimed that the stand of the saffron party on the controversial Act varies from state to state. The party in a statement also alleged that Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah sought to deny the existence of those people who lost their lives during the anti-CAA agitation in the state. "Their (BJP's) stand on the CAA is ambiguous. In West Bengal, they say they want it. In Tamil Nadu, they do not want it and in Assam they are silent. But the Congress has only one stand. We oppose the CAA and will leave no stone unturned to nullify it," it said. In the BJP's manifesto for West Bengal, the party promised to clear the implementation of the CAA in the first cabinet meeting of the new government. The saffron party in Tamil Nadu has forged an alliance with the AIADMK which in its manifesto said that it will urge the Centre to scrap the contentious law. However, in the manifesto released by BJP president JP Nadda for Assam earlier in the day, there is no mention of the CAA. In the statement, the Congress wanted to know the reason behind the omission. Nadda told reporters that the CAA has been passed by Parliament and will be implemented "in time". The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to people of minority communities Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, who had come to India till December 31, 2014 due to religious persecution in these countries. Assam, ruled by a BJP-led coalition, witnessed violent protests against the CAA in 2019 and five persons lost their lives. The protestors saw the law as a threat to their cultural identity and livelihood. Three rail stations, a post office, a bank, a bus terminus, shops, dozens of vehicles and many other public properties were set ablaze or damaged during the anti-CAA protests. The statement of the state Congress signed by its media department chairperson Bobbeeta Sharma also condemned Union Home Minister Amit Shah's assertion in election rallies in the state on Monday that no protests were held in the state during the last five years. "He wants to simply obliterate the anti-CAA uprising that happened in Assam. He wants to deny the existence of those young boys who lost their lives in police firing. What can be more unfortunate for the people of Assam than this?" the statement read. The BJP also failed in giving the people of Assam a foolproof National Register of Citizens (NRC) though the party's governments are there at the Centre and in the state, the Congress said. The NRC, a database of Indian citizens living in Assam which was updated under the supervision of the Supreme Court and published on August 31, 2019, excluded names of over 19 lakh of the 3.29 crore applicants. Almost all stakeholders and political parties criticised it as a faulty document, alleging exclusion of indigenous people and inclusion of illegal migrants. "The administration was under them, yet they could not give a proper NRC to people. Their (BJP's) sincerity in solving the illegal migrants issue is questionable. What they could not do in the last five years, what guarantee is there that they will be able to do it in the next five years," the Congress said. The party also described the BJPs claim that flood water of the Brahmaputra will be filled in ponds and reservoirs as "outlandish". Referring to the BJP's 'Mission Brahmaputra' mentioned in the manifesto, it said what the state government was doing during the last five years as dredging of the river was an ''old promise of the saffron party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-stand-on-caa-varies-from-state-to-state-claims-assam-congress-965569.html
23-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu Assembly election: Congress demands action against AIADMK city candidate||The Congress in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday lodged a complaint with the Chief Electoral Officer seeking registration of a case against an AIADMK candidate for allegedly threatening its nominee contesting the April 6 assembly elections from a city constituency. In a statement, the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee alleged ruling AIADMK candidate M K Ashok in the Velachery segment threatened to eliminate his Congress rival Hasan Moulana. Though a complaint was filed with police, no action has been taken and hence state CEO Satyabrata Sahoo was petitioned seeking action for registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against the AIADMK contestant, it said. The statement alleged a group of ruling party workers attacked Moulana and others on Sunday. More than ten Congress volunteers were injured in the incident and had been admitted to a government hospital, it said. Seeking police protection for Moulana, the TNCC also urged the top poll authority to ensure Central Armed Police Force security in all the constituencies, including at polling stations. Provision of surveillance cameras in all the polling booths and strong rooms (where Electronic Voting Machines are placed) were the other demands made by the party. The TNCC also sought placing mobile phone jammers in the strong rooms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-assembly-election-congress-demands-action-against-aiadmk-city-candidate-965644.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi excise dept faces tough task of picking private vendors within 3 months in place of govt outlets||In wake of the AAP dispensation’s decision to shut all state-run liquor shops, the excise department of the Delhi government is likely to face an uphill task of ensuring that private players fill the gap within three months – the duration for which licenses of all liquor vends in the city were renewed recently. In the national capital, there are around 850 liquor shops and nearly 475 of them are run by four state-run agencies — Delhi State Industrial & Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC), Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation (DSCSC) & Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store (DCCWS). Sources said licenses of government-run liquor shops were extended by three months, implying that private players will have to fill the gap within a short period of time. "The excise department had sought more time for shutting down state-run shops as it would be an uphill task for us to fill the gap once these establishments are completely closed. However, the government has given three-month extension to such vends," a source told PTI. The source said government-run liquor shops will have to clear their unsold stock within three months. Asked whether existing state-run shops will be auctioned off, the source said all the four government agencies will have to explore more options and they are free to do anything. On Monday, the government decided to lower legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years and allow only private liquor shops in the national capital. The government decided to shut all its shops in the national capital as they were generating less earnings in comparison to private liquor stores. Currently, 40 per cent of around 850 establishments in the national capital are privately run. According to the government, state-run vends were indulging in "brand pushing" and there were also instances of revenue leakage. Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said the new measure will put an end to the liquor buying experience from a "jail-like setup" at state-run shops. Private liquor shops being allowed should have a minimum area of 500 square feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-excise-dept-faces-tough-task-of-picking-private-vendors-within-3-months-in-place-of-govt-outlets-965223.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||No tuition fee for girl PG students in Haryana govt colleges with family income less than Rs 1.8 lakh||Girl students with annual family income less than Rs 1.80 lakh and pursuing post-graduation in government colleges and government-aided facilities of Haryana will not be charged tuition fee, according to an official statement on Monday. The Director-General of the Higher Education Department, Haryana, has forwarded a letter in this regard to principals of all government and government-aided colleges in the state. Meanwhile, Chairman, Haryana Board of School Education, Bhiwani, Jagbir Singh said examination of classes nine and 11 will be conducted from 10 am to 12:30 pm in place of the earlier scheduled time of 8:30 am to 11 am. He said the examination of class 11 students be held from March 26 to April 23, and for Class nine it will be from March 30 to April 17.  In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, all candidates should ensure social distancing and wear mask at the examination centre according to government guidelines, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-tuition-fee-for-girl-pg-students-in-haryana-govt-colleges-with-family-income-less-than-rs-18-lakh-965232.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||JNU teachers' association condemns 'blatant display of autocratic powers' by interim VC||The JNU Teachers' Association (JNUTA) condemned the "blatant display of autocratic powers" by interim vice chancellor M Jagadesh Kumar and alleged that he denied former deans and chairpersons their right to table their opinion at the 157th academic council meeting on Monday. In a statement released after the meeting, the teachers' body said Kumar "allowed only some select members to speak". "JNUTA strongly condemns the blatant display of autocratic powers by the Caretaker Vice Chancellor in the conduct of the 157th Academic Council meeting held today," it said. "Having already dispensed with the courtesy of calling representatives of teacher and student associations to AC meetings, Prof. Jagadesh Kumar today once again demonstrated his open disdain for participatory and deliberative processes of decision making by denying certain members of the Academic Council, including former Deans and Chairpersons, their right to table their opinion even once, despite consistent raising of hands during the course of the two and a half hour long meeting," the association alleged. It added that certain members of the academic council were specifically asked to speak even when they did not voluntarily raise their hands. The teachers' association claimed that during the meeting, no discussion was held over the academic calendar, revised student intakes for programmes following the discontinuation of MPhil degree, and the 2021-22 JNU Entrance Examinations being held under the aegis of the National Testing Agency. "The caretaker Vice Chancellor it may be noted did not accede to the written request made by 23 Academic Council members for a deliberation on the NTA administered JNUEE process at the meeting, and when one of the members present sought to orally raise the issue, he bluntly referred to the matter as a 'closed chapter'," it said. The teachers' association also alleged that the university was awarding PG Diploma in Management (Finance) and PG Diploma in Management (Financial Management) to students passing out of the Arun Jaitley National Institute of Financial and Management (AJNIFM) for "revenue generation", a practice that JNU has never considered before. "JNUTA was shocked to learn that the justification of 'revenue generation' being provided by the Rector and other senior officials for the award of the above degrees by JNU. ...never before has revenue generation figured as a consideration for deciding upon institutions that JNU would offer degrees to," it said. It added that the agenda papers did not have any information on the profile of the AJNIFM, which goes to show "how opaque an exercise decision making on academic matters has become under Prof. Jagadesh Kumar". Kumar was allowed to continue in the office, beyond the expiry of his term on January 26, till a successor is appointed, according to Education Ministry officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jnu-teachers-association-condemns-blatant-display-of-autocratic-powers-by-interim-vc-965233.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||13 killed in auto-bus collision in Madhya Pradesh||Twelve women and a man died after the auto-rickshaw carrying them collided with a speeding bus in Old Chawni area in Gwalior Tuesday morning, police said. The accident happened around 7 am when the women, who were cooks at an 'anganwadi kendra' were returning home after work, Gwalior SP Amit Sanghi said. While eight women and the auto driver died on the spot, the others succumbed to their injuries in a hospital, he said. The MP government has announced a sum of Rs 4 lakh each to the family of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to injured, Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan said, according to news agency ANI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-killed-in-auto-bus-collision-in-madhya-pradesh-965306.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh mulls legalising cannabis cultivation: Here's why||While the use of cannabis has sparked a debate globally, its legalisation in India, for cultivation nonetheless, has also raised eyebrows. Announcing the state budget last week, Himachal Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said that the state government is coming up with a policy to allow controlled cultivation of hemp or cannabis in the state. What does that mean for people? Not much because the state wants to legalise the commercial cultivation of cannabis for non-recreational uses such as making medicines and fabrics. How is cannabis used for cultivation? Hemp, or industrial hemp, is a variety of the cannabis sativa plant species that is grown specifically for industrial use. It can be used to make a wide range of products. In some parts of Himachal, it has been traditionally used to make footwear, ropes, mats, food items, etc. During his budget speech, Thakur said that earlier, they used to consume a dish prepared from cannabis during winter to keep themselves warm and energetic. He added that since Himachal produces top-quality cannabis, the seeds of the plant can be used to make paint, biofuel and ink. The prospect of a flourishing hemp industry, which can boost the state economically, has prompted Himachal to go for hemp cultivation. Isn't cannabis banned in india? Cannabis and its derivatives are banned in India under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act of 1985. Cannabis is a generic name, according to the WHO, for a range of preparations of the cannabis sativa plant. Marijuana, a Mexican word, is a frequently used name for products made from Cannabis’s leaves or other parts. The NDPS Act strictly regulates the cannabis plant and its products. Charas is separately mentioned as a regulated substance under the law. Charas is a resin extracted from the cannabis plant. Hashish or hash is another name for charas. Cannabis oil or hashish oil is also regulated in India. On December 2 last year, the United Nations Commission for Narcotic Drugs reclassified cannabis as a less dangerous drug. The decision removes it from the Schedule IV category, which lists addictive opioids like heroin. India was one of the 27 countries that voted in favour of the rescheduling.  Marijuana for medical use has exploded in recent years and products containing cannabis derivatives like cannabidiol or CBD, a nonintoxicating compound, have flooded the wellness industry. Cowen, an investment and financial services company, estimates that the CBD industry in the United States will be worth $16 billion by 2025. Some research has suggested that CBD can protect the nervous system and provide relief from seizures, pain, anxiety and inflammation. The list of CBD-infused products — including creams, serums, soda water and juice — is also expanding rapidly. Is this legal elsewhere in India? Cannabis cultivation is done in a controlled manner in Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh while Manipur, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are considering it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradesh-mulls-legalising-cannabis-cultivation-heres-why-965319.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Power tussle in Delhi: What the passage of NCT Bill means for CM Arvind Kejriwal||In what came as a disappointment and a shock to Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, the Lok Sabha passed the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, which seeks to empower the Lieutenant Governor in the union territory. The passage of the Bill delivered a setback to Kejriwal, rendering the AAP government, which has 62 of the 70 seats in the Delhi Assembly, nearly powerless. Kejriwal, who has staunchly opposed the Bill from the start, said it was an 'insult' to the people of Delhi. Passage of GNCTD amendment Bill in Lok Sabha today is an insult to the people of Delhi. The Bill effectively takes away powers from those who were voted by people and gives powers to run Delhi to those who were defeated. BJP has cheated the people The Bharatiya Janata Party has only eight seats in Delhi, and the Congress has none. Kejriwal and his government have on multiple occasions alleged that the BJP-led Union government rules Delhi by proxy through the Lieutenant Governor (L-G). The new law requires the government to take the L-G's opinion before it takes any action. This is not in line with a decision of a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in 2018 which had maintained that the L-G must be informed about Delhi Cabinet decisions but his concurrence was not needed except in the case of police, public order and land. The bench had ruled that the L-G is 'bound by aid and advice of the council of ministers.' This will affect Kejriwal who has been chief minister since 2015 and has constantly been at odds with both the L-Gs during its tenure, Najeeb Jung and Anil Baijal. Kejriwal had even protested outside Baijal's residence in 2018 when his decisions had been blocked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/power-tussle-in-delhi-what-the-passage-of-nct-bill-means-for-cm-arvind-kejriwal-965343.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Snowfall, landslides shut J&K highway, 300 vehicles stranded||The Jammu-Srinagar national highway was closed for traffic on Tuesday following snowfall in Jawahar Tunnel area and multiple landslides between Banihal and Chanderkote, officials said. Over 300 vehicles have been stranded on both sides of the highway due to the closure. The Jawahar Tunnel – the gateway to Kashmir – experienced snowfall this morning following which traffic was suspended between Banihal and Qazigund townships, the officials said. They said incessant rains also lashed most parts of the highway, the only all-weather road linking Kashmir with rest of the country, for the third day on Tuesday, triggering landslides and shooting of stones from hillocks overlooking the highway at nearly a dozen places between Banihal and Chanderkote. Deputy Superintendent of Police Traffic (National Highway Ramban), Parul Bhardwaj said a few hundred vehicles were stranded on the highway between Nashri and Chanderkote since Monday night. “Despite incessant rains and the lurking threat of shooting stones, the men and machinery kept the highway open and the majority of the stranded vehicles in Ramban were cleared last night itself,” he told PTI. He said a major landslide had struck the highway overnight at Cafeteria Morh, while the road is also closed by debris at many places including Maroog, Monkey Morh, Panthiyal, Digdole, Sherbibi, Shabinbas. Once the weather improves, all out efforts would be made to ensure early restoration of the highway, the officer said. Officials said reports of snowfall were also received from other high altitude areas including Peer Ki Gali along Mughal Road connecting the twin districts of Rajouri and Poonch in Jammu region with Shopian in south Kashmir. The Mughal road was closed for traffic in December and is expected to be thrown open on completion of the snow clearance operation in the first or second week of next month, they said. They said snowfall was also recorded in the upper reaches of Ramban, Doda and Kishtwar districts, while Jammu city was lashed by overnight rains, resulting in a drop in the temperature. The minimum temperature in Jammu city settled at 14.9 degrees Celsius against the 16.2 degrees Celsius the previous night, a spokesman of the Meteorological department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/snowfall-landslides-shut-jk-highway-300-vehicles-stranded-965362.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||81% of 401 Punjab Covid-19 samples show UK variant, CM Amarinder Singh asks PM to widen vaccine ambit||Eighty-one per cent of the 401 samples sent by the government for genome sequencing have tested positive for the UK variant of Covid-19, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said on Tuesday, and asked the Centre to widen the vaccination net to cover those younger than 60. Expressing concern over the Covid-19 situation, the chief minister also appealed to people to get themselves vaccinated and stressed the need for the Central government to urgently open up vaccination for a larger section of the population. He urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 as the mutant has been found to be infecting young people more, an official statement quoting him said. “The process needs to be expedited," he said, pointing to the fact that experts had found the Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant - B.1.1.7. It was essential to vaccinate more and more people to break the chain of transmission, he said. The state government, which has already announced fresh restrictions, would be forced to impose more curbs if people don’t follow Covid appropriate behaviour, Amarinder Singh warned. The appeal from the chief minister came after head of the state's Covid expert committee Dr K K Talwar apprised him of developments on the new variant in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in the number of cases in the last few weeks. The chief minister had been informed by Talwar that though the UK variant B.1.1.7 is more infectious it is not more virulent. “The state health department had sent 478 Covid positive samples to NIB (National Institute of Biologicals), IGIB (Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi), and NCDC (National Centre for Disease Control) for genome sequencing, of which results of 90 samples were received and those showed only two samples for N440K (a coronavirus variant). “Subsequently, a team from the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, visited the state to review the increase in positivity,” the statement said. The team was also informed about the pending results of genome sequencing, it added. “Thereafter, 401 more samples, collected between 1.1.2021 to 10.3.2021, were sent to NCDC for genome sequencing. The result of these samples was worrying as it showed presence of B.1.1.7 variant in 326 Covid samples,” the statement said quoting Talwar. On Monday, Punjab reported 2,319 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,15,409, and 58 fatalities, pushing the death toll to 6,382.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/81-of-401-punjab-covid-19-samples-show-uk-variant-cm-amarinder-singh-asks-pm-to-widen-vaccine-ambit-965373.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi's liquor policy: What does it mean for sellers?||In its new excise policy, the Delhi government announced a slew of new measures and laws focused on the sale and consumption of liquor in the union territory. One of the major announcements was lowering the minimum age for alcohol consumption from 25 years to 21 years. Delhi Deputy CM Manish Sisodia announced a crackdown on illegal liquor shops and the 'liquor mafia'. He went on to say that no new shops for liquor sale will be opened in Delhi and the government will shut all the state-run liquor shops. At present, 475 of the 850 liquor establishments are managed by state-run agencies. This is one of Delhi government's biggest sources of revenue. According to the government, state-run vends were indulging in "brand pushing" and there were also instances of revenue leakage. What does this new policy mean for liquor shops? Here are the rules: The new rules for liquor shops are focused on the size and location of the stores in the national capital. Liquor shops will be allowed to open only if their shop covers a space of 500 sq ft. The windows of the establishments cannot face the road. Persons aged less than 21 cannot enter bars and restaurants for liquor. The shop owner will be held responsible for the discipline in their shop. The onus is also upon them to prevent public drinking outside their shops. Another major change in the policy is regarding the vend allocation system. The government did away with the policy of auto-renewal of vendors' licenses. Bars and pubs can now remain open till 3 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhis-liquor-policy-what-does-it-mean-for-sellers-965376.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||130 people still missing in Uttarakhand glacial burst: Government informs Lok Sabha||As many as 130 people continue to be missing following the February 7 glacial burst in Uttarakhand, which claimed 74 lives, the Lok Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Union Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) has constituted a joint study team of experts from different institutes and organisations of central and state governments to understand the causes of the flash floods in river Rishiganga and Dhauliganga and to suggest mitigation and preparedness measures to prevent such events. He said the government of Uttarakhand has also constituted a committee to review the glacial natural lakes and their effects. "As per information received from the state government of Uttarakhand, 74 bodies have been recovered so far and 130 persons are still reported missing. The state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each for the next of kin of those who have lost their lives due to the incident," Rai said in a written reply.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/130-people-still-missing-in-uttarakhand-glacial-burst-government-informs-lok-sabha-965405.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh beefs up anti-Covid measures ahead of Holi, Panchayat elections||Ahead of the Holi and upcoming Panchayat elections, the Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday ordered testing of people coming from other states seeing a spurt in coronavirus cases. UP Chief Secretary R K Tiwari issued the directive a day after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath held a high-level meeting on the Covid situation in the state, which on Monday had reported the coronavirus cases again crossing the 500-mark. The fresh directive, while emphasising for strict implementation of the anti-Covid measures, also stipulated that no procession or public programmes would be allowed without prior administrative permission. The directive issued to all district and division-level officers said the Covid testing of all those coming to UP during the Holi festival from the states reporting high numbers of infections will be necessary. It mandated Covid tests for passengers at railway stations, bus stations and airports besides reactivating Covid helpdesks, running dedicated Covid hospitals in all districts and keeping other hospitals ready for any future needs. The directive also emphasised identifying the suspected cases with the help of thermometers and oximeters. The directive also laid the responsibility of implementing precautionary measures like maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks by the people participating in these programmes on their organisers. The directive also stipulated that organisers will not allow people above 60 or below 10 years of age or those having serious ailments to participate in such events. The government also declared Holi holidays in all schools up to class VIII from March 24 to 31. In other educational institutions, barring medical and nursing colleges, the Holi holidays will start on March 25, lasting up to March 31. These directives on Holi Holidays, however, will not be valid for institutions holding various examinations. Chief Secretary Tiwari also directed the state administration to ensure that there is no crowding at public places and asked police to take all necessary measures for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-beefs-up-anti-covid-measures-ahead-of-holi-panchayat-elections-965425.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||DU teachers protest at Vice Chancellor's office against 'Pattern of Assistance' document; to continue shut down||The Delhi University Teachers' Association on Tuesday held a protest at the vice chancellor's office, demanding withdrawal of the 'Pattern of Assistance' document and revocation of the appointment of senior administrative officers to 12 Delhi government-funded colleges of the varsity. The teachers' union also announced to continue the university shut down, which began on March 11, until their demands are met. It had earlier alleged that through the 'Pattern of Assistance' document issued by the Directorate of Higher Education, the city government was attempting to "find ways of disaffiliating them from Delhi University". "The Pattern of Assistance document refers to these 12 colleges as '100 per cent funded Delhi government sponsored colleges affiliated to the University of Delhi'. This is absolutely wrong as these are constituent colleges of the university," the Delhi University Teachers' Association (DUTA) had said in a statement on March 18. DUTA also raised demands to revoke an order from the Finance Department that gives senior administrative officers additional charge of the 12 colleges fully funded by the Delhi government. "The University of Delhi has no such provisions and the Office of the Principal is more than adequate and capable of handling the administrative functioning in each of these 12 colleges," it said. The teachers' body alleged that the Delhi government is attempting to take the "12 colleges out of Delhi University and run them on self-financing mode to escape government funding". It also asked for assurance that there will be no delay in the release of grant-in-aid in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/du-teachers-protest-at-vice-chancellors-office-against-pattern-of-assistance-document-to-continue-shut-down-965464.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||One dead, four injured after boiler explodes at IFFCO unit in UP||One person was killed and four others were injured in a boiler explosion at IFFCO's Phulpur fertiliser unit here on Tuesday, officials said. The accident occurred around 1.15 pm, IFFCO Phulpur Public Relations Officer (PRO) Sanjay Mishra told PTI. He said while one person was killed in the explosion, four people have been injured and one them has been admitted to a private hospital in Allahabad in a serious condition. The cause of this accident is being investigated, the PRO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/one-dead-four-injured-after-boiler-explodes-at-iffco-unit-in-up-965485.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||International flights banned till April 30 due to Covid-19||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till April 30, Indian aviation regulator Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said on Tuesday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the DGCA added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July. India has formed air bubble pacts with 27 countries, including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/international-flights-banned-till-april-30-due-to-covid-19-965526.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Three skeletons found under floor of house in Panipat||Three human skeletons were found underneath the floor of a house in Haryana’s Panipat on Tuesday, according to police. According to police, these were recovered from a house in Panipat’s Shiv Nagar when its occupant undertook some construction work. “Three human skeletons were found from the house where present occupants, who had been living there for nearly two-and-a-half years, took up some construction work at the ground floor,” Deputy Superintendent of Police Satish Vats said. He said forensic tests will reveal how old the skeletons were. Asked what preliminary investigation has revealed, The DSP said, “One thing appears clear that the three people were murdered and buried at the ground floor. We have registered a case under IPC Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-skeletons-found-under-floor-of-house-in-panipat-965556.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Random Covid-19 tests in Delhi, no Holi celebrations in public as Covid-19 cases surge||In view of a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital for upcoming festivals such Holi and Navaratri. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev directed authorities to ensure strict compliance of the order. "All authorities concerned will ensure that public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri etc shall not be allowed in public places/public grounds/public parks/markets/religious places etc in NCT of Delhi," Dev said in his order. Delhi reported 1,101 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest in over three months, while four people succumbed to the disease during the same period, the health department said. It was the first time since December 24 that the city recorded more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases.  The DDMA in its meeting on Monday, attended by Lt Governor and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, had discussed the emerging Covid-19 situation in the city. "DDMA is satisfied that the NCT of Delhi is again under threat of the spread of Covid-19 epidemic... And whereas, the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases in NCT of Delhi during the last fortnight," the order stated. It is anticipated that gatherings, congregations and public celebrations during the upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri may pose a considerable threat of the spread of the virus, it stated. "Considering this, it has been decided that public celebrations and all gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals should not be allowed in public places," stated the DDMA order. The chief secretary has directed all district magistrates, their counterpart district deputy commissioners of police and other authorities to ensure that gatherings are not allowed during the upcoming festivals. District magistrates should take appropriate action according to health protocol in NCT of Delhi with regard to screening, testing, isolation, surveillance, added the order. In another order, the DDMA has called for additional precautionary measures to prevent and control the rapid increase of cases in Delhi regarding people coming to the city from other states where Covid-19 cases have recently been rising "significantly". "All DDMA authorities will conduct random testing (RAT/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from the states where Covid-19 cases are surging, at all airports, railway stations, Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) and other alighting points," said the second DDMA order. After the collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit.  "However, those passengers who are found positive shall be mandatorily quarantined/isolated at their place of stay or government facilities like Covidcare centres and hospitals for 10 days as per the prescribed protocol of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare," the order said. The authorities will ensure that maintaining record and surveillance tracking, tracing, of such passengers is done according to the protocol prescribed by the State Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/random-covid-19-tests-in-delhi-no-holi-celebrations-in-public-as-covid-19-cases-surge-965562.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi govt's new liquor policy will increase cases of drunk driving: Social activist||A social activist on Tuesday claimed that the Delhi government's decision to lower the legal alcohol drinking age from 25 to 21 years will result in more incidents of drunk driving and road rage. The Delhi government on Monday lowered the legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years and decided to withdraw from running liquor vends in Delhi as part of a new excise policy. "Reforms are done for citizens betterment but this is something which will clearly push Delhiites towards increased per capita alcohol consumption, and open floodgates to drinking among youth and also wreak havoc on roads by way of drunk driving and road rage," said Prince Singhal of Delhi-based non-profit Community Against Drunken Driving. "There will be almost a 50 per cent increase in drunken driving and with Delhi already being the number one city among 53 cities in terms of road fatalities we should be prepared for the worst as there is no one to check this menace," he claimed in a statement. The increased timing to operate liquor shops will result in "more drunk driving, road rage, and crime against women", he said Singhal also objected to allowing consumers to take away draught beer in growlers or bottles, saying it will promote drinking inside vehicles. Besides this, the micro-brewery industry is highly water intensive and will add more pressure to the national capital's water resources, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govts-new-liquor-policy-will-increase-cases-of-drunk-driving-social-activist-965590.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||With 1,100 Covid-19 cases, four deaths, Delhi records highest daily case tally in three months||Delhi reported 1,101 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, highest in over three months, while four people succumbed to the virus, the health department said. It is the first time since December 24 that the city has recorded more than 1,000 cases. The new 1,101 cases are the highest since December 19 when 1,139 cases were recorded, according to official data.  The active cases rose to 4,411 from 3,934 a day ago. The positivity remained over 1 per cent for the fourth consecutive day, the health bulletin said. The new infections pushed the tally to 6,49,973, while 6.34 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.  There were 888 cases on Monday, 823 on Sunday, 813 on Saturday, 716 on Friday, 607 on Thursday, and 536 on Wednesday, according to official data. Four people died due to the disease, taking the number of fatalities to 10,967.  A total of 84,237 tests, including 52,099 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago, as the positivity rate stood at 1.31 per cent, the bulletin said.  It was 1.32 per cent on Monday and 1.03 per cent on Sunday. The number of people under home isolation rose to 2,316 from 2,067 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 871 from 805 on Monday, it said. The number of cases in Delhi on January 1 had stood at over 6.25 lakh and the total fatalities were 10,557. The number of daily cases had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. However, the daily cases have begun to rise again in March and it has been steadily increasing over the past few days. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" in cases to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-1100-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-delhi-records-highest-daily-case-tally-in-three-months-965622.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Thousands of youth take over at protest sites as demonstrating farmers mark 'Shaheed Diwas'||To mark 'Shaheed Diwas', thousands of youth from different parts of the country on Tuesday took over the protest sites at Delhi's borders, demonstrating their role in shaping the future of the country. According to a statement issued by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), thousands of youth had started arriving at the three protest sites since Monday. There were also three 'padyatras', which culminated in the youth joining the protest sites in Delhi.  Hundreds of farmers are camping at Delhi's borders points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. March 23 is observed as ''Shaheed Diwas'' to pay tribute to Bhagat Singh, Sukhdev and Rajguru who were executed by the British government for killing British police officer J P Saunders. The trio wanted to avenge the death of freedom fighter Lala Lajpat Rai. The day-long commemoration of 'Shaheed Diwas' at Singhu saw conferences being organised where over 60 youth activists addressed the farmers, while extending their support to the movement. "Speakers described the current regime as anti-farmer and anti-worker," the SKM statement noted. The event also saw participation by young women, who "challenged the government in sharp words". "Women leaders from Haryana said that the dreams that Shaheed Bhagat Singh had dreamt of remain unfulfilled. Another speaker reminded us that Bhagat Singh had warned us that the country would not get freedom only by the British leaving the country; that this country would be truly independent only when the exploitation of farmers and labourers ends," the SKM statement said. They also presented Bhagat Singh's views on the international conspiracy of exploitation of farmers and labourers, it added. Similar events were organised at the Tikri border, where in large numbers, members of the Kisan Mazdoor families questioned the government on the lack of education and employment opportunities for the youth.  Speaking in solidarity with the farmers' movement, the youth said they would not go back without securing the demands of the protests. Soil was collected from historical places associated with the martyrs, like Sunam, Khatkad Kalan, Shri Anandpur Sahib, Shri Fatehgarh Sahib, Sarabha, Jallianwala Bagh, Hussainiwala, Shri Chamkaur Sahib and brought to the Singhu and Tikri borders, the SKM statement said. At the Ghazipur border too, young men and women, especially from Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, pledged to make the farmers' movement successful by "following the ideas of Bhagat Singh".  According to the SKM, 'Shaheed Diwas' was also observed in other parts of the country, including Gujarat, Hyderabad and Jaipur. "A mega rally was organised in the memory of martyrs in Khatkad Kalan, the village of Shaheed Bhagat Singh. Speaking at the rally, the youth said that whenever the country is hit by a crisis, the youth of Punjab will fight for human rights by sacrificing everything," it said. The Kanpur Dehat District Unit of the All India Kisan Khet Mazdoor Sangathan also organised a motorcycle march on the occasion of the martyrdom day of Shaheed-e-Azam Bhagat Singh, Rajguru and Sukhdev on the SKM's call. On March 30, farmers of the Narmada Valley will also participate in the 'Mitti Satyagraha Yatra' from Dandi in Gujarat, and the soil of the valley will be taken to the protest sites in Delhi, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/thousands-of-youth-take-over-at-protest-sites-as-demonstrating-farmers-mark-shaheed-diwas-965635.html
23-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab and Rajasthan ask Centre to widen Covid-19 vaccination net further||Punjab and Rajasthan on Tuesday asked the central government to further widen the age criteria for Covid-19 vaccination though the two states cite two different reasons behind such a plea. While Punjab sought an expansion of the vaccine coverage network because of a surge in the state caused by the UK variant of SARS-CoV-2, Rajasthan wants it on the ground that the economically productive younger generation are exposed to the outside world as they get out for jobs. With 81% of the 401 samples – genome sequenced between January 1 and March 10 - turning up positive for the new UK Covid-19 variant, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to widen the vaccination ambit to cover those younger than 60 years since the UK mutant had been found to be infecting young people more. Flagging the need for urgent opening up of vaccination for a bigger section of the populace, Singh said the process needed to be expedited as the experts had found the existing Covishield vaccine to be equally effective against the UK variant - B.1.1.7. The appeal from Punjab Chief Minister came after the state’s Covid expert committee head, K K Talwar, a former professor at AIIMS Delhi and a former director of PGI Chandigarh, apprised Singh on how the new variant has spread in the state, which has been witnessing a surge in the number of Covid-19 positive cases during the last few weeks. Each of the last six days, Punjab reported more than 2,000 fresh cases while the numbers breached the 1,000 mark on March 5. The state is also witnessing a high Covid mortality. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, on the other hand, demanded the removal of age limit for vaccination citing eminent cardiac surgeon Devi Shetty's opinion on vaccinating those in the age group of 24-45 who move outdoors for work and could turn into super spreaders. "The age group limit in vaccination should be done away with. I am appealing to the Centre to make more vaccines available to the states so that the second wave of Covid-19 can be tackled. If the epidemic grows resulting in another lockdown, it would be detrimental to people’s livelihood,” Gehlot said in a series of tweets.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-and-rajasthan-ask-centre-to-widen-covid-19-vaccination-net-further-965638.html
23-03-2021||Opinion||Australia's rain will become India's pain as Newcastle port closes||Heavy rains and the worst floods in 50 years have shut the world's largest coal-export harbour, but the impact from the closure of Australia's Newcastle port is likely to hit hardest in India. Rainfall of more than 1 metre (3.3 feet) in places in the past few days, and the threat of more to come, led to the shutdown of railways from coal mines in the Hunter Valley, north of Sydney, and the coal loaders at Newcastle Port, which shipped some 158 million tonnes of the fuel last year. The bulk of the coal shipped from Newcastle is high-grade thermal coal used in power plants, along with smaller volumes of some grades of coal used to make steel. While the bulk of Newcastle's exports go to long-term customers in Asia, such as Japan and South Korea, in recent months increasing volumes of thermal coal have been shipped to India. This would have previously been considered an unusual trade, as Indian buyers preferred cheaper, and less energy-intensive, grades from Indonesia, which is closer to the South Asian nation, the second-largest coal importer behind China. But China's ongoing dispute with Australia over a range of issues has led Beijing to place an unofficial ban on coal imports from the world's largest exporter of coking coal and number two in thermal coal. As a result, coal flows across Asia are being forced to realign, with India buying increasing volumes of Australian thermal coal and China sucking up Indonesian cargoes that would have previously headed to India. India's imports from Australia have been above 5 million tonnes a month since October, having never previously exceeded that level since Refinitiv started monitoring coal flows in January 2015. For March, India's imports from Australia are estimated by Refinitiv at 6.7 million tonnes, up from February's 6.13 million and in line with January's 6.8 million. The volume of imports from Newcastle Port has also been rising in recent months, with Refinitiv data showing 1.93 million tonnes being discharged in February, up from 1.72 million in January and 1.29 million in December. PRICE BOOST While Newcastle shipments will likely resume in a couple of weeks, the loss over even that relatively short period will boost prices and tighten the supply of coal in Asian seaborne markets. While this will hit other importers from Newcastle such as Japan and South Korea, these north Asian countries are entering their seasonal slack demand period between the winter and summer peaks. However, Indian imports tend to ramp up in the first half of the year as stockpiles are built ahead of the monsoon rains, meaning prices are surging and volumes dropping just as India would want the opposite to be happening. Newcastle thermal coal futures ended at $94 a tonne on Monday, up from the previous close of $92.75 and the highest price in two years. The price has rallied 94% since last year's pandemic-led low of $48.50 a tonne, first as a cold winter across north Asia prompted higher demand, with the current flooding in Australia putting on an additional premium. Indian buyers currently have few good alternatives to supplies from Australia, with South African coal, which is similar in quality, trading at higher prices than even the flood premium for Newcastle coal. Coal at South Africa's main port of Richards Bay , as assessed by commodity price reporting agency Argus, rose to a three-month high of $100.39 a tonne on Monday, up from the previous close of $98.25. Indonesian coal is substantially cheaper, but Indian buyers will have to compete with their Chinese counterparts for supplies, meaning there may be limited cargoes available at short notice. India could look further afield for thermal coal, with cargoes from the United States, Colombia and Russia all within the realms of possibility. But none of these are quick solutions and may not end up being that much cheaper once additional freight and insurance costs are added in, not to mention the potential difficulties of using different types of coal with varying properties in power plant boilers. For the moment, India is facing a higher coal import bill and limited supplies, something sure to raise concerns in the government, which is already fretting about the impact of higher crude oil prices on the economy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/australias-rain-will-become-indias-pain-as-newcastle-port-closes-965297.html
23-03-2021||South||People will decide my political future: Udhayanidhi Stalin||Udhayanidhi Stalin's rise in DMK has been meteoric. Within months of campaigning for the party in the 2019 polls, he was elevated as youth wing chief of the party. He has now emerged as a star campaigner for the party and is also contesting the April 6 assembly polls. DH's E.T.B. Sivapriyan spoke to him during his campaign trail. Excerpts: Q: You have been on the campaign trail seeking support for DMK since November 2020. How has been the response for people and what is the mood in Tamil Nadu, according to you? A: When I began the campaign, I was detained for three days continuously by citing one reason or the other. When they released me at 6 pm on day one, I resumed my campaign, and the next day too, I directly went for campaigning after I was released at 8.30 pm. The third day, they kept me under custody till 1 am and when I was finally released, I saw a huge crowd outside the place where I was kept. The AIADMK government, in fact, gave enough publicity for my campaign by detaining me. Before the elections were announced, people would raise their hands to show Rising Sun (DMK) or Hand (Congress) symbols, but now they raise their thumb and say we are on the path to victory. I could see people yearn for a regime change in Tamil Nadu. People want Thalaivar (M K Stalin) to be the Chief Minister after the April 6 assembly polls. Q: You attack the BJP at the same breath you criticise the AIADMK. BJP finds mention in almost all your speeches. Is the anti-BJP sentiment among people real or is it just being raked up by the Opposition? A: It is real and if someone wants to witness it, they should go to the field. Even I thought the people of Tamil Nadu punished Narendra Modi once in the 2019 polls. But the anti-people policies of the BJP, their behaviour and AIADMK government nodding its head to whatever the BJP says have kept the sentiments alive in the state. Be it, Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, or farm bills, the BJP keeps demonstrating that it is anti-people. And BJP and AIADMK cannot be seen as two entities. When Modi holds the hands of both Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam after bringing them together, it is nothing but a signal that he is controlling the AIADMK. BJP remote controls the AIADMK government as it possesses all files relating to corrupt deals of the ministers. On my part, I remind people about demonetisation, GST and NEET that has claimed the lives of so many people during the campaign. People remember that there was no NEET as long as M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa were alive. I tell people that AIADMK signs at the dotted line shown by BJP and people agree. Q: The BJP says it has grown in Tamil Nadu after the 2019 elections. Your views? A: They might have increased their presence. I am not saying BJP is not working here and that the party does not have a presence at all. All I say is people do not like BJP's narrative and their brand of politics. Q: DMK criticises AIADMK for aligning with BJP. But Chief Minister EPS has been saying in his meetings that the DMK did align with BJP in the past, and why so much noise is being made now? A: Yes. DMK had an alliance with BJP under A B Vajpayee. Our leader Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) supported the BJP based on a Common Minimum Programme (CMP) and told him clearly the DMK's stand on certain issues. It is AIADMK under madam Jayalalithaa that aligned with BJP after we left the National Democratic Alliance (NDA). And does not the current AIADMK leadership remember Jayalalithaa publicly apologising for tying up with BJP and calling the latter an evil force. Why did AIADMK ally with BJP now? They should be answering these questions. Q: The constant criticism against you is that Udhayanidhi Stalin has got undue promotion in DMK just because he is the son of party president M K Stalin. In 2019, you were appointed as youth wing secretary and you have now been given a ticket to contest assembly polls. Your response? A: Many criticised the decision to make me the chief of the youth wing. When people sought my reaction, I told them to wait for me to perform and deliver results. Getting a post is not important. One has to prove and today we have over 22 lakh members in the DMK Youth Wing. This is what I have done in the past two years. And now, thalaivar (Stalin) has handed me over to the people of Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni constituency. Let the people of the constituency decide my political future. It is for people to take a call on this. If they feel I am just a dynast or that I am not suited for politics, let them take a decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/people-will-decide-my-political-future-udhayanidhi-stalin-965206.html
23-03-2021||South||TN polls: BJP promises anti-conversion law in manifesto||The BJP on Monday assured strict laws against religious conversions through force or allurement and an anti-cow slaughter legislation, in addition to a ban on smuggling of cows to other states. "Right to freedom of religion is not the same as forcible religious conversion. Strict anti-conversion laws will be enacted in the state to criminalise religious conversion by force or allurement," the manifesto said. Also, it said the recommendations of Justice Venugopal Commission report would be implemented to prevent communal violence in the state. A law against religious conversion through force or allurement was enacted by late Chief Minister and AIADMK supremo, J Jayalalithaa in 2002 and it was later repealed following stiff opposition to it. The Venugopal Commission was appointed in the 1980's following communal riots in Kanyakumari district. Unveiling the manifesto, BJP leader and Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari said the Detailed Project Report is ready for the Godavari, Krishna, Pennar and Cauvery interlinking project. "River connectivity project is a dream for our government and 100 per cent we are going to resolve your (Tamil Nadu's) problem," he added. Outlining road construction projects to the tune of about Rs two lakh crore to be implemented within two years in Tamil Nadu, he said already, "we have started work in Chennai- Bengaluru Green Express highway and four packages are already awarded and six packages are ready." Gadkari said he has received new design for the Chennai port to Maduravoyal elevated highway, which is a 'double- decker flyover,'  The ground level is a six lane road and above it there would be flyovers at two levels, he noted. Deep sea fishing upto about 100 nautical miles, which would help increase productivity of Tamil Nadu fishermen, is being facilitated. The government has taken a 'revolutionary' decision, very important for farmers and it was diversification of agriculture towards the energy and power sector, he said. Presently, the ethanol economy size is Rs 20,000 crore and the government planned to push it to Rs two lakh crore, which would help farmers, including those in Tamil Nadu. The ethanol rate is Rs 60 per litre a green fuel, cost effective, 'import substitute' and pollution free, he said. Automobile majors TVS and Bajaj have already launched '100 per cent' bio-ethanol vehicles, he said. Pointing out that Rs 7 lakh crore worth of crude oil was being imported every year, he said the government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi's leadership has decided that, "our farmer will make fuel (ethanol) for the country." Citing research in respect of sodium ion, zinc ion and aluminium ion, he expressed confidence that within two years, the price of fuel run and electric vehicles would be equal. "Now we have given permission to make bio-ethanol from rice, corn and from any food grain you can make ethanol. This is a great policy from the government and helpful to farmers, particularly, " he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-polls-bjp-promises-anti-conversion-law-in-manifesto-965235.html
23-03-2021||South||Puducherry polls: 324 candidates left in fray||As many as 324 candidates are left in the fray for the April 6 Assembly poll in Puducherry, said the Department of Election on Monday. Fifty-eight candidates out of 382 candidates, whose nominations were found to be in order at the end of scrutiny of nominations on March 20, withdrew their nominations today, the last day to withdraw candidatures. Most of the candidates who withdrew their nominations were Independents. N Rangasamy, the AINRC leader, is among the key contestants and is seeking election from two segments - Thattanchavady in Puducherry region and Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry, in Andhra Pradesh. AINRC heading NDA has fielded candidates in 16 of the total 30 constituencies. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the AIADMK - the other constituents of the NDA - are contesting from nine and five constituencies respectively. Congress heading the Secular Democratic Alliance (SDA) has fielded candidates in 14 seats out of the 15 constituencies allotted. The Congress is supporting an Independent candidate Gollapalli Srinivas Ashok in Yanam. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, a major partner in SDA, is contesting in 13 constituencies. The VCK and CPI - the other constituents of the alliance - have fielded one candidate each in Oulgaret and Thattanchavady segments respectively. Pattali Makkal Katchi has withdrawn its candidates from all the 10 seats it had sought to contest and announced its support to the AINRC-headed NDA here, a source in the PMK said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-polls-324-candidates-left-in-fray-965254.html
23-03-2021||South||There seems to be a tacit understanding between Congress and BJP, says Pinarayi Vijayan||With Kerala set to go to polls on April 6, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan tells DH’s Arjun Raghunath that neither the allegations against his office in the gold smuggling case nor his government’s stand on the Sabarimala issue will impact the Left Democratic Front’s chances of winning a second consecutive term in office. But, he alleges, Congress and BJP seem to have a tacit understanding this election. The BJP is mounting a strong campaign this election. BJP leaders are saying that even if they win only 35 seats in the 140-member Assembly, they will be able to form their first-ever government in Kerala. There is no question of the BJP improving upon their tally of one seat this year. In fact, we have arrested their growth. From 14.96 per cent in 2016, their vote share came down to 14.88 per cent in 2019 and further down to 14.52 per cent in 2020. So, it remains to be seen if they will even retain their existing seat. BJP is out to finish off Congress. Will it help the CPM-led LDF in Kerala in this election? The real question is, is there an understanding between Congress and BJP? Congress’ national leaders are saying that they will go to BJP if they win; its state leaders are saying that they will to BJP if they lose. Therefore, all indications are that the BJP and the Congress have a tacit understanding in Kerala to defeat us. But Congress leaders allege that you have been soft in criticising BJP in your recent political speeches and that it is due to an understanding you have with BJP. Just the other day, I said that Amit Shah is communalism personified. I’d even pointed out how smuggling has peaked under BJP. In the last five years, I’ve spoken in various parts of the country against the Sangh Parivar to such an extent that I’ve even received death threats. So, how does the question of going soft on them arise? Critics say that your style of functioning is similar to that of Prime Minister Narendra Modi -- autocratic. On issues on which the Centre deserves to be criticised, I’ve minced no words. Demonetisation and CAA are just a couple of instances. At the same time, as a state government, we are mandated to cooperate with the Centre and other state governments. In a federal structure, that is essential. And since we uphold India’s federal principles, we’ve ensured that we set aside our differences and work together for the common good. In development projects that the states and Centre work together on, both have equal ownership. In fact, if you look at many such projects in Kerala, you will see that the state has equal or more share than the Centre. Have not the gold smuggling allegations linked to your office affected the government’s image? There were efforts to link my office to it. However, the very first person who made such an allegation has now backtracked. He is a state BJP leader, let us not forget. So, I do not think that it has affected us negatively. On the other hand, it has reaffirmed our honesty and integrity, even among our opponents. At this juncture, I wouldn’t want to go into personal comments about my former OSD (M Sivasankar). You are often accused of being adamant on issues like the entry of women into Sabarimala, and that may cost you. We have come to office having sworn an oath to abide by the Constitution. The Supreme Court interprets the Constitution and evaluates if laws enacted in the country are in accordance with it. When that court – the highest court in India – strikes down a rule saying that it is unconstitutional, as a state government, we are constitutionally bound to obey it. Has the controversy over the MoU with a US-based firm to manufacture deep-sea trawlers affected your poll prospects? The government did not sign any such MoU. Let us be clear about that. A public sector unit (PSU) did, and that too without the knowledge of the higher officials concerned. As soon as it came to our attention, we took measures to cancel it. There were efforts to misinform the fishing community in the backdrop of these developments. But I do not think that has had any impact. There has been criticism of your government’s handling of Covid-19 pandemic lately as a second wave has surged. If you look at the numbers, you will realise that the number of fresh cases has gone down rapidly. We’re better than where we were five months back. In the last one week alone, there is a 15 per cent drop in the number of cases. On the incidence of Covid-19, I think the Sero Prevalence Study is a prime indicator. According to the latest study, Kerala has had the least spread and lowest percentage of infections. Why has Karnataka imposed travel restrictions on the borders with Kerala then? Why do people in Kasargod have to go to Mangaluru for facilities? During disasters, it is natural for each government to want to take care of their own people first. But, in the case of pandemics such as Covid-19, which has affected the whole world, we ought to realise that working together is more effective than working alone. Let me not say more now. As for Kasargod, historically it has been part of Dakshina Kannada region. So, naturally, people are used to going to Mangaluru for several reasons, even for basic needs. We ought to remember this. We have made giant strides in Kasargod’s development over the last few years. Highways, hospitals, schools, etc., have seen a major facelift. In another five years, we will be thinking of Kasargod as a developed region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/there-seems-to-be-a-tacit-understanding-between-congress-and-bjp-says-pinarayi-vijayan-965184.html
23-03-2021||South||The Lead: Kerala polls crucial test for Vijayan-led LDF||In this episode of the Lead, get to know the political landscape of Kerala, the changes in alliances, what are the issues driving the 2021 elections in the state and more.  Kerala Assembly has 140 seats and in 2016, 77.10 per cent of people cast their vote. 1,203 candidates threw their hats in the poll ring and 871 forfeited their deposits. With 91 seats the CPM-led LDF wrested power from the Congress-led UDF and formed the government with Pinarayi Vijayan being sworn in as the chief minister. The state has seen repeated floods and the health ministry led by KK Shailaja has battled outbreaks like the Nipah virus and is currently overseeing the Covid-19 pandemic, the handling has been well applauded but on the downside, the gold smuggling case has been a spoilsport to the government's track record.  Ahmed: Today, we are joined by our correspondent from Thiruvananthapuram Arjun Raghunath to tell about the state and what's happening this year. Hi, Arjun. Welcome to DH Radio. Arjun Raghunath: Hi Ahmed:  How are the alliances stacked up in Kerala? Arjun: The major change is that in the LDF, the Kerala Congress (Mani) is led by the founder-leader K M Mani son Jose K Mani has joined the LDF. He was with the UDF earlier... To know more about the conversation, listen to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-lead-kerala-polls-crucial-test-for-vijayan-led-ldf-965286.html
23-03-2021||South||There seems to be an understanding between Congress, BJP in Kerala, alleges Pinarayi Vijayan||Q. Unlike previous governments in Kerala, your government is having a higher chance of continuing in power. What are the aspects that make your government different from previous governments in Kerala? We have delivered on our promises, been accountable to the people on every step and even gone beyond conventional notions of governance to protect their lives and livelihoods. While facing repeated disasters, we have led from the front. That is why people think that we are different. They see surety in us; they feel secure with us at the helm.  Q. Is there anything that you feel that your government couldn't do or could have done better? Not really. But, I do think that we could’ve had a better opposition which should’ve helped Kerala to do better with their constructive and reasoned criticism. Q. When you highlight development as one of the major achievements of your government, the opposition parties are highlighting the protests by CPM against development issues when CPM was in the opposition. (GAIL pipeline is an instance) How will you counter that? We have always stood for the implementation of the GAIL pipeline. It was one of our major poll promises. Even while in opposition our stance was that it should be implemented and that the genuine concerns of the people - including adequate compensation - should be addressed. Q. A major criticism by opposition parties against you is that you are very adamant in your stands. Trying to enforce Sabarimala women entry issue using police force and delay in holding talks with PSC rank holders are instances they cite. Is it a fact? We have come to office after having sworn an oath to abide by the Indian Constitution.  The Supreme Court interprets the Constitution and evaluates if laws enacted in the country are in accordance with it. And when that Court – the highest in India – strikes down a rule saying that it is unconstitutional, as a State Government, we are constitutionally bound to obey it.  Q. How did the gold smuggling allegations linked to your office affect the government's image? IAS officer M Sivasankar was among the first set of persons you handpicked to your personal staff. Do you regret it now? There were efforts to link my office to it. However, the very first person who made such an allegation has now backtracked. He is a state-level BJP leader, let us not forget. So, I do not think that it has affected us negatively. On the other hand, it has once again reaffirmed our honesty and integrity, even among our opposers. At this juncture, I wouldn’t want to go into personal comments about my former OSD.  Q. Recent controversy over MoUs with US-based firm for deep-sea trawler manufacturing seems to have created protest among the fishermen community against your government. Will that affect your government's high chances of returning to power? If no, why? The Government had not signed any MoU. Let us be clear about it. A PSU did, that too without the knowledge of any of the higher-ups concerned. And as soon as that came to our attention, we took measures to cancel it. There were some efforts to misinform the fishing community in the backdrop of these developments. But, I do not think that has had any impact. Q. Don't you feel that a minister-level discussion with PSC rank holders could have been initiated much earlier so that the criticisms against your government could have been avoided? Ours is a Government that has made the most appointments through PSC. Even in listening to the grievances of job seekers, we have been exceptional. If existing vacancies aren’t filled up from an existing Rank List, there are grounds for criticism. But, just because one has found one’s name in the rank list, one can’t demand that all appointments now on should be made from that list alone. The Government has the responsibility to cater to the needs of upcoming generations too. Q. BJP leaders are stating that even if they win only 35 seats they will be able to form government in Kerala. Do you think that what happened in places like Madhya Pradesh, Goa, Karnataka and Puducherry will happen in Kerala also this time? Can we expect a CPM – Congress tie-up in Kerala to resist the BJP from grabbing power? If you feel that BJP will not improve its position in Kerala what is the reason? There is no question of BJP improving their tally this year. In fact, we have arrested their growth. From 14.96% in 2016, their vote share had come down to 14.88% in 2019 and went further down to 14.52% in 2020. So, it remains to be seen if they will even retain their existing seat. Q. BJP's long term agenda is 'Congress Mukth Bharat'. Some BJP leaders already stated that Congress is their main opponent in Kerala. Will it help CPM-led LDF in Kerala in this election as BJP will prefer to see Congress not coming to power? The real question should be if there is INC - BJP bonhomie in the State. National Congress leaders are saying that they will go to BJP if they win. State leaders are saying that they will if they lose. Therefore all indications are that the BJP and the Congress have a tacit understanding in Kerala to defeat us. Q. Congress leaders allege that you are soft in criticising BJP in your recent political speeches and it is due to CPM-BJP understandings as winning this election is so crucial to CPM as Kerala is the lone state in which the party is in power now. Any truth in such allegations? Just the other day, I had said that Amit Shah is communalism personified. I’d even pointed to how smuggling has peaked under them. In the last 5 years, I’ve spoken in various parts of the country against the Sangh Parivar to such an extent that I’ve even received death threats. So, how does the question of going soft on them arise? Q. Often there were comments that there are similarities between you and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, especially the style of functioning, command over party and government and development agenda. Have you felt so? If yes, did it help the state in any way like taking forward the centre’s development projects in the state? On issues that the Centre deserves to be criticised, I’ve minced no words in doing so. Demonetization and CAA are just a couple of instances. At the same time, as a State Government, we are mandated to cooperate with the Centre and other State Governments. In a federal structure that is essential, and since we uphold India’s federal principles we’ve ensured that we set aside our differences and work together for the common good. On development projects that States and Centre work together, both have equal ownership. In fact, if you look at many such projects in Kerala, you will see that the State has equal or more share than the Centre. Q. Do you think that Karnataka Government's decision to impose restrictions on entry from Kerala citing Covid was a politically motivated one? If yes, what could be the reason? In disasters, it is natural for each Government to want to take care of their own people first. But, in the case of pandemics such as Covid-19 which has affected the whole world, we ought to realise that working together is more effective than going alone. Let me not say more now. Q. Even as Kerala is still having a low death rate of Covid, the state is facing criticisms for fresh cases still remaining high. How do you see the criticisms? If you look at the numbers, you will realise that the number of fresh cases has gone down rapidly. We’re better than where we were 5 months back. In the last week alone, there is a 15% drop in the number of cases. On the incidence of Covid, I think the Sero Prevalence Study is a prime indicator. According to the latest study, Kerala has had the least spread and lowest percentage of infection. Q. There were allegations that Kasargod's backwardness in development was due to lobbying by Mangalore, especially hospitals lobbies. How will you comment on that? Historically Kasaragod has been part of the Dakshina Kannada region. So naturally, people are used to going to Mangalore for several reasons, even for basic needs. We ought to remember this. As for the development of Kasargod goes, we have made giant strides over the last few years. Highways, hospitals, schools etc. have seen a major facelift. In another 5 years, we will be thinking of Kasargod as a developed region. Q. V S Achuthanandan may not be able to campaign this time due to old age and health. How will it affect CPM's prospects? I don’t think I should comment on his health. However, we should note that it is not people, but politics that is key in elections; Issues matter more than individuals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/there-seems-to-be-an-understanding-between-congress-bjp-in-kerala-alleges-pinarayi-vijayan-965379.html
23-03-2021||South||PM Modi to address election meeting at Dharapuram on March 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address an election meeting on March 30 at Dharapuram from where BJP State unit president L Murugan is contesting the April 6 Assembly elections, party sources said on Tuesday. Modi, who launched the party campaign here on February 25, is expected to arrive at the city airport at 10.20 AM and leave by helicopter for Dharapuram in Tirupur district, the sources said. After the meeting, the prime minister will return to the city around 2.20 PM and leave for Chennai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-address-election-meeting-at-dharapuram-on-march-30-965388.html
23-03-2021||South||DH Sparks highlights: Scam-struck LDF goes to polls in Kerala||The Pinarayi Vijayan-led ruling LDF faces a challenge from the UDF, headed by Congress in the Kerala Assembly elections. The LDF was hoping that it will retain power without much sweat while banking on the government’s work during flood relief work in 2018 and 2019, followed by its response to Covid-19, all of which had won many over. However, a string of scams has weakened the LDF’s standing. To add to this, the BJP is going all out to woo voters, drawing in Metroman E Sreedharan into the electoral fray. The Sabarimala temple issue is also back on the cards, making this assembly election a tough outing for the LDF. Catch this discussion live with our experts in this edition of DH Sparks. Watch the webinar live here:   Speakers: 1. K N Harilal, Economist and member of Kerala State Planning Board2. Josukutty C A, Associate Professor, Dept. of Politics, University of Kerala3. R Balashankar, RSS  4. John Mary, Senior journalist||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dh-sparks-highlights-scam-struck-ldf-goes-to-polls-in-kerala-965414.html
23-03-2021||South||NYAY will be tested in Kerala if Congress-led UDF is voted to power: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has been pushing for Nyuntam Aay Yojana (NYAY) -- a proposed minimum income guarantee scheme, on Tuesday, promised people in poll-bound Kerala that the scheme will be "tested" in the southern state if the party-led UDF is voted to power. "I have a selfish reason to test it," Gandhi said, addressing an election corner meeting organised at Manarcad in Puthuppally Assembly constituency represented by the former chief minister and senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy for the last 50 years. Flanked by Chandy and AICC general secretary K C Venugopal on a roofless campaign vehicle, Gandhi said he was confident of the success of the NYAY scheme. A sum of Rs 72,000 a year will go straight into beneficiaries bank account."And we know what is going to happen next. We are testing a new idea in Kerala," Gandhi told party workers who gathered in large numbers around the campaign vehicle to listen to his speech. Coining the idea during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Gandhi had described the scheme as a "groundbreaking idea" to mark the beginning of the final assault on poverty. The party, however, failed to win the Lok Sabha polls despite highlighting the NYAY promise in its manifesto. Gandhi said he wanted to "test" the scheme because if it works in Kerala, he wanted to replicate it in all the Congress-ruled states in the country. "And Kerala is going to show the rest of India on how to fight poverty once and for all," he said. Earlier, addressing a meeting at Paruthumpara near here, Gandhi said, "the first thing we are going to do when we form government in a number of days is going to start NYAY yojana." Gandhi had stressed the importance he gives to the NYAY scheme during his election campaign on Monday also, saying it was not going to do this as some form of charity. "This is not charity. We are giving you money through NYAY. We are putting money in your pockets. So that you can spend money." This was the only way to uplift the Indian economy which "collapsed" due to the demonetisation done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his flawed GST implementation and the Covid-19 pandemic, the Congress leader claimed. In its manifesto for the April 6 assembly polls, the Congress-led UDF has promised a Rs 2000 'pension' for homemakers, Rs 72,000 annually to the poor under 'Nyay Yojana' and five lakh homes for the underprivileged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nyay-will-be-tested-in-kerala-if-congress-led-udf-is-voted-to-power-rahul-gandhi-965420.html
23-03-2021||South||No organised move behind double entries in voters' list: Kerala CM Vijayan||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday dismissed opposition charges of conspiracy behind the double and multiple entries found in voters' list in poll-bound Kerala and said there was no "organised move" behind the incident. His reaction came a day after the Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) had admitted that double entries were found in the voters' list, after an inquiry conducted in view of the complaint lodged by Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. The CM said it has become clear that a woman, whose name was found to have entered multiple times in the voters' list, was a Congress sympathiser and her name was added into the list by the Congress party workers. Chennithala was actually levelling charges against the multiple entries in the voters' list made by his own party workers, Vijayan told reporters in Alappuzha. The Chief Minister was referring to Kumari, a 61-year-old voter in Uduma segment in northern Kasaragod district, to whom Chennithala had alleged that five Election Identity Cards had been issued. The woman had later told media that she was a Congress supporter and she had no knowledge about the multiple entries of her name in the voters' list. An electoral officer was on Monday suspended, pending enquiry, after five voter identity cards in the name of Kumari were found generated in the computer system at Uduma. "This (double entry) has happened in the past also. But, there is no allegation about any organised move behind it. No charge has been made against any political party so far. The Election Commission is looking into its other aspects," Vijayan said while replying to a query. Chennithala had raised serious allegations of fraud and irregularities in the preparation of voters' list in Kerala ahead of the April 6 assembly polls. Citing the voters' list published by the Election Commission on January 20 2021, he had said that bogus votes have been added extensively in each constituency across the state. A clear conspiracy at the state level was behind the attempt to create bogus voters in all the 140 constituencies in the state, Chennithala said. On the charges of the Opposition leader about irregularities in preparation of voter's lists, CEO Teeka Ram Meena had said they conducted a detailed probe into the 1,600 'multiple entries' flagged by him and found there were 590 double entries, which was nothing new and was there in many states due to a variety of reasons. He also warned that strict action would be taken against such officers if foul play was detected in the voter card issuing exercise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-organised-move-behind-double-entries-in-voters-list-kerala-cm-vijayan-965423.html
23-03-2021||South||Kerala Assembly polls: It's Metro Man’s expertise versus sitting MLA's popularity in Palakkad||While his opponents used to ridicule him over entering politics at the age of 88, Sreedharan easily moves around from point to point seeking votes, mainly highlighting development agenda rather than mudslinging politics. But the voters of Palakkad in central Kerala are still skeptical whether Sreedharan will be able to tide over the huge popularity that young Congress leader and two time sitting MLA Shafi Parambil enjoys in the constituency. "Sreedharan could be a very popular person at the national level. But for the people of Palakkad, Shafi is much popular and he made considerable contributions like development of roads and the medical college. So we have to see if Sreedharan could make it,” said Antony, a taxi driver in Palakkad town. Shafi won with a majority of 7,400 votes in 2011 and 2016 his majority increased to 17,400. However, BJP’s Shobha Surendran came second in 2016, which raises Sreedharan’s hopes. The BJP is considering Palakkad among the few constituencies where the party’s winnability factors are very high. BJP is mainly highlighting the expertise of Sreedharan and his clean image by pointing out projects like Delhi Metro to Kochi metro and the swift reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover in Kochi. Vivekraj Nair, a Palakkad native working in Mumbai, came down to extend support to Sreedharan. He said that he had not seen much development in Palakkad over the years of Congress-led UDF and CPM-led LDF rule and hence was having high expectations as the 'Metro Man' was seeking mandate. Sreedharan told DH that the response he was receiving from the people was really encouraging and exciting, and he was not at all moved by the criticism by his political opponents. “I just ignore those criticisms and I don't find any problem in contesting against a youngster,” he said. At his campaign speeches, Sreedharan is also making it a point to remind the party workers and supporters that the party not only required BJP votes, but the votes from others also. He also reiterates that he is a Palakkad native.  Sreedharan’s national level popularity seems to have not created any dent in the confidence level of Shafi Parambil. “Sreedharan is a good technocrat and we all respect him. But this is a different game as Sreedharan is now a representative of BJP. I feel that the people of Palakkad are still have high trust in me as I stood by them and also initiated many development and welfare measures,” said the young MLA. Meanwhile, the CPM camps are also having hopes that a split in the Congress votes in favour of Sreedharan as well as factionalism in Congress may help party’s candidate C P Pramod. The minority communities, especially the Muslim outfits, may prefer to support Shafi Parambil to ensure BJP’s defeat even as they are not major vote bank in Palakkad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-assembly-polls-its-metro-man-s-expertise-versus-sitting-mlas-popularity-in-palakkad-965465.html
23-03-2021||South||Enforcement Directorate moves Kerala HC to quash FIR against officials||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday moved the Kerala High Court seeking to quash the FIR registered against its officials by Kerala police for allegedly forcing Swapna Suresh, key accused in the gold smuggling case, to give statements against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In its plea, the ED alleged the FIR was registered against its unnamed officials with "ulterior motive of derailing the statutory investigation" under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) into a large economic offence of smuggling of huge quantities of gold. In its prayer, the ED submitted that the FIR filed be quashed or the investigation be transferred from the state police to the CBI to ensure an impartial investigation. The central agency also wanted the court to stay all further proceedings pursuant to the FIR against ED officials and direct no coercive action against the officers of the Enforcement Directorate "who are performing their official duties" under the PMLA 2002 pending disposal of the petition. The impugned FIR has been registered with an oblique motive to put pressure on the Investigating Officers, besides also "ensure that trial is not conducted in a fair and impartial manner because certain highly placed persons are involved in this case," the ED submitted. It also submitted that the preliminary inquiry allegedly conducted by the state police was clearly a farce. The Crime Branch registered the case on March 17 on the basis of a report filed by the Crime Branch team which was probing the leak of a voice clip, purportedly belonging to Suresh. According to the FIR, the ED officials, probing the gold smuggling case while questioning an accused named Swapna Prabha Suresh on August 12 and 13, 2020, have forced her to give false statements against the state chief minister in order to make fake evidence. The Crime Branch case has been registered under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence), among others, of the Indian Penal Code. Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate here, is the prime accused in the case relating to the smuggling of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic baggage and now under judicial custody since her arrest. In a voice clip purported to be that of Suresh circulated a few months ago, it was alleged that some ED officials had threatened her while she was being interrogated at the agency office in Kochi in August last year to give statements against Vijayan and some ministers. Later, two women civil police officers, who had been with Suresh when she was interrogated by the ED, had also reportedly claimed they had heard the ED officials forcing her to name Vijayan. Besides the ED, the Customs and the National Investigation Agency are also probing the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel. Vijayan has been accusing the Central agencies of targeting his government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/enforcement-directorate-moves-kerala-hc-to-quash-fir-against-officials-965477.html
23-03-2021||South||Woman's body found lying outside Karimnagar court in Telangana||An unidentified woman was found murdered in front of the district court complex here on Tuesday, police said. According to Karimnagar police commissioner V B Kamalasan Reddy, the body of the woman believed to be in her mid-thirties was found lying under mysterious circumstances in front of the court building this morning. No blood stains were found on the body, he said adding "we are trying to ascertain the identity of the woman." The deceased was wearing a pink kurti, police said. The body has been sent to the mortuary and a probe is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/womans-body-found-lying-outside-karimnagar-court-in-telangana-965488.html
23-03-2021||South||Kerala's TB eradication programme bags award||Kerala's tuberculosis eradication programme has won national honour as the state bagged the Union government's award for reducing the prevalence of the disease through various systematic initiatives. Kerala is the lone state which has been chosen for the recognition in the state category, a Health department statement said. An expert panel, designated by the Union government, recently found that the southern state has reduced the TB prevalence rate by 37.5 per cent in the last five years as part of achieving the sustainable development goals. This evaluation has helped the state win the national honour, the statement said, adding that the panel also opined that the TB research system in the southern state was one of the best in the world. The 26-member panel, comprising experts of National Institute of Epidemiology, the World Health Organization and the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine, visited Ernakulam, Kollam, Kasaragod and Malappuram before submitting the report to the Centre. They also examined 83,000 people with the support of 60 survey teams besides consulting with private doctors and medical shop owners, the statement said. The disease control was made possible in the southern state through various projects including "Akshaya Kerala' under the "My Tuberculosis Free Kerala" scheme implemented by the state Health Department, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-tb-eradication-programme-bags-award-965499.html
23-03-2021||South||Average CTC at ISB placements reach all-time high; school says 'unprecedented global crisis no dampener'||Despite the Covid-19 pandemic causing an economic slowdown, the average accepted CTC at the Indian School of Business PGP placements this year rose to “an all-time high of Rs 28.29 lakh.” ISB officials said the hike is 8.32 per cent over last year's Rs 26.12 lakh. A total of 1145 acceptable offers were made to the Post Graduate Programme students in the placement week that concluded in March first week. "As per the ISB policy, we do not disclose the highest package," one official told DH. The 12 month MBA equivalent course is the premier business school's flagship programme. "The unprecedented global crisis gave ISB a new opportunity to reinvent and reorient teaching modules and learning approaches. The right calibration and future-ready focus on technology and analytics enabled our students to find their place in key leadership and management positions in various organisations,” Professor Rajendra Srivastava, Dean, Indian School of Business said. 388 offers, cutting across strategy, technology, transactional and operational sectors, were in consulting space from firms such as McKinsey, Deloitte, Accenture, Bain, Kearney, PwC, KPMG. About 9.5 per cent of the total offers have come from the Banking Financial Services and Insurance segment, while five per cent are in pharma/healthcare. “ISB has 40% women students in the cohort, among the highest in leading business schools in this part of the world. Women focused hiring Programs such as Citibank’s Catalyst and Axis Bank’s WE Lead hired women candidates for their senior and middle level leadership positions. Women candidates made their presence felt across sectors and functions and bagged 24 leadership roles from leading companies,” officials stated. ISB has executed a complete online placement process this year. The school follows an integrated system of placements process for its two campuses – in Hyderabad and Mohal - in line with its ‘One-School Two Campuses’ tenet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/average-ctc-at-isb-placements-reach-all-time-high-school-says-unprecedented-global-crisis-no-dampener-965504.html
23-03-2021||South||Karnataka minister's gunman booked for assaulting driver||A case has been registered against the gunman of Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar for assaulting the minister's driver, police said. Though the incident occurred on March 19, the case was registered only on March 21 based on the complaint of driver Somashekhar's wife Ratnamma against gunman Thimmayya. Ratnamma alleged that when her husband went for duty on March 19, Thimmayya abused and beat him for complaining against him to the minister and his wife.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/karnataka-ministers-gunman-booked-for-assaulting-driver-965506.html
23-03-2021||South||Maharashtra police posting racket report names over a dozen officers||The top-secret intelligence document that created ripples in Maharashtra politics and police establishment contains names of more than two dozen police officers who have approached brokers with political-links for good postings and promotions. These include police personnel from the rank of Police Inspectors to senior IPS officers. Based on the investigations carried out by Commissioner of State Intelligence Department Rashmi Shukla, then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal has sent the report to then Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte to be brought to the notice of Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. However, according to Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, the Chief Minister forwarded the report to Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Jaiswal in the letter, dated August 26, 2020, to Kunte had stated, “…it is recommended that this be brought to the notice of Chief Minister at the earliest and an immediate comprehensive enquiry be ordered by State CID (Crime), to identify the concerned individuals and take necessary legal action.” Shukla in the report to Jaiswal, dated August 25, 2020, had said, “….a network of brokers has emerged, particularly individuals with firmly ingrained political connections and engaged in arranging desired posting for police officers in an exchange of massive monetary compensation”. She also pointed out that the brokers are in close contact and embroiled in negotiations. “The police officers ranging from Inspectors to high-ranking IPS officers are in contact with such undesirable elements,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/maharashtra-police-posting-racket-report-names-over-a-dozen-officers-965527.html
23-03-2021||South||Madras HC grants bail to Justice Karnan in 10 cases||Controversial former judge, Justice C S Karnan, arrested in December last year for allegedly making vulgar comments against women and remarks against judges, was granted bail by the Madras High Court on Tuesday. As many as 10 cases were pending against the former judge of the Madras and Calcutta High Courts. Accepting the undertaking given by Justice Karnan to the effect that he would not indulge in any such activities, Justice V Bharathidasan granted him the relief, that too a conditional one. He should furnish two sureties for Rs 50,000 each and stay in the city, not tamper with the witnesses and appear before the Investigating Officers as and when required. Any violation of the conditions would render the bail order cancelled, the judge said. Earlier, the abusive contents released in the form of videos uploaded on social media platforms had prompted the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, a statutory body, to lodge series of complaints against Justice Karnan Upon taking cognizance of the same.  10 cases had been registered so far for offences under the IPC and the Information Technology Act. His earlier bail petitions were dismissed by the High Court on February 16 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-grants-bail-to-justice-karnan-in-10-cases-965530.html
23-03-2021||South||TN people will not allow Stalin to become CM: Panneerselvam||People will not allow DMK president M K Stalin to become the chief minister as they apprehend that anarchy will prevail in the state if the party was elected to power in the coming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, Deputy Chief Minister and top AIADMK leader O Panneerselvam said on Tuesday. He came down heavily on the previous DMK regime during which frequent power cuts were witnessed, apart from negative industrial growth, closure of industries and workers losing jobs. During the 10-year AIADMK rule, the state has become power surplus and industries to the tune of Rs 6 lakh crore were started providing employment to over 19 lakh people, Panneerselvam said at a campaign meeting in Mettupalayam near here. He alleged that the DMK was indulging in anarchy even when it was in the opposition and said the people feared that it will continue after it returned to power after a long time. Stalin will never become the chief minister, Panneerselvam added. Despite having nine ministers in the Congress-led government at the Centre, the DMK had done nothing for the development of the State, he said. Stating that the AIADMK government led by late chief minister J Jayalalithaa was successful in solving the long-pending Cauvery water dispute with Karnataka through a legal battle, Panneerselvam said the present NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi had revived the traditional sport of Jallikattu following efforts by the party. The AIADMK government was implementing the 'Vision 2023' presented by Jayalalithaa in all the fields, including the houses for all within the stipulated time, he said. As per the vision document and dream of Jayalalithaa, the government was focusing on the empowerment of women by providing marriage assistance, gold for mangalsutra and two-wheelers at subsidised rates, he said. Panneereselvam also assured to provide washing machines and six free gas cylinders for the benefit of housewives, immediately after the AIADMK returned to power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-people-will-not-allow-stalin-to-become-cm-panneerselvam-965534.html
23-03-2021||South||Telangana shuts schools, colleges as daily new Covid-19 cases breach 400-mark||As several schools and hostels in the state turned Covid-19 hotspots recently, the Telangana government has announced the closure of all educational institutions temporarily, from Wednesday. The online mode of teaching would continue. Covid-19 cases are surging once again in the state, after a lull of over three months. On Monday, the health department recorded 412 new positive cases. Telangana education minister Sabitha Indra Reddy stated that the schools' shutdown decision was taken following the concerns expressed by parents. “Keeping in view such fears and requests from the parents, we have decided to close all the educational institutions in the state temporarily from Wednesday to curb the virus spread,” Reddy stated on Tuesday. The decision would apply to all the schools, colleges, hostels in the government and private sector, except the medical colleges. “Covid-19 cases are increasing once again in the country. Since teaching and other activities require participation in groups, there is a danger of educational institutions becoming Covid-19 hotspots. States like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh have already closed their schools,” Reddy said adding the decision is to ensure the well being of the students and teachers, and thereby their families. On Monday, in the wake of the Covid-19 case spurt especially in the educational institutions, Andhra Pradesh school education minister Adimulapu Suresh has announced the commencement of half-day schools in the state from 1 April.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-shuts-schools-colleges-as-daily-new-covid-19-cases-breach-400-mark-965545.html
23-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: OPS faces 'tough competition' from former party man Thanga Tamilselvan in Bodinayakanur||Both O Panneerselvam and Thanga Tamilselvan have had the confidence of late J Jayalalithaa, though they never saw eye-to-eye on most occasions despite being in the same party, AIADMK. Their rivalry is legendary by now, but this is the first time that they will fight it out in the open. Thanga Tamilselvan, who was MLA of Andipatti the constituency represented by the late matinee idol and AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran and his successor Jayalalithaa, is now the DMK nominee taking OPS head on in his pocket borough of Bodinayakanur, a town bordering Kerala. The electoral contest in Bodinayakanur in the picturesque Theni district that lies at the foot of the Western Ghats, is not just for votes but to gain supremacy in the region. Though OPS is popular in the constituency and many take pride in the seat being represented by one of the top brass of the AIADMK government, this will be one of the toughest battles for the deputy chief minister, who is already side lined in his own party. This election is very crucial for OPS' political future and he is not taking any chances this time around. Both OPS and Tamilselvan do not belong to the constituency, though the former has represented this segment in the Assembly since 2011. Besides the two, AMMK led by T T V Dhinakaran has fielded M Muthusamy, and NTK's M Prem Chander and MNM's P Ganesh Kumar are also in the fray. OPS, Tamilselvan, and Muthusamy belong to Mukulathors, and all three are pinning hopes on their community votes. It remains to be seen how much votes Muthusamy can take away from AIADMK – the AMMK's nominee in 2019 Lok Sabha polls had scored 21,041 votes here. There is goodwill for the deputy chief minister in the constituency as people recall his “achievements” like bringing engineering, and law colleges, laying roads now and then, and ensuring people's needs are met. However, some feel the constituency has seen “little development” in the past 10 years despite attaining “star status” due to its VVIP MLA, and complain about “lack of jobs.” “What will people do with an engineering college if they do not have jobs? Being a deputy CM, he could have done a lot. We do not have proper drainage facilities and our drinking water needs haven't been met completely,” Rajan, an autorickshaw driver, told DH. For Tamilselvan, his hopping from one party to the other might come as a problem as some feel he cannot be “trusted any more.” The challenge for OPS not just comes from Tamilselvan, who is popular in the district thanks to his association with Jayalalithaa, but due to some of the decisions of his government and the Centre. One of the sub-sects of his Mukulathor community, Piramalai Kallars, is upset over the 10.5 percent internal reservation for Vanniyars within the Most Backward Classes (MBC) quota. Also, dominant castes are disturbed with the Centre's decision to group seven sub-sects under the name Devendrakula Velalars. “Piramalai Kallars who come under MBC will be affected due to the 10.5 internal reservations for Vanniyars. We are now left with just 7 percent within the quota. OPS did not object to this. The community will get affected due to this injustice. Also, those from pillai castes are upset with seven sub-sects getting the Velalar tag. These two will affect his prospects,” Arumugam, who runs a tea shop, said. Outside a temple near the local DMK office, Kumaresan said OPS cannot be dismissed in Bodinayakanur. “He is very powerful, and he is liked by people. He has done enough for the people by bringing educational institutions. But there will be complaints too. However, to say he has ignored the constituency is wrong,” he said. And Tamilselvan is a formidable candidate. He is not just a deft organiser but is also credited with having his ears to the ground. After Jayalalithaa's death, he sided with T T V Dhinakaran but sought refuge in the DMK after falling out with the AIADMK rebel.  His campaign is centred around OPS' “ill-gotten” wealth and ignoring the constituency in his two term as MLA. “What has he done? Wherever I go people only complain about bad roads and shortage of water. OPS was focussing only on increasing the wealth of his family and not the overall development of his seat,” he asked. Besides a split in the traditional AIADMK votes, Tamilselvan is hoping on the DMK's strength to take sweet revenge on his former inter-party rival.   Bodinayakanur Assembly Constituency 2016 winner: O Pannerselvam (AIADMK) Runner-up: S Lakshmanan (DMK) Margin: 15,608 votes 2021 candidates O Panneerselvam (AIADMK) Thanga Tamilselvan (DMK) M Muthusamy (AMMK) M Prem Chander (NTK) P Ganesh Kumar (MNM) Electorate (2021) 2,77,964 votes||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-ops-faces-tough-competition-from-former-party-man-thanga-tamilselvan-in-bodinayakanur-965548.html
23-03-2021||South||Ex-Kerala PCC General Secretary Suresh Babu quits Congress||Compounding the Congress worries in poll-bound Kerala, P M Suresh Babu, a former KPCC general secretary, resigned from the Congress on Tuesday and declared that he intends to join the CPI(M)-led LDF camp. The move comes a day after veteran party leader K C Rosakutty called it quits. The Congress has lost its relevance and lacked even a full-time All India president, Suresh Babu said. Ending her over 37-year association with the Congress, AICC member and KPCC vice-president Rosakutty had resigned from the party's primary membership on Monday and decided to associate with the ruling LDF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-kerala-pcc-general-secretary-suresh-babu-quits-congress-965559.html
23-03-2021||South||Former TN Minister, AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP Mohammedjan passes away||Former Tamil Nadu Minister and AIADMK Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament A Mohammedjan passed away on Tuesday. He was 72. Following unease, the MP was taken to Walajapet general hospital in Ranipet district where he was declared brought dead by the authorities, his relative said. "He had just returned home (Ranipet) after campaigning for the Assembly polls. After he said he was experiencing chest pain, we rushed him to the hospital and on the way he became unconscious. Doctors, after examination, said he died of heart attack," the relative told PTI. Mohammedjan was Minister of Backward Classes between 2011-13 in the cabinet of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa. A noted AIADMK leader from the minority community in northern Tamil Nadu, he was elected to the Rajya Sabha in July 2019. He was also the chairman of the Tamil Nadu Waqf Board and joint secretary of AIADMK's minorities welfare wing. In their condolence, AIADMK top leaders, Chief Minister K Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam said they were deeply grieved by the death of Mohammedjan. A party worker since the early days of the founding of the AIADMK in 1972, he was loyal to founder M G Ramachandran and late Chief Minister 'Amma', (J Jayalalithaa) they said, adding he has worked for the party at various levels including as party's Ranipet town secretary. The two leaders conveyed their condolences to the bereaved family. DMK president M K Stalin expressed grief over Mohammedjan's death and praised him for being the voice of Tamil Nadu in the Rajya Sabha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-tn-minister-aiadmk-rajya-sabha-mp-mohammedjan-passes-away-965564.html
23-03-2021||South||Assembly election: Washing dirty linen in public – Tamil Nadu style||It is election season when dirty linen is washed in public. In Tamil Nadu, an AIADMK candidate has done it literally. To catch the attention of voters and to “connect” with them, Thanga Kathiravan, AIADMK nominee from Nagapattinam in the Cauvery Delta region, washed clothes in public in full media glare. Not just this candidate, several others are grabbing the eyeballs for their “out-of-the-box” ideas – one DMK candidate was seen making beedi along with workers, another helped prepare dosa at a food joint, while one sold vegetables. But Thanga Kathiravan took the campaign to the next level when he washed clothes with his supporters who actively encouraged and even lauded him, saying “super, super.” A video that has now gone viral shows a group of AIADMK men wearing their signature shawl, cheering for their candidate. As Thanga Kathiravan applied detergent to clothes and washed them, his supporters were elated. What followed were slogans like vetri chinnam irattai ilai (victorious symbol Two Leaves) as the candidate looked happy and kept smiling all through. Finally, he handed over one of the clothes he washed to the rightful owner, before telling her to “take care.” Another stunt came from DMK candidate Prabhakar Raja – a political novice and son of the leader of an influential traders' body – who is contesting from Virugambakkam in Chennai. Raja, wearing the DMK shawl is seen sweeping the stone used to make dosa at a food joint and taking a cup full of batter and splattering it on the stone. As he sprinkled oil around the batter, his supporters clapped and celebrated the “event”. While some told Raja that he should wait till the dosa is made, others gave him lessons on how to make it crisp. A few seconds later, the dish was ready and was served to the person who had ordered. And third in the list so far is K R Jayaram, the AIADMK nominee from Singanallur in Coimbatore. He turned a vegetable seller, and happily posed for pictures as he “sold” vegetables. And the last is T Sampath Kumar of the DMK who is taking on Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami in Edappadi in Salem district. He did not do any such acts, but quietly went to a place where beedi was being produced and helped the workers to make them. Of course, a picture was clicked and it found its way in to social media. Elections are another 13 days away, and there will be more such “ideas” to garner votes. Which would work? EVMs hold the answer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/assembly-election-washing-dirty-linen-in-public-tamil-nadu-style-965621.html
23-03-2021||South||Gold smuggling accused gave statements against Kerala Assembly Speaker: ED||Two key accused in the gold smuggling case have claimed before the Enforcement Directorate that Kerala Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan had made an investment in a college in Oman and handed over currency bundles meant for a UAE consulate official, according to their depositions submitted in the state high court by the central agency. The ED attached the statements of prime accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair and Sarith P S containing details of the case and allegations against Sreeramakrishnan and others, including suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar, in its plea seeking to quash an FIR registered against its officials by the state police. The FIR has been registered for allegedly forcing Suresh to give statements against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Reacting to the claims of the accused submitted in the court days ahead of the April 6 assembly elections in the state, Sreeramakrishnan, in a statement to the media released in Thiruvananthapuram, dismissed them as "nonsense and factually wrong". Asserting that he was ready for any kind of probe which was fair, he alleged the central agencies have been acting as propagandists with political interests and releasing so-called statements from time to time. Suresh and Sarith, former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, are the key accused in the case relating to the smuggling of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in diplomatic baggage and now under judicial custody since their arrest. They are also allegedly involved in the dollar case related to the alleged smuggling of USD 1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former UAE Consulate official to Muscat in Oman. Suresh, in her deposition, claimed Sreeramakrishnan had once told her that he has investments in Middle East College, Oman, owned by an NRI, who is a native of Ponnani in Malappuram district. "....he (the Speaker) wanted to spread the wings across the Middle East and that I would be the ideal person to manage his projects in the Middle East," Suresh was quoted as saying in the statement. She further claimed Sreeramakrishnan wanted to start a branch of Middle East College in Sharjah and he had requested the Ruler of Sharjah to provide land for the construction of buildings for it. Suresh also alleged that during the visit of the Ruler of Sharjah to Thiruvananthapuram, a meeting was arranged between him and Sreeramakrishnan at the request of the Speaker. She claimed Sreeramakrishnan, Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala chief minister), the college owner and another person wanted her to relocate to Sharjah and head their business development wing in the Middle East. Suresh said "as instructed" by Sivasankar, she visited Oman in April 2018 to see the premises and to meet a director of the Middle East College in Oman to discuss the way forward. "At that time Sivasankar also came to Oman directly from France and he accompanied me during the meeting," she claimed. In his statement, Sarith alleged Sreeramakrishnan sent a 'gift' of ten bundles of currency notes to a top official of the UAE consulate through him. He claimed Suresh, her husband and he visited a flat near the Thiruvananthapuram airport after Sreeramakrishnan called her over the phone and asked her to come there. "When we were about to return from there he entrusted a bag which contains a bundle in it...He also directed us to hand over the bundle to the UAE consulate official and told us to keep the bag as his gift," the statement said. He further claimed he handed over the bundles of currencies to the UAE official at his residence and kept the empty bag at his (Sarith's) house which was later seized by the Customs authorities. In his statement, Sreeramakrishnan said what the media showing now in the name of the 'statement' of the accused was absolute nonsense and factually wrong. "The statement that it was decided to start an educational institution abroad and investments were made in it are completely baseless. Anyone can inquire about this", he said. Sreeramakrishnan, however, said it was a fact that the Ponnani native who runs educational institutions in Oman is an acquaintance. "It's a fact that I have met many NRIs. Just because I have met many people, it is foolish to misinterpret that I have an investment in their establishments", he said. The Speaker also rejected the allegations that he had met the Ruler of Sharjah alone either in Kerala or outside. "It is learnt that one of the accused, who has been in the custody of the investigating agencies for months, has already given eight statements. "It is also necessary to investigate as to who inspired the new set of stories. I am ready for any kind of investigation. But it has to be a fair one. It is not acceptable to make fabricated and politically motivated moves during elections", the Speaker said. On Mar 5, the Customs had claimed in the high court that Suresh has made "shocking revelations" against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Sreeramakrishnan and some ministers with regard to dollar 'smuggling.'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-accused-gave-statements-against-kerala-assembly-speaker-ed-965623.html
23-03-2021||South||India abstaining from voting in UN meet on Sri Lanka is 'betrayal' of Eelam Tamils: DMK||The main opposition DMK and its allies, including the MDMK, in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday, condemned the Centre over India abstaining from voting on a UN Human Rights Council resolution against Sri Lanka and termed it "an unpardonable betrayal" of the Eelam Tamils. Abstaining from voting only reflected support for Sri Lanka and it was against the Eelam Tamils by the BJP-led Central government, DMK chief M K Stalin alleged. 'Eelam' denotes homeland and 'Eelam' Tamils is a term used by political parties and others in Tamil Nadu to refer to the Tamils in neighbouring Sri Lanka. "Today, the Indian representative, without taking part in the voting, has walked out. This is an unpardonable, huge betrayal of Eelam Tamils by the Indian government," Stalin claimed. The UN Human Rights Council adopted a resolution against Sri Lanka's rights record, which gives the UN body a mandate to collect evidence of crimes committed during the country's brutal civil war (2008-09) against the LTTE. India abstained from voting, saying its approach to the question of human rights in Sri Lanka is guided by two fundamental considerations. One supports Lankan Tamils for equality, justice, dignity and peace and the other is ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of that nation. It urged Colombo to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, to carry forward the process of reconciliation and address the aspirations of the Tamil community in the island nation. Stalin said days ago he wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to break his silence on the matter since Lanka had been hoping that India would support it in the UN body. It did not, however, happen and the Centre did not come up with any proper explanation. "We expected that the Modi government would take a stand in favour of the Eelam Tamils in the UNHRC. But the Modi government has deceived the world Tamils," Stalin, who is in the thick of campaign for the April 6 assembly polls, alleged in a statement. PMK founder leader S Ramadoss said India must have voted against Sri Lanka. However, India not supporting Sri Lanka in the UN council and picking a neutral stand was a matter of solace, he said. "I thank all the nations that have supported the resolution," Ramadoss, whose party has aligned with the ruling AIADMK in which the BJP is also a constituent, said.  MDMK chief and Rajya Sabha MP Vaiko, a vocal supporter of Tamil Eelam, too said India abstaining from voting is a 'huge betrayal' of the Eelam Tamils and condemned the Centre for it. Both Stalin and Vaiko claimed that since assembly polls were round the corner in Tamil Nadu, India abstained from voting in the UN body. Otherwise, it would have voted in 'favour' of Sri Lanka, they claimed apparently targeting the Modi government. Earlier in the day, the AIADMK, an ally of the BJP, made an appeal in the Rajya Sabha that India supports the resolution against Sri Lanka. The DMK chief said Sri Lanka thanked India for abstaining, which was for Modi's 'betrayal' of Eelam Tamils. CPI(M) State Secretary K Balakrishnan said it was an act of injustice against the Tamil people. "India should have voted to support the resolution, against Sri Lanka." The resolution titled "Promotion of Reconciliation Accountability and Human Rights in Sri Lanka" was adopted by the UNHRC after 22 members out of the 47-member Council voted in favour of it, giving the UN body a mandate to collect evidence of crimes committed during the country's brutal three decade- long civil war against the LTTE. Eleven members voted against the resolution tabled by the Core Group on Sri Lanka consisting of countries like the United Kingdom, Canada and Germany. India was among 14 countries that abstained from voting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/india-abstaining-from-voting-in-un-meet-on-sri-lanka-is-betrayal-of-eelam-tamils-dmk-965632.html
23-03-2021||State||Power output dips as snag hits units at 4 key stations||The state is likely to face power cuts for about one week as power generation has been hit in Udupi Power Corporation Limited,(UPCL) Bellary Thermal Power Corporation Limited (BTPCL) and Yermarus Thermal Power Station (YTPS), Raichur district, due to technical snags. Following the instructions from State Load Dispatch centre, 100MW of load shedding has been initiated in four districts come under the purview of Mangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited. (Mescom) After a reduction of 200 MW in supply of power, Mescom said consumers of four districts- Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada must be prepared for power cuts. Sources in Mescom said Karnataka is facing a shortage of 4,281 MW. So, power cuts would become inevitable till power generation resumes in the units of the three plants. The allocation of power for Mescom, on a normal course, is 1,300 MW. Of this, Dakshina Kannada district requires 450 to 500 MW, Udupi 250 to 300 MW, Shivamogga 400-450 MW and Chikkamagaluru 250 to 300 MW.  Officials in Mescom told DH that UPCL’s power generation capacity is 1,100 MW and it has two generating units. Each unit generates 550 MW of power. Both the units have stopped functioning due to technical snags. Similarly, one unit in YTPS and three units of BTPS have come to a standstill. So, the gap between demand and supply has widened, causing disruption in supply. Mescom superintending engineer S G Shashidhar told DH that “following the cut in supply of power to Mescom, we are forced to supply power for pumpsets from 8 am to 4 pm and from 12 midnight to 4 am. So, farmers in the four districts have to bear with the inconvenience. The generating stations may resume work within a week.” He said Sharavathy generating station in Sagar taluk of Shivamogga district contributes around 23% of the power generated in the state. But continuous power generation there can lead to shortage of water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/power-output-dips-as-snag-hits-units-at-4-key-stations-965599.html
23-03-2021||State||'Welfare fund for private school teachers'||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said the teachers, working with unaided private schools in the state, will also be made permanent members of the Karnataka State Teachers’ Welfare Fund. An order in this regard will be issued soon, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/welfare-fund-for-private-school-teachers-965600.html
23-03-2021||State||100-day mission for water supply in schools||The Rural Development and Panchayat Raj (RDPR) department will launch a 100-day campaign to address complaints of drinking water and water supply in toilets of schools in the state. According to RDPR Minister K S Eshwarappa, the campaign 'Jal Jeevan Mission' aims at providing tap water connections for drinking, cooking and other purposes at rural schools and anganwadis. He told the Assembly that the Centre had released enough funds for works under the Mission. Directions are issued to all zilla and taluk panchayats to install plastic water tanks on the school premises , Eshwarappa said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/100-day-mission-for-water-supply-in-schools-965603.html
23-03-2021||State||Karnataka Assembly passes two Bills sans debate||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed a new law that empowers the government to take control of cooperative societies run by minorities without any debate or discussion. The Karnataka Societies Registration (Amendment) Bill was passed even as the Congress protested and shouted slogans in the well of the House against the government in connection with the sex scandal. Piloting the Bill, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar said Karnataka had 3.71 lakh cooperative societies of which 6,807 were run by minorities. The Bill will not only help regulate societies, but also safeguard the interests of its members and general public. The government has introduced an amendment to Section 27A of the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960, with which a provision will be made to appoint administrators for all societies - minority or otherwise - that do not hold annual general meetings, whose term of the governing body has ended or where irregularities have been found. “The Wakf Act is silent on societies holding annual general meetings and elections. If any society fails, there’ll be power to take action under Section 27,” Somashekhar added. The Bill will now go to the Legislative Council. Once passed in both Houses, the Bill will be sent to the President of India for assent, Somashekhar said. According to the Bill’s statement of objects and reasons, the amendment draws on the High Court’s decision in 1987 striking down Section 27A as being violative of Article 30(1) of the Constitution. The Karnataka Inland Water Transport Board (Amendment) Bill was also passed amid the din without any debate. Law repealed Amid the disorder, the Legislative Assembly passed a resolution to repeal The Employment of Manual Scavengers and Construction of Dry Latrines (Prohibition) Act, 1993 that was adopted by the state government. Moving the motion on behalf of Social Welfare Minister B Sreeramulu, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the 1993 law had become redundant after the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act came into effect in 2013. The motion was passed without any discussion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-assembly-passes-two-bills-sans-debate-965604.html
23-03-2021||State||Supplementary estimates for Rs 13 crore tabled||The government on Tuesday tabled in the Legislative Assembly supplementary estimates aggregating Rs 13,158.25 crore for the 2020-21 financial year. This includes expenditure for pending pension payments in the energy department, subsidies for farmers, post-flood rehabilitation and reconstruction among others. Supplementary estimates are additional expenditures incurred by the government over and above the budget provisions.  The government has also shown Rs 320 crore as the salary of BMTC employees, Rs 173 crore for waiver of loans in commercial banks, Rs 2 crore for purchase of new vehicles for new ministers/Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha members, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/supplementary-estimates-for-rs-13-crore-tabled-965605.html
23-03-2021||State||Urban homeless: HC tells govt to submit survey data||The High Court on Tuesday directed the government to submit all data regarding a survey conducted on urban homeless. The court also asked the government to submit details on setting up of night shelters in the state. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed by the People’s Union of Civil Liberties (PUCL). The bench said the government had given an undertaking before the Supreme Court in 2011 itself, that a comprehensive survey of urban homeless will be conducted within six months. The undertaking also stated that necessary action will be taken to set up shelters with basic amenities. The court observed that the outcome of the survey is not placed on record. “We direct the State Government to place on record the outcome of this survey of urban homeless in the state. If the survey has been completed necessary details thereof shall be placed on record. If the survey is completed the state will have to take appropriate decisions on the number of shelters required in the entire state,” the bench said. Going through the affidavit filed by the government, the court said, out of 64 shelters in the state, only 47 are functional and the intake capacity in shelters set up in Bengaluru city is not more than 300. “The state must be conscious of the fact that its failure to provide basic shelter to urban homeless amounts to violation of right to life guaranteed under the Constitution of India,” the bench said and granted time to the government till May 25 to collect the data and submit the same on record. The petition challenged the constitutional validity of certain provisions of Karnataka Prohibition of Beggary Act, 1975, and the Prohibition of Beggary Rules, 1975. The petition prayed for directions to undertake an audit of the beggary cess collected and also for the implementation of operational guidelines for urban homeless shelters issued on May 29, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/urban-homeless-hc-tells-govt-to-submit-survey-data-965608.html
23-03-2021||State||Karnataka seeks SEZ zonal office in Bengaluru||The government has written to the Centre to open a zonal centre for Special Economic Zones (SEZs) in Bengaluru, by either shifting the one in Kochi or by starting a new centre. The demand, Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told the Council, was being made, since 36 of the 62 SEZs in the country were in Karnataka. Responding to a query by Congress member P R Ramesh, Shettar said 495 industrial units were operational in SEZs of Karnataka, through which 3.74 lakh job opportunities were created. Products worth 1.18 lakh crore and 1.01 lakh crore were exported from the SEZs in 2019-20 and 2020-21, respectively. Shifting the zonal centre to Bengaluru would ease the administration of such zones and also help in addressing any concerns faced by them. The government, Shettar said, has also formed a committee to verify whether factories set up in the state were following guidelines on employing locals and to assess whether the industrial units followed directions issued by the government. Karnataka attracted Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) worth Rs 78,160 crore between October 2019 and December 2020, Shettar said, noting that Karnataka stood first in terms of investment proposals. According to official figures, Karnataka attracted Rs 1.6 lakh crore of the Rs 4 lakh crore investment proposals received by the country. The Covid-19 pandemic has not affected FDI inflow, Shettar said. He said that the government would initiate strict action against those firms which violated guidelines on providing employment to locals, as per the new Industrial Policy. “We have formulated laws to cancel the special incentives offered to industries which violate employment guidelines,” he said. As per the policy, all group ‘D’ jobs and 70% of the remaining jobs should be reserved for locals, Shettar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-seeks-sez-zonal-office-in-bengaluru-965609.html
23-03-2021||State||Karnataka varsities, colleges to hold exams as per schedule||Allaying fears among the parents and students, the state government on Tuesday clarified that all examinations at the university level for various degrees and courses will be held as per the schedule.  Replying to the questions, raised by several students on various platforms following the recent spike in fresh Covid-19 cases, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister Dr Ashwath Narayan said, “All the examinations that have been scheduled will be held as per the schedule and there will not be any changes in the ongoing offline classes.”   Holding a high-level meeting with vice-chancellors of various universities and the department officials on Tuesday, he instructed all the higher education institutions to stick to the SOP and adhere to the Covid rules while conducting the examinations and offline classes. “Strict vigilance shall be put in place to ensure complete compliance with the SOPs,” he said.  This decision applies to all the universities, colleges, polytechnic colleges and all other higher educational institutions that come under the department of higher education across Karnataka. During the meeting, the possible impact of the pandemic on academics was also discussed. “We have discussed the issue with the chief minister as well and there is no question of closing the offline classes or cancelling examinations,” Narayan clarified.  A decision was also taken to submit a request to the additional chief secretary to continue the functioning of the hostels that come under the department of social welfare and backward classes for the benefit of students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-varsities-colleges-to-hold-exams-as-per-schedule-965612.html
23-03-2021||State||Pandemic effect: TB testing down by 11% in Karnataka||The testing for tuberculosis has taken a beating in 2020 owing to Covid-19 pandemic in the state. While 2,00,292 were tested for TB in 2019, the number plummeted to 1,78,423 in 2020. With the onset of Covid pandemic, The machines used for TB testing (CBNAAT and TrueNAT) were deployed for Covid testing. India cannot be TB free by 2025 (goal announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi) if patients are not tested, diagnosed and treated at an early stage. Due to the 11 per cent dip in testing, the number of cases detected also dropped by 29 per cent in 2020 compared with 2019. While in 2019, as many as 91,994 TB cases were detected, this number came down to 65,549 last year.  Dr Ramesh Reddy, Joint Director, TB, from the Health department, told DH, "We are currently utilising one lakh TrueNAT testing chips since we're yet to receive CBNAAT test cartridges from the Centre. It hasn't been supplied anywhere in India. We wrote to them on March 18." Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) in Bengaluru is the largest government tertiary hospital in the state for pulmonary diseases and nodal centre for treatment of drug-resistant TB. The hospital reduced its allotted beds for TB from 120 in 2019 to 85 in 2020. The hospital alone had 1,861 admissions and 256 deaths in 2019. In 2020, it saw 1,254 admissions and 117 deaths. Dr C Nagaraj, Director, RGICD, told DH, "What the state means in its letter to the Centre is that TrueNAT results are unreliable, which is why they have requested for CBNAAT cartridges. TB testing rates have come down, so have the cases. CBNAAT machines that were used for TB testing were used for Covid testing. Since both Covid and TB symptoms are same, the focus was more on Covid than TB. Compared to 2019, admissions came down in 2020 at our hospital by 607 cases." As per the revised guidelines of the government, only severe TB patients need to be admitted. Now RGICD has 40 per cent vacant beds. There was only one death of a patient with TB and Covid.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pandemic-effect-tb-testing-down-by-11-in-karnataka-965617.html
23-03-2021||State||MGNREGA fraud: Cases pending for 6 years||Lokayukta cases filed against officials for misuse of MGNREGA funds have been kept pending five to six years with little progress in investigations, the House Committee on Local Bodies and Panchayat Raj Institutions has found. The panel’s report, tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, expressed strong objections against the government for letting the errant officials go scot-free and for failing to initiate disciplinary action against them. The government recovered only the losses causes by their alleged irregularities, the Committee said. It has recommended strict disciplinary action against such officials to prevent similar cases. “Measures should be taken to initiate action as per law against officials, apart from recovering the money (with interest) misused by the officials as soon as Lokayukta submitted its report on the cases being probed by the agency,” the report said. In the future, if any official is found to have misused funds, “ (The) government should take swift measures to ensure that action against errant officials is initiated within six months,” the Committee said. It noted that the delays by Lokayukta police in completing the probe have allowed officials to wiggle out of penal action against them. “As a result, the Committee recommends fixing a time limit to complete all cases taken up by the Lokayukta,” it said. In the report, the G Somashekar Reddy-led committee highlighted several cases filed against officials in 2014-15, on which Lokayukta was yet to submit its report. ‘Irresponsible Ombudsmen’ It also raised concerns on ‘irresponsible’ district ombudsmen, who as investigating officials, failed in their responsibility of addressing the grievances of MGNREGA beneficiaries, and filing preliminary reports against officials. “The Committee is of the view that the government issue directions for such ombudsmen to discharge their duties independently and without bias.” The 24-member Committee reviewed several cases of irregularities and complaints received by the government over implementation of MGNREGA, based on a 2013 CAG report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mgnrega-fraud-cases-pending-for-6-years-965628.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka did not use funds allotted for development of tourist places: Centre||Union Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel on Monday said Karnataka has not utilised the funds allocated to development of tourist places. Replying to question by Hassan MP Prajwal Revanna during Question Hour, the Minister said the Centre has released funds to Karnataka. If the state has not utilised properly nobody can blame the Centre, the MInister said. Revanna alleged that the Union Ministry of Tourism has not released funds to take up development works in popular tourist places including Belur and Halebeedu,. Revanna also said that the Centre should not discriminate while allocating funds to take up development in tourist places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-did-not-use-funds-allotted-for-development-of-tourist-places-centre-965204.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka restricts travellers from Punjab, Chandigarh over Covid-19||The Karnataka government on Monday decided to make a negative Covid-19 report not older than 72 hours mandatory for travellers from Punjab and Chandigarh. The government had already made the provision for those from Kerala and Maharashtra. "In order to contain the second wave of Covid-19, the existing guidelines issued to incoming travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to carry negative RT-PCR negative reports not older than 72 hours at the time of entering Karnataka have been extended to Punjab and Chandigarh," Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted. A government circular said that recently a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases has been witnessed in Punjab and Chandigarh. The Technical Advisory Committee recommended extending the same provision that existed for the travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra to those coming from Chandigarh and Punjab. The circular said the airlines should issue boarding passes only to those passengers who have a negative report. The railway officials and bus operators should ensure those entering Karnataka from these states have such a report. The deputy commissioners of the districts bordering Maharashtra and Kerala have been tasked with making arrangements to ensure that all the vehicles are checked for compliance of the order. Constitutional functionaries and healthcare professionals and children below two years old have been exempted from this provision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-restricts-travellers-from-punjab-chandigarh-over-covid-19-965224.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: Karnataka Assembly headed for washout amid Congress protest||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly session is headed for a washout as the Congress staged a protest in the well of the House demanding a court-monitored probe into the sex scandal, preventing any business from taking place on Tuesday. The only business that happened in the first half of the Assembly was a condolence motion dedicated to former minister B D Basavaraj, who died Monday. Soon after the condolence motion, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah led the Congress into the well of the House. “The government isn’t listening to any of our demands. We will not cooperate with the government,” he said. This was a continuation of Monday’s protest as the Congress demanded that former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi be booked for rape. Congress members brandished a CD and shouted slogans against the government. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri’s plea for the Question Hour to be taken up went in vain. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Congress should not “waste” the time of the House. “There’s a probe going on into the sex scandal,” he said. Kageri adjourned the House for ten minutes. About half-hour later, the session resumed with status quo - Congress in the well of the House. “The House doesn’t belong to just the Opposition. It belongs to all 224 members and you can’t curtail their rights,” Kageri told the Congress. There seemed to have been some change in the Congress’ stand. “We’re not asking for a judicial probe. Let the Special Investigation Team (SIT) continue, but the probe should be under the supervision of the High Court Chief Justice. Our intent is that the truth should come out,” Siddaramaiah said. Kageri was forced to adjourn the House again till 3 pm. Earlier in the day, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa lashed out at the Congress over their protest. “I want to ask the Congress, why are they protesting? What else do they want? Ramesh has resigned, we’re investigating and the woman isn’t traceable,” Yediyurappa said. “They have no other issue, so they’re biding time instead of participating in the debate on the budget. I don’t understand this,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-karnataka-assembly-headed-for-washout-amid-congress-protest-965370.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No shortage of Covid-19 vaccine in state: Karnataka Health Minister||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Tuesday said there was no shortage of Covid vaccine in the state. "There is no shortage of vaccine in the state. We have discussed this with Centre and the Centre has assured us there will be no shortage of supply of vaccine," Sudhakar said. He said the state will be receiving 12.5 lakh doses of vaccine from the Centre by next week. Before that, an& additional 4 lakh doses will be dispatched through flights. The government will ensure there is no shortage of vaccine, the minister was quoted as saying to reporters at Chikkaballapura by his office in a release. "People not wearing masks and violating norms are being penalised. Functions and gatherings should be avoided for next two months," he added. Further stating that from April 1, vaccine will be available to all citizens above 45 years, the minister said, "this will ensure better coverage and will further expedite our efforts to make Karnataka Covid-19 free." He urged all eligible citizens to get vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-in-state-karnataka-health-minister-965490.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports over 2,000 Covid-19 cases after 4 months||After over a four-month gap, Karnataka reported more than 2,000 Covid-19 cases and five related fatalities, taking the caseload to 9.73 lakh and the toll to 12,449, the Health Department said on Tuesday. The state had last reported over 2,000 fresh cases in a day on November 13 last year, with 2,016 cases. Out of the 2,010 fresh cases reported on Tuesday, 1,280 cases were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The day also saw 677 patients getting discharged after recovery. Cumulatively 9,73,657 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,449 deaths and 9,45,594 discharges, the Health department said in a bulletin. Out of 15,595 active cases,15,459 patients are stable and in isolation at designated hospitals and, while 136 are in Intensive Care Units. Among the five deaths reported on Tuesday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for three and Hassan and Kalaburagi, one each. Kalaburagi came behind Bengaluru Urban in number of cases with 129 infections, Mysuru had 100, Bidar 76, Dakshina Kannada 74, Tumakuru 40, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,19,838, followed by Mysuru 54,972 and Ballari 39,532. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban was on top with 4,04,515, followed by Mysuru 53,514 and Ballari 38,792. A total of over 2,05,66,120 samples have been tested so far, out of which 98,733 were tested on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-over-2000-covid-19-cases-after-4-months-965500.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Assembly passes law to control minority co-operative societies sans debate||The Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Tuesday passed a new law that empowers the government to take control of cooperative societies run by minorities without any debate or discussion. Piloting the Bill, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekhar said Karnataka had 3.71 lakh cooperative societies of which 6,807 were run by minorities. The Bill will not only help regulate societies but also safeguard the interests of its members and general public. The government has introduced an amendment to Section 27A of the Karnataka Societies Registration Act, 1960, with which a provision will be made to appoint administrators for all societies -  minority or otherwise - that do not hold annual general meetings, whose term of the governing body has ended or where irregularities have been found. “The Wakf Act is silent on societies holding annual general meetings and elections. If any society fails, there'll be power to take action under Section 27,” Somashekhar added. The Bill will now go to the Legislative Council. Once passed in both Houses, the Bill will be sent to the President of India for assent, Somashekhar said. According to the Bill’s statement of objects and reasons, the amendment draws on the High Court’s decision in 1987 striking down Section 27A as being violative of Article 30(1) of the Constitution. The Karnataka Inland Water Transport Board (Amendment) Bill was also passed amid the din without any debate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-assembly-passes-law-to-control-minority-co-operative-societies-sans-debate-965535.html
23-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Meti's sex scandal was hushed up: Bommai||At a time when Ramesh Jarkiholi's alleged CD case has been in the news, Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Tuesday said the previous Congress government had hushed up the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister H Y Meti.  In December 2016, a video allegedly showing Meti with a woman had surfaced, leading to his resignation from the Cabinet of the then chief minister Siddaramaiah.  “The Congress is saying that the SIT that has been constituted (to look into the Ramesh Jarkiholi sex scandal) has no terms of reference and that it has been asked to only inquire and submit a report. In the Meti case, a CID inquiry was ordered and it was asked to submit a report. There was no FIR then. They’re opposing what we’ve done, but they did the same thing,” Bommai told reporters.  “Secondly, the report of inquiry was submitted on July 4, 2017 and a clean chit was given. The case was closed on February 22, 2018 with a ‘B’ report. The inquiry officer and the investigating officer were the same person,” Bommai said, adding that the Congress “hushed it up” and that the party had no moral right to question the government.  Bommai further pointed out that unlike in the case of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, there was a complaint filed by a woman against Meti. "Still, no action was taken."  Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah defended himself saying Meti was given a clean chit following an inquiry. “Before that, I had taken his resignation,” he said. “The facts of (Jarkiholi’s) case are different from (Meti’s) case.”  Siddaramaiah said an inquiry or investigation needed to have an FIR first. "This is the basic principle of criminal jurisprudence. Where's the cause of action here?" he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/metis-sex-scandal-was-hushed-up-bommai-965560.html
23-03-2021||West||Over 10 lakh people quarantined in Maharashtra amid second Covid-19 wave||With the Covid-19 second wave hitting, Maharashtra now has over 10 lakh people in quarantine. As on Tuesday morning, there are 10,63,077 asymptomatic and mild symptomatic patients and high-risk contacts in home quarantine. A total of 11,092 people are in institutional quarantine. According to the Public Health Department, the total active patients now stands at 2,15,241. Of the 1,84,62,030 laboratory samples, 25,04,327 have tested positive – 13.56 per cent of the total tests.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-10-lakh-people-quarantined-in-maharashtra-amid-second-covid-19-wave-965289.html
23-03-2021||West||CM Thackeray favours lockdown in some cities if cases keep rising: Tope||Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said people must follow Covid-19 safety protocols if the state is to avoid another lockdown. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was of the view that lockdown may become necessary in some cities if the new cases continue to climb, Tope told reporters. At the same time, he also defended the state's response to rising cases and pointed out that in terms of cases per million population, many states have fared worse. He met the Chief Minister two days ago, Tope said. "He told me that if the number of daily cases in the state remains in the range of 25,000 to 30,000 for the next some days, then we will have to take some stringent steps. He is of the opinion that if the numbers continue to increase, we will have to impose lockdown in some cities," the minister said. "I appeal people to respond to CM's warning (about the possibility of lockdown) positively and follow the Covid-19 protocols such as mask-wearing, hand hygiene and physical distancing to avoid lockdown," Tope said. He also said that the Centre has told the states that the gap between two shots of the Covishield vaccine will be 45 to 60 days instead of the present 28 days. The gap between doses of Covaxin will be the same as earlier, that is 28 days. He has discussed the latest surge in cases with epidemiologists, the health minister said. "According to their estimate, the graph of Covid-19 cases will remain the same for the next two to three days and after that, it will decline. I think this is a peak and I hope it will go down," said Tope. He also said that the state was not hiding any cases, and each case is registered with the ICMR. "The question is if this is being followed in other states or not," he said. While the Centre wants at least 70 per cent of tests to be RTPCR, in Maharashtra, the proportion is 73 per cent, Tope said. "We have over 550 RTPCR labs in the state. So we have told all the civil surgeons that the RT-PCR should be used at its full capacity," he said. Big rallies are being held in some of the poll-bound states where no social distancing is followed, and in Gujarat, cricket matches were held with thousands in attendance, the minister pointed out. Tope also denied that vaccines were going to waste. "It was told (by the centre) that 58 lakh doses were given to the state and now the vaccine doses are still lying unused. There is no such situation," he said. "Every day, 3 lakh vaccinations are happening and we are trying to increase it by roping in private hospitals and setting up sub-centres in rural areas to make it convenient for the people," he added. There are 1.77 crore people who are eligible for the vaccine in the current phase and the state will need 2.20 crore doses for them, Tope said, adding that the government was striving to complete this phase in three months. Though Maharashtra tops in the absolute number of coronavirus cases, in terms of per million population cases, Delhi, Puducherry and some other states have higher infection rate, Tope argued. "We are at 7th position. In the last one month, Sikkim saw six times more cases. In Ladakh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, cases are increasing. Andhra Pradesh saw an increase of 180per cent," the health minister said. "I am not pointing fingers at other states. The state is responding to the Covid-19 situation as per the guidance of the Centre in true letter and spirit. Even the prime minister has expressed a positive opinion about the state's response," he said. He also appealed that asymptomatic patients should not rush to private hospitals and occupy ICU beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-thackeray-favours-lockdown-in-some-cities-if-cases-keep-rising-tope-965317.html
23-03-2021||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray never paid heed to report on police transfers and promotion racket: Devendra Fadnavis||In what could spark off a turmoil in Maharashtra politics, the BJP has accused Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray of being silent on an intelligence report that had exposed a "large scale transfers and promotion racket” involving the Maharashtra Police. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has demanded a CBI probe into the incident and is going to New Delhi to meet Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and submit the letters, documents and digital records to the tune of 6.3 GB. “There is a large-scale corruption and exchange of money in transfers and promotion of policemen. It is a big racket. However, I would be naming as there are some beneficiaries and the role of several people have come to light. There are names of IPS officers, non-IPS officers in the report,” said Fadnavis, a two-time Chief Minister, who had handled Home portfolio, for five years. Fadnavis said that the report was prepared by the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department Rashmi Shukla and submitted to then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal on 25 August 2020. Subsequently, Jaiswal forwarded the report to then Additional Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte with a note that the issue should be brought to the attention of the Chief Minister. Fadnavis said that a briefing was given to Thackeray, and the latter forwarded the report to Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. It may be noted that Kunte is currently the Chief Secretary, while Jaiswal and Shukla have opted to move to the Centre. While Jaiswal is the Director-General of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Shukla is the Additional Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “There was no action on the report,” Fadnavis alleged, adding that on the other hand Shukla was punished.  “She was moved out of SID and made Director General Civil Defence, a post that does not exist. She was given a 10 feet by 10 feet room to sit,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-never-paid-heed-to-report-on-police-transfers-and-promotion-racket-devendra-fadnavis-965348.html
23-03-2021||West||Hiren murder case: ATS seizes high-end car from Daman||The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has seized a high-end car from Daman in connection with the Mansukh Hiren murder case, an official said on Tuesday. The Volvo car with the Maharashtra registration number was seized on Monday, the official said, adding there is no clarity so far on who owned this car. The seized car is kept at the ATS office in Thane neighbouring Mumbai, he said. The official said that a team of Forensic officials from Mumbai is examining the car at the ATS office. After arresting two persons on Saturday night in connection with the murder case, the ATS detained a person from Gujarat who had allegedly provided them SIM cards, officials had said, adding they recovered many SIM cards from the person. The ATS last week arrested suspended policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gaur in the case. The SUV with explosives found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai on February 25 had been allegedly stolen from possession of Hiren, the Thane-based businessman whose body was found in a creek in Mumbra on March 5. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case of recovery of the explosives-laden SUV and arrested Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, had seized five high-end cars during its probe, including two Mercedes, 1 Prado, the Scorpio which was used to carry explosives, and an Innova car. The ATS had said that Vaze was also a prime accused in the Hiren murder case. The NIA suspects that at least three of the seized five cars were used by Vaze, who was posted as Assistant Police Inspector (API) with the Crime Intelligence Unit (API) when arrested on March 13. He was later suspended from service. On Monday morning, the ATS team took accused Shinde to the residence of Vaze in Thane and later to the creek in Mumbra were Hiren's body was found. Though the Hiren murder case was transferred to the NIA on March 20, the ATS is still conducting investigation. On Sunday, ATS DIG Shivdeep Lande had posted a message on Facebook stating that the Hiren murder case had been cracked. The accused Shinde was convicted in the 2006 Lakhan Bhaiya fake encounter case and came out of jail on furlough last year. He was allegedly in touch with Vaze, who himself was once known as "encounter specialist" officer since then. Apparently, it was Shinde who had called Hiren from suburban Kandivali by identifying himself as "Tawde saheb" on March 4, according to the ATS. The ATS had registered a murder case under section 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender) 120B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unknown persons, days after Hiren's body was found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hiren-murder-case-ats-seizes-high-end-car-from-daman-965355.html
23-03-2021||West||Maharashtra's seniormost IPS officer moves Bombay HC over appointment of DGP||Last week, Singh (1988 batch) was shunted out, he was made the Commandant General of Home Guards and in his place DGP Hemant Nagrale (1987-batch) was given the top post of Mumbai. Nagrale was succeeded by Rajneesh Seth (1988-batch) as the Acting DGP, while Pandey (1986-batch), who was Commandant General of Home Guards, was moved out and made Managing Director of Maharashtra State Security Corporation. Pandey, the seniormost officer, has last week also written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray for what he says repeatedly ignoring him for important postings. In April 2000, Pandey had resigned but the government did not accept his resignation till June 2002 during which period, he was shown “on leave”. However, Pandey joined the services again in 2011. In the letter, Pandey said: “You overlooked me for the post of DG-ACB which was given to a junior officer. In fact DG-ACB is given to a senior officer next to State-DGP. As CP Mumbai post became second seniormost post, when it became vacant you overlooked me and gave it to a junior officer.When the post of DGP became vacant after Subodh Jaiswal left, you did not even consider to give additional charge to me and handed over the same to a junior officer.” He also pointed out that  giving additional charge too for acting DGP is illegal and against Supreme Court order in Prakash Singh case. “Now after the recent explosive case controversy in Mumbai, you again overlooked me and handed over additional charge of DGP, to a still junior officer much against Prakash Singh case,” he said. “I wish and pray that you will personally ensure that injustice done to me is corrected and I am given my rightful place in the police force as senior most officer in the state,” Pandey added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtras-seniormost-ips-officer-moves-bombay-hc-over-appointment-of-dgp-965385.html
23-03-2021||West||Fadnavis is misguiding people: NCP hits back at BJP||Hitting back at senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, the NCP, which is one of the constituents in the Shiv Sena-led MVA government, said the former was "misguiding" people. Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed the Maha Vikas Agadi (MVA) government in the state did not act on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of a "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings and said he would seek a probe by the CBI. Fadnavis said he had "6.3 GB data" of the calls intercepted by then Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla with due permissions, where names of several key police officers were discussed. "The report of then commissioner of Intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, has mentioned names of senior police officers, IPS officials, and politicians among others. It is very sensitive information thus I am not disclosing the details of it currently," Fadnavis told reporters. The Leader of Opposition also said that when he was chief minister of state, a tip-off was received in 2017 by some police officers about a meeting underway in a hotel regarding transfer of police officials. "It was a part of racket and completely illegal hence a raid was conducted and arrests were made," said Fadnavis, who had held Home portfolio when he was chief minister. "Commissioner of Intelligence, Rashmi Shukla, had came to know about a similar activity and sought proper permissions from then ACS (additional Chief Secretary), Home, and intercepted phone calls of several police officials and politicians," the BJP leader said He said Shukla then submitted the reporter to her Director General (of police) who sent it to Sitaram Kunte, then ACS, Home, on August 26, 2020. Kunte is currently chief secretary of Maharashtra. "The conversation in the 6.3 GB data is all about home and police department alone. All the officials whose phone calls were recorded got the posts they lobbied for. This proves that calls intercepted by Shukla had important details," Fadnavis claimed. Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Council, Pravin Darekar, demanded that the current situation in Maharashtra is fit for imposition of President's Rule. "The way this government is functioning, it is leading us to a chaotic state," he said. Hitting back, NCP spokesperson and state minister Nawab Malik rejected Fadnavis' claims terming them as "another attempt to bring down the MVA government". "The BJP cannot live without power. But they will not able to topple this government like in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and some other states. BJP's state leadership is thus seeking the Centre's help to malign the image of the MVA government and to bring it down," he said. On Fadnavis' allegations that some police officials managed their postings, Malik said, "I have the details of Rashmi Shukla's report with me. She had mentioned telephonic conversations between some police officials who had paid bribes to get key posts, but that didn't happen". Malik accused Fadnavis of "lying and misguiding" people over the contents of Shukla's report. "The MVA government enjoys a satisfactory majority in the Assembly. Nobody can destabilise it," he said. To a query on the "6.3 GB data" which Fadnavis claimed to be in possession, Malik said, "The BJP seems to be more concerned about data than 'aata' (food for poor). This information given by Fadnavis is a part of larger conspiracy. He has been now exposed completely". Malik said no senior police officer is transferred without the approval of the Police Establishment Board. "One person's whim does not work here. Let Fadnavis share the data with anyone. It has been illegally collected by Rashmi Shukla, and if Fadnavis shares it with anyone, he would invite a legal action. I dare him to make the data public," he said. Malik alleged that Shukla was acting as an agent of the BJP. "She prepared the call records illegally hence she was transferred as a punishment," said the minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fadnavis-is-misguiding-people-ncp-hits-back-at-bjp-965406.html
23-03-2021||West||Subodh Jaiswal, Rashmi Shukla worked for BJP: NCP||Rattled by allegations of police transfers and promotions racket, the NCP on Tuesday said that top IPS officers Subodh Jaiswal and Rashmi Shukla worked for the BJP. “It is now proved that they were working for BJP and against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government,” NCP chief spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said soon after the allegations by Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis While Jaiswal was the Director-General of Police, Shukla was Commissioner of State Intelligence Department. While Jaiswal is now the Director-General of Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), Shukla is the Additional Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).He said the party is trying other methods to pull down the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government since they failed to lure the coalition’s MLAs. “From days to months to year…to now 15 months, the government is intact,” he said. Malik clarified that police personnel are transferred as per recommendations of two boards of police establishment, one headed by the Additional Chief Secretary of Home Department  and another by the DGP himself. The first board looks after the transfer of senior officers and the second of the junior officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/subodh-jaiswal-rashmi-shukla-worked-for-bjp-ncp-965417.html
23-03-2021||West||Pawar not briefed properly on Deshmukh's whereabouts after he tested Covid positive, says Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed that NCP chief Sharad Pawar was not briefed properly on Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's whereabouts after he was tested Covid-19 positive. The BJP leader, who addressed a press conference in Mumbai, also claimed that the MVA government in the state has not acted on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of large scale corruption in police transfers and postings. "As per police records of VIP movement, Anil Deshmukh went to Sahyadri Guest House in Mumbai on February 17 and Mantralaya on February 24," said Fadnavis, who is also the leader of Opposition in the state Assembly. "Deshmukh was in home quarantine from February 15-27 but met officers and was not in isolation. I feel Pawar Sahab was not briefed properly yesterday," Fadnavis said. Pawar had on Monday told reporters that Deshmukh was recuperating from Covid-19 infection during the period former police commissioner Param Bir Singh has claimed that he was indulging in "extortion activities" through police officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pawar-not-briefed-properly-on-deshmukhs-whereabouts-after-he-tested-covid-positive-says-fadnavis-965427.html
23-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze involved in Mansukh Hiren's murder: ATS chief||Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Tuesday said suspended police officer Sachin Vaze was involved in businessman Mansukh Hiren's murder and announced that it will approach court for seeking his custody. Vaze, arrested in the probe in the recovery of explosives from a car near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month, has been remanded by a court here in the National Investigation Agency (NIA) custody till March 25. "We need his custody and will approach the court," ATS chief Jaijeet Singh said at a press conference here. Earlier in the day, the ATS said it has seized a high-end car from Daman in connection with the Mansukh Hiren murder case. The Volvo car with Maharashtra registration was seized on Monday, an official said, adding there is no clarity on who owned this car.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-involved-in-mansukh-hirens-murder-ats-chief-965439.html
23-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: Parbhani district to be under one-week lockdown||Parbhani district in Maharashtra's Marathwada region will remain under a lockdown from March 24 to March 31 in view of a surge in COVID-19 cases, a senior official said on Tuesday. District Collector Deepak Mugalikar said the earlier measures like preventing people from stepping out of their houses in the night didn't prove to be effective as the graph of new cases went up. "The lockdown will come into force at 7 PM on Wednesday. It will be strictly implemented till March 31 with an objective to curb the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the district," he said. Parbhani district added 1,132 new infections to its tally since March 1, taking the cumulative count to 5,843 as of March 22. "The district administration had earlier prohibited people from stepping out of their homes in the night, but the move failed to curb the cases," the collector said. Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Monday said that Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was of the view that lockdown may become necessary in some cities if the new cases continue to climb. Some members of the Covid-19 task force of Maharashtra had, however, opposed the imposition of blanket lockdowns, saying such a strategy cannot arrest the spread of virus transmission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-parbhani-district-to-be-under-one-week-lockdown-965444.html
23-03-2021||West||4 dead, 2 rescued in cave-in at building site in Surat||Four labourers were killed on Tuesday after soil caved in while they were engaged in building a basement wall in Surat's Mota Varachha area, said an official. Two people were rescued from the debris and have been hospitalised, the Surat Municipal Corporation fire brigade official said. "Six labourers were trapped after soil caved in while they were constructing a wall in the basement of a multi- storey building project. Four died and two were rescued and rushed to hospital. They were working in the lower part of the basement when the mishap took place," said SMC's East Zone fore officer Jagdish Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-dead-2-rescued-in-cave-in-at-building-site-in-surat-965456.html
23-03-2021||West||Mansukh Hiren death case: Accused destroyed SIM cards, mobile phones, CCTV footage, says ATS||Covering their tracks, the accused behind the suspected murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren have destroyed SIM cards, mobile phones and CCTV footage. The Mansukh Hiren case is being investigated by the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra Police even as the Ministry of Home Affairs has asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to take over the probe. The NIA is investigating the planting of a Mahindra Scorpio SUV laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani – and have arrested Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Incidentally, the Scorpio belonged to Hiren, who was known to Vaze, an 'encounter specialist'. Hiren’s wife Vimla have named Vaze the man responsible for the suspected murder of her husband. The ATS during the over fortnight-long investigations has arrested two persons Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed constable who is serving a life sentence in a fake encounter case – and is currently on parole. Addressing mediapersons, Additional Director General of Police Jai Jeet Singh, who heads the ATS, said that on 25 March, when the NIA produces Vaze in the court, the ATS would seek his remand. Singh said that during the investigations, the ATS has recorded statements of several witnesses. Some of the statements have been recorded under 164 CrPC before a Magistrate.  Shinde was taking instructions from Vaze.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mansukh-hiren-death-case-accused-destroyed-sim-cards-mobile-phones-cctv-footage-says-ats-965468.html
23-03-2021||West||Goa Assembly's Budget Session to begin on March 24||The Budget session of the Goa legislative Assembly will begin on March 24, an official said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, state legislature secretary Namrata Ulman said Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who also holds the Finance portfolio, will present the Budget in the afternoon hours of March 24. The session, which commences on Wednesday, will culminate on April 16 after 14 working days, the official said. Several government bills, 15 private members' resolutions and private members' bills are scheduled to be taken up during the session, she said, adding that calling attention motions will be tabled every day. Members have tabled 568 starred and 1,003 unstarred questions, which will be answered during the session, the official said. Strict protocols will be adhered to in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, Ulman said. "Public will not be allowed to attend the session, while the number of government officers is also restricted," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-assemblys-budget-session-to-begin-on-march-24-965493.html
23-03-2021||West||Maharashtra records 28,699 new Covid-19 cases, 132 deaths||The 24-hour Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra crossed the three-figure mark on Tuesday, the first time since December last year. On Tuesday, Maharashtra recorded 28,699 cases and 132 deaths, taking the progressive total to 25,33,026 and 53,589, respectively. The last three-figure death toll was reported on December 4, 2020, when the casualties touched 127. The cases in the Mumbai metropolitan region recorded a new high of 6,780 in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has prohibited Holi celebrations.  “All private and public celebration of Holika Dahan and Rang Panchami has been prohibited to ensure Covid-19 doesn’t play a spoilsport,” the BMC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-28699-new-covid-19-cases-132-deaths-965574.html
23-03-2021||West||Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani detained for highlighting killing of Dalits||The Gujarat police on Tuesday stopped independent MLA Jignesh Mevani and a group of his supporters from taking out a protest procession to the state secretariat, Gandhinagar demanding an investigation into a Dalit RTI activist who was brutally murdered at his home earlier this month in Bhavnagar. Earlier, Mevani was evicted from the ongoing Assembly for raising this case demanding action against the culprits and highlight the plight of Dalits in the state. "This is not just about one incident. There are at least four other activists who are facing death threats for working for the Dalit community's betterment. I fear that they might be killed like the one in Bhavnagar. The government has police to detain hundreds of our activist brothers, but can't deploy the same force for the protection of those who have been facing threats," Mevani told DH minutes before he started a procession. Mevani and over three dozen supporters were bundled into a bus and a jeep outside the MLA quarters in the state capital. Among the protesters were the family member of Amar Barocha, 50, who was killed at his home in Sanodar, Ghogha taluka in Bhavnagar on March 3. According to the FIR, a group of ten persons, all from upper caste Kshatriya, barged into his house and attacked him with spears, iron pipes and swords. The FIR states that Barocha had been attacked previously also and in January this year local Ghogha police had provided two Gramin Rakshak Dal (GRD) jawans in his security. GRD jawans are recruited locally by district police for assistance. The family members have alleged that Barocha had sought armed police protection fearing his life but the local police sub-inspector P R Solanki didn't heed his pleas. An FIR has been registered against Solanki for negligence and section of atrocity act. Senior officials said that Solanki has been suspended and has challenged it in the high court. The victim's family members have been demanding his arrest. "With regard to the investigation into PSI Solanki, it is a work in progress. As far as the murder case is concerned, we have almost completed the probe. All the ten accused were arrested within three days of the incident. We will file the charge sheet very soon," said Deputy Superintendent of Police D V Kodiyatar who is investigating the case. A senior police officer said that a special public prosecutor has also been appointed to try this case. Mevani claimed he is trying to highlight the plight of Dalits in the state who are being killed for working for the betterment of the community. "There are at least four activists whose lives are in danger. They have given in writing that they may be killed. They are Nil Vinjura from Rapad, Kirti Chavda from Botad, Mahesh Makwana from Kodinar and Kiran Parmar in Banaskantha." Previously, Manjibhai Solanki, a Dalit deputy sarpanch of Jalila village in Botad, was killed by a group of upper-caste men. He had also feared his life and had sought police protection. Similarly, 19-year-old Rajesh Sondarva was hacked to death by upper caste Kshatriya men. It was found in the probe found that two of the accused were the ones who had murdered his father Nanji. He was killed for opposing bail of his father's suspected killers and refusal for a compromise. These incidents have happened in the last two years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-mla-jignesh-mevani-detained-for-highlighting-killing-of-dalits-965606.html
23-03-2021||West||7 Gujarat MLAs tested Covid-19 positive since start of Budget session||At least seven MLAs have tested positive for coronavirus since the Budget session of the Gujarat legislative Assembly began on March 1. Two legislators from the Congress and one from the BJP tested positive for the infection on Tuesday, Speaker Rajendra Trivedi informed the House. Although the infections are on the rise in the state, no decision has been taken to cut short the Budget session, which is scheduled to end on April 1. Earlier, BJP MLAs Shailesh Mehta, Mohan Dhodiya, Babubhai Patel and Ishwar Patel were found positive for coronavirus, while Congress MLAs Naushad Solanki and Punja Vansh and BJP MLA Vijay Patel tested positive on Tuesday. As a precautionary measure, the Speaker announced a ban on entry to visitors in the Assembly premises. "Apart from the MLAs, staff members and personal secretaries of several ministers also tested positive for the infection recently. I have already asked officials not to issue any visitor pass for the premises till the Assembly is in session," Trivedi said. Sergeants have also been directed not to permit any visitors inside the premises, he said. "I urge ministers not to call anyone in the Assembly premises. You can meet them at your main offices, but not inside the Assembly complex. This also applies to MLAs," the Speaker told the House. He informed the MLAs that the House is sanitised daily using UV light radiation, and also urged them to get tested in case they were feeling uneasy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/7-gujarat-mlas-tested-covid-19-positive-since-start-of-budget-session-965618.html
23-03-2021||West||Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh meets CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday evening met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray at the latter's official residence `Varsha' here. The NCP leader has denied the allegations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-meets-cm-uddhav-thackeray-965619.html
23-03-2021||West||Who gave permission for phone tapping, asks Jayant Patil||Maharashtra NCP chief and minister Jayant Patil on Tuesday asked who gave a senior police official the permission for phone tapping which the BJP has claimed revealed corruption in transfers and postings in the police department. Speaking to reporters in Sangli, Patil asked if the official who carried out phone tapping had taken permission from the concerned authorities. "On whose directions was the phone tapping done? Who had given the right to (then Commissioner of Intelligence) Rashmi Shukla to tap the phones? Was permission to tap phones taken? All this needs to be investigated," he said. The State Intelligence Department (SID) is a sensitive wing of the police and it is a serious issue if communication between its chief and a DGP came out in the open, Patil said. A question also arises about how the previous BJP-led government used the SID, the senior minister added. "In the report the Leader of Opposition (Devendra Fadnavis) has cited, several things are false. All transfers had taken place as per the establishment board's directives," the NCP leader said. Patil also dismissed the BJP's demand that President's rule be imposed in the state. Fadnavis did a good job as Leader of Opposition in the recently-held Assembly session but insisting imposition of President's Rule will make the BJP look greedy for power "and that kind of image is not good for the BJP", he said. Earlier in the day, Fadnavis claimed the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government did not act on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of a "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings. The former Maharashtra CM said he had "6.3 GB data" of the calls intercepted by then Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla with due permissions, where names of several key police officers were discussed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/who-gave-permission-for-phone-tapping-asks-jayant-patil-965624.html
23-03-2021||West||After son Aaditya, Maharashtra CM's wife Rashmi Thackeray tests positive for Covid-19||After Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray, his mother and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray's wife Rashmi Thackeray too has tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Tuesday. The chief minister and his wife had taken a first dose of the vaccine against coronavirus at the government-run J J Hospital here on March 11. "Her Covid-19 test came out positive on Monday night. She has been quarantined at `Varsha', the official residence of the chief minister," said an official. Aaditya Thackeray, state tourism minister, had disclosed two days ago that he had tested positive for the viral infection. On Sunday, the state had reported 30,535 Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a single day so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-son-aaditya-maharashtra-cms-wife-rashmi-thackeray-tests-positive-for-covid-19-965630.html
