24-03-2021||First Edit||Sachin Vaze case: Anil Deshmukh must go||The continuance of Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh in office is totally wrong and untenable in view of the revelations made and the charges levelled against him. Even in these days of cynicism, moral permissiveness and political skulduggery, there is no defence and justification for his continuance. It is not just the charges of bribery and extortion against him that has made the situation impossible to redeem. The extortion charges are mixed with a murder case, discovery of explosives near the house of Mukesh Ambani, the sudden transfer of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, and the latter filing a case in the Supreme Court for a CBI inquiry into the murky events. There are other strange and inexplicable decisions also and when all these are joined together, the picture that emerges is that of an unworthy politician and a government that shames itself trying to protect him.  They all raise disquieting and explosive questions. Why was the controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, who is a hitman in uniform and was suspended for a custodial death and had joined the Shiv Sena after resigning from service, reinstated after many years and given an important posting? It is this person who, according to Param Bir Singh, had been entrusted by the minister to collect Rs 100 crore a month as hafta. Why is Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray not ordering a credible enquiry and not demanding the minister’s resignation? Why did Param Bir Singh wait till he was shunted from his post to make his allegations public? Anil Deshmukh belongs to Sharad Pawar’s NCP. Pawar’s defence of the minister was lame and unconvincing and was perhaps factually flawed. The discovery of explosive materials near Ambani’s residence raised questions which are yet be answered.  There is friction within the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government over the whole series of events and their handling. There is conflict between the Centre and the state government over these issues which may develop into a confrontation. The matter has been raised in the Supreme Court and in Parliament. It is played out in the media and on the streets. The corrupt nexus between politicians and policemen is not new. It is particularly deep in places like the country's financial capital, Mumbai, where there is a strong and entrenched criminal underworld also. It is easy to say the nexus between politics and crime should be broken and the police should be made immune to political meddling, but politicians are not interested in that. The continuance of Anil Deshmukh in the cabinet is a sign of that, and he is a live reminder of much that is wrong with politics and governance in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sachin-vaze-case-anil-deshmukh-must-go-965704.html
24-03-2021||First Edit||Dangerous, unwelcome proposal||The recommendation made by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice to the government to consider amending the existing law or enacting fresh legislation to “vest more powers’’ on the Central Bureau of investigation (CBI) for investigating cases in the states is wrong and contrary to the country’s federal character. The recommendation is based on the CBI’s request, as the agency has expressed concern over the withdrawal of general consent to it to investigate cases by as many as eight states. The CBI was established and functions under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act (DSPEA) and has limited jurisdiction. So, the state governments’ consent is mandatory for it to investigate cases in their territory. When a state gives general consent to the CBI, the agency can investigate cases in that state without specific permission. In the absence of a general consent, the agency has to seek permission from the state individually for every case it wants to investigate. The provision for the states’ consent is a federal requirement. It flows from the division of powers between the states and the Centre. The Supreme Court has, as recently as November last year, held that the provisions are in tune with the federal character of the Constitution, which has been held to be one of its basic structures. The court said that even Section 5 of the Act, which allows the Centre to extend the CBI’s jurisdiction, cannot be enforced without the states’ consent. This could be the reason for the CBI asking for legislation to do away with the limitation. But the central government, which has shown scant respect for the states’ powers and encroached on them, could actually be behind the CBI’s concern. But given the position clearly spelt out by the court, any legislative move as recommended by the committee would be considered ultra vires of the Constitution and violative of its basic structure. States have withdrawn their general consent because of their lack of trust in the agency. The central government has misused it and employed it as a weapon against Opposition-ruled states. The Supreme Court had called it a “caged parrot’’ and it has lived up to that description. Individuals, agencies and institutions have been harassed and persecuted on political considerations. Investigations have been dropped when those facing them joined the ruling party. The agency could be expected to run wild and freely target Opposition-ruled states if there is no check and limitation on its powers. So, it is not right and wise to do away with the defence that states have got in this respect. Opposition-ruled states will not agree to the proposal, and it can be the cause of a major Centre-states conflict.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/dangerous-unwelcome-proposal-966024.html
24-03-2021||In Perspective||Learning from the Boeing Max episode||We are all familiar with the Boeing 737 Max episode, the steps that followed the global grounding of Boeing’s latest, best-selling narrow body jet after two crashes that together claimed 346 lives. In October 2018, Indonesia's Lion Air Flight 610 had ended in the Java sea, while Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 crashed into the Ethiopian countryside in March 2019. Both crashes took place while climbing, within a short span after takeoff. It all started with Boeing’s desire to catch up with its competitor Airbus 320 Neo, which was enjoying a rush of orders and deliveries after upgrading to a new turbofan engine that was more efficient and ensured substantial fuel efficiency. Fierce rivalry between the two plane manufacturers forced Boeing to mount two latest fuel-efficient LEAP engines onto the 737’s iconic structure, a proven design since its maiden flight in the late 1960s. Unfortunately, Boeing’s design required greater ground clearance in its landing gear configuration whereas Airbus, a later entrant in the aerospace arena, had a significant advantage – its structural design had sufficient ground clearance already and could easily accommodate the new engine design size. Boeing’s design engineers solved this issue by moving their new engines slightly forward from their original positions on the wings. This, however, brought in a new complication -- because the centre of gravity shifted, the 737 MAX began developing a tendency to push its nose upwards during the initial stages of the climb, when engine thrust is normally maximum, causing instability due to the altered design characteristic. Boeing’s designers solved this problem by introducing the Manoeuvring Characteristic  Augmentation System, or MCAS, a software system that received inputs from one of the two AoA ( Angle of Attack) sensors mounted on either side of the plane’s fuselage. These sensors gauge the angle of incoming stream of air relative to the wing position and signal the stabiliser mounted on the tail of the aircraft to push the nose downwards. The MCAS was designed to override manual inputs from the pilots. This design change worked well, except when a faulty vane causes the AoA sensors to give wrong information, leading to a stall. Competition with Airbus 320 Neo forced Boeing to pretend that their 737 MAX behaved like their old version even when it did not. A press release from the US Department of Justice says that Boeing admitted in court documents that its airplane manuals and pilot-training materials lacked information about MCAS.  Boeing perhaps felt this was too insignificant to include in the training manual, and not wanting to dent the new plane’s attractiveness did not compel airlines to invest in pilot training either. Two tragic crashes later, after suffering billions of dollars in losses, Boeing introduced new wiring, new flight manuals, and prescribed new procedures for pilot training and new software so that signals from both sensors this time could send correct signals to the stabilisers to push the nose downwards even when one of the two AoA sensors erred. India is concerned, too. We have one MAX operator, SpiceJet with 13 aircraft that will need the Directorate General of Civil Aviation’s nod to take off again. What lessons should our Bengaluru headquartered aerospace and defence company HAL draw from the Boeing 737 MAX saga? HAL designs, develops or manufactures under licence military aircraft and helicopters, even a 19-seater Dornier commuter aircraft. Plans are afoot to build an Indian Regional Jet aircraft to cater to India’s estimated domestic demand of 2,000 narrow-bodied aircraft in the next 20 years. Fulfilling this requirement is bound to confront HAL in the future with what Boeing is going through today.  HAL designers must realise that all pilots flying its planes cannot be either test pilots or superheroes. There is no room for mistakes, so design engineers must be careful to design for the average pilot. Training should never be compromised. True, extra training costs extra money, but this does not allow aerospace companies to do away with simulators and training. HAL should mandate adherence to Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) a key requirement of airline operations. Faced with a stall situation, despite the MCAS on the Boeing 737 Max not providing for a manual override, an SOP would have suggested to the pilots to operate two “Stab Trim” micro switches that directly control the stabilisers, preventing the plane from stalling. The US Department of Justice was appalled with Boeing’s lack of candour while interacting with the Federal Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Evaluation Group, making misleading statements, half-truths and omissions regarding the MCAS, impairing their ability to ensure the safety of the flying public. When seeking approvals for its aircraft designs from India’s DGCA, HAL should not make similar mistakes. Lastly, HAL, or any potential private plane-maker in the future, should never let corporate greed and profits undermine aviation safety. Human life has to be the No. 1 priority, and where safety is concerned, no compromise of any kind can be justified. (The writer is a former Executive Director and Member, Board of Directors, BEML)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/learning-from-the-boeing-max-episode-965702.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Shivamogga police book Rakesh Tikait over his statement||Kote police registered a suo moto case against Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Rakesh Tikait, accusing him of making provocative statements during the Raitha Maha panchayat held at the science field in Shivamogga on March 20. Based on the statements that farmers must picket Vidhana Dosha and use tractors as weapons to intensify the agitation three farm laws brought in by the centre, police registered the case against him under IPC section 153. However, the organisers of the event have slammed the police in this regard and stated that the act is against the principles of democracy. "This is the best example of BJP's attempt to suppress the voices against the Centre," they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/shivamogga-police-book-rakesh-tikait-over-his-statement-965845.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Pingara’ director dedicates national award to Tulu film industry||Tulu movie 'Pingara' won the national award for Best Tulu film, in the backdrop of the industry completing 50 years.   “I dedicate the award to the Tulu film industry,” declared 'Pingara' movie director R Preethan Shetty. “In the past, ‘Paddayi’, and ‘Madipu’ Tulu movies had won the national awards. ‘Pingara’, produced in Kannada and Tulu, is yet to be released in theatres,” he added.  “I had been working for the Kannada film industry for many years. I wanted to contribute something to my mother tongue. I selected an artistic subject and directed ‘Pingara’. This is the first movie that I have directed independently. I had not expected the award. I am happy that the film has been recognised at the national level,” he said. Actor Sunil Nelligudda, who plays the lead role, said, “It is my luck that I got an opportunity to act in the movie. The character was challenging. I tried to infuse life into the character. I am happy that the movie has received recognition. It is a matter of pride for the Tuluvas.”   ‘Pingara’ movie revolves around ‘Daivaradhane’ (spirit worship), beliefs, tradition and the culture around it. It also highlights the atrocities committed against women and discrimination. The movie was produced under DMK Productions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pingara-director-dedicates-national-award-to-tulu-film-industry-965849.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||653 tuberculosis cases detected in Dakshina Kannada since January||A total of 653 Tuberculosis cases had been detected and notified in Nikshay portal in Dakshina Kannada (DK) district from January this year. This includes 544 cases from government hospitals. As many as 1,014 patients are undergoing treatment in the district for TB, District TB Officer Dr Badruddin told mediapersons. DK district registered a gradual decrease in number of tuberculosis cases in 2020. Dr Badruddin said that Covid-19 restrictions could be one of the reasons for decrease in number of cases in 2020. The district had reported 3,256 cases in 2018 and 3,439 in 2019. Bur number of cases reduced to 2,472 in 2020. The possibilities of spread of tuberculosis is less when people wear masks, Dr Badruddin explained. The World TB day will be organised jointly by district administration, department of health and family welfare, TB control officer’s office and Fr Muller’s Medical College at the Decennial memorial hall on March 24 (10.30 am). The theme for this year’s TB day is ‘clock is ticking.’ The health department has roped in actor Aravind Bolar to be its goodwill ambassador of tuberculosis eradication campaign, he said There is a need to create awareness on TB among the people. Patients with symptoms will be sent for sputum examination and chest X-ray. If they test positive, they will be registered under Nikshay (Health Ministry’s registry) in order to keep track of progress of patients from diagnosis to treatment. “In the past, patients suffering from TB had to undergo two to three years of treatment. Now, they are cured within six months. But patients need to follow regular treatment, he stressed. To support the nutritional needs of TB patients, direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for supporting nutritional support of Tuberculosis (TB) patients — Nikshay Poshan Yojana (NPY) was launched by the government. Under this scheme a patient gets Rs 500 per month for their nutritional requirements. TB cases notified in Nikshay 2018 - 3,256 2019 - 3,439 2020 - 2,472 2021 (till date) - 653||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/653-tuberculosis-cases-detected-in-dakshina-kannada-since-january-965858.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Emphasis on vaccination of elderly near Covid-19 clusters'||District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Ramachandra Bairy said that the health department is emphasising on the vaccination of elderly people and those with co-morbidities in the new Covid-19 clusters across Dakshina Kannada district. “People above 60 years and those between 45-59 years with co-morbidities residing near the newly identified Covid-19 clusters will be eligible for Covid vaccination. They need to get the first vaccine dose immediately to develop antibodies and in turn, reduce the mortality rate,” the DHO said. Speaking to media persons during ‘Meet the Press’ organised at Patrika Bhavan on Tuesday, Bairy said that the vaccines are administered free of charge in 66 PHCs (Primary Health Centre), 12 urban health centres, six community health centres, four taluk hospitals and district hospital. More clusters are being formed in the district especially on college campuses. Meanwhile, 10 students from Mangalore University had tested positive in the past few days. Similarly, one more nursing college on Falnir Road had reported more than 10 cases and measures have been initiated to seal down the campus. The department is mulling on declaring the blocks where students had tested positive as containment zones, the DHO said. The protocol to contain Covid-19 like wearing masks, hand sanitisation and social distancing are being ignored by the student community. The participation of people in social and religious gatherings has been exceeding the limit fixed by the government. The fear of Covid-19 is missing among people, he said and added that the positivity rate in Dakshina Kannada district had reached 1.81% which was less than 1%, a few months ago. Steps had been initiated to test the swabs of those arriving from Maharashtra, Punjab, Chandigarh and from foreign countries without RT-PCR Covid negative certificate at the Airport. “We could not strictly enforce RT-PCR negative certificate from the travellers in trains as TTE were asked to collect certificates while examining the tickets, which is a challenging task. The buses arriving from Mumbai are checked at Uttara Kannada and Belagavi for Covid-19 negative report,” he added. The DHO clarified that the students from Kerala attending colleges in Mangaluru are not stopped at Talapady outpost for checking negative certificates. Principals have been asked to make arrangement for tests in schools/colleges. In fact, there is no accurate data on the number of students from Kerala and other parts of the state studying in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/emphasis-on-vaccination-of-elderly-near-covid-19-clusters-965880.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police arrest four in Mysuru in connection with robbery||Saraswathi Puram police arrested four persons in connection with a robbery in the city. The police arrested Naveen, 25, of Kyatanahalli, J Rave, 30, of Melahalli in Varuna, Satish, 33, of Hampapur in H D Kote taluk, Avinash, 25, of K G Koppal in Mysuru. Another accused are absconding. The police have recovered cash Rs 9.26 lakh, gold worth Rs 2.45 lakh and 1.5-kilo silver ornament. According to the Police, the accused had robbed the house of a doctor on March 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-arrest-four-in-mysuru-in-connection-with-robbery-965905.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vairamudi festival celebrated at Melkote||The Vairamudi Utsava is being celebrated in a simple manner, at Melkote, Mandya district on Wednesday. With the rise in Covid cases, the district administration has limited the festival to only locals. Check posts have been opened at two entrances to Melkote. The devotees from other places, districts and states will be sent back from the checkpoints. It may be mentioned that the festival was limited to the temple premises last year also. Only 50 people would be allowed inside the temple at a time. It is mandatory for the devotees to carry an identity card to enter the temple. Police security has been beefed up around the temple. The box containing the diamond-studded crown is brought from the district treasury, as per the tradition and taken to Melkote. The box will be opened in the presence of the deputy commissioner and other officials in the evening and adorned to the deity. Arrangements have been made for live telecast of all the religious rituals on Facebook and YouTube.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vairamudi-festival-celebrated-at-melkote-965911.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Vairamudi Utsava celebrated amid Covid restrictions||The historical Cheluvanarayana Swamy Vairamudi Utsava, was celebrated amid Covid-19 restrictions, in a simple manner at Melkote, Mandya district on Wednesday. Though parts of Melkote town, Rajabeedhi was decorated with flowers and illuminated with colourful lights as part of Vairamudi Brahmotsava, the number of devotees were less this year, due to Covid restrictions. The district administration had banned the entry of devotees from other districts and states, as a precautionary measure. Mass feeding, distribution of prasada has also been banned. The presiding deity Cheluvanarayana Swamy, adorned with diamond-studded crown, was placed in the palanquin and taken out on a procession amid the chantings of the devotees. The Vairamudi Brahmotsava was launched with a special puja at the Ramanujacharya temple. The Vairamudi and other golden ornaments kept in the district treasury was brought out in the presence of Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi. Later, puja was performed for the box at Lakshmi Janardhana temple in Mandya, and later sent to Melkote amid tight police security in a special vehicle. The jewellery was handed over to the temple authorities in the presence of District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda, Deputy Commissioner S Aswathi and Superintendent of Police Ashwini.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vairamudi-utsava-celebrated-amid-covid-restrictions-966007.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Notice served to school for violating Covid norms||A notice has been issued to a school for violating Covid-19 norms and conducting classes at one place in Koppa, Mandya district. The parents alleged that Venkateshwara Vidyaniketana at Moodaladoddi village, near Koppa, has not been following the Covid norms. The students from LKG, UKG and also from Standard 1 to 10 of the school are being seated at one place, at the community hall in Chikkadoddi village and classes conducted. They alleged that the school authorities are playing with the lives of the children. Stern action should be taken against the authorities for violating the Covid norms, they demanded. Deputy Director of Public Instruction R Raghunandan said, "I have made a spot visit along with the taluk-level officials and also gathered information. A notice has been issued to the school management seeking explanation. A report would be submitted after they reply."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/notice-served-to-school-for-violating-covid-norms-966008.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Practice giving judgement in Kannada, ex-justice tells HC judges||Former Justice of Karnataka High Court Arali Nagaraj on Wednesday suggested High Court judges to practice giving judgement in Kannada language and also urged Kannada Sahitya Parishat to pressurise the state government to bring in needed amendment to the Constitution in this regard. In a press conference here, Nagaraj said, “The judgment is being written in Kannada language in the lower courts. Kannada language should be priority in high court too. I have been demanding the government in this regard since 2008, but it has not materialised until the date,” he lamented and suggested Kannada Sahitya Parishat to fight in this regard. Nagaraj said that he will support Doordarshan former additional director general Mahesh Joshi, who is contesting for the state KSP president post. Joshi has great love towards Kannada, Karnataka and he will protect the language, Nagaraj expressed hopes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/practice-giving-judgement-in-kannada-ex-justice-tells-hc-judges-966009.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Parents reluctant to send children to school due to Covid||The parents in rural Mysuru are reluctant to send their children to school due to rising Covid-19 cases and the teachers are paying visits to their houses convincing them to return to schools. In a review meeting of Karnataka Development Programmes (KDP), at Zilla Panchayat, chaired by ZP President B C Parimala Shyam on Wednesday, Deputy Director for Public Instructions (DDPI) Panduranga informed that the teachers are visiting the houses of the children who are not attending the classes. Majority of the students belonging to farming community are not attending the classes. The teachers are convincing the parents as well as the students to come back to the schools, he said. District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath said, "The department has taken several measures to contain the spread of Covid-19. The spread of virus is rampant at schools, colleges, film theatres, and ceremonies like wedding and other programmes." The DHO said, "As many as 18 students of a school in Bannur and their contacts tested positive for Covid-19. As many as 78 persons were found to be the contacts of the students. The hostel authorities have been warned to ensure that the inmates wear masks and abide by the Covid-19 norms. Covid test is mandatory for the inmates who return from their native places." ZP Vice-President Gowramma Somashekar, Chief Executive Officer A M Yogeesh, Health and Education standing committee president Manjunath and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/parents-reluctant-to-send-children-to-school-due-to-covid-966010.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Swachh Survekshan: MCC targets 5 lakh citizens' feedback||With the city missing the top rank in Swachh Survekshan in 2019 and 2020 due to poor citizens’ feedback, the civic body has taken all efforts to get more feedback from the citizens this year. The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has set a target of five lakh feedbacks and has already achieved three lakh. Swachh Survekshan 2021 is conducted by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA), covering all cities across India between January 1 and March 31. One important component of Swachh Survekshan is getting residents’ feedback on the progress made by the civic body in maintaining cleanliness within the city and neighbourhood. In 2020 survey, the city lost marks due to poor feedback and it affected the ranking. While Indore, which was the ‘Cleanest City’, secured 1,416 marks, Mysuru secured only 1,181 marks. However, the challenge before the civic body is time as the citizens have to give their feedback by the end of March. The process of feedback commenced on January 1 and it will conclude by March 31. “We have targeted to get feedback from 5 lakh people and more than 3.3 lakh people have participated in the survey. Mysuru will definitely come on top if more citizens participate in the survey. We will be one among the top three if the participants are more,” said MCC Commissioner C T Shilpa Nag. Nag said, "The authorities concerned are making all the efforts to bring Mysuru on top and is being supported by the people. I humbly request the people to give the feedback sooner. Third party survey is completed. The compliances and documents have been sent and the lines for citizens’ feedback will be opened till March 31."  Citizen’s feedback plays a major role this time as the weightage has been increased. Besides, the survey will be held only in three categories as Direct Observation is merged in Citizen’s Voice and Service Level Progress. This year, the survey will be conducted under three categories, while it was held under four categories last year - Citizen’s Feedback, Direct Observation, Service Level Progress and certification. To avoid duplication, Direct Observation is merged in Citizen’s Voice and Service Level Progress in 2021 survey. In 2020, 25% marks were allotted to each category. But, this time, 30% marks is reserved for citizens’ voice, 40% for Service Level Progress and 30% marks for Certification. It has to be noted that the MCC has already warned of stringent action against people defacing the city by displaying posters, banners, and buntings illegally. In addition, the authorities also conducted drives against unscientific disposal of waste. The MCC officials have imposed fine against mobile shopkeepers for unscientific disposal of waste.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/swachh-survekshan-mcc-targets-5-lakh-citizens-feedback-966011.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’ tomorrow||‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’, an inspiration talk by academician Gururaja Karajagi, is organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani publications, in association with the University of Mysore (UoM), at Senate Bhavan, Manasagangotri in the city on March 26, Friday, from 10 am to 2 pm. In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, the talk, a guidance programme on the future choices of youth, is restricted to the UoM students only. All Covid guidelines, like wearing of mask, social distancing, and sanitising will be followed. UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, Registrar R Shivappa and Executive Editor of Prajavani Ravindra Bhat will participate in the programme. As the entry of students is restricted, the programme will be streamed live on Prajavani Facebook page. The UoM is also streaming the event on its social media platforms. Mysore Tarpaulins and Navodaya Foundation have joined hands, for the success of ‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhavishyada-dhaari-tomorrow-966012.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ten-year-old boy beaten to death in Karnataka for stealing snacks||A 10-year-old boy was allegedly tortured to death by a shop owner and his associates for reportedly stealing snacks from the store in Haveri district of Karnataka on March 16, police sources said on Wednesday. The boy named Harishayya Hiremath was allegedly locked up in a room, tied to a stone, and beaten. He died at a hospital on Monday, the sources said. The shop is located at Uppanasi village in Hanagal taluk. The shop owner Praveen Karishettar and others are absconding, police said. According to the boy's father Nagayya Hiremath, his son was in the captivity of the shop owner when they went in search of him as he did not return for long. Only after the father's repeated requests the boy was reportedly set free in the evening of March 16, the sources said. He was immediately taken to a Haveri hospital and subsequently shifted to another one at Hubballi, where he died, they said. Police sources said they are waiting for the post-mortem report to know the exact cause of death, and arrest those absconding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ten-year-old-boy-beaten-to-death-in-karnataka-for-stealing-snacks-966020.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Priest slips during fire walking ritual, sustains injuries||A temple priest sustained burn injuries after he lost balance and fell on the coal embers, during a temple ritual, at Maramma Kondotsava, at Mandalahalli, in Malavalli taluk, Mandya district, on Wednesday morning. Guddappa Manjunath, 30, is the injured temple priest. He is being treated at the district hospital. As every year, Maramma festival and kondotsava was being held at the temple. Manjunath, who walked on the embers amid enthusiastic crowd, lost balance, slipped and fell on the fire. He suffered burns on his face, chest, stomach, thighs and limbs. The people nearby immediately dragged him out of the fire and rushed him to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/priest-slips-during-fire-walking-ritual-sustains-injuries-966039.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||12th-century sculpture discovered in Karnataka's Sakleshpur||A 4.5-feet statue of Channakeshavaswami, dated back to the 12th century, was discovered while extracting sand at Hemavathy river, at Hale Beluru village in Karnataka's Sakleshpur taluk on Tuesday. The incident came to light on Wednesday. The sculpture resembles the statue of the Belur Channakeshavaswamy temple. Except for slight scratches, while lifting by the excavator machine, there is no damage to the statue. It is said that the people who found the sculpture, left it covered under the sand out of fear and then informed the authorities. There is a Channakeshava temple in the village dated back to the Hoysala period. Renovation works are in progress at the temple, which is in a dilapidated condition. The discovered sculpture has been kept in the temple. The villagers cleaned the sculpture and performed puja. Tahsildar H B Jayakumar and Police personnel visited the spot. "The beautiful statue resembles that of the Hoysala period. This has been brought to the notice of the Deputy Commissioner. The future course of action would be taken as per his suggestions", Jayakumar said. Meanwhile, the villagers urged the authorities to hand over the statue to the temple after research by the Department of Archaeology and Museums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/12th-century-sculpture-discovered-in-karnatakas-sakleshpur-966040.html
24-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka government has no magic wand, says B S Yediyurappa on fiscal stress||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday defended his government's decision to borrow more loans to fund developmental works. In his reply to the discussion on the 2021-22 Budget in the Legislative Assembly, Yediyurappa asked how could the government revive the economy without resorting to loans. "When governments in the past have raised loans in times of prosperity, how can we take up development works without borrowing money when Karnataka is facing adverse conditions due to the pandemic and floods," he asked. The government, he said, was borrowing loans only to ensure that the development cycle is maintained while ensuring relief for those affected by the pandemic. In 2021-22 fiscal, Karnataka is set to borrow Rs 71,642 crore. In the previous 2020-21 fiscal, the state resorted to borrowing Rs 70,671 crore. Yediyurappa's read out his reply amidst sloganeering and disorder by Congress legislators who were protesting in the well of the Assembly demanding a court-monitored probe into the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and that he should be booked for rape. Also, Congress wants the resignation of six ministers who moved the court seeking an injunction against the media. There was no "magic wand" with the government nor was the treasury an "Akshaya Patra" in the face of an unprecedented global pandemic, he said. "I've presented eight budgets of which seven were revenue surplus ones. But, the dire conditions faced by the state has made it impossible. The government is ready to initiate corrective measures to address the situation," he said, referring to the revenue deficit budget this time. The government has come under fire for committed expenditure amounting to 102% of revenue receipts. "A few people think that committed expenditure meant salaries, administrative expenses and loan servicing. But, this is a misconception," Yediyurappa said, adding that it included grant-in-aid to local bodies, social security pensions and other financial assistance measures. Yediyurappa also said that Karnataka had to lose out on its share in devolution as the 15th Finance Commission prioritized the welfare of backward states. Dismissing allegations of decrease in the Scheduled Class Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan (SCP-TSP) allocation, Yediyurappa said the outlay in the new fiscal will be equal to what it was last year - Rs 27,700 crore. The government has already set up committees to merge various departments to rationalize expenditure and enhance non-tax revenue collection to improve the state's finances, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-government-has-no-magic-wand-says-b-s-yediyurappa-on-fiscal-stress-965884.html
24-03-2021||Main Article||A PIL that opens wounds||The public interest litigation (PIL) filed in the Supreme Court challenging the constitutional validity of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, has the potential to reopen the chapter of decades of Hindu-Muslim hostility, to which a closure of sorts was provided by a person no less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His assertion after the Bhoomi Pujan on August 5, 2020, in Ayodhya, was reiterated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief, Mohan Bhagwat. Although they spoke on different occasions from platforms distinct from one another, the summary of their assertions was analogous: A legally permitted construction of the Ram temple, with official handholding, was enough to rectify the 'perceived wrong' done to the Hindus in history. Their statements respected the sentiments contained within the apex court's judgement of November 9, 2019, that awarded the disputed property to the Hindus. The five-judge bench, headed by the then Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, awarded the land to the Hindus despite noting the criminality of the act that destroyed the Babri Masjid. That judgement, which came just days before Justice Gogoi retired, laid down the legal principles on the lingering disputes raised over the decades by affiliates of the RSS. The landmark, albeit debatable, judgement declared that the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act, 1991, imposed a "positive obligation" on the government to "maintain the religious character of every place of worship as it existed on August 15, 1947, when India achieved independence from colonial rule." Given this backdrop, the decision of the apex court bench comprising outgoing Chief Justice of India S A Bobde (he retires in April) and Justice A S Bopanna, to issue notice to the Centre, while admitting the petition, is perplexing. Lest it be forgotten, the Ayodhya verdict bench had categorically affirmed that the 1991 legislation passed by Parliament after the mosque's demolition triggered countrywide communal riots, "enforced a constitutional commitment (on the State) and operationalised its constitutional obligations to uphold the equality of all religions and secularism which is a part of the basic features of the Constitution." Despite the unambiguous wording of the court's understanding of the importance of the 1991 Act, the petitioner claimed that back then, the Centre had created an "arbitrary, irrational, retrospective cut-off date", and that the government "barred the remedies against illegal encroachment on the places of worship and pilgrimages and Hindus, Jains, Buddhists, Sikhs, cannot file suit in the High Court." As a result, "illegal barbaric acts of the invaders will continue in perpetuity." The PIL and the two-judge bench hearing it did not take note of the five-judge bench's viewpoint: Although Indians are aware of their history and the need to confront it, wrongs in the past cannot be remedied if people take the law in their own hands. Independence was a watershed moment to heal the wounds of the past and this was recognised by Parliament and provided the right cut-off date to leave past animosity behind. By enacting the Act, lawmakers agreed that history and its wrongs cannot be used as instruments to orient the present and the future. There is no ambiguity that the Ayodhya issue, and related mosque-temple issues, played the central role in the rise of the BJP from a party on the margins to the principal party of governance in the country. Consequently, the fact that the petitioner is closely associated with the BJP gives rise to suspicion that Modi-Bhagwat's assertion, that "the wait of centuries" had ended was yet another instance of double-speak. In allowing the petition, the Supreme Court has opted to re-examine the constitutionality of an Act of Parliament that provided a framework for the country to move ahead and focus on more consequential priorities, such as social tranquillity and economic growth. The government's response to the notice served on it will indicate if the current regime is confident of steering the country and renewing its mandate on the basis of its performance, especially on the economic front, or it feels the need to further religious polarisation to remain in power beyond 2024. The PIL could impinge on the current status of at least four places of worship or monuments. Laying claims on the Gyanvapi mosque in Varanasi and the Shahi Idgah mosque in Mathura have been part of the Hindutva charter since the 1950s. Immediately after the Ayodhya judgement in November 2019, a BJP lawmaker declared in Parliament that the two shrines needed to be 'liberated' now. The RSS has further indicated that it will allow samaj, or society, to shape the organisation's stance on these two mosques. Already, courts in the two cities are seized of multiple petitions seeking removal of these mosques Besides the two historical monuments, the status of two other shrines/monuments remain questioned in lower courts. These are Lucknow's Teele Waali Masjid, claimed by pro-Hindutva forces as being built after destroying the Laxman Teela, mythologically identified with Lord Ram's brother. A Delhi court is also seized of a claim that the famous minaret, Qutub Minar, was originally a complex of 27 "lofty" Hindu and Jain temples before they were destroyed in the 12th century. The petitioners are seeking creation of a trust, to which should be handed over the property's management and administration. Ironically, challenging the constitutionality of the 1991 Act, also questions the apex court judgement that “closed” the Ayodhya dispute. This belligerence may cost Hindutva forces, too, but the nation stands to lose the most. The Centre must emphatically contest the PIL's contentions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/a-pil-that-opens-wounds-965701.html
24-03-2021||Main Article||Cry, the beloved city!||Older residents of Bengaluru who have the lived experience of its beautiful past perhaps grieve at its seemingly inevitable decline. Gone are the water bodies, the gardens, the open spaces, the fresh air and the salubrious climate. The pride of living in an evergreen city, 3,000 feet above sea level, is dying a slow death, as is the city itself, unrecognisable for the monstrous metamorphosis that has overtaken it. So, the residents recently woke up nonplussed to read that their city was ranked No. 1 on ‘ease of living’, from amongst 111 cities in the country. The Government of India recently released the Municipal Performance Index, 2020. The index, prepared by the Institute for Competitiveness, ranks the cities on two verticals: the ‘ease of living’ based on an assessment of outcome indicators; and ‘municipal performance’ that serves to assess input indicators. The two verticals rely on five pillars each: ‘ease of living’ includes quality of life, sustainability, economic ability, and citizen perception; and ‘municipal performance’ includes services, finance, planning, technology, and governance. While Bengaluru, arguably, was ranked No. 1 on the ease of living index with a score of 66, the residents of the city, doubtless, received the rankings with some degree of circumspection, because the lived experience of Bengaluru tells a different story. The index, however, is not to blame. As a composite assessment, the index does its work rather well, and since the devil is always in the detail, Bengaluru’s performance deserves closer attention to better understand where policy attention and programme design must focus on in the future. First, a quick look at the framework of the assessment will help situate the ranking in context. The weights assigned and the functions used to construct the composite index and thus to arrive at the ranking are: Services – 30% weight, comprising: education, health, water & wastewater, solid waste management & sanitation, registration & permits, infrastructure; Governance – 20%, comprising: transparency & accountability, human resources, participation, effectiveness; Finance – 20% weight, comprising: revenue management, expenditure management, fiscal responsibility, fiscal decentralization; Technology – 15% weight, comprising: digital governance, digital access, digital literacy; Planning – 15% weight, comprising: plan preparation, plan implementation, plan enforcement. Services include an assessment of all functions that citizens experience on a daily basis. Finance measures municipalities based on how they manage public funds and how their agency is accessing financial resources. Planning examines the level of preparation, implementation and enforcement of urban planning. Digital coverage of municipality services and the extent to which it empowers its citizens to access such services is measured under Technology. Finally, Governance deals with aspects of municipal bodies and their governance mechanisms. Ranked 31 among 111 cities on overall municipal performance -- relative to Mumbai (8), Hyderabad (17) and Chennai (18) -- some of the features of Bengaluru’s performance should receive closer scrutiny and the future prospects for the city’s development and sustainability should be debated, with concern and a sense of urgency. It is important from the perspective of the State, the market and the community, to generate a set of actionable interventions that might prove crucial if the city is to achieve the Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 11 -- of making Bengaluru an inclusive, safe, sustainable and resilient city -- at least by 2030. The assessment throws up disconcerting facts: *One particular outcome indicator score -- Economic Ability (78.82) - skewed the rank in favour of Bengaluru emerging as the best on ease of living. Otherwise, on the quality of life, the city ranks 12, and on sustainability, 13. *On Finance, Bengaluru performs the worst of the five input indicators, with a rank of 40, and a score of 47 against the national average score of 51. *On Planning, Bengaluru ranks 36, with a score of 30 which is significantly lower than the national average of 34. *The surprise for a city that boasts of being the IT capital is on the use of Technology: Bengaluru ranks a low 25th, with a score of 26, barely above the national average score of 24. The crisis in the management of our city, characterised by urban sprawl, congestion and overcrowding, slums and squatter settlements, housing shortages, water scarcity, and pollution, poor roads and poorer public transport, needs urgent policy attention. The continued failure of urban planning, poor programme implementation, weak enforcement of municipal and urban development laws, and the gap between law and practice, together pose a serious challenge to the future growth and orderly development of this once-beautiful city. Urban agglomerations like Greater Bengaluru represent centres of economic growth. Empowering city governments and empowering urban communities is an important political dimension of future urbanisation. This entails revisiting the structure of the city government, the authority vested in it, the sustainability of its finances, and the powers and functions devolved upon it. Restructuring the city government and empowering it has been constrained by inter-government relationships. This is beginning to manifest in the signs of visible urban decline in Bengaluru, and unplanned and often adhoc patterns of urbanisation that appear beyond control. In turn, this has seriously compromised delivery of essential services, notably garbage disposal, solid waste management and water supply and sanitation. It has also constrained infrastructure for growth, including essential infrastructure like affordable housing, and healthcare services, impacting migrant and informal sector workers. The core paradox in the governance of the city is that it entails a voluntary relinquishing of political power and resources by State actors – political parties, the legislature and the executive – that manifests as the commitment of a benevolent and monolithic state to empower the city government for the common good. The consequence of the reluctance of the political class to part with sovereign power and vest it in the local government has meant apathy or outright opposition from key actors who, over time, decide that reform is not in their best interests, thus allowing vested interests to proliferate. India’s urban governance compass is of colonial vintage. Cry, the beloved city! (The writer is Director, Public Affairs Centre, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/cry-the-beloved-city-966025.html
24-03-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru records 74 new coronavirus cases||Seventy-four persons tested positive for Covid-19, in Mysuru district, on Wednesday. While 52 of them are the contacts of infected persons, 17 are Influenza-like illness (ILI) and the remaining five are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases. With this, the total cases increased to 55,046. A total of 1,042 deaths have been reported till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-records-74-new-coronavirus-cases-966038.html
24-03-2021||National||New IT regulations will keep OTT platforms in check: Centre tells SC||The Union government on Tuesday told the Supreme Court that the recently enacted IT regulations were similar to laws in Singapore, EU and Australia and would keep a strong check on objectionable content on Over-The-Top (OTT) platforms.  In an affidavit filed before the court, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting saidthe rules were notified on February 25, 2021, for social media platforms, OTT players and digital media upon receiving complaints over content. There is a mechanism for regulation of OTT platforms under the Information Technology Act, 2000, and the newly framed Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, the affidavit said.  It stated that the government was already seized of the need for developing an institutional mechanism regarding regulation of audio-video content streamed on OTT platforms and it has been in active consultation with stakeholders for over two years. "Various jurisdictions across the globe like Singapore, European Union, Australia, etc, have also framed similar mechanisms regulating or restricting access on the OTT platforms," it said. The response from the government came on a plea filed in the top court for regulation of content on over-the-top (OTT) platforms. The affidavit added that the government had received several complaints, representations from members of civil society, MPs, chief ministers regarding content being streamed on OTT platforms. "In respect of the Internet, the IT Act has provisions for prohibiting publishing or transmitting content that is obscene, containing sexually explicit act or containing sexually explicit act involving a minor under Sections 67, 67A and 67B," the affidavit said. It pointed out that there are also provisions for criminal proceedings with punitive measures. "The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) rules 2021 are comprehensive in nature and framed keeping in view the major audience enjoyed by OTT platforms and maintaining a fine balance so that various age groups are taken into an account and a healthy classification is being done," it said. The top court on March 5 had observed that the Centre's guidelines on regulating content on OTT platforms were toothless.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-it-regulations-will-keep-ott-platforms-in-check-centre-tells-sc-965661.html
24-03-2021||National||No decision on direct cash transfer of fertiliser subsidy to farmers: Govt||Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D V Sadananda Gowda on Tuesday said that no final decision has been taken on implementation of the direct cash transfer of fertiliser subsidy to farmers. "The intention of government is that fertiliser subsidy should go direct to farmers bank account. The government is eager to implement this at the earliest," Gowda said during the Question Hour. There are several issues on this issue have to be addressed. All the stakeholders need to be consulted, including state governments and farmers, to come to a conclusion how it could be done," Gowda said. Gowda said he also heading Chintan Shivir Working Group on Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to farmers and 3-4 interaction sessions with the state government and with farmers have already taken place. At present, the government transfers subsidies to fertiliser companies while farmers purchase the product at a lower rate. In the proposed scheme, farmers will be directly transferred the subsidy for fertiliser purchases through their bank accounts. However, the government has implemented Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) system in fertiliser sector under which subsidy is released to the fertiliser companies on weekly basis, on the basis of actual sales made by the retailers to the beneficiaries through Point of Sale (PoS) devices installed at each retailer shop, he said. About 2.26 lakh PoS devices/ desktop software have been installed at retail outlets across the country. Beneficiaries are identified through Aadhaar Card, Voter Identity Card, etc, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-decision-on-direct-cash-transfer-of-fertiliser-subsidy-to-farmers-govt-965674.html
24-03-2021||National||Delhiites having drinks at clubs to soon have option to place order for 'full bottle' on table||Delhiites will soon have an option to place order for a full bottle of liquor on their tables in hotels and clubs as a Group of Ministers headed by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has recommended several steps that are part of excise reforms. Currently, people having drinks at these establishments are served liquor as pegs in the national capital. In its report, the GoM, however, said it will be the sole responsibility of bars to ensure that no customer takes the served bottles out of their premises. There are over 1,000 hotels, clubs and restaurants in the city, which have an excise license to serve liquor to their customers. "The GoM is of the view that service of full bottle on table may be allowed by the licensees to ensure service of quality liquor to the customers. This, however, shall be the subject to the sole responsibility of the licensee to ensure that no customer takes the served bottles out of the license premises," it stated. The GoM said these establishments may be allowed to have additional dispensing counters against payment of five per cent of the applicable license fee per additional counter. It also said that the liquor service in open spaces like terrace, balcony, lower area of restaurant, clubs and hotels may be allowed. "Timings of bars in restaurants and clubs may be increased to be at par with neighbouring cities like Noida," it said. "Hotel, clubs and restaurants will have to place purchase order only from retail vends instead of wholesalers," the GoM said. All establishments will be permitted two counters without any additional charge, it added. During a press conference on Monday, Sisodia, who also holds the excise portfolio, said the Delhi Cabinet has accepted the recommendations made by the GoM. In the report, the GoM said the conditions related to playing of Music/DJ under “conduct of business”, as mentioned in rule 53 (4) of Excise Rules is archaic and not reflecting present day needs. "Licensees will be permitted to play all types of music, including DJ, Live Bands and Karaoke without creating nuisance in the neighbourhood," it said. The GoM also recommended that draught beer will be allowed to be taken away in bottles or ‘growlers’ as applicable in other states like Punjab and Karnataka. It said the move will help fuel the micro-brewery industry and added that draught beer can also be allowed to be served at events like wedding functions and parties which have sought license to serve liquor to their guests. However, wherever draught beer is being served as a take away, clear signage and information will be need to put up about its short shelf life and the bottles will have to mention the expiry date clearly, the report stated. Micro-Brewery will be allowed to supply to other bars and restaurants having excise license. As part of excise reforms, the GoM also said that banquet halls, party places, farm houses, motels and others will be offered one-time annual fee, a move which will ensure that organisers of functions do not have to separately apply for a license (P-10) to serve liquor to their guests. It said no separate P-10 license will be required at any event being conducted at these venues once the yearly license is acquired. For an in-house party or a function in any community centre, the P-10 fee will be applicable at Rs 10,000 irrespective of the number of guests, it also said. "To serve liquor in banquet halls, party places, farm houses, wedding/party/event venues the one time P-10E licence fee will be Rs 50,000 per event, if the said venue does not hold regular licence," the GoM said in its report. Lowering legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years and the government withdrawing from running liquor vends in Delhi are also among other features of an excise policy approved by the AAP dispensation on Monday, with Sisodia saying the measure is expected to lead to an annual revenue growth of 20 per cent. The government decided to shut all its shops in the national capital as they were generating less income in comparison to private liquor stores.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhiites-having-drinks-at-clubs-to-soon-have-option-to-place-order-for-full-bottle-on-table-965706.html
24-03-2021||National||DH Toon | America ruled India for 200 years, says Uttarakhand CM Rawat||After the controversial 'ripped jeans' remark, the newly-appointed Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat has once again made headlines with his 'slip of tongue.' Rawat, during an event in Ramnagar, said that India was America's slave for 200 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-america-ruled-india-for-200-years-says-uttarakhand-cm-rawat-965725.html
24-03-2021||National||BJP, Congress demand rollback of AAP government's new excise policy||The Delhi units of the BJP and the Congress on Tuesday demanded that the AAP government rolls back its new excise policy, that cut the legal drinking age from 25 to 21 years, saying it could ruin the youth of the national capital. Leading a protest at Shahdara against the new excise policy, the BJP's Delhi unit president Adesh Gupta alleged that the Arvind Kejriwal government is "pushing youths towards alcoholism to increase revenue". "While the BJP is organising programmes to inculcate the patriotism among youth, the Kejriwal government is them pushing towards liquor consumption," Gupta was quoted as saying in a statement. At the protest, BJP workers burnt the effigy of Kejriwal. Gupta wondered whether the Kejriwal government is unmindful of the fact that more liquor shops would not only lead to an increase in the crime rate in Delhi, but also make it the liquor capital. "Did Delhiites elect him for this day? he posed. Gupta said in the statement that the right thing would have been for the government to tighten liquor policy to make Delhi safe for women and keep youngsters away from the liquor. It seems the Kejriwal government values revenue more than the safety of women or saving the youngsters from drinking, he claimed, adding if the chief minister really wants to do something he should provide clean water, fight pollution, lay more sewer lines and improve infrastructure. Senior Congress leader and former legislator Alka Lamba said the new excise policy of the Delhi government, intended to boost the revenue collection by an additional Rs 2,000 crore, will not only ruin the lives of the youth, but many families as well. According to a statement released by the Delhi Congress, it workers, under the leadership of DPCC president Anil Kumar, will protest outside the residence of the chief minister on Wednesday against the excise policy. Lamba said the Congress party strongly objects to this "destructive" policy and demanded its rollback. The minimum age for drinking was pegged at 25 years with a specific purpose, as by then most young people would be in a position to take mature decisions, she said. "Rajiv Gandhi gave voting rights to 18-year-olds while the Kejriwal government was giving liquor bottles to the youth of the national capital," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-congress-demand-rollback-of-aap-governments-new-excise-policy-965726.html
24-03-2021||National||Intel doubles down on chip manufacturing, plans $20 billion for new Arizona sites||Intel Corp will greatly expand its advanced chip manufacturing capacity as the new chief executive announced plans to spend as much as $20 billion to build two factories in Arizona and to open up its factories to outside customers. The move by CEO Pat Gelsinger on Tuesday aims to restore Intel's reputation after manufacturing delays sent shares plunging last year. The strategy will directly challenge the two other companies in the world that can make the most advanced chips, Taiwan's Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd (TSMC) and Korea's Samsung Electronics Co Ltd. And it will also aim to tilt a technological balance of power back to the United States and Europe as government leaders on both continents have become concerned about the risks of a concentration of chipmaking in Taiwan given tensions with China. Intel shares rose 5.3% after the company disclosed its new strategy and full-year financial guidance for 2021. Some investors such as Third Point LLC had previously urged Intel to consider spinning off its costly chip manufacturing operations. Intel said it expects $72 billion in revenue and adjusted earnings per share of $4.55, compared with analyst estimates of $72.9 billion and $4.77 per share, according to Refinitiv data. The company said it expects to spend $19 billion to $20 billion on capital expenditures. Gelsinger said that 2021 forecast "reflects the industry-wide shortage" of some components such as substrates. Intel is one of the few remaining semiconductor companies that both designs and manufactures its own chips. Rival chip designers such as Qualcomm Inc and Apple Inc rely on contract manufacturers. In an interview with Reuters, Gelsinger said Intel has "fully resolved" its problems with its most recent manufacturing technology and is "all systems go" on chips for 2023. It now plans a massive manufacturing expansion. That will include spending $20 billion on two new factories at an existing campus in Chandler, Arizona, that will create 3,000 permanent jobs. Intel will then work on future sites in the United States and in Europe, Gelsinger said. Intel will use those factories to make its own chips but also open them to outside customers in what is called a "foundry" business model in the chip industry. Gelsinger said the new factories will focused on cutting-edge computing chip manufacturing, rather than the older or specialty technologies that some manufacturers such as GlobalFoundries specialize in. "We are absolutely committed to leading process technology capabilities at scale for the industry, and for our customers," Gelsigner said, adding that Intel has lined up customers for the new factories but could not disclose their names. He did say on a webcast Tuesday that Amazon.com Inc , Cisco Systems Inc, Qualcomm Inc and Microsoft Corp support its efforts to offer chip manufacturing services. The move is a direct challenge to TSMC and Samsung. The two have come to dominate semiconductor manufacturing business, moving its center of gravity from the United States, where much of the technology was once invented, to Asia, where more than two-thirds of advanced chips are now manufactured. Gelsinger said Intel will aim to change that global balance by embracing the foundry business where it historically has been a minor player. Intel will offer chip customers the ability license out its own technological crown jewels - known as the x86 instruction set architecture - as well as offer to build chips based on technology from Arm Ltd or the emerging open source technology RISC-V, he said. "We will be picking our next sites within the next year for U.S. and Europe," he said. Intel also announced plans for new research collaboration with IBM focused on computing chip and packaging technology. But even as Intel jumps into competition with TSMC and Samsung, it also plans to become a larger customer of theirs by turning to them to make subcomponents of its chips called "tiles" to make some chips more cost-effectively. Intel plans to make the compute "tiles" for its "Meteor Lake" and "Granite Rapids" chips at its own factories for 2023 but will also offer PC and data center chips with compute tiles from TSMC, Gelsinger said, without giving more detail on the products with parts from TSMC. "I'll pick the best process technologies wherever they exist," Gelsinger said. "I leverage internal and external supply chains. I'll have the best cost structure. That combination of supply, products and costs, we think is a killer combination."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/intel-doubles-down-on-chip-manufacturing-plans-20-billion-for-new-arizona-sites-965753.html
24-03-2021||National||Mistrust between China, India at all-time high, says US admiral||While the US-India military relationship is at its best level in years, the mistrust between China and India is at an all-time high, a top US admiral has said and alleged that Beijing's lack of transparency and duplicitous actions in the Indian Ocean region threaten stability and security there. Admiral John C. Aquilino also commended India's efforts to protect its northern border during a months-long standoff with China. "The mistrust between China and India is at an all-time high. In addition to the rupture of bilateral relations as a result of the LAC (Line of Actual Control) skirmish, India is deeply suspicious of Chinese activities as part of the 'One Belt, One Road' initiative," Aquilino told members of the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday during the confirmation hearing for commander, US Indo-Pacific Command. "China's posture initiatives in both Gwadar, Pakistan, and Hambantota, Sri Lanka, also cause India concern. As is the case across the Indo-Pacific, PRC's lack of transparency and duplicitous actions in the Indian Ocean region threaten stability and security in the region," he said in a written response to a set of questions from Senators for the confirmation hearing. Replying to a question from Senator Deb Fischer about China's actions along India's borders and the future of the India-US military cooperation, Aquilino commended the work done by India to protect its northern border. He also highlighted the need for cooperation and working with allies and partners to build deterrence. Aquilino said the US-India military relationship is at its best level in years, and the United States continues to experience growth in both bilateral and multilateral engagements and exercises, high-profile joint operations, and an increased number of senior-level engagements. Recent operations by the Chinese have helped highlight the threat China's actions pose to all nations, including India. "The conclusion of enabling agreements over the past several years has allowed us to operate more closely, and we are able to work together more than ever before to secure a free and open Indo-Pacific," he said. If confirmed, the top US admiral said, his priorities would be to maintain the momentum that has been generated by his predecessor and build information sharing and security agreements, support India's defence transformation efforts through exchanges and exercises, continue to encourage India's acquisition of US equipment to promote interoperability, and increase military-to-military contacts throughout standing dialogues, senior leader contacts, and working-level exchanges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mistrust-between-china-india-at-all-time-high-says-us-admiral-965763.html
24-03-2021||National||India, US agree to re-establish Homeland Security Dialogue||The Biden administration has announced the re-establishment of the Homeland Security Dialogue with India that was discontinued by the previous Trump dispensation. This comes a day after Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas spoke with India's Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu on Monday and expressed his desire to further strengthen the partnership between India and his department. "Mayorkas and Sandhu agreed to re-establish the US-India Homeland Security Dialogue and to discuss important issues such as cybersecurity, emerging technology and addressing violent extremism," according to a readout of the meeting issued on Tuesday. It is rare for the department to issue a readout of the secretary's meeting with a foreign envoy. "During their discussion, they highlighted the positive engagement that has already taken place during the Biden Administration, including with the Quad, which addressed concrete commitments to cooperate on Covid-19, climate actions, and cybersecurity," said the readout. Mayorkas and Sandhu also recognised the important contributions of students and entrepreneurs that have made both countries stronger, it said. An initiative of the Obama administration, the first India-US Homeland Security Dialogue was held in May 2011. The then Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano had travelled to India to take part in the dialogue with her then Indian counterpart Home Minister P Chidambaram. The second India-US Homeland Security Dialogue was held in Washington DC in 2013, between Napolitano and the then Home Minister Sushil Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-agree-to-re-establish-homeland-security-dialogue-965777.html
24-03-2021||National||With 47,262 new cases, India's Covid-19 spike sees 4-month high||India recorded 47,262 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,34,058, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The active caseload registered an increased for the 14th day in row and was recorded at 3,68,457, comprising 3.14 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 95.49 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am said.   The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 132 days, while the country's Covid-19 death toll increased to 1,60,441, with 275 new fatalities, the highest in around 83 days. As many as 47,905 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on November 12 last year, it said. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,05,160, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.37 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,64,38,861 samples have been tested till March 23, with 10,25,628 samples tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-47262-new-cases-indias-covid-19-spike-sees-4-month-high-965797.html
24-03-2021||National||TMC MPs rush to Delhi to stop 'bulldozing' of GNCTD Bill in Rajya Sabha||TMC MP Derek O'Brien on Wednesday said his party MPs have rushed to the national capital to stop the "bulldozing" of the Bill that seeks to give more power to the Delhi Lieutenant Governor, in the Rajya Sabha. "Two days to go for elections in five States. Yet Trinamool's Rajya Sabha MPs air dash to Delhi to stop bulldozing of #GNCT Bill that disempowers an elected Delhi government. Another knife into the heart of democracy, the Constitution and Parliament. Worse still, Home Minister electioneering, not piloting Bill. Cruel irony," he tweeted. O'Brien had on Tuesday written to Rajya Sabha chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, requesting him to postpone the consideration and passing of the bill in view of the absence of TMC members in the Upper House due to the West Bengal assembly polls. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday, seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor (L-G)". The bill also makes it mandatory for the Delhi government to take the opinion of the L-G before any executive action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tmc-mps-rush-to-delhi-to-stop-bulldozing-of-gnctd-bill-in-rajya-sabha-965803.html
24-03-2021||National||Delhi govt identifies these spaces as Covid-19 'super spreaders'||Calling malls, cinema halls, weekly markets, metro services and religious places "superspreader" areas, the Delhi government has directed all district magistrates to greatly intensify enforcement of Covid-19 norms in such places in view of a persistent rise in cases in the city. In an order issued on Tuesday, Divisional Commissioner Sanjeev Khirwar had said areas where sero-surveillance was low should also be targeted with more intensive efforts. He noted that guidelines and instructions have been issued from time to time for testing, surveillance, isolation, vaccination and Covid appropriate behaviour for the public in general, and people venturing in weekly markets, transporting vehicles, malls, cinemas, religious and social gathering and banquet halls in particular. "There are several superspreader areas like weekly markets, cinema, malls, metro services, religious places etc. All the district magistrates (DMs) should greatly intensify their enforcement efforts and IEC (information, education and communication) campaign in these areas," Khirwar said in the order. The divisional commissioner has also asked the DMs to personally monitor these activities and treat this upscaling of efforts as a matter of "top most priority". The order stated that the last fortnight has seen a persistent increase in coronavirus cases in Delhi and the positivity rate is also on the rise. It has been observed that Covid appropriate behaviour is not being followed amongst the general public, it stated. On Tuesday, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had ordered that there would be no public celebrations and gathering in the national capital for upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. Delhi reported 1,101 Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest in over three months, while four people succumbed to the disease during the same period, the health department said. It was the first time since December 24 last year that the city recorded more than 1,000 Covid-19 cases. The DDMA has called for additional precautionary measures to prevent and control the rapid increase of cases in Delhi regarding people coming to the city from other states where Covid-19 cases have recently been rising significantly. "All DDMA authorities will conduct random testing (RAT/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from the states where Covid-19 cases are surging, at all airports, railway stations, Inter-State Bus Terminals (ISBT) and other alighting points," it had said in another order on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-govt-identifies-these-spaces-as-covid-19-super-spreaders-965810.html
24-03-2021||National||CJI SA Bobde recommends Justice NV Ramana as his successor||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde has recommended the name of the second senior-most judge in the Supreme Court, Justice N V Ramana as his successor. Justice Bobde, who demits office on April 23, apparently closed in-house inquiry against Justice Ramana on a complaint filed by Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. After a formal approval of the recommendation by the Union government, Justice Ramana would become the 48th Chief Justice of India on April 24 with the superannuation of Justice Bobde. Justice Bobde followed the Memorandum of Procedure in recommending the name of the second senior-most judge, Justice Ramana as the next CJI. According to norms, communication is sent by the outgoing CJI, recommending the name of his successor. On Wednesday, the CJI handed over a copy of the recommendation letter to Justice Ramana. A statement was also issued by the Supreme Court saying, "A complaint by the Andhra Pradesh CM was dealt with under the In-House Procedure and the same, on due consideration, stands dismissed". Justice Ramana, who hails from Andhra Pradesh, was elevated to the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014. He would retire on August 26, 2022. He was appointed as judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in 2000. He has also been acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court. He has also been Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court. In October 2020, a huge controversy erupted as the Andhra Pradesh CM wrote to the CJI alleging that the state High Court was being used to "destabilise and topple his democratically-elected government". The letter accused Justice Ramana of trying to control the High Court and influence cases affecting the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cji-sa-bobde-recommends-justice-nv-ramana-as-his-successor-965811.html
24-03-2021||National||One year since Covid-19 lockdown: India still recovering from unemployment blow||India is still not out of the woods as far as unemployment is concerned after a year when the lockdown was imposed to contain the spread of deadly Covid-19 on March 25 last year as pandemic-induced job loss has not tapered off consistently. The government had imposed a lockdown to curb the spread of the pandemic but this impacted economic and commercial activities and resulted in job loss and later on the exodus of migrant workers which rocked the entire nation. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) data, the unemployment rate was recorded at 6.9 per cent in February 2021 which is slightly better than 7.8 per cent in the same month last year and 8.8 per cent in March 2020, during which lockdown was imposed. The data showed that the unemployment rate had peaked to 23.5 per cent in April and remained at 21.7 per cent in May. It started tapering off from June onward when it was recorded at 10.2 per cent in the month and further improved to 7.4 per cent in July. However, the unemployment rate again rose slightly to 8.3 in August and improved to 6.7 per cent in September last year, as per CMIE data. In October, unemployment again rose slightly to 7 per cent and then eased to 6.5 per cent in November last year as per the data. The CMIE data showed that the unemployment rate had risen to 9.1 per cent in December 2020 and improved in January to 6.5 per cent. Experts said that the CMIE data indicated improvement in the unemployment scenario from July onwards, but there is a need for consistency which would only come after an increase in buoyancy in the manufacturing and services sectors. They were of the view that the farm sector has done well which engages over 55 per cent of the country's population but there is a need for improvement in hiring in urban and industrial areas. They opined that the government has taken many steps to boost fresh hiring in the country but repeated policy interventions and monitoring of existing schemes and initiatives at the ground level are required to achieve consistent improvement in the employment scenario in the country. According to labour ministry data, around 16.5 lakh people have benefited from the Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rozgar Yojana (ABRY) which was launched in October to encourage hiring in the country amid the COVID-19 pandemic till March 9, 2021. The scheme was introduced on October 1, 2020, to incentivise the creation of new employment along with social security benefits and restoration of loss of employment during the pandemic. This scheme, being implemented through the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), reduces the financial burden of the employers of various sectors/ industries and encourages them to hire more workers. Under the ABRY, the government is crediting for a period of two years both the employees' share (12 per cent of wages) and employers' share (12 per cent of wages) of contribution payable. Under the ABRY, about 16.5 lakhs beneficiaries registered themselves with the Scheme from October 1, 2020 and out of this, approximately 13.64 lakhs are new joinees with UAN (universal account number) generated on or after October 1, 2020, and approximately 2.86 lakhs are re-joinees who were rendered un-employed during the pandemic from March 1, 2020 to September 30, 2020, and rejoined from October 1, 2020, onwards. The experts said that the government intends to create 50 lakh to 60 lakh jobs through the ABRY in two years' time, but it required close monitoring and well-planned implementation to achieve the desired objective. Under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the government has contributed both 12 per cent employer's share and 12 per cent employee's share under Employees Provident Fund (EPF), totaling 24 per cent of the wage for the wage month from March to August 2020, for the establishments having up to 100 employees with 90 per cent of such employees earning less than Rs 15,000. Under the PMGKY scheme, Rs 2,567.66 crore was credited in EPF accounts of 38.82 lakhs eligible employees. The recently released latest EPFO payroll data showed that net new enrolments with the retirement fund body grew about 28 per cent to 13.36 lakh in January compared to the same month in 2020. The data also reflected a growth of 24 per cent for January 2021 over December last year. The EPFO has added around 62.49 lakh subscribers during the first ten months of the ongoing fiscal year, the data showed. During 2019-20, the number of net new subscribers rose to 78.58 lakh as compared to 61.12 lakh in the preceding fiscal. The EPFO payroll data also gives a perspective about the employment scenario in the country||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/one-year-since-covid-19-lockdown-india-still-recovering-from-unemployment-blow-965824.html
24-03-2021||National||Genome sequencing shows a new variant of coronavirus in India||Adding to the pile of woes that the resurgent coronavirus crisis in India has brought, the country has now detected a novel variant of the SARS-CoV-2 in Maharashtra with double mutation. Genome sequencing by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) has shown variants of concern and a novel variant in India. The novel SARS-CoV-2 variant has been found in Maharashtra with double mutation, the consortium said on Wednesday. "The analysis of samples from Maharashtra has revealed that compared to December 2020, there has been an increase in the fraction of samples with the E484Q and L452R mutations. Such mutations confer immune escape and increased infectivity. These mutations have been found in about 15-20 per cent of samples and do not match any previously catalogued variants of concern (VOCs)," INSACOG said in a statement. "From Kerala 2,032 samples (from all 14 districts) have been sequenced. The N440K variant that is associated with immune escape has been found in 123 samples from 11 districts. This variant was earlier found in 33% of samples from Andhra Pradesh, and in 53 of 104 samples from Telangana. This variant has also been reported from 16 other countries including UK, Denmark, Singapore, Japan and Australia. As of now these can be at best said to be variant under investigation," the INSACOG statement also said. 771 variants of concerns (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples shared by States/UTs. These include 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage, 34 samples positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage and 1 positive for viruses of the Brazilian (P.1) lineage. The samples with these VOCs have been identified in 18 states of the country, the consortium said. The report clarified that even though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, the number of cases are insufficient to establish a direct relationship or rapid increase in cases in some states and further genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are required to analyse the situation. India recorded 47,262 fresh coronavirus cases in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,34,058, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 14th day in row and was recorded at 3,68,457, comprising 3.14 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 95.49 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am said.  The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics (INSACOG) is a grouping of 10 national laboratories established by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare that carries out genomic sequencing and analysis of circulating Covid-19 viruses, and correlating epidemiological trends with genomic variants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/genome-sequencing-shows-a-new-variant-of-coronavirus-in-india-965828.html
24-03-2021||National||Over 81K paramilitary personnel sought voluntary retirement since 2011: MHA||Over 81,000 paramilitary personnel have sought voluntary retirement while close to 16,000 have resigned from the forces since 2011 with CRPF and BSF accounting for the largest number, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said on Tuesday. Minister of State for Home Nityananda Rai said "no specific study" has been conducted to ascertain the reasons for voluntary retirement or resignation from paramilitary forces. However, Rai said in a written reply to Lok Sabha, an analysis by forces indicated that personal and domestic reasons, including family issues, health issues of self or family members, social or family obligations and commitments and better career opportunities are some of the major reasons for voluntary retirement or resignation. According to the MHA statistics, a total of 81,007 personnel took voluntary retirement while 15,904 others resigned from the forces between 2011 and March 1, 2021. The highest number of voluntary retirement was in BSF at 36,768 followed by CRPF 26,164. CISF had 6,705, Assam Rifles had 4,947, SSB had 3,230 and ITBP had 3,193 voluntary retirements during this period. When it comes to resignations, CISF topped the list with 5,848 personnel putting in papers since 2011, followed by 3,837 BSF persons and 3,366 CRPF persons. ITBP witnessed 1,648 resignations, while SSB saw 1,031 and Assam Rifles saw 174 resignations. An analysis of yearly figures showed that the number of people taking VRS decreased over years — almost by half if one compares 2011 and 2020 figures. In 2011, 11,260 paramilitary personnel from six forces took voluntary retirement and the number fell to 5,935 in 2020. Till March 1, 2021, there were 1,529 voluntary retirements. Except for 2011, 2012 and 2017, the voluntary retirements stood below the 10,000-mark in the past ten years. In 2011, there were 10,859 voluntary retirements while in 2017 it was 11,728, the highest for any year in the past 10 years. The numbers were 9,355 in 2013, 5,931 in 2014 and 1,686 in 2015. However, 2016 saw a rise to 6,981 and 2018 saw 8,132 voluntary retirements. In 2019, there were 7,611 voluntary retirements. When it comes to resignations, the figure crossed the 2,000-mark only twice — 2,332 in 2013 and 2,026 in 2015. While there were 132 resignations this year till March 1, last year saw 1,529 personnel resigning. Rai said the government has taken corrective measures to address the issue of personnel taking voluntary retirement. Forces now organise regular Sainik Sammelans, seminars, interactive and counselling sessions at various levels to redress the grievances. "The remedial measures for increasing satisfaction level of force personnel such as grant of leave, option for choice posting,  posting of couples at same stations, providing family accommodation, provision of medical and education facilities, etc. are taken regularly," he said. Further, he said, prior to acceptance of voluntary retirement, individuals concerned are counseled by the Head of office and Head of Department about consequences and likely financial hardships they might face after voluntary retirement. Cases of voluntary retirements are processed only when the individuals are not willing to continue in services even after counseling by senior officers, Rai added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-81k-paramilitary-personnel-sought-voluntary-retirement-since-2011-mha-965830.html
24-03-2021||National||Verdict in Tarun Tejpal rape case on April 27: Police||A sessions court in Goa will on April 27 pronounce its verdict in the 2013 rape case registered against Tarun Tejpal, former Editor-in-Chief of Tehelka magazine, a police officer said on Wednesday. Tejpal is accused of raping his journalist colleague inside an elevator of a five-star hotel in Goa in 2013 during an event organised by the news magazine. Additional district and sessions court judge Kshama Joshi heard final arguments in the Tejpal case on March 8 and fixed the matter for judgment to a later date. Investigating Officer Sunita Sawant told PTI that the court fixed the date of a verdict on April 27. Tejpal faces charges under sections 341 (wrongful restraint), 342 (wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force with intent to outrage modesty), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (assault or use of criminal force to woman with intent to disrobe), 376 (2)(f) (person in position of authority over women, committing rape) and 376(2)(k) (rape by person in position of control) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The arguments in the matter were held in-camera by the North Goa district and sessions court in Mapusa town during which 71 prosecution witnesses and five defence witnesses were examined. The Goa crime branch had filed 2,846 pages chargesheet against Tejpal in February 2014. After the case was booked against him, Tejpal denied the allegations saying they were part of a "political vendetta" by the BJP government in Goa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/verdict-in-tarun-tejpal-rape-case-on-april-27-police-965834.html
24-03-2021||National||Coronavirus conundrum: Railways registers 70% loss in passenger earnings; sees profit in freight||The Railways suffered a loss of Rs 38,017 crore in the passenger segment in the last fiscal due to the coronavirus crisis, but some of what it lost was compensated by the goodwill it earned by running Shramik Special trains, ferrying essentials and through innovation in freight movement which helped surpass last years' revenues. While regular train services are yet to resume, the focus of the Railways has been to ensure that its freight revenues hold steady. The Railways managed to surpass the freight revenues of last year by Rs 1868 crore or two per cent as of March 22 -- paltry gains, but a huge boost, given the problems that came with the coronavirus lockdown. As far as the passenger segment is concerned, while it netted Rs 53525.57 last year as revenue, this year it could earn only Rs 15507.68, 71.03 per cent less. The total passenger revenue between the period April 2020 to February 2021 is Rs 12,409.49 crores as against the Rs 48,809.40 crore for the corresponding period the previous year. Even as it faced restrictions in moving passengers, on May 1 railways began to ferry migrant workers home. Between May 1 and August 30, the Railways ferried 63.15 lakh, such workers, home across 23 states in over 4,000 Shramik Special trains. What earned the Railways immense goodwill through the lockdown was its drastic changes in freight movement, introducing parcel services, carrying essentials like milk, medicines and even ventilators. The innovation was to realise that if the Railways could not move passengers freely, it could move freight instead. Applauds galore were received from across the country -- from mothers who received medicines for their ailing children, some who received specialised products like camel milk thanked the railways through social media posts. However, identifying opportunities and building on them with innovations are set to hold the national transporter in good stead in the coming fiscal. To make the most of it, Business Development Units (BDUs) have been set up at Railway Board, Zonal Railway and Divisional levels. These multi-disciplinary teams have reached out to customers to attract new business. It has also introduced time-tabled parcel services to provide reliable services to courier services, e-commerce companies. According to data provided by the Railways as of March 22, its freight loading for the year stood at 1191.76 MT as compared to 1185.99 MT during the same period last year, showing a growth of around 0.5 MT The highest growth in non-traditional commodities, according to rail ministry data has been led by chemical salt (439 per cent), sand (274 per cent), cotton (266 per cent), onion (234 per cent) and automobiles (84 per cent). Railways’ increase in loading of farm produce can be attributed to the Kisan Rails that were introduced in July 2020 with a 50 per cent subsidy for transportation costs of fruits and vegetables on these rails. Keeping in mind the increasing requirement of freight locomotives in the coming future, the Railways in January this year instructed Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) to upgrade 200 of the existing 6000 HP freight locomotives to 9000 HP locomotives. Since then, CLW has turned out three such locos, two of which have been commissioned after successful trials. However, it's not just in loading that the freight segment has benefited during the corona crisis. The average speed of goods trains has doubled from the previous 23.71 kmph to around 45.36 kmph. The struggle will be to keep them going at this speed when passenger trains start plying. Currently, the Railways is operating 8634 special trains, which includes 2402 mail/express trains, 5381 suburban trains and 851 passenger trains. While it has restored 75 per cent of its mail/express trains, only 18 per cent of its passenger trains have been restored. With 7377 trains running per day, overall, the Railways so far has restored 65 per cent of its pre-Covid-19 tally of 11,319 trains. While the Railways has restored these services, the trains are running as “specials” with a slightly higher fare, which the national transporter said was to discourage unnecessary travel. To discourage such travel, the Railways has also hiked platform tickets in some areas, stopped providing linen as well as food to passengers and completely withdrawn concessions in fares except in a handful of categories. It has also made masks mandatory while travelling. While it is not clear when regular train services are set to resume, the coronavirus pandemic has ensured that not just the rules of travelling, but even the norms of ferrying goods have seen a 360-degree change.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-conundrum-railways-registers-70-loss-in-passenger-earnings-sees-profit-in-freight-965848.html
24-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi's letter to Imran Khan step in right direction: Mehbooba Mufti||PDP president Mehbooba Mufti on Wednesday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi's letter to his Pakistani counterpart Imran Khan was a step in the right direction and expressed hope that it would lead to a process of dialogue and reconciliation. “PM Modi reaching out to his Pakistani counterpart is a step in the right direction. As Vajpayee ji famously said, one can change his friends but not neighbours. I hope this leads to a process of dialogue & reconciliation. Kashmir needs healing,” she said on Twitter. Modi had on Tuesday written to Khan to extend greetings to the people of that country on the occasion of Pakistan Day. "As a neighbouring country, India desires cordial relations with the people of Pakistan. For this, an environment of trust, devoid of terror and hostility, is imperative," he said in the letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-letter-to-imran-khan-step-in-right-direction-mehbooba-mufti-965850.html
24-03-2021||National||Impose curbs during upcoming festivals: Centre to states amid rising Covid-19 cases||With a string of festivals coming up amid the second wave of Covid-19 , the Union Health Ministry on Wednesday wrote to the states asking them to impose restrictions to prevent “public observation of the festivals” and “mass gathering.” "In view of the upcoming festivals, it is strongly advised that the states may consider imposing local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and either limit or do away with mass gatherings,” Arti Ahuja, Additional Secretary in the Union Health Ministry wrote in a letter. Popular festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Bihu, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr are scheduled over the next fortnight. The official cites the steps taken by the Delhi government, which has begun to put in place safeguarding measures as the number of new Covid-19 cases crossed 1,000 after a few months. "Holi, Kumbh Mela, Shab-e-Barat, Easter, Baishakhi are dangerous from the point of view of pandemic. We are grateful to the Delhi government for taking the right decision. I request all the state governments to avoid such situations that are known to enhance the chances of (disease) transmission,” said NITI Ayog member Vinod Paul. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan pointed out that Maharashtra and Punjab were matters of grave concern due to the unusually high number of new Covid-19 cases and deaths. Other states and union territories that are witnessing a steep rise in Covid cases are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Chandigarh. "Any laxity at this point in ensuring strict adherence to various SOP issued by the Health Ministry to contain the spread of Covid-19 may result in losing the impetus and benefits that India gained so far in managing the virus,” Ahuja wrote. "Strict adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour in public places and gatherings is the key to break the chain of transmission and reduce the incidence of cases in the country,” she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impose-curbs-during-upcoming-festivals-centre-to-states-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-965852.html
24-03-2021||National||No digital tax if goods, services sold via Indian e-commerce players||In a bid to provide a level-playing field, the government has decided not to levy a 2 per cent digital service tax if goods and services are sold through the Indian arm of foreign e-commerce players. The amendment to Finance Bill 2021 clarifies that offshore e-commerce platforms don't have to pay a 2 per cent equalisation levy if they have a permanent establishment or they pay any income tax here. However, foreign companies who are not paying any tax will have to pay. The digital tax introduced in April 2020, applies only to non-resident companies with annual revenues in excess of Rs 2 crore, and covers online sales of goods and services to Indians. "Through the government amendment... I intend to clarify that this equalisation levy is not applicable on consideration for goods which are owned by Indian residents," Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said why replying to a debate Finance Bill 2021 in Lok Sabha on Tuesday. Pointing out that this government is in favour of digital transactions, she said, "we will never do anything to undermine it. But yet, equalisation levy is a tax which has been imposed to give level playing field between Indian businesses who pay tax in India and foreign e-commerce companies who do business in India but do not pay any income tax here." The equalisation levy became a contentious issue after the US termed it discriminatory against American firms. Defending its stand, India had said that the objective of the levy is to provide greater clarity, certainty and predictability in respect of characterisation of payments for digital services and consequent tax liabilities to all stakeholders, so as to minimise costs of compliance and administration as also tax disputes in these matters. The equalisation levy is seen as an additional safeguard against BEPS (Base Erosion and Profit Shifting) and loss of revenue in India due to activities of the e-commerce operators operating in the country. The concept of equalisation levy in India emerged as a result of the deliberations of the OECD Base Erosion and Profit Shifting Project, which crystallised in the BEPS Project report.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-digital-tax-if-goods-services-sold-via-indian-e-commerce-players-965854.html
24-03-2021||National||Only those sent from other states to foment trouble in Bengal are outsiders for TMC: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the Trinamool Congress (TMC) only considers those who are sent to Bengal from other states to create trouble as outsiders. She also said that those from other states who are living in Bengal for ages are considered as her “own people.” Speaking at a rally in Bishnupur in Bankura district, the TMC supremo said that those from other states who are living in Bengal for generations are an “integral part” of Bengal. “But those tilak sporting, pan massala chewing people from states such as Uttar Pradesh who come to Bengal to create trouble before elections are outsider goons. We will continue to call them outsider goons,” said Mamata. Her comments come hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed her for labeling BJP leaders as “outsider” and said that if the BJP is voted to power in Bengal, a “son of the soil” will be the Chief Minister. Lashing out at Modi, the TMC supremo said that although she has great respect for the Prime Minister’s post, but has never seen a "liar" like Modi. Mamata raised questions on the Prime Minister’s poll promise of depositing Rs 15 lakh in everyone’s bank account and LPG cylinders' high price. She also asked what was the fate of the Centre’s Ujjwala scheme and what was the reson behind scarcity of kerosene. Accusing the Prime Minister of failing to keep his poll promises, Mamata said that the “Centre’s Beti Bachao Beti Padhao scheme has failed. Unlike Modi, when I make a promise, I fulfill it.” She also said that the TMC government has successfully implemented schemes such as Sabuj Sathi, Kanyashree and Swasthya Sathi. “Why are Narendra Modi and Amit Shah silent even as farmers are agitating on the streets for months? Why are spikes being laid at the farmers’ protest site? Is the Prime Minister only concerned about safeguarding the interests of a large industrial group and not about farmers?” asked Mamata. Scoffing at the BJP’s promise of implementing the Seventh Pay Commission in Bengal if voted to power, Mamata said that the BJP should first come clean on why the PSUs are being shut down leaving thousands of employees facing possible unemployment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-those-sent-from-other-states-to-foment-trouble-in-bengal-are-outsiders-for-tmc-mamata-965856.html
24-03-2021||National||RJD walks out from Rajya Sabha over ruckus in Bihar Assembly||The RJD on Wednesday walked out from the Rajya Sabha after its members were not allowed to raise the issue of alleged roughing up of opposition legislators, including some women MLAs, inside the Bihar Assembly. RJD member Manoj Kumar Jha sought to raise the issue of the ruckus in the Bihar Assembly but was not allowed to do so by the Chair. Leader of Opposition and Congress member Mallikarjun Kharge supported Jha, but Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu did not permit them to raise the issue, saying matters of states are not allowed to be raised in the upper house. Naidu said he had disallowed some members from raising the issues concerning Maharashtra also. Jha and some other members of the RJD then staged a walkout in protest. Jha stood up to raise the issue soon after scheduled papers were laid on the table of the House, and said a "heinous crime" has taken place and even women MLAs were not spared. "I have gone through your (Jha) notice. It is a matter concerning the state so I cannot take it up...You can take up the issue in the State itself," Naidu said. As Jha insisted on raising the issue, Kharge said the Rajya Sabha Chairman has the discretion to allow a discussion on an issue related to "injustice" in a state, and urged Naidu to let Jha speak. However, Naidu did not agree and suggested that a common policy be evolved on whether state related issues should be taken up or not. "Next time, let us have a meeting of all parties, not in the Business Advisory Committee, but in the general purpose committee and you all people can come to a conclusion that Rajya Sabha can take up issues of states," he said. He said the other day some people wanted to take up the Maharashtra issue, but he did not permit them. "Now somebody want to raise the Bihar issue and tomorrow somebody else wants to raise some other state issue. If we can discuss and have a common approach, and a common policy. If it suits me I will raise this issue otherwise I will oppose. I can't do that," Naidu said. The Bihar Assembly witnessed unprecedented turmoil on Tuesday and the police was called in to physically evict opposition legislators who had laid siege to the Speaker's chamber. They were protesting against the Police Special Powers Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rjd-walks-out-from-rajya-sabha-over-ruckus-in-bihar-assembly-965875.html
24-03-2021||National||After Varsity VC, UP minister seeks ban on 'azaan' through loudspeakers||Within days of Allahabad Central University vice-chancellor terming it as ''noise pollution'', an Uttar Pradesh minister has sought a ban on 'azaan' (a call from the mosques for prayers at prescribed times) through loudspeakers saying that it adversely impacted the health of the people besides creating many other problems. Minister of state for rural development Anand Swaroop Shukla, in a letter to the district magistrate of Ballia, about 400 kilometres from here, demanded that the loudspeakers installed atop the various mosques in Ballia town be removed forthwith. ''It (azaan) is creating problems for me.....I am finding it difficult to perform yoga, worship, meditation and undertake official works owing to the noise,'' Shukla said in his letter. ''Loudspeakers are used for religious programs, appeal for donations and other information.....the high decibel sound is also affecting the studies of the students and impacting the health of the older people and the sick,'' he said. He has asked the district magistrate to get the loudspeakers installed on the mosques removed and direct the caretakers of the mosques to follow the supreme court guidelines on the level of sound. Barely a few days back Allahabad University VC Professor Sangeeta Srivastava, in a letter entitled ''Noise Pollution in Civil Lines'', to the district magistrate, said that she was not against any religion but any religious practice must not disturb others. ''Every day in the morning at about 5.30 AM, my sleep is disturbed due to loud azaan done on the mike by the maulvi in the surrounding mosque...even before the Eid, they announce seheri (breakfast before Roza) at 4 AM....the sleep so disturbed does not resume even after trying very hard...this also results in headache throughout the day,'' she had said in the letter. The letter, however, triggered sharp reactions from the Muslim clerics, who referred to the 'bhajan-kirtans' and 'artis' in the temples to question the VC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-varsity-vc-up-minister-seeks-ban-on-azaan-through-loudspeakers-965877.html
24-03-2021||National||Rs 7 lakh cr being spent on green highways: Gadkari||The government is spending Rs 7 lakh crore on building green express highways through modern technology which in turn would provide smart transportation and reduce pollution, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Wednesday. Of these, Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway is likely to be completed within a year while Delhi-Meerut Expressway will be inaugurated in a month or two, the Road Transport and Highways Minister said while addressing a virtual event organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce here. "We are spending Rs 7 lakh crore on building green express highways. These...will reduce air pollution, traffic jam and minimise logistics and transportation cost," he said at the National Roads & Highways Summit "Focus on Green Infrastructure". He said these are being built with state-of-the-art technology with advanced engineering to provide intelligent traffic while taking care of ecology and environment conservation with an aim to reduce greenhouse emission. The Prime Minister has set a target of Rs 111 lakh crore under the National Infrastructure Pipeline and it would be the government's effort to adopt a green approach and "development without destruction," the minister said. Of the 22 green highway corridors, Delhi-Mumbai Expressway on a new alignment would reduce the travel time between both the metropolises to 12 hours by car in comparison to 40 hours at present, he said. "Sixty per cent of this 1,300 km project has been completed and we are trying to complete it within one year," the minister said adding that the first phase of the Delhi-Mumbai Expressway project will have 8 lanes while the second phase will have 12. A separate electric highway lane will be constructed in it, he said and added that within a year electric trucks will be available. Gadkari said work on the Delhi-Amritsar-Katra project is likely to start in two to three months and in the pipeline are Rs 4,063 crore Delhi-Faridabad-Sohna expresses highway and Rs 4,000 crore Ahmedabad-Dholera highway. As far as Delhi is concerned, Gadkari said projects worth Rs 60,000 crore are being implemented to reduce air pollution in the national capital and said Rs 10,000 crore Dwarka-Express Highway is an "engineering marvel". He said 50 per cent of work has been completed on the 30 km project that has one tunnel and flyovers. Urban Extension Road-II (UER-II) project for Delhi has also been cleared, Gadkari said. "Delhi-Meerut expressway will be inaugurated in next one to two months and it will reduce the travel time to Meerut from Delhi to 45 minutes from the present 4 hours," Gadkari said. The minister said with the completion of the Delhi-Saharanpur-Dehradun project, the travel time between Delhi and Dehradun will reduce to two hours and "it is a promise, not a declaration.". Projects will also ensure Delhi to Chandigarh in 2 hours and Delhi to Haridwar also in 2 hours, he said. The minister said the Rs 12,000 crore Chardham project to provide all-weather connectivity to Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath is nearing completion and will boost tourism in Uttarakhand. In addition, priority will also be given to the Rs 12,000 crore Raipur-Visakhapatnam project and Rs 10,000 crore Bengaluru Ring Road project besides Surat-Ahmedabad, Durg-Raipur, Chennai-Salem projects. The minister exuded confidence that the national highways' building pace will reach 40-km a day by March-end. He said the ministry has already exceeded the target for building 11,000 km of highways in the current fiscal year and to date it has constructed 12,205 km which translates into 34-km a day. Also, he said the Centre has signed a USD 500 million contract with the World Bank for constructing safe and green corridors in Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh. He also warned the cement and steel industry to not indulge in cartelisation and said that he was "not happy with the attitude of the steel and cement industry". He noted that emphasis was being laid on using innovative materials like jute, coir, plastic, rubber and other material. Asserting that toll income was likely to reach Rs 1,34,000 crore in the next three to four years, he said Rs 10,000 crore was lost due to COVID-19 but by March-end, toll collection was likely to reach Rs 31,000 crore. He said as part of automation, GPS-based tolling is being planned where toll collection will be done based on actual distance traversed by the vehicle through GPS. Smart vehicle tracking system is on the anvil, the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-7-lakh-cr-being-spent-on-green-highways-gadkari-965881.html
24-03-2021||National||How Delhi govt used home isolation model to contain Covid-19 cases during lockdown||As it augmented beds in dedicated hospitals and kept ready plush hotels and banquet halls to meet needs of serious patients, the Delhi government had introduced a model of home isolation during the Covid-19-induced lockdown which also proved an effective way to contain coronavirus cases. The first Covid-19 case in Delhi was reported on March 1 and the first major surge of the pandemic had occurred in June 2020, when cases in excess of 3,000 were recorded for the first time in the national capital. Today marks the completion of exactly one year of the nationwide lockdown imposed in the wake of the spread of the deadly coronavirus pandemic that has till date infected over 6.49 lakh people and claimed lives of 10,967 in Delhi. On Tuesday, the national capital recorded 1,101 cases, the highest daily count this year, and the first time it crossed the 1,000-mark in 2021. Daily incidences, active cases, containment zones and home isolation cases, all metrics have been showing an upward trend for the past several days. The city government, soon after the lockdown was imposed late March last year, had chalked out several measures to check the spread of the coronavirus infection, and one of the innovative steps taken by it was quarantining asymptomatic and mild cases at theirs homes. With movement of general citizens restricted and people afraid to step out of their houses during the lockdown, the decision to let infected people in certain category of cases to self-quarantine under the government supervision, also brought relief to many such patients. The Delhi government had also significantly scaled up daily testing capacity after June, and went aggressive in tracing cases by conducting tests at markets, mohalla clinics and other crowded places. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, in an interview to PTI last September had asserted that the city government's home  isolation policy had proved a "game changer" in taming the surge in June, a strategy it continued to pursue. The city had witnessed a big wave in spread of infection over a long period of time in June, and on June 23, the daily cases count had mounted to 3,947, the highest single-day spike in Delhi till date then, with 68 fatalities in one day, which had taken the overall tally here to over 66,000. Daily cases continued to be reported in excess of 3,000 till June 26 when the figure stood at 3,460. The cases count had relatively been lower in July and August. After showing a spike again since September 1, Delhi had recorded 3,256 fresh Covid-19 cases on September 6, the first time since June 26 when the daily cases count had breached the 3000-mark. The Delhi health minister has often emphasised that "testing, tracing, isolation and treatment" strategy has been vigorously followed during the lockdown period and the unlock phase, and "aggressive contact tracing" also being done, to ensure infected persons are isolated as soon as possible, so they won't infect others. Amid the worsening situation in June, the Delhi government had taken a multiple number of steps for Covid-19 management, including attaching big, plush hotels to dedicated coronavirus facilities, reserving beds for Covid-19 patients in private hospitals, keeping banquet halls and stadia prepared to meet any serious requirements. Though the cases did not flare up then, as expected, the government tried to manage asymptomatic and mild cases of Covid-19 by offering them home quarantine care, thus allowing beds to be available for symptomatic and serious patients. As per its home isolation policy, the Delhi government has been monitoring condition of patients through tele-consultation facilities and also distributed oximeters to help them keep a tab on their oxygen level. Asked what was the most effective strategy of the government that helped contain the surge, Jain in September had said that "Home isolation was our biggest strategy, and it proved a game changer". "Today, also, we are on the right course, and we will continue to pursue that strategy for effective Covid-19 management," he had said. According to official figures shared by the Delhi health department, there was a rise of 80 per cent in the number of home isolation cases of Covid-19 in the national capital between August 21 (5,818) and September 5 (10,514). The home isolation figures on July 1 had stood at 16,703 with 437 containment zones marked in the city. On July 31, while the home isolation cases count had come down to 5,763, the containment zones had risen to 692, according to official data. Since, last week of August, the number of home isolation cases and containment zones count, both had steadily increased. On, September 7, the number of home isolation cases and containment zones count, both rose to 11,613 and 1114 respectively. After the third wave of the pandemic hit Delhi in November, number of home isolation cases and other metrics had also gone further up, which since December had started to show a downward trend. However, in March this year, the home isolation cases have risen again, jumping to 2,316 on March 23 while the containment zones count mounted to 871. With the surge being reported around the first anniversary of the lockdown, the city government has already issued orders for stricter implementation of testing, tracing and isolation of cases, and renewed focus on home isolation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-delhi-govt-used-home-isolation-model-to-contain-covid-19-cases-during-lockdown-965888.html
24-03-2021||National||Bill to amend law governing airport economic regulatory authority in Lok Sabha||A Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Wednesday to allow the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority to set tariff for the airports that will be part of the next phase of privatisation. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 proposes to amend the definition of “major airport” so as to extend its scope to determine the tariff for a group of airports also, which will encourage the development of smaller airports. The Bill comes at a time when the government is planning to club profit-making airports and non-profit making airports as a package for development under the public-private-partnership model. “This approach would develop not only the high traffic volume profitable airports but also the low traffic volume non-profitable airports,” Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said while introducing the Bill in the Lok Sabha. He said developing more airports through a public-private-partnership model would expand air connectivity to relatively remote and far-flung areas. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India has been determining the tariffs of aeronautical charges at major airports in the country. The government plans to offer 30-35 airports for development in the public-private-partnership model over the next five years. The Centre recently privatised the airports at Mangaluru, Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Thiruvananthapuram, Jaipur and Lucknow. It has now listed out airports in Varanasi, Bhubaneshwar, Amritsar, Indore, Raipur and Trichy for the next round of privatisation. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in her Budget speech that the government will privatise airports operated by AAI from tier II and III cities during 2021-22.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bill-to-amend-law-governing-airport-economic-regulatory-authority-in-lok-sabha-965893.html
24-03-2021||National||Parliament passes National Commission for Allied, Healthcare Professions Bill||A bill to set up a Commission for regulating and prescribing uniform education standards for allied and healthcare professionals was approved by Parliament with the Lok Sabha giving nod to the legislation by a voice vote on Wednesday. The National Commission for Allied and Healthcare Professions Bill, 2021, seeks to provide for regulation and maintenance of standards of education and services by allied and healthcare professionals. Replying to a debate on the Bill, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said that the legislation is aimed at fulfilling long-pending demands of the sector and enhance employment opportunities for professionals.   "The paramedics and allied healthcare workers are a critical part of the medical profession and their contribution is similar to doctors, if not more. The group of allied professionals is large and the bill is trying to regulate this field, by providing dignity to their roles," he said. The bill has already been passed by Rajya Sabha last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-national-commission-for-allied-healthcare-professions-bill-965899.html
24-03-2021||National||Is there a mechanism to check use of Electoral Bonds for illegal purposes, SC asks Centre||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought to know from the Union government if there was a mechanism to check a political party from using the funds received through Electoral Bonds for illegal purposes, including violent protest and terrorist activities. "We are sure there are political parties who have violence on their agenda. Can not a political party fund terrorist operations? We don't want to get into politics and not comment on any party, but can't a party receive bonds and then fund a protest which turns violent. What is the control of the government on what use the money is put to," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde asked Attorney General K K Venugopal. The A-G, for his part, responded that political parties, which were registered under Representation of Peoples Act and had secured not less than one per cent of votes can not encash the bonds received as donation. He also pointed out the political parties can encash the bond only from the State Bank of India. "If a party buys Electoral Bonds worth Rs 100 crores what is the assurance that it won't be used for illegal purposes or fund violence," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, again asked. The court also wondered if the bonds, sold in anonymity, helped in curtailing use of black money. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for his part, said only cheque and demand drafts were accepted for buying bonds after complying KYC norms. Responding to a different query from the court, the A-G said the permission from the Election Commission has been taken for opening sale of Electoral Bonds between April 1 to 10. The Election Commission's counsel, for his part, said, "We are supporting Electoral Bonds and not opposing it. If disallowed, we go back to the period when there was unaccounted deposits. At least now, there is accountability." He said the EC just wanted transparency. Bhushan said the RBI and the Election Commission had both raised strong reservations about the Electoral Bonds, which was unprecedented and had not happened anywhere in the world. He claimed the EBs had opened the way of donations from large corporations through shell companies like bribes. "Nobody can come to know who is the last transferee and who are the initial subscribers of these electoral bonds," he said. Bhushan also contended the ECI had called it "complete retrograde" amendment introduced through the Finance Act, 2017. "If your argument is correct, we have to strike down the law in full. How do we decide this in an interim application," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/is-there-a-mechanism-to-check-use-of-electoral-bonds-for-illegal-purposes-sc-asks-centre-965906.html
24-03-2021||National||NIA invokes Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act against Sachin Vaze||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) invoked UAPA against suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vazein in the case involving explosive laden-Scorpio near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani. Vaze would be produced in the special NIA court on Thursday on expiry of his remand. Meanwhile, in a related development, a Sessions court in Thane city asked the Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) of the Maharashtra police to hand over the case involving murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren to the NIA. The ATS during the over fortnight-long investigation, arrested two persons Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed constable who is serving life sentence in a fake encounter case – and is currently on parole. Besides, it has named Vaze as the prime accused in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-invokes-unlawful-activities-prevention-act-against-sachin-vaze-965918.html
24-03-2021||National||India committed towards peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan: Jaishankar to Atmar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar conveyed to his Afghan counterpart Mohammad Haneef Atmar India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign and stable Afghanistan where the rights of all sections are protected within a democratic constitutional framework. Jaishankar mentioned it during his extensive talks with Atmar on Monday, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said. The Afghan foreign minister was on a three-day India visit from March 22-24 primarily to discuss the Afghan peace process with Indian leaders and explore ways to further bolster bilateral cooperation in a range of areas including trade and investment, and defence. "The external affairs minister (EAM) highlighted that enduring peace in Afghanistan is important for the peace, security and prosperity of the region and the world," the MEA said in a statement on Wednesday. It said Jaishankar underscored the importance of a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire for a successful Afghan peace process. "EAM reassured the Afghan foreign minister of India's long-term commitment towards a peaceful, sovereign, stable and inclusive Afghanistan where the rights of all sections of the society are protected within a democratic constitutional framework," the MEA said. It said a range of issues were discussed during the meeting including India's extensive development partnership with Afghanistan, issues of mutual interest in the region and the world, and the Afghan peace efforts. "The talks were held in a warm and friendly atmosphere, with a very detailed and healthy exchange of views," it added. The MEA said the discussions focused on strengthening the India–Afghanistan strategic partnership, particularly cooperation in the areas of political, security, trade, economic, capacity development, education, social and cultural relations. At a media briefing, Atmar said on Tuesday that India is part of the regional and international consensus-building process on bringing peace to Afghanistan and that Kabul is seeking a greater role for New Delhi for it. The Afghan foreign minister held talks with National Security Advisor Ajit Doval as well. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-committed-towards-peaceful-sovereign-and-stable-afghanistan-jaishankar-to-atmar-965929.html
24-03-2021||National||Indian Air Force has shortage of 405 pilots: Govt in Lok Sabha||The Indian Air Force has a shortage of 405 pilots against the authorised strength, the government told Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik said the number of pilots in the Indian Air Force at present is 3,834 as against the sanctioned strength of 4,239. "There is a shortage of 405 pilots (as on March 1) in the IAF," he said, replying to a question. He said 260 aircraft are being used for training of pilots in the force. The trainer aircraft in the IAF included Pilatus PC-7 Mk-II, Kiran MkI/IA and Hawk Mk-132 advanced jet trainer. To a separate question on whether India can counter China effectively with hypersonic vehicles, the minister declined to answer saying the information sought is highly sensitive and classified. "The information sought is highly sensitive and classified and cannot be divulged on the floor of the House," he said in his written reply. Replying to another question, Naik said 1,98,881 dwelling units were planned for construction through Married Accommodation Project route and 57,875 units were already built under phase one of the project. He said 69,904 units were planned to be built under phase two of the project out of which construction of 58,062 units was completed. Naik said there was a plan to construct 71,102 units under phase three of the project but an in-principle decision has been taken to construct further married accommodation through the Annual Major Works Programme route.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-air-force-has-shortage-of-405-pilots-govt-in-lok-sabha-965931.html
24-03-2021||National||50 people can offer prayers at Nizamuddin Markaz mosque during festival, Centre tells HC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Delhi High Court that 50 people chosen by the Waqf board can be allowed to offer prayers at the mosque in the Nizamuddin Markaz during the coming festival season once the names of those individuals are provided to the SHO of the area. The submission was made before Justice Mukta Gupta by the central government during the hearing of a plea seeking opening of the Nizamuddin Markaz where the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was held amid the Covid-19 pandemic and has been locked since March 31 last year. Advocate Rajat Nair, appearing for the Centre, told the court that the Delhi Waqf Board has to forward an application containing the 50 names to the Station House Officer (SHO) of the area and thereafter, those persons alone would be allowed to enter the mosque to offer prayers. The submission on behalf of the Centre was made after the Board, represented by senior advocate Ramesh Gupta and advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, urged the court to permit some individuals to pray at the mosque during the coming 'shab-e-barat' holiday at the end of the week. They said that only the mosque would be used and not the madrasa located there. Gupta also urged the court to decide the matter before the holy month of Ramzan commences from April 13 as more people would want to offer prayers at the mosque during that time. The court, thereafter, listed the matter for hearing on April 12. The Board, in its plea, has contended that even after unlock-1 guidelines permitted religious places outside containment zones to be opened, the markaz -- comprising the Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and attached hostel -- continues to be locked up. It has further contended that even if the premises as part of any criminal investigation or trial, keeping it "under lock as an out of bound area" was a "primitive method" of the enquiry process. An FIR has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat event held at the markaz and the subsequent stay of foreigners there during the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/50-people-can-offer-prayers-at-nizamuddin-markaz-mosque-during-festival-centre-tells-hc-965936.html
24-03-2021||National||Cannot give postal ballot facility to overseas Indian voters in upcoming assembly polls: Centre in LS||The postal ballot facility for eligible overseas Indian electors cannot be extended for the upcoming assembly polls as the matter is still under discussion with the Ministry of External Affairs to iron out logistical challenges in implementing the proposal, Lok Sabha was informed on Wednesday. Responding to a question, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply that the Election Commission had moved a proposal to amend the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961 to facilitate Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) for overseas electors. "Since the matter is still under discussion with the Ministry of External Affairs to iron out the logistical challenges involved in the implementation of the proposal, it will not be possible to extend the said facility to the overseas electors in the upcoming elections to the state legislative assemblies," he said. West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry are going to assembly polls beginning March 27. Speaking at an event last week, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora had said that after the elections to five assemblies are over, the poll panel would hold a seminar with all stakeholders on the issue of postal ballot facility for overseas voters as suggested by the government. He hoped that the concept would materialise in the next six months or a year. At present NRIs can vote in the constituency in which their place of residence, as mentioned in the passport, is located. Some time ago Commission began to look for options to enable NRIs to vote from overseas after it received several requests for expanding voting options.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cannot-give-postal-ballot-facility-to-overseas-indian-voters-in-upcoming-assembly-polls-centre-in-ls-965938.html
24-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha returns Finance Bill 2021 without amendments, completing Parliament approval for Budget||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday returned the Finance Bill 2021 without any new amendment, completing the Parliamentary approval for Budget 2021-22. The Upper House debated the amended Finance Bill 2021 that was approved by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. It returned the Bill after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had to curtail her reply to the discussion on the legislation after a verbal spat with TMC members over implementation of central schemes such as PM Kisan Yojana and Ayushman Bharat in West Bengal. While Sitharaman said the state government had not given names of farmers for giving cash help under the PM Kisan Yojana, TMC members countered saying the state had given the nod for the scheme and the minister was not speaking the truth. The two Houses had previously approved the Appropriation Bill, authorising spending of certain sum of money. With the Rajya Sabha returning the Finance Bill 2021, the Parliamentary approval for Budget 2021-21 has been completed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-returns-finance-bill-2021-without-amendments-completing-parliament-approval-for-budget-965945.html
24-03-2021||National||HC suspends 2-year jail term to Somnath Bharti in assault case||The Delhi High Court Wednesday suspended the two-year jail term of AAP MLA Somnath Bharti in a case of assault on AIIMS security staff. Justice Suresh Kait also stayed Bharti's conviction in the case and sought response of the Delhi government on his plea challenging his conviction and the sentence. The high court listed the matter for further hearing in May 20. Bharti was taken into custody and sent to prison on Tuesday after pronouncement of the verdict by a trial court here. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here with a JCB operator. A magistrate had in January sentenced him to two years in prison. The punishment was upheld by a sessions judge on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-suspends-2-year-jail-term-to-somnath-bharti-in-assault-case-965946.html
24-03-2021||National||Petitions against police, underworld highest in NHRC: Govt||Complaints against police and underworld as well as those related to women, service matters and jails dominate the list of petitions received by National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) in the past six years, the Ministry of Home Affairs said on Wednesday. The information was part of the written reply tabled by Minister of State for Home G Kishan Reddy to questions raised by Congress MP Rajmani Patel in Rajya Sabha. According to statistics, NHRC received a total of 5.23 lakh complaints between 2015-16 and 2020-21 till February 28 with Uttar Pradesh topping the list accounting for 2.03 lakh cases. In 2020-21 too, UP topped the list with 27,958 complaints followed by Delhi (5,461), Tamil Nadu (4,248) and Bihar (3,517). Karnataka had 979 cases in 2015-16 followed by 1,434, 883, 1,384 and 741 in the next four fiscals. In 2020-21, there were 841 complaints from the south Indian state. An analysis of the NHRC statistics showed that there were 1.45 lakh complaints against police between 2015-16 and 2020-21 till February 28, the highest among 28 categories listed by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The highest number of complaints against police was in 2015-16 when the NHRC received 35,533 and there was a decrease in 2016-17 (27,845) and 2017-18 (26,391). However, 2018-19 saw a slight increase to 27,492 only to dip in the next fiscal to 16,286 and to 11,955 in 2020-21 till February 28. Complaints about women came second with 41,474 petitions in the past six fiscals -- 8105, 7,413, 7,459, 7,842, 6,791 and 3,864 respectively. Petitions related to service matters also reached the NHRC in large numbers -- 29,495 -- followed by those against mafia/underworld 29,444. When it comes to human rights violations by mafia/underworld, there were 5,871 such petitions in 2015-16. This declined to 4,853 in 2016-17 and 3,683 in 2017-18 but rose substantially to 5,183 in 2018-19 and 5,457 in 2019-20. In 2020-21, there were 4,397 such cases till February 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petitions-against-police-underworld-highest-in-nhrc-govt-965947.html
24-03-2021||National||Centre fears rise in ration rates under Delhi's doorstep ration scheme ||Raising critical objections to the Delhi government's doorstep ration delivery scheme, Union Food Secretary Sudhanshu Pandey on Wednesday said 72 lakh ration card holders in the national capital may end up buying foodgrains at a higher rate than Rs 1-3 per kg fixed under a central law if the proposed scheme is implemented.     Besides, Delhi beneficiaries who keep changing their residence from one locality to another will get an option to choose only once a year the fair price shop (FPS) from where they intend to buy the subsidised foodgrains, while such option is being given every month under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) enacted by the central government, he said.     Also, biometric authenticated distribution of ration is not happening in Delhi despite the Centre ensuring installation of electronic point of sale (ePoS) machines in about 2018 FPSs in the Union Territory, Pandey said and raised concern about alleged diversion of foodgrains. Pandey said the Centre has already flagged concerns with the Delhi government and asked not to implement the 'Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana' -- which is scheduled to start from March 25 -- saying it deviates from the NFSA.       A day after the Centre raised objections, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on March 20 said the scheme of his government would not have any name. He, however, asserted, "We will accept all conditions of the Centre but will not allow any obstruction in implementation of the scheme."     However giving point-by-point objections to the Delhi's proposed scheme, Pandey told PTI: "This is a complete deviation from NFSA. This is not permissible."       Firstly, the Delhi government cannot launch its own scheme using the subsidised foodgrains provided by the central government under NFSA, he said.      Secondly, it cannot be silent on rates at which it will sell ration under the proposed scheme as its February 20 notification clearly says that "the cost of subsidised foodgrains, and a specified amount as milling/conversion charges will be collected from the beneficiaries."     "This means conversion and packaging charges will be collected from the beneficiaries. ...The price at which ration will be sold to beneficiaries will be more than what has been fixed under NFSA," he said.     Also, the milling and packaging charges would keep changing every year with change in contractor. There is no fixed rate as it keeps changing every year, he explained.     Whereas under NSFA, the Centre has fixed an uniform subsidised rate for foodgrains at Rs 1-3 per kg across the country. The rates have not been changed since 2013 when the law was passed in Parliament.     The Delhi government's Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana plans to distribute "packaged wheat flour instead of wheat and cleaned/packaged rice" at the doorstep of beneficiaries at "affordable prices".     Asked why the Centre was raising objections ahead of the launch of the scheme as the Delhi notification was issued last month, the Secretary said: "The Delhi government had not sent the notification with any letter. It came as a routine. It was put up and the department examined and thereafter we came to know about the gaps."     The Delhi government has "misinterpreted" Section 24 of the NFSA on doorstep delivery. The Act clearly states a doorstep delivery is to an FPS outlet and not the beneficiary's home.     On the option to choose FPS, the Secretary said while NFSA gives a choice to a beneficiary to choose FPS every month, the Delhi government is restricting it to once a year even though the data shows high intra-state movement of beneficiaries form one locality to another for jobs or other reasons.     About 35 per cent portable transactions were recorded between January and April of 2018 in the national capital when the ration card portability scheme was first launched here, before the 'One Nation, One Ration Card' scheme was introduced, he said.     "If the beneficiary is given an option to change only once a year then it becomes a tricky situation," he noted.     On biometric authenticated distribution of ration, the Secretary said despite ePoS machines installed, the Delhi government has not yet activated them even though it does not have any internet or broadband related problems.     "In Delhi, not even one gram foodgrain is distributed with biometric authentication. There is 100 per cent biometrically authenticated distribution in UP and other states," he said, adding that several meetings have been held with the UT requesting it to expedite the implementation.     Pandey also observed that operating via FPSs is more convenient in Delhi as it has a higher number of FPS for covering 72 lakh beneficiaries when compared to other states where beneficiaries are much higher.     Stating that distribution of subsidised foodgrains to the poor should not become a "casualty" with implementation of this new scheme, he said, "Therefore, we have told the Delhi government clearly to either come out with its own scheme or can add to a central scheme, components like distribution of edible oil, sugar and other items which some others states are doing."      Currently, NFSA provides coverage for about 81 crore people, comprising 67 per cent of the country's total population. In Delhi, there are 72 lakh beneficiaries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-fears-rise-in-ration-rates-under-delhis-doorstep-ration-scheme-965956.html
24-03-2021||National||56% RTI pleas rejected due to disclosure of personal info, exemption to security agencies: CIC||Disclosure of personal information and exemption given to security and intelligence agencies became the basis for rejection of over 56 per cent of RTI applications in 2019-20 under the transparency law, the annual report of the Central Information Commission (CIC) showed.  More than 13.74 lakh RTI applications were received in 2019-20 across 2,131 public authorities, an all-time high figure. This showed a nominal increase of 0.3 per cent from 2018-19, while the rate of rejection was at an all-time low at 4.27 per cent. The rejection of an RTI application is "permissible" only under the exemptions given in Sections 8, 9, 11 and 24 of the act but the report shows a category of "others" used by government departments to discard applications, Venkatesh Nayak of the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative, who presented his analysis of the report, on Wednesday said. Nayak said a total of 62,123 applications were rejected by public authorities in 2019-20 out of which 38,064 were rejected citing RTI Act exemption clauses, while 24,059 were rejected on reasons clubbed as "others".   "According to Section 7(1) of the RTI Act, a public information officer may reject an RTI application only for reasons specified under Section 8 and 9. To this list of Sections, 11 and 24 may also be added which also create valid grounds for refusing access to information under specific circumstances. No other reason or excuse is permissible for rejection under the RTI Act," he said. Nayak said public authorities used the "dubious" category of "others" to reject applications which the Central Information Commission includes in its Annual Report without questioning its validity.  The commission itself in the 2011-12 report had called for "closer scrutiny and inspection" of "others" cited as rejection ground but not further action took place, he said.  RTI applications were rejected citing Section 8(1)(j) of the RTI Act in 12,962 cases and Section 24 in 8,504 cases to reject applications, making them two major grounds for discarding information-seeking pleas. Nayak said Section 8(1)(j) related to personal information and partial immunity enjoyed by security agencies under Section 24. It was cited in over 56 per cent of the total 38,064 rejected RTI applications citing permissible grounds. Section 24, which relates to partial immunity given to only 26 intelligence and security agencies from the RTI Act, was cited in one of every five RTI applications that were rejected.  The section provides special immunity to the listed agencies but other government departments cited it to reject applications as well.  "The Ministry of Labour and Employment rejected 150 RTIs (40 per cent of the total number rejected by invoking permissible exemptions) under Section 24 of the acting 2019-20 despite not having any organisation under its jurisdiction. Yet this phenomenon does not merit any discussion in the annual report," Nayak said. The Ministries of Parliamentary Affairs and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship and the Election Commission of India did not report any rejections in 2019-20, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/56-rti-pleas-rejected-due-to-disclosure-of-personal-info-exemption-to-security-agencies-cic-965969.html
24-03-2021||National||Spectrum sold in the recent auction can be used for 5G||The government on Wednesday said the spectrum auctioned earlier this month can be used for deploying 5G services. Recently, the government conducted an auction of spectrum in 700 MHz (megahertz), 800 MHz, 900 MHz, 1800 MHz, 2100 MHz, 2300 MHz and 2500 MHz bands in March 2021. Bidders acquired spectrum bands of 800 Mhz, 900 Mhz, 1800 Mhz, 2100 Mhz and 2300 Mhz. "Spectrum acquired through auction can be used to provide services using any technology including 5G," Minister of State for Communications Sanjay Dhotre told Lok Sabha. He said bids for 855.60 MHz spectrum with a total valuation of Rs 77,820.82 have been received and a total of Rs 21,918.48 crore as an upfront payment has been received in the financial year 2020-21. "A total of 3 bidders participated in the spectrum auction conducted in March 2021 and there were total six rounds of bidding. Spectrum was sold in 74 LSA (licensed service area)-Band combinations. "A total of 2308.80 MHz spectrum with a total valuation of Rs 40,0396.20 crore at reserve price was put to auction," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/spectrum-sold-in-the-recent-auction-can-be-used-for-5g-965970.html
24-03-2021||National||India halts big exports of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine as infections surge||India has put a temporary hold on all major exports of the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India (SII) to meet demand at home as infections rise, two sources told Reuters. The move will also affect supplies to the GAVI/WHO-backed COVAX vaccine-sharing facility through which more than 180 countries are expected to get doses, one of the sources said. COVAX has so far received 17.7 million AstraZeneca doses from SII, of the 60.5 million doses India has shipped in total, and many countries are relying on the programme to immunise their citizens. "Everything else has taken a backseat, for the time being at least," said one of the sources. Both sources had direct knowledge of the matter, but declined to be named as the discussions are not public. "No exports, nothing till the time India's situation stabilises. The government won't take such a big chance at the moment when so many need to be vaccinated in India." India's foreign ministry and SII, the world's biggest vaccine manufacturer, did not immediately reply to requests for comment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-halts-big-exports-of-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-as-infections-surge-965976.html
24-03-2021||National||Covid-19 surge in Maharashtra, Punjab of grave concern: Health Ministry||The surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and Punjab is of "grave concern", the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said that the Centre held a meeting with health officials of Maharashtra and Punjab on Saturday to talk about refinement in their strategy to tackle the surge. "Two states are of grave concern which showed a recent surge in cases. The first is Maharashtra and the second is Punjab. Maharashtra reported over 28,000 cases. The top five districts are Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik," he said. Punjab is a cause for worry because the number of new cases is disproportionately high compared to its population, he said. Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Hoshiarpur in Punjab are reporting a high number of cases, Bhushan added. Bhushan said that there are other states too that are a matter of serious concern. They are Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh and Chandigarh which have recorded a surge in Covid-19 cases. In Gujarat, about 1,700 cases are being reported every day while in Madhya Pradesh, the daily figure is about 1,500. Surat, Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Rajkot and Bhavnagar in Gujarat are recording a high number of cases while Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur, Ujjain and Betul in Madhya Pradesh are recording a high number of cases. NITI Aayog member (health) V K Paul expressed concern about the pandemic with cases increasing in some states including Maharashtra, Punjab and Gujarat. "We have to battle this second peak", he said and stressed on following the Covid appropriate behaviour and using vaccination as a tool to curb transmission. "Mask is as effective as the best vaccine in the world, why are we getting lax. Please get yourself tested, where tests are happening less, positivity is increasing. A large proportion of the population is susceptible," Paul said. Karnataka and Tamil Nadu have also recorded recent surges. Karnataka is reporting about 2,000 cases daily while the number is about 1,400 in Tamil Nadu. Bhushan said that there are roughly three per cent active cases of Covid-19 and these are concentrated mainly in 10 districts -- nine in Maharashtra and one in Karnataka. Nine out of the top 10 districts with the highest active number of Covid-19 cases - Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nanded, Jalgaon and Akola - are in Maharashtra and one, Bengaluru Urban, is in Karnataka, he said. According to the health ministry data of Wednesday, Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 28,699. It is followed by Punjab with 2,254 and Karnataka with 2,010 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-surge-in-maharashtra-punjab-of-grave-concern-health-ministry-965980.html
24-03-2021||National||Centre allays concerns on Covishield; says both Covid-19 vaccines in India effective against UK and Brazilian variants||Covishield is safe and there is "no signal of concern" regarding it as of now, the Centre asserted on Wednesday amid reports of possible side-effects of the Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine and its suspension in some European countries. The AEFI committee which closely keeps track and records adverse events following immunisations has "concluded that thrombosis events due to Covishield in India are not a problem". "There is no signal whatsoever for this concern. Covishield is safe, please proceed with its scale-up and uptake. We want to assure that there is no risk of blood clotting-related complications that were suspected in some nations with Covishield," NITI Aayog member (Health) Dr V K Paul said in response to a query at a press conference. ICMR Director-General Dr Balram Bhargava said that both Covishield and Covaxin are effective against the UK and the Brazilian variants. He was asked if the vaccines that are being used right now in India are effective against the three new variants of concern -- the UK variant, South African variant and the Brazilian variant. "It is well established by research studies in the published literature that the vaccines available in our country -- both Covishield and Covaxin -- are effective against the UK and the Brazilian variants. "The research work regarding the South African variant is ongoing at the moment," he added. Paul urged the people not to doubt the efficacy of the vaccines. "Please don't spread doubt.  As of today, these vaccines work on the good old virus as well as the new variants," he said. He appealed to people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and use vaccination as a tool to battle this second peak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-allays-concerns-on-covishield-says-both-covid-19-vaccines-in-india-effective-against-uk-and-brazilian-variants-965981.html
24-03-2021||National||Meet Justice Ramana, the next Chief Justice of India||Born in an humble family of agriculturalists of Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh, Justice Ramana worked as a journalist for 'Enadu' paper for two years between 1979 to 1980, after completing Bachelor in Science. He joined the legal profession as an advocate on February 10, 1983. Justice Ramana went on to become judge of the High Court in 2000. He was elevated to the Supreme Court in 2014. Justice Ramana is seen as a conservative judge in legal circles. He does not prefer to make much observations during the hearing of cases. In the top court, he has presided over a five-judge bench which heard of petitions related to revoking of special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution. He also dealt with the matter related to ban of 4G in Jammu and Kashmir and declared that access to internet was a fundamental right. He also presided over a bench which dealt with legal questions arising out of resignation of 17 rebel MLAs of Congress and JDS of Karnataka. In a judgement, Justice Ramana said defection to another party cannot be treated as a bar for a member to contest elections again during the term of the Assembly, otherwise it would have chilling effect on legitimate dissent. He also led a bench which heard a matter as combination of Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress parties approached the court for conducting the floor test in Maharashtra Assembly. Justice Ramana would assume office of the CJI on April 24 and would continue till August 22, 2022. In his tenure as SC judge, Justice Ramana courted controversy after he invited Prime Minister Narendra Modi to a family function in 2014. Just months ago his ascension as CJI, Andhra Pradesh CM's letter came accusing him of closeness with Chandrababu Naidu and trying to de-establise his government. However, the Supreme Court dismissed the complaint by in-house proceedings. Before his appointment as judge, he practiced in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh, Central and Andhra Pradesh Administrative Tribunals and the Supreme Court in civil, criminal, constitutional, labour, service and election matters.  Justice Ramana worked as panel counsel for various government organisations, besides being Additional Standing Counsel for central government and Standing Counsel for Railways in the Central Administrative Tribunal at Hyderabad. He also functioned as Additional Advocate General of Andhra Pradesh, before having been appointed as a permanent Judge of the Andhra Pradesh High Court on June 27, 2000. He performed the role of Acting Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court since March 10, 2013 to May 20, 2013. He was elevated as the Chief Justice of Delhi High Court on September 2, 2013, before being appointed as a judge of the Supreme Court on February 17, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meet-justice-ramana-the-next-chief-justice-of-india-965985.html
24-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: P Chidambaram, son Karti summoned in INX media case||In your evening news brief, P Chidambaram and son Karti summoned by the Delhi court in the INX media case; the Supreme court says the matter of Param Bir Singh's allegations against Maharashtra HM quite serious and NDA promises Love Jihad law in Kerala poll manifesto.  Here is the top news of March 24, 2021: An array of promises from legislations for Sabarimala and against "Love Jihad", employment for at least one person from each family and free laptop to high school students, among others, have been listed in the poll manifesto of the BJP-led NDA, released by Union Minister Prakash Javedkar here on Wednesday. At a press meet, Javadekar claimed the BJP manifesto is progressive, dynamic and development-oriented and Kerala was awaiting such a manifesto. The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Bombay High Court with his plea for a CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. It, however, said, "no doubt, the matter was quite serious and affected the administration".  Dealing with Singh's plea alleging "corrupt practices" including giving collection target of Rs 100 crore by Deshmukh, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said, "The High Court has the requisite authority to address the issue." A Delhi court Wednesday issued summons to former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the INX Media money-laundering case on taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against them. Special Judge M K Nagpal issued summons against the senior Congress leader, his son and others directing them to appear before the court on April 7. Source: PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-p-chidambaram-son-karti-summoned-in-inx-media-case-965987.html
24-03-2021||National||Meghalaya justifies quota beyond 50% in SC, refers to extraordinary circumstances in state||The Meghalaya government told the Supreme Court on Wednesday that reservation beyond 50 per cent is justified in the state keeping in view its extraordinary circumstances, peculiar features and a tribal population of over 85 per cent. Arguing before a five-judge Constitution bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Meghalaya’s advocate general Amit Kumar said that the 1992 Indra Sawhney judgment (also called the Mandal verdict) which put a cap of 50 per cent on reservations, does not require re-consideration by a larger bench. He told the bench, also comprising justices L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat, that population of tribals in Meghalaya is 85.9 per cent as per the 2001 census. Referring to the Indra Sawhney verdict, Kumar argued that there are extraordinary circumstances in Meghalaya and the 50 per cent cap is rendered inapplicable in the state. Kumar read out one of the paragraphs from the 1992 verdict which said: “While 50 per cent shall be the rule, it is necessary not to put out of consideration certain extraordinary situations inherent in the great diversity of this country and the people. “It might happen that in far-flung and remote areas the population inhabiting those areas might, on account of their being out of the mainstream of national life and in view of conditions peculiar to and characteristical to them, need to be treated in a different way, some relaxation in this strict rule may become imperative. In doing so, extreme caution is to be exercised and a special case made out”. The bench also heard arguments advanced by advocates appearing for several other states and parties. The arguments in the matter remained inconclusive and would continue on Thursday. The Centre had on Tuesday told the top court that Maharashtra has the legislative competence for granting reservation to Marathas and its decision is Constitutional as the 102nd amendment does not denude a state of the power to declare its list of Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC). The 102nd Constitution amendment Act of 2018 inserted Articles 338B, which deals with the structure, duties and powers of the National Commission for Backward Class (NCBC), and 342A dealing with power of the President to notify a particular caste as SEBC as also of Parliament to change the list. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, had said that in its view the SEBC Act, 2018, of Maharashtra granting reservation to people of the Maratha community in the state in jobs and admissions is Constitutional. “The Centre is of the view that the Maharashtra SEBC Act is constitutional. We construe Article 342A gives enabling role to Central government to determine the SEBC,” Mehta had said, adding that the Centre adopts the submissions of Attorney General K K Venugopal and it should be considered as the view of the Union government. On March 18, the Attorney General had told the top court that the 102nd amendment to the Constitution does not deprive state legislatures to enact law determining the SEBC and conferring benefits on them. The apex court is hearing a clutch of pleas challenging the Bombay High Court verdict which had upheld the grant of quota to Marathas in admissions and government jobs in the state. It had on September 9 last year stayed the implementation of legislation and referred to a larger bench the batch of pleas challenging the validity of law, but made it clear that status of those who have availed of the benefits would not be disturbed. The high court, while upholding the law in June 2019, had held that 16 per cent reservation was not justifiable and the quota should not exceed 12 per cent in employment and 13 per cent in admissions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meghalaya-justifies-quota-beyond-50-in-sc-refers-to-extraordinary-circumstances-in-state-966002.html
24-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha passes NCT (Amendment) Bill giving more power to L-G in Delhi||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday approved the bill giving primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government after high drama in the House that saw uproar by the opposition and a walkout by MPs of parties like the BJD, SP, Congress and the YSR-Congress. The Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that seeks to make it clear that the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" was passed by Lok Sabha on March 22. The legislation was passed in Rajya Sabha by a voice vote on Wednesday. However, a division was sought by the opposition when the government moved the bill for consideration. During voting, 83 members were in favour while 45 opposed the bill. Just before the passage of the bill, the Congress too walked out. Earlier, Rajya Sabha witnessed uproar by opposition members who termed the bill as "unconstitutional" and demanded that it be sent to a Select Committee for scrutiny. The upper house also witnessed two brief adjournments. The members of the BJD, SP and the YSR-Congress also walked out of the House. Replying to the debate, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy sought to dispel the concerns of the opposition members saying the amendments in the Act would create a sound government mechanism in the NCT of Delhi. He said it will improve equity and inclusiveness. The amendment will lead to transparency and clarity in governance in NCT Delhi and enhance public accountability, he added. Explaining the rationale behind the bill, he said the amendments have been brought to remove ambiguities in the 1991 Act. He stressed that changes in the law have been sought in the spirit of what has been said in the Supreme Court judgement. He asserted there was no political angle and the amendments are on "technical" grounds. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, the original bill was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the legislative assembly and a Council of Ministers for Delhi and for matters connected therewith. It said that to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court which had ruled that the city government need not obtain the Lieutenant Governor's "concurrence" of every issue of day-to-day governance, the bill has been brought. "The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the L-G, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court," the statement of objects said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-passes-nct-amendment-bill-giving-more-power-to-l-g-in-delhi-966005.html
24-03-2021||National||M J Akbar moves Delhi HC against Ramani's acquittal in defamation case||The plea is scheduled to come up for hearing on Thursday before Justice Mukta Gupta. Akbar has challenged the trial court's February 17 order acquitting Ramani in the case on the ground that a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. The trial court had dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar saying that no charges were proved against Ramani. The court had said it was shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities, it had said. Ramani had made allegation of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018. He denied all the allegations of sexual harassment against the women who came forward during #MeToo campaign against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/m-j-akbar-moves-delhi-hc-against-ramanis-acquittal-in-defamation-case-966019.html
24-03-2021||National||Assembly elections: Twitter vows to crack down on manipulative, misleading content||Ahead of assembly polls, Twitter on Wednesday resolved to crack down on content that "manipulates or interferes with elections" or contains "misleading information", as the micro-blogging platform outlined a slew of election integrity measures. In a blogpost, Twitter said it is implementing "significant" product, policy, and enforcement updates that have been drawn based on learning from previous elections, both globally and in India. The measures are aimed at tackling poll-related misinformation. Towards this, Twitter has expanded its team, continues to invest in technological solutions and has deployed tools backed by technology to detect abusive content more efficiently. Twitter asserted it is taking proactive measures to prevent prohibited political advertising through comprehensive and nuanced enforcement mechanisms. "A global cross-functional team with local, cultural, and language expertise will run our election integrity work. Their role is to keep the service safe from attempts to manipulate the platform and content that can incite violence, abuse, and threats and trigger the risk of offline harm," Twitter explained in the blog. The platform said investment in technological solutions and deployment of tools mean that content that is most likely to cause harm is prioritised for review by the team of specialists to determine whether the content violates the the platform's rules. Voting for five assembly elections will begin on March 27, with West Bengal hosting eight phases over a month. Counting of votes in the four states and one union territory will take place on May 2. "Our goal is to make it easy to find credible information on Twitter while limiting the spread of potentially harmful and misleading content. In the context of these elections, we are focussed on Civic integrity and Synthetic and manipulated media," Twitter said. Elaborating on the civic integrity policy, Twitter said it will remove content that manipulates or interferes with elections and is false or contains misleading information about procedures to participate in the election process, amongst others. It also vowed to combat false information intended to intimidate or dissuade people from participating in the elections and voting, such as misleading claims that polling places are closed, polling has ended, or other misleading information relating to votes not being counted, as well as accounts that misrepresent their affiliation with a political candidate or party. Asserting its zero tolerance for platform manipulation and spam, Twitter said it will continue to strengthen the platform against attempted manipulation, including malicious automated accounts and spam, as well as other activities that violate its terms of service. "Inauthentic engagement, which includes things like selling/purchasing Tweet or account metric inflation (like Retweets, Likes, mentions, Twitter Poll votes), is a violation and we will take action on accounts that engage in this behavior, which may include permanent suspension," it said. The platform also said that it has not observed any significant manipulation or interference but will continue to conduct proactive enforcement sweeps to detect instances of inauthentic and networked activity that may be associated with the elections. Twitter banned political ads in 2019, the blogpost said, adding, "We believe that political message reach should be earned, not bought, bringing ads from political candidates and political parties to an end." "We are taking proactive measures to prevent prohibited political advertising through comprehensive and nuanced enforcement mechanisms. These include identifying and blocking ads from referenced candidates, parties, and other election-related content," it said. When people attempt to retweet content with a synthetic and manipulated media label, they will see a prompt pointing them to credible information. "These Tweets won't be algorithmically recommended by Twitter, which further reduces the visibility of misleading information," it said. Twitter is taking extra measures to ensure people have context to what is trending for them and will include a representative tweet, Twitter Moment or description to the top trends. "As explained in our Help Center, there are rules for trends and we will prevent certain terms that violate our Rules from appearing in the Trends section," Twitter pointed out. The micro-blogging platform will be launching an events page dedicated to the assembly elections on voting days and for the election results day. "The page will include a timeline of Tweets from credible accounts to provide the latest information on the days of voting and election results," it said. These will be visible to account holders in India in the Explore Tab, and will provide continuous updates and context throughout the election period with multiple language videos from a variety of news partners in the carousel. Twitter has an estimated 1.75 crore users in India, as per data cited by the government recently. Twitter had recently drawn flak over inflammatory tweets and hashtags around farmers' protests, with the micro-blogging service initially refusing to comply with orders to take down about 1,500 such posts and accounts. Twitter had complied after the government showed the rule book that contained penal provisions. Amid growing concerns over rampant abuse of social media platforms and spread of fake news, the government recently announced new regulations for digital platforms, requiring them to take down contentious content quicker, appoint grievance redressal officers and assist investigations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assembly-elections-twitter-vows-to-crack-down-on-manipulative-misleading-content-966021.html
24-03-2021||National||Fitch revises India GDP growth to 12.8% for FY22||Fitch Ratings has revised India's GDP growth estimate to 12.8 per cent for the fiscal year beginning April 1 from its previous estimate of 11 per cent, saying its recovery from the depths of the lockdown-induced recession has been swifter than expected. In its latest Global Economic Outlook (GEO), Fitch said the revision is on the back of "a stronger carryover effect, a looser fiscal stance and better virus containment." "India's second half of 2020 rebound also took GDP back above its pre-pandemic level and we have revised up our 2021-2022 forecast to 12.8 per cent from 11.0 per cent," it said. "Nevertheless, we expect the level of Indian GDP to remain well below our pre-pandemic forecast trajectory." GDP surpassed its pre-pandemic level in the December quarter, growing 0.4 per cent year-on-year, after contracting 7.3 per cent in the previous quarter.  "India's recovery from the depths of the lockdown-induced recession in 2Q20 (calendar year) has been swifter than we expected," it said. "The rapid pace of expansion at the end of 2020 was powered by falling virus cases and the gradual rollback of restrictions across States and Union territories." High-frequency indicators point to a strong start to 2021. The manufacturing PMI remained elevated in February, while the pick-up in mobility and a rise in the services PMI point to further gains in the services sector. However, the recent flare-up in new virus cases in some states has prompted us to expect milder growth in 2Q21. "Moreover, the global auto chip shortage could temporarily diminish Indian industrial production gains in 1H21(first half of 2021)," it said. The Union Budget for the fiscal year ending March 2022 (FY22) unveiled a fiscal stance more accommodative than expected. Spending is set to be increased substantially, notably infrastructure, healthcare, and military outlays. Looser fiscal policy should support the short-term cyclical recovery, which along with stronger underlying growth momentum prompted FY22 GDP growth forecast revision, Fitch said. "The increase in inoculation to the most at-risk people should allow restrictions to be eased significantly towards end-2021 and in 2022," it said. "This should further support services sector activity and consumption." The rating agency however said an impaired financial sector is likely to keep the provision of credit tight, limiting investment spending. "We expect GDP growth to ease to 5.8 per cent in FY23, a downward revision of -0.5 percentage points since December," it said. "The forecast level of GDP remains substantially below our pre-pandemic trajectory." It no longer expected the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to cut its policy rate, owing to a brighter short-term growth outlook and a more limited decline in inflation. The RBI will nonetheless keep its policy loose over the forecast horizon to shore up the recovery. The central bank will likely continue to use forward guidance on policy rates and carry out open-market operations to keep a lid on borrowing costs, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fitch-revises-india-gdp-growth-to-128-for-fy22-966022.html
24-03-2021||National||Rs 800 crore allocated for Bengaluru Suburban Rail project: Goyal||The Centre has allocated Rs 800 crore as equity infusion from the Railway Board to a joint venture company to be set up with the Karnataka Government to implement Bengaluru Suburban Rail Project, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal informed Lok Sabha on Wednesday. Replying to BJP MP Shobha Karandlaje's question, the minister said, ”During the year 2021-22, a Budget grant of Rs 800 crore has been kept for equity infusion into Joint Venture with State Government. Budgetary requirement of Bangalore Suburban Railway Project will be released from it, based on requirement.” The Minister also said that a sum of Rs 1 crore has been earmarked by Railway Board for the year 2020-21. The Centre in October last year approved Rs 19,000 crore Suburban Rail Project for IT city. As per the proposal, a special purpose vehicle will be formed to implement the project. In the special purpose vehicle, the Centre will have 20 % of the equity in the project and facilitate external financial assistance of up to 60% of the project cost. The Karnataka Government will have to share the remaining 20% equity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rs-800-crore-allocated-for-bengaluru-suburban-rail-project-goyal-966032.html
24-03-2021||National||Will continue fight to restore power back to people: Kejriwal||Soon after the passage of GNCTD amendment bill in the Rajya Sabha, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said it was a "sad day" for democracy and stressed that his struggle to restore power back to the people would continue. The Parliament passed Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 that gives more powers to the Lieutenant Governor. It was passed in the Lok Sabha on Monday. "RS passes GNCTD amendment bill. Sad day for Indian democracy. Will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down," he tweeted. RS passes GNCTD amendment Bill. Sad day for Indian democracy We will continue our struggle to restore power back to people. Whatever be the obstacles, we will continue doing good work. Work will neither stop nor slow down. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia called it a "dark day" for democracy. "Today is a dark day for democracy. The rights of the government elected by the people of Delhi have been taken away and handed over to LG. Look at the irony, the Parliament was used to assassinate democracy which is called the temple of our democracy. People of Delhi will fight against this dictatorship #BJPFearsKejriwal," Sisodia tweeted in Hindi. The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday approved the bill giving primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government after high drama in the House that saw uproar by the opposition and a walkout by MPs of parties like the BJD, SP, Congress and the YSR-Congress. The legislation was passed in Rajya Sabha by a voice vote on Wednesday. However, a division was sought by the opposition when the government moved the bill for consideration. During voting, 83 members were in favour while 45 opposed the bill. Just before the passage of the bill, the Congress too walked out. Earlier, Rajya Sabha witnessed uproar by opposition members who termed the bill "unconstitutional" and demanded that it be sent to a Select Committee for scrutiny. The upper house also witnessed two brief adjournments. The members of the BJD, SP and the YSR-Congress also walked out of the House. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the bill, the original bill was enacted to supplement the provisions of the Constitution relating to the legislative assembly and a Council of Ministers for Delhi and for matters connected therewith. It said that to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court which had ruled that the city government need not obtain the Lieutenant Governor's "concurrence" of every issue of day-to-day governance, the bill has been brought. "The said bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the L-G, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court," the statement of objects said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-continue-fight-to-restore-power-back-to-people-kejriwal-966037.html
24-03-2021||National||Results announced for March session of JEE-Mains: NTA||Thirteen candidates scored perfect 100 in March edition of the engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains, results of which were announced on Wednesday, according to officials of the National Testing Agency. The exam was conducted from March 16 to 18 and a total of 6,19,368 candidates had registered for it. The perfect scorers are Siddharth Kalra and Kavya Chopra from Delhi; Bannuru Rohit Kumar Reddy, Madur Adarsh Reddy and Josyula Venkata Aditya from Telangana; Bratin Mondal from West Bengal; Kumar Satyadarshi from Bihar,;Mridul Agarwal and Zenith Malhotra from Rajasthan; Ashwin Abraham from Tamil Nadu; Atharva Abjhijit Tambat and Bakshi Gargi Makarand from Maharashtra. According to officials, NTA scores are normalised scores across multi-session papers and are based on the relative performance of all those who appeared for the examination in one session. "The marks obtained are converted into a scale ranging from 100 to 0 for each session of examinees. NTA score is not the same as the percentage of marks obtained," a senior official said. The Examination was conducted at 792 centres in 334 cities, including 12 cities outside India in Baharain, Colombo, Doha, Dubai, Kathmandu, Kualalumpur, Lagos, Muscat, Riyadh, Sharjah, Singapore and Kuwait. "Kargil, Kuala Lumpur, and Lagos were added for the first time on the request of candidates," the official said. The examination was conducted for the second time in 13 languages (English, Hindi, Gujarati along with Assamese, Bengali, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu and Urdu). Starting this year, the exam will be conducted four times a year to offer flexibility to students and a chance to improve their scores. While the first phase was conducted in February followed by second phase earlier this month, the next phases will be held in April and May. "After Feb, March, April, and May Session of JEE(Main)-2021 Exam, the ranks of the candidates will be released taking into consideration the best of the four NTA scores in accordance with the policy," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/results-announced-for-march-session-of-jee-mains-nta-966044.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||BJP wants to scale newer heights of progress in Assam: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said there has been significant progress in Assam over the last five years and asserted that the BJP now wants to scale newer heights of progress. He also said the BJP manifesto for the Assam assembly polls showcases the vision for the state's growth. "Our Party is honoured to have got the opportunity to serve Assam," Modi tweeted. "There has been significant progress in the state over the last five years. Building on that, we want to scale newer heights of progress. Our manifesto showcases the vision for Assam’s growth," the prime minister said. The BJP in its Assam manifesto, released by party president J P Nadda on Tuesday, has made "ten commitments" for an 'Atmanirbhar Assam' which includes initiation of process of correction and reconciliation of the entries under the Supreme Court mandated National Register of Citizens to "protect genuine Indian citizens and exclude all illegal immigrants". The BJP has also pledged to protect the political rights of the people of the state through a delimitation exercise. The party promised that Assam will be made free from the vagaries of flood by launching "Mission Brahmaputra" with a multi-pronged strategy involving the dredging of the river and building reservoirs to store excess water from Brahmaputra and its tributaries. The ruling BJP is seeking re-election and is facing the grand alliance led by the Congress in the state. Polling will be held in 47 seats in Assam on March 27 in the first phase, while 39 and 40 constituencies will go to polls on April 1 and April 6, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-wants-to-scale-newer-heights-of-progress-in-assam-pm-modi-965737.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal Assembly election: Fearing split of anti-BJP votes, TMC eyes Left vote bank||In 2011, Mamata Banerjee overthrew a Left government in West Bengal, which had dominated the eastern state for over three decades. Now, Mamata Banerjee is seeking to retain power by pitching the TMC as the only party that can stop the BJP. This rhetoric is also aimed at tapping whatever is left of the Left's vote bank. "I request my Marxist friends not to vote for either the Congress or the CPI(M) as they have become cohorts of the communal BJP," Mamata Banerjee said at a rally in Paschim Medinipur, continuing to accuse the Left and BJP of colluding against her. Banerjee is facing a difficult fight this time as she will take on her former follower and now BJP leader, Suvendu Adhikari at Nandigram in the Purba Medinipur district. She had earlier turned to the Left Front and Congress to defeat the saffron party, which has emerged as the main opposition in the state. The Left has been losing ground throughout India since the state's 2011 Assembly polls with Kerala being the only state remaining where the party is still popular. In the 2016 Assembly election, the Left Front got 29% of the popular vote. In what indicates a shift of its votes to other parties, the Left received only 7% of votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. While many organisations and political outfits are campaigning to not vote for the BJP with the hashtag #NoVoteForBJP, it is not very clear as to who they propose as an alternative and this seems to have benefitted the TMC. Prior to recent times, TMC's politics has revolved around an anti-CPI(M) narrative and that's what led to the party's victory in 2011 and 2016. However, with the meteoric rise of the BJP in the state and region, and with CPI(M) being out of the picture, TMC has had to change its stance to a more anti-BJP front to thwart the state moving to the Right, once a bastion of the Left. TMC is ostensibly looking to poach the Left vote bank to avoid splitting anti-BJP votes between itself, Congress, CPI(M) and the ISF. In a bid to stage a comeback, CPI(M) is fielding several young guns in what is seen as a breath of fresh air for the party. Two years after being thumped in the Lok Sabha elections, the CPI(M) is fighting the upcoming Assembly election with a revamped look, giving young leaders a chance to prove their mettle. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-assembly-election-fearing-split-of-anti-bjp-votes-tmc-eyes-left-vote-bank-965746.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||Away from big rallies, Rahul Gandhi has hyperlocalised his campaign strategy for Kerala||As polls approach for Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the Congress is moving away from the conventional campaigning methods of rallies and roadshows. It has instead shifted its focus to local-level interactions. Senior Congress leaders told the publication that the party has put in play a campaign to use to the fullest Rahul Gandhi's popularity in Kerala. Rahul Gandhi was recently seen at St Theresa School in Kochi, teaching Aikido, Japanese martial art, to students. These pictures were widely liked and shared. The former Congress president conducted a meeting on Tuesday on a street corner in Kottayam. He also held similar meetings Pala, Ponkunnam and Manarkadu. women are much more powerful than men, this is something society won’t tell you. Gandhi took to this campaign early on, as he was seen dancing with students of St Joseph school in Kanyakumari's Mulagumudu. He interacted with students and even did a push-ups challenge with a student.   He even went for a dive with some fishermen in Kerala and helped a village cook mushroom Biryani. The party believes that such interactions are creating a buzz among the people and helping Congress reach the people directly. "90% of Gandhi’s campaign will revolve around small, roadside meetings, interactions with sub-local groups and students and roadshows. Large public rallies would be limited because we want to create images and moments which can go viral on social media. His speech might get lost in translation, but the images will remain for a long time," another Chennai-based strategist told HT. The southern states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and union territory Puducherry are a top priority for Congress as the party lost power in all three due to internal issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/away-from-big-rallies-rahul-gandhi-has-hyperlocalised-his-campaign-strategy-for-kerala-965879.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||Want 'Dada' in BJP to clean bowl TMC: Ashok Dinda||Amid speculations that the BJP wants former India captain Sourav Ganguly to drive its fortunes in the upcoming West Bengal assembly elections, his former teammate and the saffron party's nominee from Moyna seat, Ashok Dinda, feels that the BCCI president would "clean bowl" the ruling TMC if he makes the much-anticipated move of joining the BJP. Though Ganguly has been reportedly linked with the BJP since he became the BCCI president in October 2019, the most popular sports figure from West Bengal has not yet made any political commitments. Well aware of Ganguly's leadership acumen, former West Bengal pace spearhead Dinda, who is fighting from the Moyna constituency in Purba Medinipur district, said the BJP desperately wants 'Dada' to join the party. "Clean bowled hoe jabe (TMC will be clean bowled)... If he (Ganguly) joins, we are not looking at just crossing the 200-mark; even (full seats of) 294 is possible," Dinda, who has played 13 ODIs and nine T20Is, told PTI in an interview. "Of course, we want Dada to join the BJP, because if he comes, it will be a landslide victory for us," he said. West Bengal's second-highest wicket-taker after Utpal Chatterjee, Dinda was inducted into the BJP on February 24, almost three weeks after he called it quits having played for Goa in his last domestic appearance. Dinda will contest against Trinamool Congress's Sangram Kumar Dolai, a sitting legislator since 2016. Battling on a new pitch, Dinda said he wants 'Dada' to remain by his side even during his new innings. "I want Dada to remain beside me, all my life. In good or bad times, he has always stood by me. Here, I have found another Dada (Suvendu Adhikari), but I want my cricket field's Dada to be with me as well," Dinda, who has 420 first-class wickets in a career spanning 14 years, said. Asked whether he has spoken to Ganguly after joining politics, Dinda said, "It's been a busy few days. I have not been able to talk even to my family. But I know he is with me even if I have not spoken to him of late." Ganguly, who is recovering from post-angioplasty after minor heart attacks, has recently played down the speculation of him joining BJP, saying, "We will see where it goes, what opportunities come in the way, we will take it from there." A fiery pacer during his heydays, Dinda, who hails from Noichunpur village in Moyna seat, chose politics as he found it the best way to serve the people of Moyna. "I have joined politics as this is the best platform to serve the people by being a part of the system. Honesty and hard work have always been my forte. I never made any false promises. I want to put in the same effort that had made me a cricketer," the 36-year-old said. Moyna assembly constituency will go to polls in the second phase on April 1. Dinda said though politics is a different challenge, but being a sportsperson, he is strong-willed. "On the field, you have full control over your performance. Here you have to be with the people, understand their feelings, solve their problems. Rivals will try different means to stop you, but you have to keep working hard, so it's definitely challenging. Sports has taught me how to tackle pressure and be mentally strong," he said. Asked what made him join the saffron party, he said, "BJP is a national party and one of the world's largest parties. It has a vision. It is not corrupt. It is a party with a vision and the only platform for doing social work and serving the people." Dinda said like Ganguly has been his cricket idol, Adhikari is his mentor in politics. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has left her Bhowanipore seat in Kolkata to contest her former lieutenant and BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat in the district, where an anti-land acquisition movement catapulted the TMC to power in the state in 2011. Adhikari, a former minister in Banerjee's cabinet, joined the BJP in December last year at a rally of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Medinipur. Dinda said Adhikari's party hopping is justified as he had no choice after being reduced to a "lamp post". "If the party doesn't let you work and reduces you to a mere lamp post, it obviously becomes tough. Why deprive someone if he is willing to work? I have closely seen Suvendu da since the Nandigram days. There was bloodshed everywhere and how he worked to restore sanity. He will always be my idol in politics," Dinda said. Dinda's vision is to turn his constituency to 'Sonar Moyna' (golden Moyna), with a primary focus on healthcare.  "The health facilities in Moyna are really in bad shape. There is no infrastructure, no equipment. People of this area face a lot of difficulties in case of a health issue, and have to either go to Tamluk or Kolkata for treatment," he said. He also wants to improve English medium education in Moyna and plans to establish a school-cum-sports academy in the district. "There are no good English medium schools, even though the region has a high literacy rate. We need good English medium schools. It has been my dream since 2014 to build a good school and I have also bought land for the purpose," he said. Dinda also wants to generate employment for over 40,000 migrant workers from Moyna. "If I can generate employment for them by establishing industries here, I can turn the constituency into 'Sonar Moyna' like Modiji's vision of Sonar Bangla (golden Bengal)," he said. Dinda, however, said he will also remain associated with cricket. "Cricket is my bread and butter. I have plans to establish a sports academy for cricket and football," he signed off. Elections to the 294-member assembly will be held in eight phases from March 27 to April 29. Results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/want-dada-in-bjp-to-clean-bowl-tmc-ashok-dinda-965912.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||India at forefront of initiatives to prevent non-communicable diseases: PM Modi||India is at the forefront of initiatives that seek to prevent non-communicable diseases and further wellness, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. His remarks came in response to the United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR) commending India's progress to reduce pre-mature mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and seeking cooperation with the Indian government to promote lessons learned from implementation of the National Multisectoral Action Plan for prevention and control of common NCDs. "India is at the forefront of initiatives that seek to prevent non-communicable diseases and further wellness," Modi tweeted.  "Grateful to @UNITAR for their kind words. Together, we all have to make our planet healthier," he said and tagged Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi's tweet on UNITAR commending India's remarkable progress to reduce pre-mature mortality from NCDs   India is at the forefront of initiatives that seek to prevent non-communicable diseases and further wellness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/india-at-forefront-of-initiatives-to-prevent-non-communicable-diseases-pm-modi-965937.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||'Na neta hai na niti, sirf Mahajhoot': Modi targets Cong-AUIDF in Assam||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday called upon the people of Assam to beware of the Congress-AIUDF 'Mahajoth' (grand alliance) as it is a 'Mahajhoot' (grand lie). Slamming the Congress, Modi, while addressing an election rally here, said the grand old party does not have ideals or able leaders. "Congress ke paas na neta hai na niti, sirf Mahajhoot hai (Congress doesn't have either a leader or ideals, it only has a grand lie)," he said. "I have come to awaken you to the fact that Congress's hand is with those forces that are a danger to the state's identity and culture," Modi said. Attacking the Opposition alliance, he said that Congress can go to any extent to win elections. "Now Congress has aligned with a party which was born and thrived on the strength of the infiltrators," he said.  Alleging that Congress divides people, he said, "They can do anything, betray anyone for votes." The prime minister claimed that the NDA government has taken steps to check illegal infiltration from Bangladesh and strengthen border security. "With the people's increasing trust in the BJP government which has protected the state's cultural heritage and traditions, can you hand Assam over to those who will allow entry of illegal immigrants to destroy the state's identity?" he said. The prime minister is on a day-long visit to Assam to address two election rallies at Bihpuria and Sipajhar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/na-neta-hai-na-niti-sirf-mahajhoot-modi-targets-cong-auidf-in-assam-965943.html
24-03-2021||National Politics||MLAs beaten up: Tejashwi Yadav vows not to attend House till Nitish Kumar apologises||The Opposition in Bihar, comprising the RJD, Congress and the Left, on Wednesday decided that it won’t attend the remaining tenure of the Assembly till Chief Minister Nitish Kumar apologised for the Tuesday evening incident where Opposition legislators were allegedly abused and beaten up inside the House. Some of the legislators, including the RJD and the Congress, sustained injuries when cops were summoned in the Assembly to evict the MLAs on Tuesday evening who were protesting against the Bihar Special Armed Police Act 2021 which gives the police the power to search and apprehend anyone even without a warrant. “My name is Tejashwi. CM Nitish and his puppet officers must know that no govt is permanent. MLAs were abused and beaten inside the Assembly. They have set an unparliamentary trend. If CM does not apologise for the incident, we may boycott the Assembly for the remaining tenure,” tweeted Tejashwi Yadav, the Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly. Terming the proposed law as "draconian" which gave the police unbridled power, Tejashwi said that Nitish was behaving like an autocrat and hell-bent on muzzling the voice of those who oppose him. “He will get the taste of his own medicine when the same police will someday enter the residence of Nitish Kumar and rough him up,” Tejashwi added. Calling Nitish as an agent of the saffron camp, Tejashwi said “I have already given him some names - Paltu Chacha (U-turn Uncle) and ‘Kursi’ Kumar (Chair Kumar). Today when the entire country is laughing at Bihar CM for getting the Opposition MLAs beaten up in the Assembly, I think he should now be called ‘Nirlaj’ Kumar (Shameless Kumar) for allowing female cops to heckle and beat woman MLAs in the House.” Nitish, on the other hand, questioned the kind of language used by Tejashwi and stressed the need for a proper orientation course for newly- elected MLAs so that the House could be run in a smooth manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mlas-beaten-up-tejashwi-yadav-vows-not-to-attend-house-till-nitish-kumar-apologises-965951.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Somnath Bharti moves HC challenging conviction, 2-yr jail term in assault case||AAP MLA Somnath Bharti Wednesday approached the Delhi High Court challenging his conviction and a two-year sentence for assaulting AIIMS security staff. Bharti was taken into custody and sent to prison on Tuesday after the pronouncement of the verdict by a trial court. In his plea before the high court, he has sought that the trial court's verdict be set aside, acquitting him of all charges. According to the prosecution, on September 9, 2016, Bharti, along with nearly 300 others, brought down the fence of a boundary wall at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) with a JCB operator. A magistrate had in January sentenced him to two years in prison. The punishment was upheld by a sessions judge on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/somnath-bharti-moves-hc-challenging-conviction-2-yr-jail-term-in-assault-case-965885.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||INX media case: P Chidambaram, Karti summoned by Delhi court||A Delhi court Wednesday issued summons to former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti in the INX Media money-laundering case on taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against them. Special Judge M K Nagpal issued summons against the senior Congress leader, his son and others directing them to appear before the court on April 7. Besides the Chidambarams, the charge sheet names Karti's chartered accountant S S Bhaskararaman among others. Chidambaram was arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019. On October 16, 2019, the ED arrested him in a related money-laundering case. Six days later, on October 22, the apex court granted bail to Chidambaram in the case lodged by the CBI. In the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019. The CBI had registered its case on May 15, 2017, alleging irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during Chidambaram's tenure as finance minister. Subsequently, the ED had lodged the money-laundering case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/inx-media-case-p-chidambaram-karti-summoned-by-delhi-court-965924.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||UP minister Anand Swarup Shukla calls burqa 'evil custom', says women will be 'freed' from it||Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swarup Shukla on Wednesday said Muslim women will be "freed" from the practice of wearing 'burqa', which he described as an evil custom and compared it to the banned triple talaq. This comes a day after the minister wrote to the Ballia district magistrate, complaining that he is facing difficulties in discharge of his duties due to loudspeakers at mosques and said their volume should be fixed according to the court orders. "Muslim women will be freed from 'burqa' like triple talaq. There will come a time when they will get rid of it. There are many Muslim countries where 'burqa' is banned," Shukla told reporters, without elaborating on his claim. Under the provisions of the Act, a Muslim man who pronounces "triple talaq" upon his wife can be sentenced to a jail term that may extend to three years. Shukla, the Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs minister, said 'burqa' is "inhuman and evil custom" and added that those with progressive thinking are shunning it and not pressing for its use. On his letter to the DM in which he raised objection to the volume of loudspeakers at the mosque near his house, the minister said on Wednesday that those having problems should dial '112' and inform police about it, adding if proper steps are not taken, he will decide further course of action. "Namaaz is offered five times in a day, and throughout the day. As a result of it, I face problems in doing Yoga, meditation, puja (worship) and discharging government duties," Shukla had said in the letter, referring to the Kajipura Madina Masjid in his constituency. Shukla had said there are a number of schools in the vicinity of the mosque and the practice hampers their studies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-minister-anand-swarup-shukla-calls-burqa-evil-custom-says-women-will-be-freed-from-it-965935.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Quite serious: Supreme Court on Param Bir Singh's charges against Maharashtra HM Anil Deshmukh||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Bombay High Court with his plea for a CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. It, however, said, "no doubt, the matter was quite serious and affected the administration". Dealing with Singh's plea alleging "corrupt practices" including giving collection target of Rs 100 crore by Deshmukh, a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said, "The High Court has the requisite authority to address the issue."  In a written order, the court noted there have also been subsequent developments in the matter in terms of a report by Rashmi Shukla, Commissioner, State Intelligence Department, reportedly dealing with large-scale corruption in transfer and postings of police officers. "It also appears that a lot of material which has come in the public domain is a consequence of the personas falling out," the bench pointed out. The court also ruled that no serious effort has been made to insulate police from political or executive interference despite the judgement in the Prakash Singh case (2006). Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Singh, however, contended this was a matter of serious public interest for the whole nation. Citing Prakash Singh case, he said Mumbai CP was transferred on administrative grounds but the Home minister himself said on TV that it was not so. "In our view, this (Prakash Singh) is only a mantra recited periodically, wherever the occasion so suits, and there has been no seriousness by all concerned to ever implement the directions enshrined in the judgment," the bench said. "These directions were based on the principle of insulating police machinery from political or executive interference to make it more efficient and to strengthen the rule of law. It appears that none want to give up, inter alia, the control of police transfers or implement measures that would insulate the police machinery from performing its role without any uncalled-for interference," the bench added. Rohatgi decided to withdraw the petition with the liberty to approach the High Court. He said the petition would be filed in the High Court on Wednesday itself which should be heard on Thursday. The top court, however, said this would be decided by the High Court. Singh triggered a massive political storm in Maharashtra with his letter raising grave allegations of extortion against the Home Minister on March 20. On Monday, he filed a plea in the top court also to quash the March 17 order transferring him from the post of Mumbai Police Commissioner to head of Home Guards as illegal and arbitrary.  In his petition, he reiterated his allegations against Deshmukh that he had given a collection target of Rs 100 crore to API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, who has been arrested in Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/quite-serious-supreme-court-on-param-bir-singhs-charges-against-maharashtra-hm-anil-deshmukh-965939.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Those aged 45 years and above account for 88% of all Covid-19 deaths in India||About 88 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the country are in the age group of 45 years and above, making them the most vulnerable section that needs to be protected, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the case fatality rate in this age group is 2.85 per cent. "About 88 per cent of all Covid-19 deaths in the country are taking place in the age group of 45 years and above, making them the most vulnerable group that needs to be protected," he said, adding that this is the reason behind allowing vaccination for those above 45 years from April 1. Speaking about the new coronavirus variants, National Centre for Disease Control Director S K Singh said 771 variants of concern (VOCs) have been detected in 18 states and union territories, which include 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage. Till now, no linkage has been established to say that the surge being witnessed in some states is directly because of only mutations. There are various reasons behind a surge. States having a larger pool of susceptible population are prone to witness a rise in cases. Whenever the susceptible population will lower their guard and not follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, they will get the infection, be it the normal virus or the mutants, he said. There are only three variants of concern, detected in the UK, South Africa and Brazil. In addition to these, some other variants of interest have also been found in some states, including Maharashtra and Delhi, which need to be further analysed and investigated, he added. Bhushan said there are roughly three per cent active cases of Covid-19 and these active cases are concentrated mainly in 10 districts -- nine in Maharashtra and one in Karnataka. "Two states are of grave concern which showed a recent surge in cases. First is Maharashtra which reported over 28,000 cases. The top five districts are Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai, Thane and Nashik," he said. Bhushan said Punjab is another state of grave concern because, considering its population, a very high number of cases are being reported by it. Jalandhar, SAS Nagar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Hoshiarpur in Punjab are reporting a high number of cases, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/those-aged-45-years-and-above-account-for-88-of-all-covid-19-deaths-in-india-965960.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Lok Sabha gives nod to Bill for greater role for DMs, ADMs in child care law||The Lok Sabha on Wednesday passed a Bill that seeks to empower District Magistrates and Additional District Magistrates to monitor the functions of agencies responsible for the implementation of the Juvenile Justice Act. The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill also empowers the DMs and ADMs to authorise orders of adoption and proposes that appeals on the orders of adoption are referred to a Divisional Commissioner. Responding to the debate, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights examined the implementation of the Bill and found several shortcomings. The Bill seeks to ensure that action is taken without waiting “for a child to become a victim.” She said the Bill sought to make the district magistrate a “synergising officer” for issues related to the protection of children. The Bill aims to remove difficulties with regard to the categorisation of offences wherein the maximum sentence is more than seven years’ imprisonment. Serious offences include offences for which the punishment under the Indian Penal Code or under any other law is imprisonment between three and seven years. The Bill also makes background and educational qualification checks mandatory before any person is made a member of a child welfare committee (CWC). “If you work in a child care institution, your background will be checked to detect history of sexual offences and child abuse if any,” Irani said. She said no person will be appointed as a member unless he or she has been actively involved in health, education or children welfare activities for at least seven years or is a practising professional with a degree in child psychology or psychiatry or law or social work or sociology or human development. The minister said the government has already started work on training police to deal with juvenile delinquents and their crimes and it will try its best to provide proper legal representation to accused children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lok-sabha-gives-nod-to-bill-for-greater-role-for-dms-adms-in-child-care-law-965966.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Keep Central Vista 'aesthetics' in view: Railway Board okays redesigning of Rail Bhawan||The Railway Board has given its approval to redesign its headquarters based on the "aesthetics" of the Central Vista project, even as the fate of the Rail Bhawan in Lutyens Delhi remains unclear as plans for the Rs 20,000-crore redevelopment drive are yet to be finalised. Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri informed Rajya Sabha last week that it has not finalised the number of buildings to be remodelled or demolished under its ambitious Central Visa redevelopment project. The Centre's redevelopment plan envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a common central secretariat and revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to the India Gate. The approval from the Railway Board to its infrastructure arm, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), for the revamping, renovation and modernisation of the Rail Bhawan building so as to provide a spacious, well-ventilated and clutter-free working ambience was sent on March 22. In a letter, the board has provided options for the building and asked the RVNL to come up with two different plans for the renovation of the Rail Bhawan -- one with a cost estimate and timelines for renovation in a phased manner while the office is in working mode and another with a cost estimate and timelines for complete renovation in one go with an alternative arrangement for Rail Bhawan office till such time of renovation. In another option, the board has also asked the RVNL to explore options of moving the building elsewhere. "RVNL may also study and submit a plan with cost and time required for construction of new building for Rail Bhawan duly identifying the suitable location out of the land bank available with NR (northern railway) or with the Ministry of Housing & Urban Affairs. While developing the above plans, overall aesthetics of the upcoming Central Vista Project may be kept in view," the letter, a copy of which is with PTI, stated. When contacted, Rail officials confirmed that such an approval has been given and said that the renovations were to ensure that the Rail Bhavan was in line with the design of the Central Vista plans. "This is at a nascent stage only to hire a consultant," an official said. On September 2, the Central Public Works Department under the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs released a tender calling for proposals for "Development/Redevelopment of Parliament Building, Common Central Secretariat and Central Vista". The tender is not specific about the structures that could possibly be demolished. However, Rail Bhavan finds mention in the tender under the section of Common Secretariat, where different ministries will be housed. The tender stated that these buildings have a shortage of working spaces, parking, amenities and services. "The spread of central government ministries and departments in different locations leads to inefficiencies and difficulty in coordination," it mentioned, explaining the concept of a common secretariat. The plan of the Central Vista project involves having a new Parliament building in place by India's 75th Independence Day in 2022, while the entire project, which includes constructing 11 administrative buildings to house all the government ministries, is slated to be finished by 2024. Tata Projects Limited was tasked with the construction of the new Parliament complex on September 29, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/keep-central-vista-aesthetics-in-view-railway-board-okays-redesigning-of-rail-bhawan-965974.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Former Uttarakhand CM Harish Rawat tests positive for Covid-19||Former chief minister of Uttarakhand Harish Rawat and four other members of his family tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. Sharing the information on Facebook, the Congress leader said he had finally been overpowered by "Corona pehelwan". "I and four other members of my family have tested positive for corona together. All those who have come in contact with me till this afternoon must get themselves tested as it a necessary precaution," Rawat said in his post. Rawat and his family members including his wife and daughter had got themselves tested for coronavirus earlier on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-uttarakhand-cm-harish-rawat-tests-positive-for-covid-19-965982.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||JD(U)'s Maheshwar Hazari elected deputy speaker of Bihar assembly amid Oppn boycott||Senior JD(U) leader Maheshwar Hazari was elected Deputy Speaker of the Bihar legislative assembly amid a boycott by opposition on Wednesday, accusing the ruling NDA of having throttled their voice and rammed down a "draconian" Bill on the previous day amidst unprecedented chaos. Hazari got 124 votes while the opposition that remained absent had zero. The opposition RJD, Congress, CPI-ML, CPI and CPI(M) kept away from the house and instead held a parallel session outside in one of the open grounds where they "unanimously" elected RJD's Bhudeo Chaudhary as the "Speaker" and members squatted by way of taking their "seats" Chaudhary had filed nomination for the deputy speaker post, but neither he nor the opposition MLAs participated in the election. Earlier, the opposition MLAs staged demonstrations outside the main building of the assembly on the last day of the budget session Wednesday where they stood holding placards and raising slogans against the chief minister for the happenings of the previous day. The Grand Alliance members are protesting against Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which was passed by voice vote late Tuesday night. The legislation seeks to give more teeth to what was previously known as Bihar Military Police, an elite force which, among other things, assists central paramilitary forces in guarding high-security establishments like airports, borders with Nepal and the internationally renowned Bodhi Temple complex at Bodh Gaya which has once been the target of a terrorist strike. The police bill was approved by the legislative council Wednesday amid a boycott by the opposition members. Speaking inside the assembly, Kumar expressed dismay over the turmoil witnessed on Tuesday when the proceedings were disrupted multiple times and opposition legislators had to be dragged away with the help of marshals and police personnel when they tried to prevent the speaker from taking his seat. Kumar made the remarks when he rose to congratulate fellow JD(U) leader Hazari upon being elected as the deputy speaker. The opposition has held that provisions in the Bill like doing away with the need for a warrant before conducting searches and arrests were aimed at giving unfettered powers to the police and expressed fear that this could lead to high- handedness. "It is amazing that the opposition too had fielded its candidate but chose not to take part in voting. Perhaps they were aware that they did not have the numbers so they thought it better to stay outside under some pretext", the chief minister remarked mockingly. Kumar said the opposition needed to beware of its "advisors" and realise that it was frittering away the opportunity to take part in proceedings of the house and hold forth on legislations. The opposition, however, was unmoved and its boycott of the house continued in the post-lunch session which was set apart for private members bills. "There is no point in running the House without opposition. Had the ruling dispensation not lost sight of this fact, honourable members would not have been made to undergo the humiliation yesterday. "We expect the chief minister to come and take stock of the hurt, physical and mental, we have suffered", the protesting opposition leaders said. Several videos of opposition MLAs getting kicked and dragged by the hair and female legislators being shoved by policemen have gone viral on social media. The crackdown followed their attempts to lay siege to the chamber of speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha, thereby preventing him from reaching the assembly hall and resume business. Later, police personnel had to enter the assembly hall and help marshals in physically evicting a handful of unruly legislators who had vandalized the furniture placed inside the well and clambered on to the speaker's podium in a bid to prevent him from taking his seat. Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Yadav and his MLA brother Tej Pratap Yadav had hit the streets here Tuesday against the bill. With the BJP winning the maximum number of seats within NDA in the recently concluded polls to 243-member assembly, the ruling coalition has gone for a role reversal this time with the saffron party getting speaker post and the chair of deputy speaker going to the JD(U)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jdus-maheshwar-hazari-elected-deputy-speaker-of-bihar-assembly-amid-oppn-boycott-966013.html
24-03-2021||North and Central||Yogi Adityanath urges all to 'adopt' one tuberculosis patient each||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urged the people, ministers and lawmakers on Wednesday to adopt a tuberculosis patient each and help in achieving the target to make the state free of TB by 2025. "You do not need to keep the child at home. All a person needs to do is to keep a check on the child," Adityanath said on the occasion of World Tuberculosis Day. Post-adoption, each TB patient will be entitled to Rs 500 per month for a nutritious diet and the cash amount will be directly transferred to the patient's account, the state government said in a statement. Addressing an event at Vidyagyaan School in Kasmanda block of Sitapur, Adityanath appealed to the people of the state to complete a full course of TB treatment, which is absolutely free in the state. The chief minister said all eligible people should immediately register and get vaccinated as the Centre opened up its Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above 45 years of age. He appealed to everyone to strictly adhere to the Covid protocols. There is no restriction on the celebration of festivals, but everyone should be made aware about the spread of Covid-19, Adityanath said. The vaccines have come, but the pandemic is not over yet, he said. "It takes time to develop anti-bodies. Till then, precautions are a must."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-adityanath-urges-all-to-adopt-one-tuberculosis-patient-each-966043.html
24-03-2021||Oasis||Bring your own light to the darkness||Everybody has a little bit of light and dark in them and each one of us is in charge of the switch that can either illuminate us from within or plunge us into incomprehensible darkness. I learnt this from my younger daughter as she tried to make sense of the unfamiliar terrain she found herself in.  A new country, a new school, a new way of teaching and learning, a new home were just some of the things she was grappling with. Add to this, being away from friends and everything that was dear and familiar to her she suddenly found herself is a shadow cast by her longings for what was.  Although my daughter tried to find the ‘key’ outside, it was futile. She bought books, CDs, merchandise endorsed by pop stars, examined and rearranged what was happening to her externally but sadly nothing worked. She became irritable and unhappy. The more she looked outside the darker the inside seemed to be.  Finally, she heard the story of the man looking for his keys. Stories are light and light is priceless in a world so dark. All of us have heard the story of a man looking for the keys of his house under a street light. When he was questioned by an onlooker; “where did you lose the keys?'', he honestly replied “inside my house”. The baffled bystander asked again; “Then why are you looking for it outside the house?” The man replied  “Inside my house there is darkness, at least here there is some light.”   All of a sudden things changed. She learnt pointing outside never helps; it is only pointing inwards that can bring some light. She made goals, looked at what really made her happy, took strength from her memories and confidence from her past. She considered what she could control and made an attempt to let go of what she couldn't. This changed perspective made her examine things both big and small things in a new light. She began to see the universe as a great thought rather than a great machine.  I could not help basking in her newfound acceptance and happiness. Sometimes, as we light our own way forward we realise, the deeper the shadow the brighter is the light.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/bring-your-own-light-to-the-darkness-965692.html
24-03-2021||Panorama||Minimal invasive knee replacement surgery||It is not less than a marvel for people who undergo knee replacements to walk independently in just a few hours post-surgery. Thanks to the progress that knee replacement technology has made--we see a lot of people with a history of knee surgeries and replacement procedures run marathons and lead a higher quality of life. Knee replacement surgery is one of the most successful modern orthopaedic procedures. However, pain and other side effects associated with the surgical procedure remain a concern for many people. In particular, people are concerned about the uncomfortable physical therapy that is often required after knee replacement surgery to regain muscle strength and mobility. Minimally invasive knee replacement surgery on the other hand is commonly used to describe several modifications of conventional knee replacement surgeries. These modified procedures are designed to reduce the tissue trauma associated with surgery. The goal is to reduce post-operative discomfort, speed up recovery and discharge, and reduce the need for physical therapy. Some advantages include: Less damage to the skin and surrounding soft tissue, including muscles, ligaments and tendons Less blood loss during surgery Less post-operative pain Smaller scar Shorter hospital stay (2-4 days as compared to 5-7 days) Difference between traditional replacement surgery and the new-age techniques Traditional knee replacement surgery involves cutting into the quadriceps tendon to turn the kneecap over and push it out of the way to expose the arthritic joint that is to be replaced. Minimally invasive knee replacement is performed through a shorter incision—typically 4 to 6 inches, versus 8 to 10 inches for traditional knee replacement. A smaller incision is done by utilizing special instruments, allowing less tissue disturbance. Traditional knee replacement is done through a cut in the quadriceps tendon, whereas the tendon is completely spared in minimally invasive knee replacement. A Subvastus approach to the knee allows us to approach the same surgery by lifting up the muscles, rather than cutting through them. The patella is not everted but slid to the side during the procedure, enabling the surgeon to use a smaller incision. This greatly reduces bleeding and postoperative pain. This has also significantly reduced the need for postoperative drains and catheters in patients undergoing knee replacements today. New and improved anaesthesia techniques, as well as pain management medications and methods, have reduced pain & improved recovery after knee replacement surgery. Any method of speeding up recovery after surgery is desirable, as many people are anxious to return to their day-to-day activities. Who is eligible? Knee replacement surgery should be sought when a person has debilitating pain that is not responding to pain medications, exercise, weight loss, and reasonable activity modification. The best candidates for minimally invasive knee replacement surgery are: Younger people (though opinions vary, this generally means patients younger than 65yrs) Thin, not obese or overly muscular people Small or medium frame people. Those who need larger sized implants seem to have more complications Without bone and joint deformity, such as severe Osteoporosis, knock-knees or bow-legs People who are motivated and well-informed about their surgery and rehabilitation Patient education is critical to ensure the desired outcome of a minimally invasive knee replacement surgery. It is important to understand the available information and using that knowledge to become an active, and participating partner in planning the procedure. This will help you to be aware and realistic of the expectations, benefits, and limitations of knee replacement surgery – which are critical for successful outcomes after surgery. Every person recovers differently. Even two identical surgical procedures in the same person can be associated with a unique recovery. For example, patients who undergo two knee replacements at the same time, one on each knee, can experience somewhat different recoveries on each side.  (The writer is Consultant- Orthopaedic Surgery at a network of hospitals in Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/minimal-invasive-knee-replacement-surgery-965691.html
24-03-2021||Panorama||Why did India close Jalalabad consulate?||In a sudden and surprising development in March last year, India closed its consulates in Jalalabad and Herat. Jalalabad is 65 km from the Torkham border crossing with Pakistan, and Herat about 120 km from Iran. Though there was no official statement, one newspaper reported that a high-level security group had recommended closure over heightened security threats and Covid-related concerns. The closure was said to be temporary, and reopening would await a review. India has had consulates at these cities even in the years when fighting raged. Jalalabad has characteristics that make it unique. An adage is that the road to Kabul runs through Kandahar. Whilst that makes Kandahar the fulcrum, it is Jalalabad which is the cultural capital. It is a ‘city of poets’ where every street has its share of poets. Afghans love poetry and have a couplet for every conceivable occasion. This is the city that Pakistan covets. Founded by Mughal emperor Babur, it gets its name from his grandson Jalaluddin Akbar. It is where foreign invaders were tested in the ‘Great Game’ -- the phrase made famous by Rudyard Kipling in his book Kim.  It was here that the Anglo-Afghan wars played out. The British military suffered its greatest disaster at Gandamak, 40 km away, losing 16,000 men in the First Anglo-Afghan War (1839-42). The British commander, Maj Gen Elphinstone, died in captivity and was buried in an unmarked grave in Jalalabad.  In the Second Anglo-Afghan war (1878), it was the Afghans who were bested and forced to sign an agreement, again at Gandamak, ceding Quetta, Pishin, Sibi, Harnai, Kurram and Khyber to the Raj and surrendering control over foreign relations. This was formalised, in 1893, through an agreement signed by Sir Mortimer Durand and Emir Abdur Rehman Khan demarcating the border between British India and Afghanistan. This created a buffer between Tsarist Russia and Imperial Britain’s possessions. In the process, it split the Pashtun heartland, dividing tribes and families, and the area ceded by Afghanistan became the North-West Frontier Province (NWFP).  The Afghans never reconciled to their lands becoming part of Pakistan when the British withdrew and opposed Pakistan’s inclusion in the UN. This is part of the reason for Pakistan’s fear – that this lingering problem could fuel Pashtun nationalism. Jalalabad tested even the Soviets. The Afghan Army’s 9th Division virtually all crossed over to the Mujahideen. To relieve pressure on Jalalabad, the Soviets brought a young Uzbek commander, Abdul Rashid Dostum, into the frontline to lift the siege of Khost. The siege was more of an ISI operation. Dostum impressed the Soviets but deserted Najibullah once they left. In early March 1989, it was Pakistan’s turn. The ISI strong-armed the Mujahideen into assembling a 10,000-strong force and helped plan a massed attack on Jalalabad. The Mujahideen, unused to such tactics, were routed, losing an estimated 3,000. Another 15,000 civilians were killed and about 10,000 had to flee. The Mujahideen “never recovered from Jalalabad,” according to the ISI’s Brig Mohammad Yusuf (in his book The Bear Trap). The setback allowed Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto to sack the DG-ISI and replace him with a hand-picked retired major general. Strategic importance Jalalabad, the capital of Nangarhar province, is surrounded by Pakistan on three sides. To the north is Kunar, where the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) is active; to the south is Loya Paktika, comprising the provinces of Khost, Paktiya and Paktika -- long considered Haqqani Network territory. It is this swathe that Pakistan has long sought to control. Pakistan has never hidden how crucial eastern Afghanistan is to its plan to convert the country into a client state -- to contain Pashtun nationalism and to formalise control over the Durand Line. It is here that the predominantly Pakistani Punjabi LeT was born and the terror groups that operated in India were trained. There are other reasons why Jalalabad is important for Islamabad. Pakistan is water-stressed. The River Kabul, which flows through Jalalabad, is the source of water to Peshawar and the fertile Peshawar valley. There is also a dam across the river at Warsak and it then goes on to augment the flow of the Indus at Attock.  Jalalabad is where the Frontier Gandhi, Khan Abdul Ghaffar Khan, spent seven years in exile. Though he died in Pakistan, he chose to be buried in Jalalabad. The Soviets and the Mujahideen declared a ceasefire for his burial in 1988 and permitted both Afghan President Najibullah and Shankar Dayal Sharma, India’s then vice president, to attend the funeral. Pakistan has long sought the closure of the Jalalabad consulate, arguing that it is from there that India dabbles in Pakistan’s internal affairs. This has been the refrain since Nehru’s days. Pakistan even complained to the US which, in a self-appointed role of regional monitor, concluded that there was no evidence of the consulates doing anything more than routine consular functions. The reality is that the consulate is small, and so boxed in that, given security considerations, its outreach and access is limited. It is essentially a flag post. Pakistan’s complaints persist for reasons that have more to do with hegemonic interests than any real fears. They view continued Indian presence there as detrimental to their plans.  Pakistan’s strategic doctrine Pakistan has long coveted Afghan real estate – influenced first by British soldier and diplomat Sir William Kerr Fraser-Tytler, who argued, shortly after Partition, that history “suggests a fusion (of Afghanistan and Pakistan) will take place, if not peacefully, then by force.” In the 1950s, Ayub Khan proposed a federation of the two. Finding no purchase, he expanded it to suggest a confederation of the Muslim contiguous states of Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and Turkey. The rationale being that a confederation would provide Pakistan with the resources and numbers to stand up to India. Later, during the Soviet intervention, Pakistan’s support to the Mujahideen was justified as necessary to prevent encirclement by India and Soviet-backed Afghanistan. In the late ’80s, Gen Mirza Aslam Beg, Pakistan’s then Chief of Army Staff, used the term ‘strategic depth’ to suggest an area where Pakistan could relocate arms and personnel to absorb an initial thrust and regroup in the eventuality of an Indian attack. As a concept, this is militarily bankrupt, it gives no thought to the fate of Pakistan’s 200 million citizens while its military could safely ‘regroup’.  Then, in 2010, then Army chief Gen Ashfaq Parvez Kayani argued that strategic depth was to safeguard Pakistan’s western borders by having a “peaceful, friendly and stable” relationship with Afghanistan. This meant, he elaborated, that Afghan institutions, including the army and police, should be kept in check so that they do not pose a threat to Pakistan’s ‘strategic interests.’ Essentially, this is an alternative to the land-grab thesis using a different argument and intended to transform Afghanistan into a client state beholden to the Pakistan military. One reason for Pakistan now assisting in the rapprochement between Kabul and the Taliban is that it gets to push for its favourites into controlling that part of the Durand Line extending from Kunar to Loya Pakhtika. They will also seek that a Haqqani nominee be appointed as Minister of Frontier Affairs and that they exercise some say over the appointment of governors to these provinces. The argument would be that Pakistan needs to safeguard its interests, and the US is simply too tired to argue and will see it as a small price to pay.  Wrong signal While security is a worrisome factor, the consulate, which was shut during the Taliban years, has lived through equally bad times, being attacked four times since it was re-opened in 2001. There were grenade attacks in 2007 and 2013, a suicide attack in 2015, and a more serious one in 2018. Covid certainly is a reality, but the pandemic is not as big a factor as earlier anticipated. There is also limited interaction between the consulate staff and the locals.  Whatever may be the reason – security, Covid or whether we wilted under pressure or whether financial considerations forced a closure, the fact is that it sends wrong signals. But then a truism, which the city of poets is painfully aware of, is that nothing ever goes according to script in Afghanistan.  (The writer, a former special secretary, R&AW, is with the Takshashila Institution, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-did-india-close-jalalabad-consulate-965697.html
24-03-2021||Right in the Middle||The universal Kannadiga||At a mutual introduction, upon my response to the customary curiosity-laden question about my origin, an acquaintance lamented, “tu to lambi ho, gori ho, Punjaban kyon nahin ho (you are tall, fair, how are you not a Punjabi)?”  I am not a Punjabi, I unabashedly declared to her to which she said “Oh, Madrasi?”  To her further amazement, I added that I was from Bengaluru, the capital city of Karnataka in South India. My home state housed Kannadigas, who spoke Kannada, I continue.  Kannada?  Is that the same as Tamil?  I could only imagine her frustration in identifying someone as not a Punjabi, not even the well-known Madrasi but a Kannadiga. I have to confess that I am as guilty of being ignorant of other cultures of India until experience has proved me otherwise. Growing up in Bengaluru, every time I entered my Punjabi neighbour’s house, I would be hit with a wave of deja vu feeling, because of the many scenes from Bollywood that were etched in my young brain. The exquisite furniture sitting pretty over plush Kashmiri carpets, a soft breeze of pleasant Bangalore air rustling the heavy brocade curtains covering the large windows, a big dog barking resting by the sofa, shiny articles placed purposefully on carved tables, books stacked perfectly, nothing out of place - just like in a movie.   While that did not quite accentuate the “Punjabi”ness, Aunty-ji sashayed around swathed in silky flowing attire, calling out to the maid in oversized hand-me-down clothes, with so many instructions that the poor girl seemed like she was skating around the shiny mosaic floors, wheeling in the Chai, a tray of pakoras and wiping the coasters, all in Bollywood style. A question looms over me as I continue to converse with the acquaintance. If Punjabis see every native south of Ujjain to be ‘Madrasis’, should we Kannadigas think anyone who is not from South India is a Punjabi? South or North Indian – my question remains.  How could anyone emote using any other expression than “Aiyyo”, the one and only in this universe that can convey happiness, sorrow, surprise, disgust and everything in between, so compelling that even got its own crowned spot in the English dictionary?  Is there even a competition between bling-bedazzled dresses and the exquisite rustling of rich colourful Kanjeevaram silks or the fluffy idlis, topped with a generous dollop of ghee and doused in hot steamy Sambhar edged with green chutney? No contest.  But for now, I am fully engaged, nodding through an animated conversation in Hindi in a roomful of Punjabis, relishing hot samosas and masala chai, until it is my turn to speak.  I pause. I speak. In English.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-universal-kannadiga-965689.html
24-03-2021||Second Edit||US must rid itself of gun culture||Two incidents of mass shootings in less than a week in the US underscore yet again the constant threat of gun violence in American society. Last week, a gunman shot dead eight people, six of them women of Asian-American descent, at three spas in Atlanta. Then, on Monday, a shooting at a supermarket in Colorado left 10 people dead. Monday’s was the seventh mass killing in the US just this year. As with previous incidents, the recent killings have evoked grief, horror, anger and terror. It has also triggered a heated debate on what prompted these killers to go on shooting sprees. Some are describing the Atlanta killings as a hate crime that was driven by anti-Asian racist feelings. Others are drawing attention to the killer’s frame of mind; the assailant was reportedly a sex addict. Still others maintain that even if the underlying reason was a mental health problem, racist stereotypes that associate Asian women with hypersexuality resulted in the perpetrator venting his anger against women of Asian origin. No matter what the motivations were, what enables these mass shooting sprees is the easy availability of automatic weapons to the general populace. The right of citizens to bear arms is granted by the Second Amendment to the US Constitution, arising from a conception of how to secure the right to personal security, liberty and private property from another age – 1791. Many Americans believe even today that the right to bear arms is the ultimate protection of their individual rights, even of democracy. Over time, it has transformed into a deadly ‘gun culture,’ going from pistols and rifles for self-defence to many now owning military-grade automatic assault weapons. While the Second Amendment forbids federal and state governments from impinging on citizens’ right to bear arms, gun ownership laws are badly in need of reform. It must start with banning automatic weapons and strictly prohibiting individuals with criminal records or the mentally ill from owning any guns at all. Some measures – such as background checks and restricting sale of automatic weapons -- have been put in place in recent years, but these have not been hard to bypass. The powerful National Rifle Association and the Republican Party have prevented much positive reform. But Democrats now control both the House and the Senate, and President Joe Biden has called for stricter controls on assault weapons and background checks. The President and the US Congress must determinedly move America from 1791 to the 21st century in this respect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/us-must-rid-itself-of-gun-culture-966023.html
24-03-2021||South||To take on Haasan in Coimbatore South, BJP banks on Vanathi's development-oriented image||For the upcoming Tamil Nadu Assembly elections, the BJP has fielded Vanathi Srinivasan as a candidate to tackle actor-politician Kamal Haasan of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) from the Coimbatore South constituency.  Srinivasan, who now heads the saffron party's women wing, has been a member of the party for a long time. She has also been the party's state secretary. However, Srinivasan's politics emerges from her prolonged presence in public life.  A lawyer by profession, she has largely stayed away from BJP's mainstream agenda while banking on her social activism to maintain a popular public image. She has distanced herself from speeches with communal undertones and focused largely on her public servant image. Ahead of the polls, Srinivasan has said that she is confident of winning minority votes in the constituency. But BJP, despite being a part of the ruling AIADMK alliance, remains unpopular in the Dravidian state. And, by placing Srinivasan in the driver seat, the party hopes to capitalise on her image. Actor-turned-politician Haasan then entered the fray and found himself trapped in the 'outsider' debate. Going against the wave of rumours, the actor chose to field himself from the Coimbatore South seat. Srinivasan was quick to respond to his arrival, calling him a "guest". Recently, when Haasan was injured, the BJP leader sent a 'get well soon' note saying the region was popular for taking care of its guests.  Haasan is betting on MNM's performance in the Lok Sabha elections of 2019 from Coimbatore South.  When AIADMK, in its poll manifesto, said that it would pursue the Centre to revoke the controversial CAA, Srinivasan said she did not see it as an anti-BJP move. Instead, she drew attention toward developmental works that Palaniswami's government is said to have done for Coimbatore South. While responding, she also highlighted the government's measures for improving women's lives. As for the CAA, she has largely backed the law, even holding rallies supporting it, saying the threat to the Muslim community was misleading propaganda by the DMK. Thus, she is seen as a unifying force for the saffron party that still struggles to make inroads in Tamil Nadu. And, Vanathi Srinivasan remains one of BJP's important candidates who can change its trajectory in the state.  In 2017, BJP used Srinivasan to reach for a deal with Palaniswami. She met the CM to raise concerns about the water woes of Coimbatore, a key area of her public service.  The meeting sparked speculation whether the barrier between the BJP and AIADMK had been broken. When asked, she reportedly replied with a laugh, saying there was nothing political about it.  "You are free to infer anything," she'd said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/to-take-on-haasan-in-coimbatore-south-bjp-banks-on-vanathis-development-oriented-image-965748.html
24-03-2021||South||The Lead: What's at stake in this year's TN election?||In this episode of The Lead, get to know the star personalities of the Tamil Nadu polls, how the alliances stack up and what is at stake for the Dravidian majors— DMK and AIADMK— and the new entrant BJP. Tamil Nadu is a unique state. It's here that the national powers are reduced to play a smaller and the regional satraps and the Dravidian parties take up the major role. This time in the absence of J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi, what will the election look like? Will V K Sasikala have a role to play? Can Chief Minister Edapadi Palaniswamy manage to hold power? Can Kamal Haasan be the disruptor or is it time for the DMK's sun to rise?Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and welcome to the Lead by DH Radio.  Tamil Nadu Assembly has  234 seats which include 44 SC and 2 ST seats. The 2016 election saw  74.24 % voter turnout and the return of the J Jayalalithaa led AIADMK to power but ever since the death of the matriarch the party has seen a tumultuous time. While, on the other side, the DMK has been waiting in the wings to take centre stage. Defined by the politics of language identity, the state is one among those uncoloured by the saffron party. Ahmed: Today, we are joined by our special correspondent from Chennai, E T B Sivapriyan, to talk about the state and what's happening this year.Hi, Sivapriyan. Welcome to DH Radio.E T B Sivapriyan: Hi.Ahmed: Tamil Nadu is identified by the Dravidian majors— DMK and AIADMK. What about the other parties and alliances? Can you tell us who is whose friend?E T B Sivapriyan: The DMK has stitched up a big alliance and that alliance has been continuing since 2017. They fought the elections in 2019. The DMK alliance consists of the Congress, the Left parties, the influential Dalit party Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, MDMK of Vaikao, Indian Union Muslim League and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi, another Muslim political party in Tamil Nadu... To know more about this, tune in to the podcast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/the-lead-whats-at-stake-in-this-years-tn-election-965816.html
24-03-2021||South||Achuthanandan still seen on CPM's posters at Malampuzha||CPM veteran leader V S Achuthanandan, who was CPM-led LDF's poster boy in the last Assembly election in Kerala, has almost vanished from electioneering this time as he is struggling with age-related health issues. He may not be campaigning, but posters of Achuthanandan at Malampuzha in Palakkad district, his seat, have been spotted. The 97-year-old leader is eclipsing the current CPM candidate, A Prabhakaran, who is not seen without Achuthanandan's picture. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who has now emerged as the undisputed leader of the CPM and LDF, has also been seen on the posters. Achuthanandan, who was Kerala Chief Minister from 2006 to 2011, won for the fourth consecutive time from Malampuzha in 2016 with a thumping majority of 27,000 votes, up from just around 4,700 in 2001. His majority was close to 23,000 in 2011 and 20,000 in 2006. The constituency is considered as a stronghold of CPM as senior leaders like former Chief Minister E K Nayanar and former minister T Sivadasa Menon have earlier won from the seat. However, this time the BJP is also pinning its hopes on the constituency as party state general secretary C Krishnakumar came in second place in 2016 polls from the seat. The party is also picking up positive trends from the recent local body elections. The CPM, on the other hand, is banking upon Achuthanandan's legacy and believes it would be difficult for other parties to defeat that. Prabhakaran, who comes from a trade union background, may be able to retain CPM's stronghold. Even as the Congress initially allotted the seat to its not so prominent ally Bharathiya National Janata Dal, the decision had to be revoked as it triggered allegations of helping BJP. S K Anandakrishnan, who also comes from a trade union background, is the present Congress candidate of Malampuzha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/achuthanandan-still-seen-on-cpms-posters-at-malampuzha-965840.html
24-03-2021||South||Amit Shah targets Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan over gold smuggling case in poll rally||Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah on Wednesday targeted Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan over the gold smuggling case, alleging that the CPI(M) leader had links with prime accused in the scam. Addressing a poll rally in Kanjirappally Assembly constituency in Kottayam district, Shah asked Vijayan whether the prime accused of the gold scam worked in his office or not. "I call upon Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan Ji to answer this straight question - Did the prime accused of the gold scam work in your office or not? Did your govt given this accused monthly remuneration of Rs 3 lakh?" Shah asked as he kick started the second leg of election campaign in the southern state. He sought to know whether Vijayan's then principal secretary had made phone calls to help these accused or not. Without naming prime accused in the case, Swapna Suresh and M Sivasankar, who were arrested by central agencies in connection with case, Shah asked, "Did this accused woman make foreign trips on state funds and the Principal Secretary's permission?" Why did this accused woman come to the CM's residence regularly? Did this accused woman make foreign trips on state funds and the Principal Secretary's permission?" the BJP leader asked. Attacking the Left government, Shah alleged that it has converted the entire administration into their cadre. "The left parties run Public Service Commission via remote controls to provide govt posts to their cadre", he said in an apparent reference to the protests organised by job aspirant youths in front of the secretariat recently against the government's alleged nepotism. "Due to this, even after getting high ranks in PSC, a student committed suicide because of no jobs! Why? Only because he wasn't from your cadre?" he asked. Noting that there have been two floods in Kerala, and over 500 people lost their lives, Shah alleged that the Left govt calls our army very late, only for their own political mileage. "They do not care about the lives of the people of Kerala," he claimed. In his address, the Union Home Minister also highlighted the development works carried out by the BJP-led central government in the state to seek votes for the party candidates. Referring to the recently inaugurated 2,000 MW HVDC initiative for Kerala, Shah said, "All components being used in this project are indigenous - there cannot be a better example of self-reliant India." Another solar scheme of 50 MW capacity in Kasargod has been developed by the central government, he said. Under the AMRUT Yojana, cities are being upgraded at a cost of Rs 11,000 crore. Prime Minister Modi has also provided Rs 65,000 crore for the development of highways in Kerala. For Kochi Metro's development, Rs 1,957 crore has been allotted by the Centre, he noted. "It is time to bring a change in Kerala. Senior bureaucrats such as E Sreedharan are also joining the BJP because they know only the BJP can help develop Kerala further under the leadership of PM Modi. LDF-UDF cannot", he said. Earlier, he held a roadshow in Tripunithura town near Kochi as part of his election campaign for the NDA candidates contesting April 6 polls to the state assembly. Speaking to reporters during the roadshow, Shah hit out at Vijayan, asking him to explain whether his former principal secretary was involved in the gold smuggling scam. Justifying the investigation by central agencies in the scam, he said if any scandal took place in the country, it will be probed by the Indian agencies and not those from the UN. Shah said the people of the state see BJP as an alternative for the opposition UDF and ruling LDF. Senior BJP leader K S Radhakrishnan is the party's candidate in Tripunithura, considered as an "A" class constituency by its leadership. The roadshow started at East fort of the town, capital of erstwhile Kochi kingdom, culminated near the Poornathrayeesa temple. Hundreds of sloganeering BJP workers and supporters holding party flags accompanied the open vehicle carrying Shah. People in large numbers gathered on either side of the road cheered as the senior BJP leader greeted them from atop a decorated mini truck. Elated by the response received from the public to the roadshow, Shah said many people have gathered in this small town to participate in the programme, which shows that the people of the state will lend their support to the saffron party to remove the alternating corrupt governments of the Congress-led UDF and the CPI(M)-led LDF. Former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha MP K J Alphonse is the party candidate in Kanjirappally constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-targets-kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-over-gold-smuggling-case-in-poll-rally-965847.html
24-03-2021||South||Amit Shah assures action against culprits in nuns harassment incident||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday assured strong action against those who allegedly harassed nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation during their train journey via Jhansi in Uttar Pradesh. The issue was raised before Shah by party's Kanjirappally assembly candidate for April 6 polls, K J Alphonse, who is his former ministerial colleague in the union cabinet. Two nuns and two postulants were taken off an express train and detained for questioning by railway police in UP's Jhansi on March 19. The Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) had expressed concern over the matter. The Congress and BJP took up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, respectively. Officials in Jhansi said the nuns were detained after local Bajrang Dal activists complained that two of the women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion. The police said there was no basis in the complaint and all four women later took the next train to their destination in Odisha.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amit-shah-assures-action-against-culprits-in-nuns-harassment-incident-965860.html
24-03-2021||South||Unemployment rate in Kerala higher than national average: BJP slams LDF||The BJP on Wednesday accused the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala of failing to fulfil the promises it had made to the people during the last assembly polls and said that the state's unemployment rate was higher than the national average. BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishan Agarwal said the people of Kerala are now yearning for a change after decades of rule of the LDF and the Congress-led United Democratic Front UDF. The BJP has prepared a road map for overall development of the state, Agarwal added. Assembly elections in Kerala will be held on April 6. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, Agarwal listed a number of promises made by the LDF in its manifesto before the last assembly elections in Kerala, and added that most of them have not been fulfilled. "The state lacks infrastructure. In the last assembly elections, the LDF had promised on expanding IT park, but nothing has been done so far. Similarly for Kochi Metro, the Centre didn't get permission for three years," he said. Expressing concern over the slowdown in Kerala's economy, the BJP leader said the state is overdependent on remittances from the Gulf countries and other nations. And there are very few employment opportunities in the state itself. "The rate of unemployment in Kerala is higher than the national average. Both the LDF and the UDF have done nothing to generate employment opportunities in Kerala," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/unemployment-rate-in-kerala-higher-than-national-average-bjp-slams-ldf-965900.html
24-03-2021||South||Memorial temple built for Jayalalithaa and MGR in Tamil Nadu has photos of PM Modi, Amit Shah||A memorial temple was built on a 12-acre site at T Kunathur near Tirumangalam in Tamil Nadu to commemorate late Tamil Nadu chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and MG Ramachandran. The temple, however, also has pictures of various Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders such as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah.  "The temple that has been built as a memorial to Jayalalithaa is to remember and show the world the courage and sacrifices made by Jayalalithaa," Minister of Revenue, RB Udhaya Kumar, told ANI.  He also praised Prime Minister Modi and stated that under his leadership, the central government has established and given a lot of projects to this country, alongside mentioning that construction of the AIIMS hospital in Madurai took place when J P Nadda was the Health Minister.  "Furthermore, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman hails for Madurai and we are proud of this fact. This is the reason why their photos have been in the memorial temple of MG Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa," Kumar told the news agency. In the upcoming Assembly elections in Tamil Nadi, the BJP is contesting in coalition with the ruling AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/memorial-temple-built-for-jayalalithaa-and-mgr-in-tamil-nadu-has-photos-of-pm-modi-amit-shah-965907.html
24-03-2021||South||Chidambaram attacks Centre for abstaining from voting on UNHRC resolution against Sri Lanka||Congress on Wednesday slammed the Modi government for abstaining in the vote on a resolution at the UN Human Rights Council against Sri Lanka, terming it as a “gross betrayal” of the Tamil people. “The people of Tamil Nadu must and will punish the AIADMK-BJP alliance for this grievous blow to the interests of the Tamils,” senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said. “India abstained from voting on the Resolution on Sri Lanka in the UN Human Rights Council. This is a gross betrayal of the Tamil people and their unanimous sentiment and desire,” Chidambaram said on Twitter. India abstained from voting on the Resolution on Sri Lanka in the UN Human Rights Council. This is a gross betrayal of the Tamil people and their unanimous sentiment and desire. India had abstained from voting, saying its approach to the question of human rights in Sri Lanka is guided by two fundamental considerations. One is support to Lankan Tamils for equality, justice, dignity and peace and the other is ensuring the unity, stability and territorial integrity of that nation. It also urged Colombo to fulfil its commitments on the devolution of political authority, to carry forward the process of reconciliation and address the aspirations of the Tamil community in the island nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chidambaram-attacks-centre-for-abstaining-from-voting-on-unhrc-resolution-against-sri-lanka-965930.html
24-03-2021||South||DMK approaches Madras HC to restrain EC from using old EVMs||The DMK on Wednesday moved the Madras High Court with a plea to restrain the Election Commission from using electronic voting machines that were beyond the expiry period of 15 years, in the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls. The other prayers of the DMK, represented by its Organisation Secretary R S Bharathi, were to provide CCTV live coverage/web-stream during voting in all the polling booths and voting centers, to install jammers at the strong rooms, where EVMs are stored and at the counting centres. The opposition party also wanted the court to direct the Returning Officers to count at least 50 per cent of VVPATS, simultaneously. After listening to the preliminary arguments by DMK senior counsel P Wilson, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy ordered notice to the EC, returnable by March 29. It also directed the ECI to convene a meeting with all political parties immediately to identify the critical and vulnerable booths for fixing CCTV cameras for video graphing the polling. The judges also wondered as to whether the EC would eliminate the usage of EVMs, which were more than 15 years old. The bench also told the EC to explore whether jammers could be installed around the strong room where the EVMs are stored. When a request was made to count the VVPATs, the same might be allowed as per the rules, it added. The DMK counsel told the judges that the set of prayers were to ensure purity in the election and to uphold the democratic tradition of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-approaches-madras-hc-to-restrain-ec-from-using-old-evms-965934.html
24-03-2021||South||NDA promises 'Love Jihad' law in Kerala poll manifesto||An array of promises from legislations for Sabarimala and against "Love Jihad", employment for at least one person from each family and free laptop to high school students, among others, have been listed in the poll manifesto of the BJP-led NDA, released by Union Minister Prakash Javedkar here on Wednesday. At a press meet, Javadekar claimed the BJP manifesto is progressive, dynamic and development-oriented and Kerala was awaiting such a manifesto.  Attacking the Left-ruled state government, Javadekar said there was an attempt to hijack Prime Minister Narendra Modi's projects and use it in Kerala with minute changes and present them before the people in a new form. "Our manifesto is progressive, dynamic, aspirational and developmental oriented. Kerala was waiting for such a manifesto." "As to the key points, the manifesto guarantees employment to at least one from each family, terrorism free Kerala, hunger-free Kerala, Sabarimala legislation (to protect the traditions of the hill shrine), free laptop to high school students, Love jihad legislation," Javadekar said. He said the landless SC/ST community members will get five acres for agriculture purposes. The manifesto also promised six cooking gas cylinders free to all BPL families. "Pinarayi government has started hijacking central government schemes by making little modifications and taking credit," the union minister alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/nda-promises-love-jihad-law-in-kerala-poll-manifesto-965950.html
24-03-2021||South||All exams postponed in Telangana due to Covid-19||All ongoing and scheduled exams of degree, PG and other courses under universities in Telangana have been postponed following temporary closure of educational institutions due to surge in Covid-19 daily cases in the state, authorities said on Wednesday. The revised schedule will be announced later, a senior official of the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) said. The Telangana government on Tuesday announced that educational institutions would be temporarily closed from Wednesday and online classes would be offered to prevent the spread of coronavirus following a spurt in fresh cases in recent days, including from some schools. Earlier, some universities had issued notifications that the ongoing supplementary/regular examinations of all UG and PG courses shall be conducted as per schedule.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/all-exams-postponed-in-telangana-due-to-covid-19-965983.html
24-03-2021||South||With a brick in hand, DMK's Udhayanidhi 'brings' AIIMS Madurai to election rally||Holding a red brick in his hand, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin told an election rally in southern Tamil Nadu on Tuesday that he has “brought” the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Madurai “along with him.” The sarcasm in Udhayanidhi's statement -- there was nothing but a brick in the allotted land -- was not lost on anyone with the establishment of AIIMS in Tamil Nadu emerging as one of the election issues for the Opposition in southern districts. Though Prime Minister Narendra Modi laid the foundation stone for the institute in January 2019, months before he sought another mandate from people, construction has not yet started. The delay in the construction of AIIMS is raked up by every Opposition party leader in Tamil Nadu to drive home their point that the AIADMK-BJP alliance does not walk their talk. In fact, the BJP made the establishment of AIIMS in Madurai as one of its “achievements” during 2019 polls to ward off criticism that the party-led government has ignored the interests of Tamil Nadu. “Do you remember the BJP-AIADMK governments constructed AIIMS in Madurai? I have brought the hospital along with me,” Udhayanidhi said, holding a red brick. He also shared a video clip of his speech in Sattur on his social media pages which has now gone viral. 'Cheap tactics', says BJP However, the BJP has not taken the criticism lightly. Tamil Nadu BJP general secretary K T Raghavan dubbed Udhayanidhi's speech “cheap tactics” and said construction of a hospital is not like a three-hour movie. “Locating the place itself took almost a year, and finally the foundation stone was laid in 2019. Funds have been allocated and the work will start soon. It is not a movie that you expect to be magic in under three hours. Did the DMK think of bringing AIIMS to Tamil Nadu when they were part of the UPA regime? They are actually envious of the BJP government,” Raghavan told DH.  Madurai Lok Sabha MP and writer Su Venkatesan, who had been raising the delay in Parliament since 2019, accused the state and central governments of never showing any interest in the project. “The foundation stone for AIIMS was laid in 2019 and the land on which the institute will come up was transferred only in December 2020. Does a name transfer take two years? Also, the Centre is taking two years to sign MoU with JICA. Both do not have any interest in the project,” Venkatesan told DH. Evolution of AIIMS, Madurai Thoppur, the village where Tamil Nadu's very own AIIMS will come up, is located on the National Highway connecting Madurai with Kanyakumari. With work on the institute yet to start, there is little activity in the area when this correspondent visited – many said they are looking forward to the hospital. “We are told that this hospital will have all facilities and we do not have to travel anywhere for treatment. But the work is yet to start. Hope it starts soon and people get benefited by it,” a passer-by told DH. At one point, the AIIMS also became a meme material with photos of a single brick with a caption AIIMS-Madurai going viral on social media. AIIMS has always been in news in Tamil Nadu, most times for the wrong reasons. To be fair, it is the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) led by Modi which announced the setting up of the institute in the 2015-16 Union Budget, though Congress leaders claim they initiated the process. The Centre took time to kick off the process and when things started moving, Tamil Nadu witnessed a political upheaval following J Jayalalithaa's death. In 2017, there was a clamour among ministers and senior leaders of AIADMK to take AIIMS to their area, delaying the process further. Thanjavur, Tiruchirapalli and other cities were in contention – many associations took out rallies demanding that the institute should come up in their place, but Madurai won finally. Though there was not much progress after the foundation stone was laid in 2019 due to a slew of reasons, including Covid-19, the Centre appointed members to the governing council of the institute and has now allotted funds in the Union Budget.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/with-a-brick-in-hand-dmks-udhayanidhi-brings-aiims-madurai-to-election-rally-965986.html
24-03-2021||South||Want to take the long route to enter electoral politics: Sasikanth Senthil||When bureaucrats join politics after retiring or resigning from service, one question that arises in everyone's mind is whether the former civil servant will contest elections. Many contest elections and serve as lawmakers, but some prefer the “long route” of being among the people for a few years before plunging into electoral politics. Sasikanth Senthil, a Karnataka-cadre IAS officer in September 2019, wants to be part of the second breed. The former Dakshina Kannada district's Deputy Commissioner joined the Tamil Nadu Congress in November 2020 and is now involved in efforts to rejuvenate the party which is riding on the back of the Dravidian parties since it was ousted from power in 1967. “My job here is to fight a system which is trying to capture India as such and my job goes beyond constituencies and general political jargon. The whole attention is on electoral politics but this is the time for a political movement. I have been engaging with a lot of cadre on this aspect and I am very happy doing this,” Senthil told DH in a free-wheeling interview. He was asked why he did not contest the Tamil Nadu assembly elections. Senthil said that he wanted to take the “long route” of meeting people, being with them to understand their life and stay grounded before getting to represent them in the legislature or in Parliament. “Speaking for people's politics is important and according to me, that defines a politician,” he added. Senthil is now actively involved in the affairs of the Tamil Nadu Congress and played a key role in the much-talked-about visits of former Congress President Rahul Gandhi to Tamil Nadu in January and February this year. The former bureaucrat says he views Congress as a “movement” that stands for the idea of India and not just as a political party. “Organisationally, Congress has a lot of issues. It had issues historically and it still has issues. But that does not mean that ideology should not survive because the organisation is bad. It is our duty to reclaim the ideology and correct it. I am clear that we cannot let the ideology die just because the organisation has gone bad. I have a solid belief in the current leadership which understands what is happening in the country,” Senthil said. A vehement opponent of the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Act, he accused the BJP of wanting to create an India of hierarchies, differences and domination of one over the other. “We are not going to allow the categorisation to happen,” he said. On BJP's Tamil Nadu push, Senthil said the Dravidian land is the “Sparta” for BJP which is “absolutely confident” of making inroads into other parts of the country but not Tamil Nadu. “It is because of the importance given to social justice. They have already realised their brand of politics will not work in this state and they have now resorted to caste politics. This election will show there is a landmass in the country that will not fall for their propaganda,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/want-to-take-the-long-route-to-enter-electoral-politics-sasikanth-senthil-965988.html
24-03-2021||South||Capital shift pending, but Jaganmohan Reddy plans grand makeover for Visakhapatnam||Fourteen months after he made the legislative move to set up three capitals for Andhra Pradesh, Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy is still managing the state affairs from Amaravati, about 400 Kms away from his planned executive seat. Obstructing Jagan's highway to Visakhapatnam are dozens of petitions in the High Court filed by Amaravati region farmers, who parted with their lands in 2015 for the mega capital project, public representatives challenging the capital decentralisation. The court had in August last year barred Reddy from moving the capital to Vizag. However, the legal blockade appears to have not truncated the CM's focus on the port-city. Sitting in his camp office in Tadepalli, Jagan is drawing up plans to lift the stature of Vizag, in preparation for “the definite relocation.” On Tuesday, Reddy discussed a blueprint to build a Rs 14,000 crore metro, from Vizag Steel Plant to the planned Bhogapuram airport – a stretch of 77 kilometers with 53 stations. In addition, a 60.2 kilometer tram corridor is proposed to be built with an estimated Rs 6,000 crore investment. Jagan also instructed the officials to prioritise the Beach Corridor Project and Bhogapuram international airport works. “While the beach road from Vizag to Bhimili would be expanded, a proposal is made for laying a beach road from Bhimili to Bhogapuram with an estimation of Rs 1,167 crore, including land acquisition expenses,” officials said. Keeping the future needs of the city in consideration, the CM also wants the work on the pipeline taking Godavari waters from Polavaram to Visakhapatnam to commence immediately. In January 2020, the YSRCP dominated state assembly had passed two Bills – one stripping former CM Chandrababu Naidu's brainchild Amaravati of its sole capital status and the other to establish the executive capital at Visakhapatnam, the judiciary in Kurnool with Amaravati remaining only as of the legislative capital. With the opposition TDP controlled legislative council blocking the passage then, the assembly passed the bills again in June during the short duration budget session. After a month’s time elapsed, the bills received governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan's assent in July. The Covid-19 pandemic and later the replacement of JK Maheshwari with Arup Kumar Goswami as the AP chief justice in January is said to have caused an administrative delay in the case hearings. Counsel for the Amaravati farmers VV Lakshminarayana expects the high court to take up regular hearing on the capital shifting cases from next week. “The chief justice headed bench would hear the case on Friday. As of now, about 55 petitions of farmers and others are before the court, contesting the capital relocation on various grounds like a breach of their agreements with the earlier government and violations of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganization Act 2014,” Lakshminarayana told DH. Meanwhile, the word on the street is that Jagan is planning to shift his camp office to Vizag in May.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/capital-shift-pending-but-jaganmohan-reddy-plans-grand-makeover-for-visakhapatnam-965991.html
24-03-2021||State||Karnataka bypoll aspirants meet BJP top brass in Delhi seeking tickets||With the Election Commission announcing dates for bypolls, ticket aspirants from BJP are camping in Delhi and meeting party top brass to seek tickets for Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan assembly segment. For Belagavi Lok Sabha seat byelection, though the party's state unit has recommended few names including Shardda, daughter of late Minister Suresh Angadi, former MP Ramesh Katti, Doctor Girish Sonwalkar and Delhi Special Representative Shankaregouda Patil, it is not sure whether the party will select one among from the list or not. Girish Sonwalkar, who came to Delhi on the invitation from Union Home Minister Amit Shah, already met him on Tuesday evening. Sonwalkar, who has a strong collection with Sangh Parivar expressed his confidence in getting a ticket. Former MP Ramesh Katti, who also met Amit Shah and expressed his willingness to contest the elections. Katti also informed Shah that he was denied from Chikkodi Lok Sabha seat in the previous general election, sources said. For the Basavakalyan Assembly segment, several contenders including Suryakant Nagamarapalli and former MLA Mallikarjuna Khuba are trying to get tickets from BJP. Suryakanth Nagmarapalli already met Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Karnataka in-charge secretary Arun Singh and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi and requested them to give him a ticket for the Basavakalyan Assembly segment. Besides, several Zilla Panchayat members from Bidar district also arrived in Delhi and tried to meet the party top brass to seek tickets. The BJP top brass is likely to take a final decision on candidates for these two segments in a couple of days. The byelection for both the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan Assembly seats are to be held on April 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-bypoll-aspirants-meet-bjp-top-brass-in-delhi-seeking-tickets-965656.html
24-03-2021||State||Demand to include Kalaburagi in PMJVK||Kalburgi Lok Sabha member Umesh Jadhav has demanded the inclusion of Kalburgi City Corporation under the  Pradhan Mantri Jan Vikas Karyakram(PMJVK). Kalburagi City's population is 533,587 according to the 2011 Census. Whereas the current population is more than 6.5 Lakhs out of which 39% of the population belongs to the Minority communities which is around 2.6 lakh in the city itself. With the PMJVK guidelines says any district having 25% and above of minority population can be included in the scheme, Kalburgi city can included as the city has 39% of minority population, he said during Zero Hour in Lok Sabha. PMJVK is a scheme designed to address the development deficits of the identified minority concentration areas and is being implemented by the Union Ministry of Minority Affairs. The projects to be taken up under PMJVK would be related to creation of infrastructure mainly in the sectors of education, health and skill development, besides innovative schemes for improving the socio-economic and living conditions of minority communities and other communities living in the catchment area, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/demand-to-include-kalaburagi-in-pmjvk-965658.html
24-03-2021||State||78% of staffers in large industries are Kannadigas, data shows||At least seven out of every ten people employed in large industries operating in the state are Kannadigas, according to government data.  This, authorities say, is because incentives are linked to employment of locals.  According to data tabled by Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar in the ongoing budget session of the legislature, Karnataka has 712 large industries employing 5.02 lakh people. Of them, 3.92 lakh - 78 per cent - are locals.  Kannada groups have been demanding jobs for locals in the private sector as per the Sarojini Mahishi report.  Karnataka has shied away from enacting a law to reserve jobs for locals citing legal hurdles. Instead, the government amended the Karnataka Industrial (Standing Orders) Rules, 1961, to make industrial units give primacy to Kannadigas in Group C and D jobs.  The Sarojini Mahishi report says firms with more than 50 workers must hire locals in 65 per cent and 80 per cent of Group A and B jobs, respectively. For Groups C and D jobs, this ask is 100 per cent. This requirement is stipulated as a condition by the district-level and state-level single-window committees at the time of approving new industrial units, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told the Assembly in a written reply.  Also, the state’s Industrial Policy requires all new investment projects to provide 70 per cent employment to Kannadigas overall, and 100 per cent in the case of Group D jobs. Failure to comply will lead to recovery of incentives and concessions offered under the policy.  “We are not doubling down on the jobs-for-locals front. We are simply following the existing process,” Additional Chief Secretary (Commerce & Industry) Gaurav Gupta told DH recently. “That primacy should be given to locals is being followed mostly.” The implementation of the Sarojini Mahishi report is up to the Department of Commerce & Industry. For its part, the Labour Department collates information on compliance of industrial units having more than 50 employees in providing jobs to Kannadigas.  “This is submitted to the directorate of commerce and industry. The district-level single window committee headed by deputy commissioners scrutinises this information and directs erring industries to rectify,” Hebbar stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/78-of-staffers-in-large-industries-are-kannadigas-data-shows-965665.html
24-03-2021||State||BJP MP seeks early release of pending grants||BJP Rajya Sabha Member K C Ramamurthy on Tuesday demanded that the Centre release performance grants to urban local bodies and panchayat raj institutions in Karnataka. The 14th Finance Commission had recommended basic and performance grants to further strengthen local bodies.  There is no doubt that allocation to local bodies recommended by 14th FC is twice that of 13th FC and Finance Ministry had promptly released all basic grants to states as recommended by 14th FC, along with Performance Grants for 2016-17 and 2017-18, he said during Zero Hour in Rajya Sabha “As far as Karnataka is concerned, performance grants for Urban Local Bodies (ULBs) for 2018-19 comes to Rs 295 crores and for 2019-20 it comes to Rs 386 crores. For RLBs, ( rural local bodies) Performance Grants for 2018-19 comes to Rs 234 crores and for 2019-20 it comes to Rs 306 crores.  If one takes into account total grants recommended by the 14th Finance Commission, it comes to Rs 2,100.25 crores.  But, the Centre has released so far Rs 869.40 crores; thereby an amount of Rs 1,230.85 crores is pending for release,”he said. The Panchayati Raj Ministry had already submitted its recommendations and Karnataka Government had also submitted necessary utilisation certificates for spending of money.  The Karnataka Chief Minister and Minister of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj from Karnataka, had also written letters requesting for release of funds at the earliest. The Finance Minister should take initiative and release pending dues of Performance Grants to Karnataka as early as possible, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bjp-mp-seeks-early-release-of-pending-grants-965671.html
24-03-2021||State||Covid-19: K Sudhakar appeals to religious leaders and Sandalwood stars for regulation of gatherings||As Karnataka is breaching the 2,000-mark of fresh Covid-19 cases in the second wave, Health and Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday appealed to the Swamijis of various Mutts and the Sandalwood stars to regulate any large gatherings at least for one month to prevent Karnataka from slipping to the worst scenario in Covid management. Speaking to the media persons in Bengaluru, Sudhakar said, “The state is reporting a positivity rate of more than 2%. I appeal to all the district administrations not to allow any religious fairs, entertainment events, large gatherings or political rallies at least for the next month. If we continue like this it may go out of our hand. We have to self regulate these activities to prevent any adverse reactions at a later stage.” In a special appeal to seers of various Mutts, prominent religious leaders and Sandalwood celebrities, he said, “I request all the heads of Mutts and other leaders to be the role model for others by requesting people not to come for these annual fairs. Many film actors are going around the states promoting their films and I have been observing how these gatherings are organised. I only request them to wear mask and tell their fans as well to emulate them to comply with Covid-19 rules of the government and help us prevent the spread of the virus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-k-sudhakar-appeals-to-religious-leaders-and-sandalwood-stars-for-regulation-of-gatherings-965818.html
24-03-2021||State||Implementation of railway projects improved in Karnataka under NDA: Piyush Goyal||After NDA came to power at the Centre in 2014, the execution of railway projects in Karnataka improved compared to Congress-led UPA regime, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal informed Lok Sabha on Wednesday . Average annual Budget allocation for infrastructure & safety works, falling fully/partly in the state of Karnataka, during 2014-19 has increased to Rs 2,702 crore, from Rs 835 crore (during 2009-14). Thus, the average annual budget allocation for 2014-19 is 224% more than average annual budget allocation during 2009-14, the minister said. Replying to a question by BJP MP Shoba Karandlaje, the minister said total proposed Budget Estimate (BE) outlay for infrastructure & safety works, falling, fully/partly in the state of Karnataka, in 2021-22 is Rs 3,897 crore, which is 367% more than average annual Budget outlay of 2009-14, he said. The minister further said, during 2014-19, a total of 735 KM length of tracks (253 KM new lines and 482 KM doubling projects) falling fully/partly in the state of Karnataka, has been commissioned which is 30% more than the commissioned during 2009-14 (565 KM). During 2019-20, 172 KM length of Doubling has been commissioned which is 52% more than average commissioned during 2009-14 (113 KM/year), the minister said. The minister also said that the electrification of Kadur-Chikmagalur section is at tender stage. To a question on when these projects will be complete, the minister said completion of railway project(s) depends on various factors like quick land acquisition by State Government, forestry clearance by forest department shifting of infringing utilities, statutory clearances from various authorities. “Though the exact time to complete the project would be difficult to tell, every effort is being made to execute the project(s)expeditiously and early commissioning, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/implementation-of-railway-projects-improved-in-karnataka-under-nda-piyush-goyal-965994.html
24-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||More children hit in Karnataka's second Covid-19 wave, shows data||An increasing number of children, aged one to 10, are coming down with Covid-19 in the second wave of infections, according to data accessed from the state government.  From March 14 to 21, there were 160 cases of children being infected in Bengaluru, with the numbers being particularly high on Saturday and Sunday, at 33 and 32 respectively. At the state level, as per the data from the Covid-19 War Room, 267 child infections were found over a two-week period. In contrast, during the start of last year’s surge from June 24, 2020 (when Covid numbers were roughly on par with what they are today), about 16 child cases were being reported daily. Experts believe this rise in numbers is due to disregard for Covid-appropriate behaviour.  In 2020, most children had been infected by parents or relatives, or contracted the disease while travelling with their families. The situation is much the same now, said Dr Anoop Amarnath, a member of the state’s Critical Care Support Unit (CCSU). “But the numbers are higher now because there appears to be abandonment of Covid precautions. We are seeing entire families turning positive, right from grandparents to children. Consequently, the number of child cases has risen,” Dr Amarnath said. BBMP Commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad added, “We are surprised to see many households testing positive. People are not isolating themselves properly.”  ‘Don’t close schools’ While an external setting such as schools or playgrounds cannot be ruled out as a driver for infection, experts said the issue of rising child cases should not be used to shut down schools as it may deprive them of social interaction. “Most Covid-19 infections are happening in communities due to a decline in SMS — Social distancing, Mask-wearing and Sanitisation. The government will gain nothing by closing schools. Instead, the closure of schools will further affect children mentally by depriving them of social interaction,” explained paediatrician Dr Asha Benkappa. The impact of school closures on rural communities is also devastating, added professor Niranjanaradya V P of the National Law School of India University (NLSIU). Pregnant women with Covid Meanwhile, the incidences of pregnant women with Covid-19 have also increased. Last year, Vani Vilas hospital said it had admitted 229 pregnant women who had Covid-19. “For a while there were no cases, but then we got our first case in pregnant women this year on February 18. Since then, we are getting two to three cases every day. There has been one case of infection among newborns,” said Dr Geetha Shivamurthy, medical superintendent, Vani Vilas. She added that unlike last year, when many cases were from hotspot areas such as Padarayanapura, this year’s cases have been from all over Bengaluru.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/more-children-hit-in-karnatakas-second-covid-19-wave-shows-data-965667.html
24-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister Sudhakar wants monogamy test for all MLAs||Karnataka’s Health Minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday created a political furore after he called for an investigation into the private lives of all 225 legislators to find out how many of them have had illicit or extra-marital relationships. Sudhakar said this in response to the Congress’ demand that he and five other ministers should resign on moral grounds for having moved the court seeking an injunction against the publication or broadcast of defamatory, unverified news against them. “Those projecting themselves as Maryada Purushas and Sri Ramachandras, I want to throw a challenge...Let all 225 MLAs face an inquiry. Let it be known who has had illicit relationships or extra-marital affairs. Everybody’s character will be known...who did what when they were chief ministers in their private lives. Anyway, this is a question of morality and values, right? I’m openly challenging them,” Sudhakar said. He named Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president DK Shivakumar, former chief minister HD Kumaraswamy of the JD(S) and others while throwing this challenge. “They’re all Satya Harishchandras...KR Ramesh Kumar, V Muniyappa, Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah, Kumaraswamy...they’re following monogamy strictly, right? Let them agree to this (challenge),” Sudhakar said. Sudhakar’s statement drew sharp reactions. “I’m very happy. (Sudhakar) has given precious words to the state. We will discuss this in the Assembly,” Shivakumar said. “I have one wife and one family,” he added. Kumaraswamy lashed out at Sudhakar saying the situation would not have arose if he and his ministerial colleagues had followed propriety. The former chief minister recalled that he had once “slipped” in his private life. “I admitted that in the Assembly,” he said. “But the question is, these things wouldn’t have come up if you had behaved properly and if you hadn’t gone to court for an injunction. You created all these problems,” he said, adding that carnal matters should not be discussed in public. “Nobody is Satya Harishchandra.” Sudhakar’s BJP colleague Narasimha Nayak (Rajugouda), who represents Shorapur, slammed the minister. “(Sudhakar) should withdraw his statement,” he said. “He should have taken specific names instead of speaking about all 224 MLAs. We’re elected representatives, so our statements should be careful.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-sudhakar-wants-monogamy-test-for-all-mlas-965844.html
24-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal continues to rock Karnataka Assembly; Finance Bills passed amid din||Finance Bills were passed by the Karnataka Legislative assembly on Wednesday amid din over the sex scandal allegedly involving BJP leader and former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, which continued to rock the proceedings for the third consecutive day. Opposition Congress members who have been protesting from the well of the House since Monday, continued to disrupt the proceedings today as well under Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah's leadership, demanding a court-monitored probe into the sex scandal, and to book Ramesh Jarkiholi for rape. They also demanded that six ministers, who moved the court for an injunction against the publication or broadcast of any unverified news about them, resign, saying they are "morally unfit". Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa whose reply on the Budget discussion was continuously disrupted by the protesting legislators, condemned Congress's conduct and said people were watching the developments and will teach them a lesson in the days to come. As the House met for the day, Congress members trooped into the well of the House to continue with their protest by raising slogans against the government. Senior BJP MLA K G Bopaiah, objecting to the protest, questioned the Opposition as to how the government can ask the Chief Justice to monitor any probe. "Can the government write such a letter to the Chief Justice, Judicial probe is a different matter." As Congress members continued their protest with slogans like "Down Down BJP government" "Down Down CD government", some BJP legislators questioned the grand old party's morality. Intervening, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the Congress was unnecessarily disrupting the proceedings and infringing on the rights of the other members who want to participate, and called it 'anti-democratic', 'anti-constitutional' and against the law. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar too said Congress should be ashamed of their conduct as he questioned their morality by accusing them of hushing up the sex scandal, involving former minister H Y Meti, while in power. As his repeated requests for cooperation in conducting the business of the House went unheard, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said that he was tabling the answers of the question house, and requested the Chief Minister to begin his reply on the Budget discussion. Yediyurappa read out his reply to the Budget discussion amid continued sloganeering by Congress MLAs from the well, against the government. At the end of his reply on the Budget, Yediyurappa hit out the Opposition Congress and its leaders for unnecessarily protesting and wasting time, aimed at disrupting the budget session. "As they don't have any issue they are doing it, I condemn it. People of the state are watching you and will teach a lesson in the days to come, you can't achieve anything from it," he said. After the CM's reply, the Speaker put the appropriation bills, supplementary estimates, and related financial bills including Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill 2021 that were tabled, to vote, and they were passed amid the din. The Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurements (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was also passed by the assembly. Announcing that the Budget and related finance bills have been passed, the Speaker said he was pained as the Congress MLAs are not cooperating in conducting the proceedings of the House. Noting that the passage of the Budget and making the legislations are the most important responsibilities on the members of this House, he said, "You not cooperating for is unfortunate. If you have a difference of opinion with the government you can do anything outside the House, allow the House to function." As his repeated appeals went in vain, the Speaker then adjourned the House for post-lunch.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-continues-to-rock-karnataka-assembly-finance-bills-passed-amid-din-965910.html
24-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||'Disgusted' at references to sex scandal, women MLCs walk out of Karnataka Legislative Council||Two women MLCs walked out of the Legislative Council on Wednesday "disgusted" at the manner in which the sex scandal was being described by some Congress leaders. BJP MLCs Tejaswini Gowda and Bharathi Shetty said there were hardly three women in the Upper House (Congress' Veena Achaiah being the third) and that they were uncomfortable with the excessive reference to the sex scandal. They walked out in protest after Congress MLC C M Ibrahim made a derogatory remark against the six ministers who recently moved court to get an injunction against the publication or broadcast of anything defamatory or unverified about them. "They broke the bed and then ran to court," Ibrahim said, ticking off the women. Meanwhile, Ibrahim insisted that the discussion on the sex CD issue was in the larger interest of the people in the state. "Why did the six ministers run to the Court fearing that CDs against them would be released? What is the content of these alleged CDs? Does it show them talking about issues in the government or are they discussing the horse trading episode in Mumbai? People of this state deserve to know," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/disgusted-at-references-to-sex-scandal-women-mlcs-walk-out-of-karnataka-legislative-council-965999.html
24-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Chaotic Karnataka Budget session adjourned sine die amid Congress protest over sex CD scandal||The Budget session of the legislature was adjourned sine die on Wednesday, five days before schedule, amid din in both Houses where the sex scandal disrupted the proceedings. The Budget session was to go on till March 31. The Assembly, which witnessed protests by the Congress for the third consecutive day, passed five Bills without any debate. The appropriation bills, supplementary estimates and the Fiscal Responsibility (Amendment) Bill were tabled and passed amid the din. The government also passed the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (Amendment) Bill, which proposes to exempt the state-run KRIDL from the tender process for works up to Rs 2 crore. Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri repeatedly requested the Congress to bring the House in order. “It’s unfortunate that you are not cooperating. If you have any differences with the government, you can do anything you want democratically outside while allowing the House to function,” he said. There was chaos in the Legislative Council, too, where MLCs wanted to take up the sex scandal for discussion. Chairperson Basavaraj Horatti said he would allow a debate on that only after completing other items on the agenda for the day. Congress MLCs jumped to the well of the House and protested. At the same time, JD(S) MLCs walked out of the House protesting against both Congress and BJP. JD(S) leaders argued that no constructive debate was taken up during the Budget session as both parties were busy talking about the sex CD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/chaotic-karnataka-budget-session-adjourned-sine-die-amid-congress-protest-over-sex-cd-scandal-966016.html
24-03-2021||West||Two booked for 'defamatory' social media comments about Sharad Pawar||Two people have been booked for allegedly making "defamatory" comments about NCP chief Sharad Pawar on social media, a Pune rural police official said on Tuesday. The case was registered on the complaint of an NCP worker from Baramati, he added. The two social media users have been charged under section 505 (2) (creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill will between classes) of the Indian Penal Code, and probe was underway, the Baramati taluka police station official informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-booked-for-defamatory-social-media-comments-about-sharad-pawar-965651.html
24-03-2021||West||Pune sees 5,722 Covid-19 cases, 38 deaths, 1,698 recoveries||Pune reported 5,722 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the district's tally to 4,79,522, while the toll rose to 9,640 after 38 people succumbed to the infection, an official said on Tuesday. A total of 1,698 people were discharged post recovery during the day, he added. "Pune city's tally rose to 2,40,834 after it added 3,098 of the new cases of the day. Pimpri Chinchwad accounted for 1,519 cases and its count is now 1,25,071. The caseload of rural and cantonment areas in the district is 1,13,616," said the official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-sees-5722-covid-19-cases-38-deaths-1698-recoveries-965677.html
24-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze's ex-colleague among 86 Mumbai cops transferred||An Assistant Police Inspector who was questioned by the NIA in the Sachin Vaze case was among 86 officials who were transferred on Tuesday, a city police official said. Earlier in the evening, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray as the home department is facing heat over the Vaze case as well as the allegations of corruption against Deshmukh himself. API Riyazuddin Kaazi, who was Vaze's colleague at the the Crime Intelligence Unit, was transferred to the Local Arms unit, a relatively low-key department, the police official said. In all, 65 officials from the Mumbai Crime Branch alone were shunted out, some of them to the traffic department, he added. Kaazi had been questioned by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which is probing the case related to the recovery of a Scorpio with explosives near Mukesh Ambani's house. Vaze has been arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vazes-ex-colleague-among-86-mumbai-cops-transferred-965709.html
24-03-2021||West||Anil Deshmukh issues statement `to set record straight'||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Tuesday said he was "extremely disturbed" by the campaign of slander against him and wanted to set the record straight about his hospitalization last month. Deshmukh is under fire after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the minister had summoned police officer Sachin Waze around mid-February and asked him to help with `collection' of money from hotels and bars in Mumbai. The minister, who has denied the allegations, met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday evening. "I am extremely disturbed by the slander in various forms of media aimed at maligning my and my department's image," Deshmukh said in a video message. "I was hospitalized after contracting the Covid-19 and got admitted to a hospital on February 5. I was there till February 15. I was discharged and flew back to Mumbai and remained in home quarantine," he said. "I conducted some video conferences with officials and party meetings. I started my preparations for the Budget session. Many officials were visiting my official residence for briefing required before the budget session," he said. Considering how people were being "misled", he found it important "to set the record straight about my health and its chronology," said the home minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/anil-deshmukh-issues-statement-to-set-record-straight-965727.html
24-03-2021||West||Massive reshuffle among Mumbai cops after Deshmukh-Thackeray meet||In a surprising move amid the raging political developments in Maharashtra, the Mumbai Police affected a major reshuffle by transferring 86 officers including 65 from the elite Crime Branch-CID. Those transferred include Police Inspectors (PIs), Assistant Police Inspectors (APIs) and Police Sub-Inspectors (PSIs). As far as the transfers are concerned, among those shunted out is API Riyazuddin Kazi, who is a close aide of Vaze. “This is the first time that so many officers – PIs, APIs and PSIs – have been transferred in one go. These include officers who have solved several sensitive cases and have been working in the Crime Branch for several years,” informed sources said. The transfer order came on Tuesday night after Deshmukh met Thackeray. The BJP has been demanding the resignation of Deshmukh, a senior leader from Vidarbha. Often compared to the Scotland Yard, Mumbai Police’s image has suffered a beating after API Sachin Vaze was found involved in the planting of a Mahindra Scorpio, laden with explosives and a threatening letter near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of Reliance Industries Ltd Chairman Mukesh Ambani. Vaze has also been linked to the murder of the Thane-based SUV owner Mansukh Hiran. The image of Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) is also at stake as it faces a barrage of corruption allegations from the BJP. Vaze (49), who worked at the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) of Crime Branch, has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the Scorpio planting case while the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) is set to seek his custody in the Mansukh Hiran murder case, even though the Centre has asked the federal agency to take over the case. The ATS has also arrested Naresh Gor, a cricket-bookie and Vinayak Shinde, a dismissed constable undergoing life term in a Lakhan Bhaiyya fake encounter case, currently on parole. Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh, who was shunted out and made Commandant General of Home Guards, has alleged that state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh gave a target collection of Rs 100 crore per month to Vaze. Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has now made a top-secret report submitted to the ex-Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal and then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department Rashmi Shukla, which stated that massive police transfers and a promotion racket are present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/massive-reshuffle-among-mumbai-cops-after-deshmukh-thackeray-meet-965800.html
24-03-2021||West||Param Bir Singh-Deshmukh row: SC asks ex-Mumbai top cop to approach HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Bombay High Court with his plea for CBI probe against Maharastra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh into his alleged "corrupt practices" including giving collection target of Rs 100 crore. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy told Singh's counsel, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, that the court agreed that the charges were serious but the High Court could examine the matter. "We have no doubt the matter is quite serious affecting administration at large," the bench said, allowing Singh to approach the High Court. Rohatgi said the petition would be filed in the High Court on Wednesday itself. At the outset, the bench asked Rohatgi why he filed filed the petition in the top court and not the High Court and why Deshmukh was not a party to the plea, though allegations were made against him. To this, the counsel said an application has been filed to add Deshmukh as party respondent. With regard to the other query, he said the entire state has been rocked and the police reforms have not taken place. The bench, however, said this was the case with almost all the states. "The parties to this case were hunky dory for a long time. Now they have fallen apart and this has come up. I agree it is serious but High Court can deal with it," the bench said. Rohatgi, however, contended this was a matter of serious public interest for the whole nation. A police officer was transferred citing administrative grounds but Home minister himself said on TV that it was not an administrative transfer. The bench then pointed out that Singh and the Minister were making some allegations against each other. "I don't see a point why you should not move HC," the bench said. Singh triggered a massive political storm in Maharashtra with his letter raising grave allegations of extortion against the Home Minister on March 20. On Monday, he filed a plea in the top court to quash the March 17 order transferring him from the post of Mumbai police commissioner to head of Home Guards as illegal and arbitrary. In his petition, he reiterated his allegations against Deshmukh that he had given collection target of Rs 100 crore to API Sachin Vaze of Crime Intelligence Unit, Mumbai, arrested in Antilia bomb scare case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/param-bir-singh-deshmukh-row-sc-asks-ex-mumbai-top-cop-to-approach-hc-965822.html
24-03-2021||West||Bed strength, vaccination pace being enhanced in Mumbai and MMR||With the rising number of Covid-19 cases in India, Maharashtra is taking measures to strengthen its bed count and beef up the vaccination drive in the state. Over the last few days, Mumbai has reported over 3,000 cases on average while the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) has 6,000-plus cases. The MMR comprises the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and larger parts of the neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts. In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has activated its jumbo field hospitals and kept them ready. In the next two weeks, the BMC plans to increase up to 20,000 beds in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) and Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and up to 50,000 beds in Covid Care Centre 1 (CCC1) and Covid Care Centre 2 (CCC2). As of now, the BMC has 13,002 beds in DCHs, DCHCs and jumbo field hospitals for serious, moderate and complicated cases. The state now has over 25,000 CCC2 beds. Besides, here are 1,544 ICU beds, 966 ventilator beds and 8,814 oxygen beds. Over the last fortnight, besides Mumbai and the neighbouring municipal corporations of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Panvel, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar have reported more cases — making the Mumbai-MMR a hotspot yet again. In Mumbai, besides the RT-PCR tests, random RATs are being done in public places, malls, railway stations and bus depots. “More than 85 per cent of the cases in Mumbai and in the state are asymptomatic. The majority of those infected are undergoing treatment at home and under quarantine. We have empty beds, but at the same time, the bed strength is being increased,” the state’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. In the MMR, the jump in the cases is mainly attributed to crowds in suburban local trains and civic and state transport buses as movement in these five districts has been high after normal work schedule was restored. The Maharashtra government has ordered 50 per cent attendance in government and private offices except those in emergency, health and medical services. Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)  has prohibited Holi celebrations. “All private and public celebration of Holika Dahan and Rang Panchami has been prohibited to ensure Covid-19 doesn’t play spoilsport,” the BMC said. The rest of the eight MMR municipal corporations are expected to follow suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bed-strength-vaccination-pace-being-enhanced-in-mumbai-and-mmr-965846.html
24-03-2021||West||Negative Covid-19 report must for travelling to Gujarat from Maharashtra||The Gujarat government has made it mandatory for people coming from neighbouring Maharashtra to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours. This decision has been taken in view of a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, it said. In an order issued on Tuesday, the state health department observed that contact tracing of Covid-19 cases found in Gujarat over the last one week revealed that a large number of the infected people had returned from Maharashtra. People entering Gujarat from Maharashtra will also have to undergo a mandatory screening, it said. "Only those will be eligible to enter Gujarat from Maharashtra who have got their RT-PCR test done within 72 hours of their visit and their test result is negative," said the order issued by Deputy Secretary, Health department, Vanrajsinh Padhiyar. As per the Maharashtra health department, the cumulative caseload in the state stood at 25,33,026 on March 23 when the state added 28,699 new infections in a day. "Contact tracing of coronavirus positive cases found in Gujarat over the last one week revealed that a large number of cases are of the people who have returned from Maharashtra and those who got in contact with such people," the health department said. Surat Municipal Corporation had earlier made it mandatory for people coming to that city from other states to remain in home isolation for seven days. Gujarat on Tuesday reported its highest single-day rise of 1,730 fresh cases, taking the overall count to 2,90,679.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/negative-covid-19-report-must-for-travelling-to-gujarat-from-maharashtra-965876.html
24-03-2021||West||BJP dubs MVA govt 'maha vasooli sarkar', submits Thackery's 100 'failures' to Governor||Mounting a major offensive on the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra, the BJP submitted a 100-point list to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari pointing out areas where the government failed to discharge its Constitutional duties. A delegation of the BJP comprising Leader of Opposition in Assembly and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, state unit President Chandrakant Patil and senior leaders Sudhir Mungantiwar, Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and Ashish Sheler called on the Governor at the Raj Bhavan here. “We have submitted a 100-point list… The Chief Minister is silent… He does not speak and hence we urged the Governor to seek a report,” Fadnavis told reporters emerging out of the meeting. He said that ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh has accused Home Minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption and a major police transfers and promotion racket has surfaced. “There is no word from the Chief Minister. (NCP President) Sharad Pawar spoke to defend his party,” he said. According to him, the three ruling allies Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress are together in the mess and corruption and described them as the “maha vasooli sarkar”. He said that in the last one year, the MVA government has miserably failed in handling the Covid-19 pandemic. “Why are the cases increasing in Maharashtra only?” Fadnavis wanted to know. He also said that the intelligence report that has surfaced tells all about what this government is doing. “Time will tell whether it is a ‘chota fataka’ or an ‘atom bomb’,” he said.  Fadnavis said the MVA leaders must tell whom they are trying to protect. “The Congress must tell how much cut they are getting,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-dubs-mva-govt-maha-vasooli-sarkar-submits-thackerys-100-failures-to-governor-965882.html
24-03-2021||West||Maha Vikas Aghadi enjoys support of over 175 MLAs: NCP leader Nawab Malik||With the BJP questioning Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's "silence" on various issues and asking the state Governor to seek a status report from the government, NCP leader Nawab Malik on Wednesday said the CM will speak at right time and that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) has the support of more than 175 MLAs. He also termed as "baseless" the BJP's allegations against the Shiv Sena-led government on several issues. Taking a swipe, Malik, who holds Minority Development portfolio, said leaders of BJP must understand that President's Rule cannot be imposed in a state "just like that". He claimed the MVA comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress has the support of more than 175 MLAs. The state Assembly has 288 MLAs. Malik's reaction came after a BJP delegation met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday morning and requested him to send a report on the current situation in the state to President Ram Nath Kovind. Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis, who led the delegation, questioned Thackeray's "silence" on various issues. The BJP has been targeting the Thackeray-led government over former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's graft charges against state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and also on a purported state intelligence department report on "corruption" in police transfers in Maharashtra. "The chief minister will speak at the right time. He need not speak on every issue.... He will speak at an appropriate time. BJP's allegations are baseless," Malik told PTI. He said people of the state have started realising that the BJP is involved in a conspiracy to defame the state government by peddling "half-baked information". The minister alleged the BJP has adopted a strategy through which it is trying to confuse people by claiming that the state government will not last long. Fadnavis on Tuesday claimed the MVA government did not act on an "incriminating" state intelligence department report containing audio intercepts of a "large scale corruption" in police transfers and postings, and sought a CBI probe into the episode. Malik on Wednesday reiterated that no due permission was sought to tap phones. "The truth is that there is no substance in that report," Malik alleged. He said BJP leaders have been demanding the imposition of President's Rule in the state since the last few days. "However, the MVA has numbers stacked in its favour. There is a Supreme Court verdict that a government cannot be dissolved until it loses majority on the floor of the House," he said. Issuing a video statement, Malik said, "We (MVA) had the support of 169 MLAs (when the government was formed). Now, we enjoy the support of more than 175 MLAs. The BJP is restless, it cannot live without power. Hence, it is doing all these things". Malik added. He said the BJP's attempts to "destabilize" the government have failed. "Earlier, the BJP said the government will not survive even for a month. Then it said the government won't last for three or six months. Then they said MLAs will break away. As the BJP failed not to do anything, it is now bent on defaming the state government," Malik said and accused the BJP of using Central agencies to malign the image of the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maha-vikas-aghadi-enjoys-support-of-over-175-mlas-ncp-leader-nawab-malik-965891.html
24-03-2021||West||Holi celebrations banned in Pune amid rise in Covid-19 cases||The district and civic authorities in Pune on Wednesday announced that Holi celebrations in public and private places are banned amid a surge in the daily count of COVID-19 infections. In an official order, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said in light of the rise in cases of coronavirus, Holi celebrations in public spaces such as hotels, resorts and other public spots in the rural areas are banned. Housing societies are also not permitted to hold Holi celebrations on their premises on March 28 and 29, the order stated. The Pune Municipal Corporation has also banned celebrations in resorts, hotels, open spaces and housing societies within the city limits. Strict action will be taken against violators of the order under relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/holi-celebrations-banned-in-pune-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-965953.html
24-03-2021||West||Rashmi Shukla illegally tapped ministers' phones: MVA||Facing a barrage of allegations, the Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Wednesday said that IPS officer Rashmi Shukla had tapped the phones of politicians, including ministers of the Uddhav Thackeray-government, without necessary approval. Shukla, the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department (SID), is now on deputation at the Centre and works as Additional Director General of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). “She took permission for some other name and tapped someone else’s phone…there was no legal permission... making a fool of the government, she took permission to tap ‘A’ and tapped the phone of ‘B’ ….it is quite scary...It was a well planned strategy so that her report could be used to malign MVA,” he said. “There are reasons to give phone tapping permission by the state government. Who was fit in that category ..it should come in public domain for Maharashtra to know what exactly happened,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rashmi-shukla-illegally-tapped-ministers-phones-mva-965967.html
24-03-2021||West||Defamation case: Adani claims journalist's report tarnishes firm's image||Opposing a petition moved by senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta facing criminal defamation case, the Adani Power Ltd (APL), a part of Gautam Adani led Adani Group, has said in an affidavit filed in Gujarat High Court on Wednesday that due to Guha's articles, "viewed by public at large", the company has "suffered injury on its reputation" and they have also "tarnished the image of Prime Minister's Office" by publishing a photo of the Prime Minister with Adani chairman Gautam Adani. The affidavit was filed in response to Thakurta's petition seeking transfer of criminal defamation case to Ahmedabad from Mundra, Kutch district, where APL has filed its case. Thakurta has stated in the petition that since civil defamation cases have been filed in Ahmedabad, this criminal case should also be moved to Ahmedabad, besides the fact that Adani Group's office is situated in Ahmedabad. The senior journalist has also cited his ill-health as one of the grounds for shifting the case to Ahmedabad. Opposing the petition, the affidavit says that "the cause of action for civil suits is entirely different from the cause of action for criminal defamation proceedings faced by the petitioner herein...The deponent (APL) submits that the petitioner, though was one of the party defendants in two civil suits, has not even bothered to obtain details of the civil suits and check the averments with regard to jurisdiction and the laws pertaining to civil suit jurisdiction vis-a-vis criminal defamation..." The affidavit, filed by Malav Deliwala, an authorised representative of APL, mentions the alleged defamatory headlines of the articles written by Thakurta and his interview for the online news portal The Wire. "Defamatory articles and interview, which have been viewed by public at large, the depondent has suffered injury on its reputation and had to undergo severe agony in explaining the true and correct set of circumstances to the well-wishers, employees, investors, bankers, shareholders and also local residents of Mundra," the affidavit states. It adds, "Further a photo of Prime Minister of India with Adani-chairman of the deponent herein was published by the accused making an imputation with a view to harm the reputation of the deponent herein and to lower its esteem in the mind of public at large and furthermore as the defamatory article is available to be read everywhere in India and also outside India and globally, the same has also tarnished the image of Prime Minister's office and India as a whole."   The affidavit "denies" Thakurta as an "investigative journalist against the ruling dispensation and the Adani group and is targeted for vindictive prosecution." Earlier this year, a judicial magistrate court of first class, Mundra in Kutch had issued an arrest warrant against Thakurta in this case. He had approached the High Court, which quashed the warrant and ordered him to remain present before the court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/defamation-case-adani-claims-journalists-report-tarnishes-firms-image-965978.html
24-03-2021||West||With over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai sees biggest-ever spike in Covid-19 cases||Compounding the problems manifold, the financial capital of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) reported 5,000-plus Covid-19 cases for the first time on Wednesday since the outbreak of pandemic a year ago - and more than double the peak last year. In the last 24-hours, Mumbai recorded 5,185 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths, taking the progressive figures to 3,74,611 and 11,606, respectively. The biggest slum cluster of Asia, Dharavi, reported an alarming 62 cases. The MMR recorded 9,147 cases and 16 deaths, taking the progressive total to 8,17,212 and 20,116, respectively. The MMR comprises the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and large parts of the neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts and here the pressure on the public transportation system -- suburban trains, civic buses and state transport buses besides cabs and auto-rickshaws -- is very high.  During the day, Maharashtra recorded 31,855 new Covid-19 cases and 95 deaths taking the progressive total to 25,64,881 and 53,684, respectively. The bulk of the cases are coming from MMR and urban centres like Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Nagpur. At the weekly Cabinet meeting, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray took a comprehensive review of the situation. In Mumbai, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has activated its jumbo field hospitals and kept them in readiness. The Maharashtra government has ordered 50 per cent attendance in government and private offices except those in emergency, health and medical services. Over the last fortnight, besides Mumbai and the neighbouring municipal corporations of Thane, Navi Mumbai, Kalyan Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Bhiwandi-Nizampur, Panvel, Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar have reported more cases – making the Mumbai-MMR a hotspot yet again. While the bed-strength increased in the MMR, in Mumbai besides the RT-PCR tests, random RATs are being done in public places, malls, railway stations and bus depots. “More than 85 per cent of the cases in Mumbai and in the state are asymptomatic. The majority of those infected are undergoing treatment in home and are under quarantine. We have empty beds, but at the same time, the bed strength is being increased,” the state’s Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said. In the next two weeks’ time, the BMC  plans to increase up to 20,000 beds in Dedicated Covid Hospitals (DCH) and Dedicated Covid Health Centre (DCHC) and up to 50,000 beds in Covid Care Centre 1 (CCC1) and Covid Care Centre 2 (CCC2). As of now, the BMC has 13,002 beds in DCHs, DCHCs and jumbo field hospitals for serious, moderate and complicated cases. The state now has over 25,000 CCC2 beds. Besides, here are 1,544 ICU beds, 966 ventilator beds and 8,814 oxygen beds. Meanwhile, the BMC has prohibited Holi celebrations. “All private and public celebration of Holika Dahan and Rang Panchami has been prohibited to ensure Covid-19 doesn’t play a spoilsport,” the BMC said. The rest of the eight MMR municipal corporations are expected to follow suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/with-over-5000-new-covid-19-cases-mumbai-sees-biggest-ever-spike-in-covid-19-cases-965995.html
24-03-2021||West||Parliament nod to Union Budget for FY22||The Lok Sabha had on Tuesday approved the Finance Bill 2021 -- which contains tax proposals for the next fiscal year beginning April 1 -- after accepting some government amendments such as raising provident fund ceiling for tax-free interest to Rs 5 lakh and platforms such as Amazon not being liable for the equalisation levy as long as the goods and services listed are owned or provided by an Indian permanent establishment of the overseas entity. The Bill was debated in the Upper House, which returned it without suggesting any change or amendment. Replying to the debate, Sitharaman said the government does not see a risk of a sovereign rating downgrade because of incurring a higher deficit arising from increased spending being done to boost the economy. "India enjoys an investment-grade rating and we are not foreseeing any change or any chance of a downgrade due to us incurring higher deficits," she said, adding the higher deficit was resulting from higher spending and increased borrowings. Stating that economists and rating agencies are of the opinion that governments need to spend to put the pandemic-hit economies back on track, she said India too followed the same advice. "So globally that is the advice everybody is receiving and we are also following. So it shouldn't hurt our rating," she said. Sitharaman, however, had to curtail her speech following a verbal duel with TMC members over the implementation of central government schemes in West Bengal. Speaking in Bengali to reply to a speech made by TMC MP Dola Sen in that language, the minister said the West Bengal government did not give names of farmers for giving cash help under the PM Kisan Yojana and refused to implement the health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat in the state. This led to vociferous protests from TMC members, with Sen saying, "We never refused... she is misleading." With a high-pitch electoral battle for the West Bengal Assembly on between the BJP and TMC, Sen had drilled holes in Budget proposals, crying "lajja, lajja (shame, shame)." Sitharaman returned the favour, saying, "Central government wants to give poor farmers in Bengal Rs 10,000 crore but the state government is not allowing it." "She (Sen) used word 'lajja, lajja' but I want to say is that (not allowing farmers cash) right? Lajja, lajja," she said. "Again, central government wants to start Ayushman Bharat for poor people in Bengal but state government is not letting it. Is that fair for poor man? Lajja, lajja." As infuriated TMC members continued to protest, Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh asked the minister to conclude and then put the Finance Bill to vote. The Bill and government amendments were approved by voice vote and the Bill returned. For the sake of parliamentary approval, Finance Bill is classified as a 'Money Bill' -- one that contains provisions related to taxation, borrowing of money by the government, expenditure from or receipt to the Consolidated Fund of India. As per the Constitution, a Money Bill may only be introduced in the Lok Sabha, which can pass it by a simple majority of all members present and voting. Following this, it may be sent to the Rajya Sabha for its recommendations, which the Lok Sabha may reject if it chooses to. If such recommendations are not given within 14 days, it will deemed to be passed by Parliament. The two Houses had previously approved the Appropriation Bill, authorising the spending of a certain sum of money. With the Rajya Sabha returning the Finance Bill 2021, the Parliamentary approval for Budget 2021-21 has been completed. Replying to the debate, Sitharaman cited low inflation, higher GDP growth, record foreign investment and lower fiscal deficit to defend her government's handling of the economy. She attacked the Congress-led UPA government for leaving a "mess" and mismanaging the economy which the Modi administration set right. The measures taken in response to the 2008 global financial crisis by the UPA led to high inflation and 'taper tantrums', she said. Sitharaman further said average GDP growth between 2014 to 2019 was 7.5 per cent as against 6.7 per cent during 2009 to 2014 under UPA. Similarly, consumer price inflation was 10.3 per cent under five years of UPA rule, while during 2014-19 it was 4.8 per cent. Fiscal deficit too has been contained at 3.65 per cent of the GDP during 2014-19 as compared to 5.3 per cent in the previous five years, she said, adding current account deficit has also improved from (-)3.34 per cent to (-)1.43 per cent. Foreign exchange reserves have grown from $303 billion in 2014 to $411.9 billion, she said, adding NPAs or bad debt declined to Rs 8.99 lakh crore as of March 2020. "India was one of the fragile five economies when Arun Jaitley (Modi government's first finance minister) inherited (in 2014). It became one of the fastest-growing economies. You created a crisis, Jaitleyji and Prime Minister Modi handled it," she said. "The 2008 financial crisis was nothing in comparison to the Corona crisis of last year." She further said the inflation rate has been checked and has never been allowed to go past the 'emotional' level of 6 per cent during 2014 to 2019. On GST compensation to be paid to states following the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), the minister said there are no dues pending for period prior to the pandemic. For 2020-21, Rs 2.17 lakh crore is due and money was borrowed and given to states, she said, and added that over Rs 30,000 crore will be released to states within March. On reduction of centrally sponsored schemes, she said the 14th Finance Commission had increased devolution of taxes to states to 42 per cent of all tax receipts from 32 per cent previously. While doing so, it recommended a reduction in the share of centrally sponsored schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/parliament-nod-to-union-budget-for-fy22-966004.html
24-03-2021||West||Gujarat reports highest single-day Covid-19 surge since breakout of pandemic||Gujarat reported 1,790 coronavirus cases in the past 24 hours, the highest single day figure since the pandemic broke out last year. The state also reported eight deaths during the period which was the highest figure since December 26. The rise in the daily caseload has forced the government to bring curbs on public gatherings for the past couple of weeks.  Officials attribute the surge in cases to traveling, cricket matches at Narendra Modi Stadium, where Covid-19 guidelines went for a toss, forcing the Gujarat Cricket Association to ban the spectators and large gathering of people during political rallies for local body polls. Earlier in the day, the state government issued a notification banning public celebration of Holi festival. The notification stated that only "Holika dahan" or Holi pyre will be allowed in small gatherings. Previously, the government extended night curfew hours in major cities, weekend closure of malls, theaters, among other public places in view of the rising cases. Offline education in schools and colleges have also been shut once again in eight major towns. Among the worst affected cities are Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Bhavnagar, among others. For the past two days, Ahmedabad has reported over 500 cases, a new peak, compared to 99 cases on March 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-reports-highest-single-day-covid-19-surge-since-breakout-of-pandemic-966035.html
24-03-2021||West||No compromise on Mahadayi at any cost: Goa CM in Budget speech||The Goa government will not compromise on the ongoing Mahadayi dispute with Karnataka at any cost and the state's rightful claim on the river water will be endorsed through the ongoing judicial process, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. Speaking during his Budget speech during the ongoing Budget Session of the state legislative Assembly, Sawant, who has been accused by the Opposition of trying to sabotage Goa's interest in the ongoing dispute with Karnataka, also said that his government was fully committed to protecting the interests of the state. "My government is very serious about the Mahadayi issue. It is during my tenure that the government approached the Supreme Court against the illegal diversion of river water by the neighbouring state, as a result of which the apex court has now appointed a joint committee to oversee the matter," Sawant told the state Assembly. The committee is expected to submit a report to the court within four weeks, he added. "When the neighbouring state committed contempt of court, my government filed a separate contempt petition. Through this House I want to tell the people of Goa that my government will not strike any kind of compromise on the Mahadayi issue," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-compromise-on-mahadayi-at-any-cost-goa-cm-in-budget-speech-966041.html
