25-03-2021||Davangere||Davangere farmer offers brinjal to Lord Manjunatha over low price||A farmer from the taluk has sent five tonnes of brinjal to Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, a pilgrim centre in Dakshina Kannada district, in a lorry, to be used for mass-feeding purpose after he failed to get remunerative price for the produce in the market. R G Basavaraju from Rampura village in the taluk who is also vice-president of Rajya Raitha Sangha, had grown around four-tonne brinjal on his two acres of land. The price in the market for a kg of brinjal was Rs 2. Hurt by it, he decided to send the vegetable to the pilgrim centre so that the temple authorities could use it. The farmer expected a minimum price of Rs 10 per kg in the market. But the absence of remunerative price forced him to transport the vegetable to the temple. Other farmers of the village who had grown it also gave away their produce. So, in total, five tonnes of brinjal was sent to Dharmasthala in a lorry. He said merchants who procure brinjal at Rs 2 per kg sell the same at Rs 20 per kg in our presence. It is the most painful moment. "We loaded five tonne of brinjal in a lorry and sent it to Dharmasthala by paying Rs 9,000 from our own pockets."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/davangere-farmer-offers-brinjal-to-lord-manjunatha-over-low-price-966546.html
25-03-2021||In Perspective||Does Madhya Pradesh’s ‘cow cabinet’ care about cows?||In November, Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan announced the creation of a ‘cow cabinet,’ ostensibly meant to protect cattle while promoting their use for dairy products throughout the state. The announcement came amid an atmosphere of increasing violence perpetrated in the name of cow protection. Fearmongering and violence by so-called Hindu nationalists in the name of cow protection, and the cow cabinet’s initiative for cattle promotion raise the question whether Chauhan’s cabinet will only accomplish more violence against people and cows. In addition to promoting violence against people, Chauhan’s cow cabinet advocates for cow husbandry and breeding—things that will increase violence against cows as well. Madhya Pradesh is one of the major milk-producing states in India. Producing milk requires controlling the cow’s body and physically manipulating it through processes such as artificial insemination since cows only produce milk during pregnancies and shortly after giving birth. As per the MP State Cooperative Dairy Federation Ltd., over 601,450 artificial inseminations were performed at 1,102 Artificial Insemination Centres in the 2018-2019 period. Artificial insemination is a painful process, involving the deposition of stored semen directly into the animal’s uterus to impregnate it. The procedure is performed using hands and tools, such as a tube for insertion into the vagina. After the cow gives birth, its calf is separated from the lactating mother to make the milk available for human consumption instead. The cow cabinet’s goal of promotion and protection of cattle is a position at odds with itself since cows are not protected when they’re being exploited for milk. In September 2017, Kamdhenu Gau Abhyaranya, touted as India’s first cow sanctuary, was set up by the then BJP government in Madhya Pradesh. During this development, Swami Akhileshwaranand Giri, chairman of the Madhya Pradesh Gau Samvardhan Board stated that the cow could play an important role in uplifting the country’s economy, helping India leave behind other major economies. Such a statement coming from a vocal speaker on cow protection and conservation indicates how the cow is perceived merely as a beneficial resource. The cow cabinet fails to address other ways that cows are harmed in the dairy industry and in cow shelters. In dairy production, after five to six years of continually forced impregnation, cows’ bodies are considered “spent” and can no longer produce milk optimally. Cows are then either abandoned or slaughtered. While a small number of cows end up in shelters, these facilities are known to keep cows in appalling conditions, with many of the animals dying from starvation or negligence. In over a year of the first cow sanctuary’s establishment, more than 600 cows died due to extreme weather conditions. The sanctuary began to face fodder and water shortage, and therefore talk of privatising the institution began. In 2019, Lakhan Singh Yadav, the then Minister for Animal Husbandry in the Congress-led MP state government stated that privatisation would not mean handing over the sanctuary to a company for money-making, but rather to allow a social or religious organisation to manage it and serve the cows as well-qualified organisations know that non-milch cows are also beneficial in many respects. For all the cow protection rhetoric, it seems the so-called protectors of the cow cannot but see the cow as a means to an end. The concept of ‘holy mother cow’ is exploited to validate milk consumption by the same people who claim to respect and protect cows. In the first meeting of the cow cabinet on November 22 last year, Chauhan announced some of the plans of the cow cabinet. He referred to cow’s milk as “Amrit” (nectar). He proclaimed that the earth will sustain itself if cows are saved, lauding the alleged benefits of cow’s milk, urine and dung. The so-called Hindu nationalists assert that cows should be protected and worshipped as they “give us” or “provide us” with their milk, like a mother. Such romanticisation of cow’s milk erases the harsh reality that it’s not the cows that voluntarily and willingly provide us milk but it’s the humans who take away their milk that solely belongs to their new-born calves. They deem cows worthy of respect and protection only because cows serve, or rather are made to serve, humans in various ways. Chauhan’s cow cabinet is going to further exploit cows and increase the incidents of violence against marginalised communities in the name of cow protection. Those who claim to be the protectors of cows and take pride in consuming cow’s milk and urine also partake in the exploitation, harming and abandonment of cows which they consider to be “holy” and “motherly”. The cow’s existence is perceived as important only because of the benefits that could be gained through their exploitation in multiple forms. The cows, amidst the politics of humans, are used as tools to continue the cycle of oppression against them and some sections of society while being revered and worshipped as a mother. (The writer is a freelancer based in Bokaro Steel City)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/does-madhya-pradesh-s-cow-cabinet-care-about-cows-966060.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Students eat at place of worship; teacher sent on leave||Following the furore over students having meals during the inauguration of a place of worship belonging to another community at Kokkada in Belthangady taluk, the in-charge headteacher was sent on a 10-day leave. A probe into the incident was entrusted to Samagra Shikshana Jilla Upa Yojane Coordinator, sources in the department of public instruction said. The place of worship belonging to a minority community at Kokkada was inaugurated on March 19. The students of a nearby high school were invited to the place to have mid-day meals. The incident where students had food was discussed widely on social media. “There was a lot of opposition in social media and among the public for sending students to the inauguration of the place of worship. In this background, the in-charge headteacher was sent on a 10-day leave. Action will be taken after a report is submitted to us,” DDPI Malleswamy told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/students-eat-at-place-of-worship-teacher-sent-on-leave-966197.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Protect, conserve submerged reefs off Mangaluru coast'||Fisheries College Dean Dr A Senthil Vel said he will approach Indian Coast Guards seeking conservation and protection of submerged reefs (coral), located around 120 nautical miles (220 kms) away from Mangaluru coast. Vel informed that he had received information that 80 to 100 fishing boats from the neighbouring states with dangerous fishing gears, including extremely destructive fishing nets, were exploiting endangered and scheduled animals along the reefs of Karnataka coast. He says as per the Survey of India (SoI) map, the submerged reefs were named 'Bassas De Pedra', 'Cora Divh' and 'Sesostris Bank'. "These submerged reefs may be an extension of Lakshadweep islands towards the north from Lakshadweep waters," Vel added. Some of the catches which have not been recorded along the Karnataka coast are being observed along these reefs. These reefs are home to endangered species like sharks, spotted skates and rays, lobsters and shells which are listed under Schedule 1 of Wild Life Protection Act, he said. Submerged reefs from the topo map are located at the height of around 40m to 50m from the sea bed. Such submerged reefs also act as breeding and spawning areas for many commercially important fish and shellfish, including mollusks and starfish. The reef includes seaweeds and sea fans. "These areas had not been explored so far. Fishing communities from other states have begun fishing in this neglected area," the Dean said. "As these fishes are not popular among consumers, fishermen were selling these fishes for as low as Rs 100 to Rs 130 per kg. Further, the shells which are pretty big in size and are under Schedule 1 of the Wild Life Protection Act were being sold for Rs 50 to Rs 100 per piece. If reefs are overexploited, they will become barren and the rich biodiversity will be totally destroyed," Senthil warned. He said under Chapter III Duties and Functions of The Coast Guard Para 14 (2)(c), Indian Coast Guard Act 1978, the Indian Coast Guard has jurisdiction to enforce the laws. Indian Coast Guard can implement provisions for prohibiting exploitation in ecologically sensitive areas within the EEZ (Exclusive Economic Zone). He said Coastal Security Police and fishing department need to inspect the area and take stock of the situation. Vel also intends to urge the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to notify these groups of submerged reefs as ecologically sensitive and treat them on par with Lakshadweep islands and eco-sensitive areas under Wild Life Protection Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/protect-conserve-submerged-reefs-off-mangaluru-coast-966208.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Alliance Air begins operation between Kalaburagi & Mumbai||Alliance Air on Thursday began flight operations between Kalaburagi and Mumbai, the financial capital of India. The first flight, carrying 22 passengers, took off from Mumbai Airport at 9.07 am and arrived at Kalaburagi Airport at 9.40 am. In the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, those passengers who landed without RT-PCR negative certificate were subjected to RT-PCR test at the airport itself. The fight was accorded water salute as soon as it landed at Kalaburagi Airport. The flight will be operated every day between Mumbai and Kalaburagi. Alliance Air and Star Air are already operating flights to Bengaluru, Delhi (Hindon) and Tirupati from Kalaburagi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alliance-air-begins-operation-between-kalaburagi-mumbai-966240.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Driver charred to death after bus, tanker caught fire in collision||The driver of a truck was charred to death in a tragic accident that occurred between a container truck and a private bus at Mannagundi in Nelyadi on Mangaluru-Bengaluru national highway 75 on Wednesday. The bus has been completely gutted in the fire. According to the police, the private bus was bound to Bengaluru from Mangaluru while the container was bound to Mangaluru when the mishap occurred. The driver of the container could not come out of the truck and was burnt alive.  Due to the impact of the collision, the truck and the bus caught fire. The bus driver and passengers who suffered minor injuries were shifted to the hospital. A case has been registered at Uppinangady police station. The local residents and the fire service personnel rushed to the spot and helped in dousing the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/driver-charred-to-death-after-bus-tanker-caught-fire-in-collision-966262.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 spike: Mangalore University suspends classes till March 29||Following a surge in Covid-19 cases in Mangalore University campus at Mangalagangothri, the classes for PG students/research students were suspended from March 25 to 29. Hostel wardens were advised to ensure that the students stay in hostels and do not visit their houses, a circular issued by the Registrar of the University stated. Mangalore University has 25 postgraduate departments offering 40 PG programmes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-spike-mangalore-university-suspends-classes-till-march-29-966321.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Isha Foundation plans to distribute 3.5 cr saplings||Amidst Covid-19, Coimbatore-based Isha Foundation has distributed over 1.10 crore saplings this year and the foundation has a target to distribute 3.5 crore saplings under its ambitious ‘Cauvery Calling’ campaign. Sadguru Jaggi Vasudev, who heads Isha Foundation, was speaking to reporters during his visit to Suttur Mutt branch in the city. He said, despite coronavirus, the volunteers and the farmers have achieved double the target. For next year, the foundation has planned to distribute 3.5 crore saplings, he said. Sadguru also met Suttur seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/isha-foundation-plans-to-distribute-35-cr-saplings-966491.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’ today||‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’, an inspiration talk by academician Gururaja Karajagi, is organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani publications, in association with University of Mysore (UoM), at Senate Bhavan, Manasagangotri in the city on March 26, Friday, from 10 am to 2 pm. In the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, the workshop, a guidance programme on the future choices of youth, is restricted to UoM students only. All Covid guidelines, like wearing of mask, social distancing, and sanitising will be followed. UoM Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, Registrar R Shivappa, Executive Editor of Prajavani Ravindra Bhat and General Manager (Circulation) Oliver Lesly Velitinger will participate in the programme. Owner of Mysore Tarpaulins Y Veerabhadra and president of Navodaya Foundation S R Ravi will be the guests. As the entry of students is restricted, the programme will be streamed live on Prajavani Facebook page. UoM is also streaming the event on its social media platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bhavishyada-dhaari-today-966492.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||AHV blasts police commissioner for bike rider’s death||MLC A H Vishwanath made a charge against City Police Commissioner Chandragupta in connection with the death of a bike rider, who came under a truck in a bid to escape from the traffic police. Speaking to reporters here, on Thursday, Vishwanath said, “The commissioner has given an appreciation letter to the police, who were allegedly responsible for the death of the rider near RMP Circle on Hunsur Road in Hinkal, a few days back.” It has to be noted that a rider died on the spot, as he came under a truck, in a bid to escape from the police, who were intercepting and inspecting the vehicles. Following the incident, the public attacked the police and also damaged their vehicle. Later, Vijayanagar police arrested 13 persons in connection with the attack and the City Police Commissioner has issued appreciation certificates to eight police personnel attached to VV Puram Traffic Police station for shifting the injured person to hospital, removing the dead body from the spot and clearing the traffic. Vishwanath asked, “What kind of a Police Commissioner are you? How can you give away appreciation certificates to the police, who are responsible for the death of a bike rider?” “The commissioner never went on city rounds. What are the DCPs, ACPs doing? The police have no respect for the people and people’s representatives. Has your law told you to chase bike riders? Don’t you have CCTV cameras to check the violations? The government has provided you equipment and cameras to file cases. The police are exhibiting goondaism,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ahv-blasts-police-commissioner-for-bike-rider-s-death-966493.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Second wave of Covid hits tourism in Mysuru again||There is a dip in the number of tourists visiting Mysuru, due to the rising mercury levels and also increasing Covid-19 cases across the state, leaving the tourism and hospitality industry worried. Tourist season in Mysuru begins from April and reaches its peak for more than two months. Most of the tourists are from Tamil Nadu and Kerala.  With Tamil Nadu going into polls and the Covid cases on the rise in Kerala, the number of tourists has come down considerably. The stakeholders of tourism and hospitality sectors were hoping that business would get better this year, compared to last summer, when there was a lockdown, when business came to a halt. It took a few months for them to resume business. Now, the second wave of Covid-19 has caught them off guard. The tourism and hospitality industry witnessed a little improvement in the last couple of months, when people from other states started visiting the tourist spots in and around Mysuru. Usually, there is a dip in tourism activities every year in February and March due to annual examinations, but picks up later.  The fear of a second wave has kept the authorities concerned on their toes, implementing restrictions for the second consecutive year. The authorities are acting tough, allowing only those with Covid negative reports into Karnataka border. This has affected tourism activities. Speaking to DH, Mysuru Hotel Owners’ Association president C Narayana Gowda said that the situation has become similar to August last year. “Business had picked up by around 70% in the last couple of months. But, it has seen a dip by 25% now. With the district administration allowing only those with RT-PCR negative reports, there are not much tourists from other states. Only those within Karnataka are visiting Mysuru and surrounding places. If the current situation prevails, business is expected to be around 50% this year. We hoped for a normal season this year, he said. Situation no differed The situation is similar in Hassan and Mandya districts. The number of tourists to the historical Hoysaleshwara temple in Halebid and other monuments and Jain basadis has come down. The tourists inflow, which was around 2,000 on weekdays and 5,000 on weekends, has come down considerably in the last one week. Brindavan Gardens and other places in Mandya district too have seen a dip in the flow of tourists. There was a steady stream of visitors to the district to take a holy dip in the River Cauvery during ‘Maagha masa’ and they also used to visit other places. Now, the number of tourists have come down due to the fear of Covid and also due to the restrictions enforced by the district administration. This has affected small vendors and sellers, who totally depend upon tourists for a living.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/second-wave-of-covid-hits-tourism-in-mysuru-again-966498.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Religious harmony marks Kondotsava in border village||Maramma Kondotsava that highlights religious harmony was celebrated as per tradition at Talawadi in Tamil Nadu near Chamarajanagar on Thursday. Though Talawadi is in Tamil Nadu, there are a large number of Kannadigas, living here. The kondotsava attracts a large number of devotees from Chamarajanagar district, Satyamangala, Erode, Coimbatore, Bengaluru and Chennai. The fire walking ritual is held in front of a mosque. The priest takes part in the annual fire walking ritual as per the custom, followed since years.  The mosque is near Maramma temple and there is Venugopalaswamy temple, adjoining the mosque. The people belonging to Hindu and Muslim faiths live in harmony in the village. Not only Hindus, even Muslims take part in the Maramma jatra festival. Devotees from Talawadi, Doddagajanuru, Talamalai, Kodipura, Chamarajanagar, Mysuru and other places visit the temple in large numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/religious-harmony-marks-kondotsava-in-border-village-966500.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Bypoll aspirant has paid a huge amount of money to BJP high command for Basavakalyan ticket, says H D Kumaraswamy||Former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy dropped a bombshell on Thursday by saying that an aspirant had paid a huge amount to the BJP high command for a ticket in the bypoll to the Basavakalyan assembly constituency Speaking at a press meet here, Kumaraswamy said that this was the reason behind the brewing disgruntlement among the local BJP workers. As it was a money matter, the BJP has not yet announced its candidate for the Basavakalyan segment, he charged. Clarifying that the regional party will not be fielding its candidate in the Maski assembly bypoll, Kumaraswamy said the party will go all out to ensure the victory of the JD(S) candidate in Basavakalyan. "A person from the minority community has been fielded to give a befitting answer to the Congress and Opposition Leader in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah who is publically questioning the secular credentials of the party. They are spreading canards to make people belonging to the Muslim community oppose the regional party," he charged. 'No discussion on people woes' Expressing his displeasure over problems of the common people being dodged and not discussed in the recently concluded Legislative session, the JD(S) leader said that both the national parties wasted time discussing the "good-for-nothing" sex CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Kumaraswamy also advised the girl embroiled in the scandal to meet the Speaker and appeal to him to give her protection. The Union government is destroying democracy by wresting the powers given to the states. The state government has no money even for committed expenditure, Kumaraswamy said. Those who came to power from the back door failed to bring the state's share from the Centre, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bypoll-aspirant-has-paid-a-huge-amount-of-money-to-bjp-high-command-for-basavakalyan-ticket-says-h-d-kumaraswamy-966284.html
25-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||BJP fields Angadi’s wife Mangala for Belgaum bypoll||In a surprise pick, the BJP on Thursday chose Mangala Angadi, the wife of late Suresh Angadi as its candidate for the April 17 Belgaum Lok Sabha bye-election.  Angadi was a union minister at the time of his death in September last, necessitating this bypoll.  According to sources, Mangala Angadi got the ticket as local BJP leaders mounted pressure on the central leadership to field someone from Suresh’s family to ride on a ‘sympathy’ wave in a seat widely seen as an easy one for the saffron unit.  Mangala was picked over Angadi’s daughter Shradha, MLC Mahantesh Kavatagimath and Dr Girish Sonwalkar, a local Belagavi medic whose names were speculated for the bypoll ticket. The ‘surprise’ element in Mangala’s pick, some say, is that it goes against the BJP’s anti-dynasty stand. In fact, some argued that the BJP will not field someone from Angadi’s family just as how late HN Ananth Kumar’s wife Tejaswini did not get the ticket from Bangalore South in 2019 Lok Sabha polls.  In all likelihood, Mangala will be up against Karnataka Congress working president Satish Jarkiholi whose candidature is yet to be formally announced.  With former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi having taken a backseat due to the sex scandal, the BJP has deployed Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar as in-charge of the Belgaum bypoll. Shettar’s son is married to Angadi’s daughter.  Congress is planning to use the sex scandal involving Satish’s brother Ramesh to its advantage in the upcoming bypolls. In other tickets, the BJP has fielded disqualified MLA Pratapgouda Patil in the Maski assembly constituency. He was one of the 17 MLAs who defected in 2019 to help the BJP come to power and Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa is said to have assured him of the ticket. Patil will be up against the BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate Basanagouda Turvihal, who is now with Congress.  At Basavakalyan, the BJP has selected a local youth leader named Sharanu Salagar. He will be up against Mallamma, wife of B Narayan Rao, the incumbent MLA who died September last and Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri of the JD(S). It is said that the JD(S), by fielding a Muslim candidate, can potentially split the Congress' vote share, which will help the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-fields-angadi-s-wife-mangala-for-belgaum-bypoll-966534.html
25-03-2021||National||Novel variant with double mutation spotted in Maharashtra||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday confirmed the presence of a novel Covid-19 variant in Maharashtra with two genetic mutations that enable the virus to escape the immune systems and increase the infectivity. But the ministry stopped short of linking the novel variant with the high surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra citing insufficient scientific and epidemiological evidence. India on Wednesday recorded a spike in fresh Covid-19 cases and death toll with the reporting of 47,262 new cases and 275 deaths in the past 24 hours. The number of total active cases has shot up to 3.68 lakh and nine of the top ten districts with maximum number of active cases are in Maharashtra. Bangalore Urban is the tenth one. The novel SARS-CoV-2 variant with double mutations had been found in 15-20% of samples sequenced from Maharashtra, Sujit Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, said, asserting that any link with the current surge couldn’t be established with such a sample size. Nearly 20% samples from Nagpur carry the double mutation. The samples were collected from eight municipal wards that witnessed the least impact during the epidemic's first wave. Since mutations or tiny changes in genetic make-up are natural in the evolution of a virus, Singh said scientists were probing the Maharashtra variant with double mutation to check if there is any link with the common surge. While 206 Maharashtra samples harbour both the mutations (named E484Q and L452R), there are 112 samples that carry the E484Q alone. Another 118 samples carry L452R only. In addition, 123 samples from Kerala carry a mutation called N440K, which was earlier reported extensively from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. In Punjab, as many as 324 virus samples carry a mutation named N501Y. "But none of the mutant variants has been detected in sufficient numbers to explain the rapid increase in cases in some states. Genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are continuing to further analyse the situation," the Union Health Ministry said in a statement. A network of 10 Indian laboratories that conducted the genetic sequencing have also found 771 internationally known variants of concern including 736 UK variants (B.1.1.7), 34 South Africa variants (B.1.351) and a lone case of Brazilian (P.1) lineage. The samples with such variants of concerns have been found in 18 states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/novel-variant-with-double-mutation-spotted-in-maharashtra-966048.html
25-03-2021||National||US Senator Robert Menendez seeks to boost India-US cooperation||A top American Senator, who plays a major role in shaping the country's foreign policy, has sought to boost the India-US cooperation, particularly in the clean energy and climate change sector. During the confirmation hearing of Samantha Power, who is President Joe Biden's choice to lead the US Agency for International Development (USAID), Senator Robert Menendez said he has prioritised clean energy and climate cooperation with India to boost the US-India cooperation. "I'd like to hear the role you envision USAID playing in boosting the US-India cooperation and clean energy," said Menendez, who is the chairman of the powerful Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Menendez also said that last year the Appropriation Omnibus authorised the USAID administrator to establish the United States-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation that would attract public and private capital to fund grants to address development priorities in India. "I'd like to hear your views on that foundation," he told Power. During her confirmation hearing, Power mentioned the challenge posed by China to the US and in the Indo-Pacific region. "On the one hand, this has been a year of tremendous Chinese expansionism and aggressiveness when it comes to developing countries and when it comes to its near and abroad as well. We've seen that in Hong Kong, we've seen it in the South China Sea, we've seen it at the Indian border," she said. "But it hasn't gone that well for China. You actually see… very poor polling, when it comes to China's standing in the world. Even with the donations of protective gear in light of the Covid pandemic, you don't see increases in soft power. Quite the contrary in light of Covid and the status of the global economy and how much different countries have suffered from that," she said. "It is in part because people recognise this coercive and predatory approach, which is so transactional and seemingly not really rooted in encouraging countries to achieve their own destinies, their own development objectives. I think it's not going over that well," she added. Power said this creates an opening for the United States. "I think our comparative advantages are our support for accountable governance, which aligns with what citizens want worldwide. Our ability to not only bring in the DFC but in parallel private sector investments, which countries hunger for. The fact that we are carrying out programming that is supportive of various countries, environmental objectives, so many of these countries cherish the natural resources that they've been given," she said. "So I think our approach, which is helping them sustain those resources, rather than pillaging them, is something that also gives us a comparative advantage. I think it's country-specific in terms of what the programming (should be), how the programming should be tailored. But fundamentally, it's about supporting those countries achieve their objectives and their goals of becoming self-reliant and not being dependent on assistance," Power said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-senator-robert-menendez-seeks-to-boost-india-us-cooperation-966129.html
25-03-2021||National||2 projects in Jammu and Kashmir fully compliant with Indus Water Treaty, India tells Pakistan||India has conveyed to Pakistan that two hydro projects — Pakal Dul (1000 MW) and Lower Kalnai (48 MW) in Jammu and Kashmir, are fully compliant with the provisions of the Indus Water Treaty. During the meeting of the Permanent Indus Commission (PIC) comprising of Indus Commissioners of India and Pakistan which was held on March 23-24, 2021 in New Delhi, India provided technical data in support of its position. India is building the 1,000 MW Pakal Dul Hydro Electric Project on river Marusudar, a tributary of the Chenab. The project is located in the Kishtwar district of Jammu & Kashmir. The second project, Lower Kalnai, is being developed on the Chenab river. Pakistan had earlier expressed concerns over these two projects. "Discussions continued on designs of two Indian projects, namely, Pakal Dul (1000 MW) and Lower Kalnai (48 MW). Indian side held that these projects are fully compliant with the provisions of the Treaty and provided technical data in support of its position", the release from the Ministry of External Affairs issued on Wednesday night. "Pakistan side requested India for sharing of information on design of other Indian hydropower projects being planned to be developed. Indian side assured that the information will be supplied as and when required to be supplied under the provisions of the Treaty," the release said. The meeting was held in a cordial manner. Both the Commissioners reaffirmed their commitment to interact more frequently in an attempt to resolve the issues by bilateral discussions under the Treaty. It was agreed to hold the next meeting of the PIC in Pakistan on mutually convenient dates, the release added. This was the first meeting between the two commissioners after the scrapping of Article 370 which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir. As per the Indus Waters Treaty (IWT), the two commissioners meet at least once a year, alternately in India and Pakistan. The last meeting took place in Lahore in August 2018. Under the provisions of the Indus Waters Treaty, signed between India and Pakistan in 1960, all the water of the eastern rivers — Sutlej, Beas, and Ravi amounting to around 33 million acre feet (MAF) annually — is allocated to India for unrestricted use. The waters of western rivers — Indus, Jhelum, and Chenab — amounting to around 135 MAF annually has been assigned largely to Pakistan. According to the Treaty, India has been given the right to generate hydroelectricity by running river projects on the western rivers subject to specific criteria for design and operation. The Treaty also gives the right to Pakistan to raise objections on the design of Indian hydroelectric projects on western rivers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-projects-in-jammu-and-kashmir-fully-compliant-with-indus-water-treaty-india-tells-pakistan-966176.html
25-03-2021||National||India records highest single-day spike in 2021 with 53,476 fresh Covid-19 cases||India saw 53,476 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,17,87,534, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The active caseload registered an increase for the 15th day in a row and was recorded at 3,95,192 comprising 3.35 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.28 per cent, the data stated.  The daily rise in infections was the highest recorded in 153 days. The death toll increased to 1,60,692 with 251 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.  As many as 54,366 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 23. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to1,12,31,650, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28,  70 lakh on  October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 23,75,03,882  samples have been tested up to March 24 with 10,65,021 samples being tested on Wednesday. The nation of 1.3 billion people was this month overtaken by Brazil as the second-most infected country after cases dipped in December and January from a peak of nearly 1,00,000 per day in September. India's strict lockdown has been steadily eased over the past year and in recent months most activity, including weddings, religious festivals and some cricket matches, returned to normal. Now many regions are reimposing curbs, particularly in the hard-hit western state of Maharashtra where officials have launched random virus checks in crowded areas in the local capital Mumbai. The health ministry said Wednesday that the variants first detected in Britain, South Africa and Brazil have been found in India, but not in "numbers sufficient to either establish (a) direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-spike-in-2021-with-53476-fresh-covid-19-cases-966179.html
25-03-2021||National||Covid-19: What is the ‘double mutant’ variant that has set off alarm bells?||As India struggles to contain the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the country on Wednesday reported a new variant of the virus. Setting off alarm bells, the variant, being called the ‘double mutant’, has been found in over 200 samples in Maharashtra, the hardest-hit state by the second wave. The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday said the new "double mutant" variant of the SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three variants of concern (VOC) -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and Union Territories. As per epidemiologists, "double mutant" refers to an entirely new variant that has the characteristics of two already identified variants. "Double mutant is not a scientific term. It is just another mutant which seems to be unique to India," Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy in New Delhi told Reuters. About 20% of the samples that contained the new variant in Maharashtra were found in Nagpur, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control, Sujeet Kumar Singh, told a news conference. He added that nine such samples were also found in New Delhi which has seen a spike in infections over the last few weeks. As for vaccines, ‘Covishield’ developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University by the Serum Institute of India and the homegrown ‘Covaxin’ from Bharat Biotech are effective against the variants of the virus first identified in Britain and Brazil. Cause for concern? Laxminarayan stated that so far there was no reason to be worried about this new variant. “We have no evidence (yet) that these variants are more transmissible or more lethal than what we already have," he added. NCDC’s Singh, on the other hand, said that the variant is evolving. "Though VOCs and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish or direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states," the Union Health Ministry had said. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-what-is-the-double-mutant-variant-that-has-set-off-alarm-bells-966206.html
25-03-2021||National||Coin hunters dive for fortunes in the sacred Ganges||As a stream of Hindu devotees dip themselves in India's sacred Ganges river for a ritual believed to purify their souls, a young boy plunges into the water to find his fortune. Rahul Singh is one of dozens of coin pickers making a living by retrieving offerings thrown into the waterway by pilgrims visiting the northern holy city of Haridwar. Every day for six hours, the 13-year-old scours the chest-deep water with a magnet attached to a long stick, as hymn-chanting crowds toss in valuables. "It needs a lot of effort but I enjoy doing it," Singh told AFP, after fetching 30 rupees (45 US cents) worth of coins. Watching him closely is Raja Yadav, who was eight when he arrived in the city as a runaway boy after hearing tales of underwater treasures. Yadav -- nicknamed "Jhinga" (shrimp) for his swimming prowess -- literally struck gold six years ago when he found a necklace he was told was worth $1,300. Now 22, he leads a team of 15 picker-boys including Singh. Last year's national coronavirus lockdown saw visitors to Haridwar dry up for several months, leaving Yadav's team struggling to survive on their meagre savings. But like the pilgrims, Yadav had unflinching faith in the river goddess, and travellers returned this year, undeterred by a recent surge in cases. "We always believe that Ganga is our mother and she will never let her children sleep hungry," he said. "The pilgrims are back and we are happily diving again." Rivers play a central role in Hindu religious rituals, with devotees tossing in offerings of money, clothes and ornaments into the waters to show gratitude for sustaining life. In the Ganges, some immerse the ashes of deceased relatives to achieve "moksha" -- liberation from reincarnation. During the bathing festival of Kumbh Mela, immense crowds throng the Ganges in the world's largest religious gathering. This year it is taking place in Haridwar, where more than three million people took part in the ritual during one day in March. Underwater treasure hunters use their feet to feel out for the precious metals on the riverbed, or dive in and search with their naked eyes. A one-day haul of coins adds up to 300-400 rupees ($4.15-5.50) for each boy, although that soars up to 1,000 rupees during Kumbh Mela, Yadav said. Merchants pocket a 20 perc ent commission in exchange for currency notes, while black-market buyers take jewellery at half of retail price, and copper and steel utensils are sold as scrap. The boys pick up coconuts and religious paraphernalia to resell if there aren't enough coins. Coin pickers like Yadav's team work all year round, braving faster and deeper waters from heavier rainfall during the monsoon season. Seasonal treasure hunters visit in October when water levels are low due to an upstream dam. Singh says daily discoveries in the river are a source of satisfaction. He ran away from home in nearby Uttar Pradesh state two years ago and worked several odd jobs before moving to Haridwar, where a friend taught him swimming and coin-picking skills. The teenager now shares a shanty in a nearby slum with more than a dozen other coin hunters. "Back home there was a lot of tension and poverty, but I am happy here," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coin-hunters-dive-for-fortunes-in-the-sacred-ganges-966210.html
25-03-2021||National||Evaluation criteria for PC to women Army officers resulted in systemic discrimination: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday declared the evaluation criteria set by the Army for considering women officers for permanent commission, as discriminatory which disproportionately impacted them vis-à-vis their male counterparts. "The pattern of evaluation of women officers... resulted in indirect and systemic discrimination. This has caused an economic and psychological harm and an affront to their dignity," a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said. In strong observations, Justice Chandrachud, who on February 17, 2020 authored the judgement, allowing permanent commission to women officers, again wrote we must recognise here that the structures of our society have been created by males and for males. So, certain structures that may seem to be the “norm” and may appear to be harmless, are a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system. "It is not enough to proudly state that women officers are allowed to serve the nation in the Armed Forces, when the true picture of their service conditions tells a different  story. A superficial sense of equality is not in the true spirit of the Constitution and attempts to make equality only symbolic," the bench added. The court also expressed its anguish that the Ministry of Defence and Army failed to implement the Delhi High Court's 2010 on permanent commission, though there was no stay on its operation. This resulted in conundrum on the applicability of the medical criterion to officers who are 40-50 years old. In its 137-page judgement on a batch of petitions filed by Lt Col Nikita and others, the court said a retrospective application of the supposedly uniform standards for grant of permanent commission must be modulated to compensate for the harm that has arisen over their belated application. It held as "arbitrary and irrational" the administrative requirement imposed by the Army authorities benchmarking the women officers with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch. The court directed that all women officers who have fulfilled the cut-off grade of 60% in the Selection Board held in September 2020 would be entitled to permanent commission, subject to them meeting the medical criteria prescribed on August 1, 2020. The bench clarified that the women officers who were in the 5th or 10th year of service and met the medical criterion after the one year period of stabilisation, would also be eligible for grant of permanent commission. Commending the women officers who have remained in service with the tenacity to hold on, the bench said, "A career in the Army comes with a serious set of trials and tribulations of a transferable service with postings in difficult terrains, even in times of peace. This is rendered infinitely more difficult when society relegates functions of domestic labour, care-giving and childcare exclusively on the shoulders of women."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/evaluation-criteria-for-pc-to-women-army-officers-resulted-in-systemic-discrimination-supreme-court-966213.html
25-03-2021||National||Maharashtra tops in Covid-19 vaccination drive, surpasses Rajasthan||Maharashtra has emerged as the leader in the Covid-19 vaccination drive as it has administered vaccine doses to 43,42,646 people, an official said on Thursday. The state surpassed Rajasthan in the vaccination drive on March 24, he said. Rajasthan now ranks second as it has vaccinated 43,27,874 people, the official said. "Maharashtra tops the list of states in the country in terms of the number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered," Dr Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of Maharashtra Public Health Department, said. The state has also administered the second dose of vaccine to 6,72,128 people, thereby reaching the cumulative vaccination figure of 50,14,774. "Maharashtra is also the first state to cross the 50- lakh doses benchmark. We will further scale up the vaccination," he said. It is the only state to have covered half a crore of the population in terms of vaccination, Vyas added. The cumulative vaccination figure for Rajasthan is 49,94,574. Maharashtra reported as many as 31,855 new cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-tops-in-covid-19-vaccination-drive-surpasses-rajasthan-966214.html
25-03-2021||National||ICICI-Videocon PMLA case: Bombay High Court grants bail to Deepak Kochhar||The Bombay High Court on Thursday granted bail to Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case registered by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Kocchar had approached the high court after a special court in the city rejected his bail in December last year. Justice P D Naik of the high court granted bail to him on merits on Thursday. Kocchar was arrested by the ED in September last year under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) Act in the alleged ICICI Bank-Videocon money laundering case. The ED registered the money laundering case following an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against the Kochhar couple, Videocon Group promoter Venugopal Dhoot, and others for allegedly causing loss to the ICICI Bank by sanctioning loans to the Videocon Group of companies in contravention to the policies of the ICICI Bank. Kochhar had argued that the ED had taken note of all the alleged proceeds of crime in the case, so there was no chance of him creating any third party rights, or interfering with the probe if out on bail.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/icici-videocon-pmla-case-bombay-high-court-grants-bail-to-deepak-kochhar-966219.html
25-03-2021||National||Petrol price cut by 21 paise, diesel by 20 paise||Petrol and diesel prices were on Thursday cut for the second straight day as international oil prices cooled fell on prospects of speedy recovery in consumption getting clouded by the second wave of Covid-19 cases. Petrol price was cut by 21 paise per litre and diesel by 20 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol now costs Rs 90.78 per litre in Delhi and a litre of diesel comes for Rs 81.10. Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT). Prices were reduced by 18 paise a litre on petrol and 17 on diesel in the first reduction in six months on Wednesday. Despite bouts of rate freeze, prices had gone up by a record Rs 21.58 per litre on petrol since the government raised excise duty in March last year. Diesel prices had increased by Rs 19.18 a litre. Prices which last month hit record highs including crossing Rs 100 mark in some places in Rajasthan, Maharasthra and Madhya Pradesh, had been on freeze since February-end when elections to five states including West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala were announced. In Mumbai, the petrol price was cut to Rs 97.19 a litre on Thursday from Rs 97.40 while diesel rates were reduced to Rs 88.20 from Rs 88.42, the price notification showed. The rate reduction followed international oil prices tumbling to the lowest since early February as the second wave of Covid-19 infection clouded the prospects for a speedy recovery in consumption.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-price-cut-by-21-paise-diesel-by-20-paise-966234.html
25-03-2021||National||Surge in daily Covid-19 cases in six states||Maharashtra, Punjab, Kerala, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat are reporting a surge in daily coronavirus cases, accounting for 80.63 per cent of the new Covid-19 infections, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday. The three states of Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab also account for 74.32 per cent of total active cases in the country which has increased to 3.95 lakh and comprises 3.35 per cent of the total infections. A total of 53,476 new cases have been reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year. Maharashtra continues to report the highest daily new cases at 31,855 (59.57 per cent). It is followed by Punjab with 2,613 while Kerala reported 2,456 new cases, the ministry said. Ten states including Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it highlighted. India's total Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 3,95,192. A net rise of 26,735 cases is recorded from the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. "Three states, Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab, account for 74.32 per cent of total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for 62.91 per cent of the total active cases in the country," the ministry underlined. The ministry also said that over 5.31 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 8,61,292 sessions. These include 79,80,849 HCWs (1st dose), 50,61,790 HCWs (2nd dose), 84,78,478 FLWs (1st dose) and 3 2,37,381 FLWs (2nd Dose), 51,31,949 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 2,32,55,262 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. As on day-68 of the vaccination drive (March 24), more than 23 lakh (23,03,305) vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 21,13,323 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 38,243 sessions for 1st dose and 1,89,982 HCWs and FLWs received the 2nd dose of vaccine. The ministry said that 60 per cent of the cumulative doses (5,31,45,709) have been given in eight states -- Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,12,31,650 with 26,490 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours. The gap between total recovered cases and the active cases stands at 10,836,458 as on date, the ministry stated. Also, 251 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Six states account for 78.49 per cent of the daily deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (95). Punjab follows with 39 daily deaths and Chhattisgarh reported 29 deaths in a span of 24 hours. Fourteen states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Lakshadweep, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Ladakh (UT), Sikkim, Tripura, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/surge-in-daily-covid-19-cases-in-six-states-966236.html
25-03-2021||National||4 members of 'debt-ridden' family end life in Telangana||Four members of a family in "heavy debt" allegedly died by suicide in Mancherial district, police said on Thursday. The four --  a man, his wife, a daughter and son -- were found hanging at their home in Kasipet mandal by one of their relatives on Thursday morning, they said. The man was doing farming for the past several years on land taken on lease but had recently suffered crop loss besides he had also debts which he took to perform his daughter's marriage last year, they said. Based on preliminary investigation, a senior police official said, the man had taken loans from some people, and he was under debt to the tune of lakhs of rupees, which forced the family to take the extreme step. In a suicide note purportedly written by the head of the household, he stated he was unable to repay the debts and decided to end his life along with the family members, the official said. A case was registered and probe was on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/4-members-of-debt-ridden-family-end-life-in-telangana-966238.html
25-03-2021||National||India's entire population can be vaccinated in 21 months if vaccine capacity ramped up, says SBI report||India can vaccinate its entire population in 21 months if the daily vaccine inoculation is increased to 40-45 lakhs, a research report by the State Bank of India said. "If we assume a greater number of people are willing to take vaccines and the daily vaccine inoculation increases to 40-45 lakhs from the current maximum level of 34 lakhs, then the entire population will be vaccinated in 1 year 9 months and with this capacity, we can vaccinate our population above 45 years in 4 months," the report said. So far, India has administered 5.08 crore shots within a span of 67 days, or 7.9 lakh shots per day, said the report There are 40,484 vaccine centres (35,042 government and 5,442 private) in India. Overall, there are 25,743 PHCs, 5,624 CHCs, 25,778 government hospitals, 529 medical colleges and around 43,000 private hospitals, totalling 1,00,674 potential centres, i.e. three times the existing centres used for vaccination. “Going by the health infrastructure, we have the capacity to increase the daily doses to around 1 crore per day from the current 34 lakhs per day,” the report said. However, the production capacity of Covishield and Covaxin is around 52 lakh per day, and there is the export of vaccines as well. Certain states like Rajasthan, Gujarat, Kerala, Uttarakhand and Haryana have vaccinated more than 20% of their elderly population (above 60 years). However, other states with a higher elderly population (>60 years) including Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and West Bengal are lagging and thus, must increase their pace of inoculation. A number of major states are already in the second wave of Covid-19 even though the vaccination drive is picking up pace. In many states, including Mizoram, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tripura, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, the injection to infection ratio much higher than the overall average. Meanwhile, Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh have inoculated a lower number of people compared to the spread of the infection. The entire duration of the second wave may last approximately up to 100 days counted from February 15, the SBI research shows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-entire-population-can-be-vaccinated-in-21-months-if-vaccine-capacity-ramped-up-says-sbi-report-966244.html
25-03-2021||National||Year after lockdown, NCW still gets many complaints of crimes against women||A year since the country went into lockdown, the National Commission for Women continues to receive over 2,000 complaints every month of crimes against women with nearly one-fourth of them related to domestic violence. The nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 last year to curb the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, but it also trapped many domestic violence victims with their abusers. Soon after the lockdown was imposed, the NCW reported a surge of complaints related to domestic violence so much so that it started a dedicated WhatsApp number for reporting of just domestic violence complaints. The number of complaints of domestic violence went on increasing through the months and in July, a record number of 660 such complaints were received. Since June, the NCW has been receiving over 2,000 complaints of crimes against women every month out of which nearly a quarter are of domestic violence, according to official data. According to the NCW data, 25,886 complaints of crime against women have been received from April 2020 till now which includes 5,865 complaints of domestic violence. Also, the NCW received the highest number of complaints against women in six years in 2020 at 23,722 with nearly one-fourth of them of domestic violence. NCW chairperson Rekha Sharma had said economic insecurity, increased stress levels, anxiety, financial worry, and lack of other such emotional support of parents/family's side may have resulted in domestic violence in many instances in the year 2020. "More so, home has become the workplace of both the spouses and as well as schools and colleges for their children. In such situations, women are multitasking being professional at the same time supporting their families from the same space. But the biggest challenge for women this year is not only to adapt but to thrive in this unprecedented situation," she had told PTI. Women rights activist Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), said the high rate might also be because of high awareness among women to talk about it and report it. "There has been an increase because there is also a rise in awareness because women are getting more proactive reporting it and talking about it. Earlier they used to suppress their grievances and the government is also spreading awareness and women get motivated by other women reporting it," she said. "Because of social media, the reporting of domestic violence has increased. Women have become more vocal and they have less tolerance, which is very good," she noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/year-after-lockdown-ncw-still-gets-many-complaints-of-crimes-against-women-966253.html
25-03-2021||National||'Baby frock', a symbol that pains voters in poll-bound Kerala||Some poll symbols may bring a smile to the face of voters and some others may make them think. But, in Kerala, where campaigning is on at a feverish pitch for the April 6 Assembly polls, an election symbol is causing grave pain in the minds of people and bringing back the memories of horrors suffered by two little girls four years ago. The mother of the Walayar sisters, who is contesting as an independent candidate against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam constituency here, has got 'baby frock' as her symbol. The two minor girls were found hanging under suspicious circumstances in their hut at Walayar in Palakkad district, after an alleged sexual assault on them in 2017. The woman, who has been on a warpath demanding justice for her daughters and action against those police personnel who had allegedly made lapses in the probe into the death of the girls, wanted 'frock' as her poll symbol. When the mysterious death of the sisters had kicked up a widespread public outcry in the state four years ago, the picture of their baby clothes had been the profile photo of a large number of social media users. The woman, who had recently tonsured her head to protest alleged inaction against the police personnel, launched her campaign in the constituency on Wednesday. "I am not contesting to become an MLA or a minister... My fight at Dharmadam is seeking dharma...I want to ask the Chief Minister where is justice," she said in an election convention here Wednesday evening. Well-known activist C R Neelakandan, who is also the patron of the Walayar Agitation Committee, said they began door-to-door campaigning in the constituency. "The mother's is a symbolic fight. She wants justice for her daughters. We are meeting voters now," he told PTI. Asked how was the response of the people, especially women in Dharmadam, he said it is a complete Left bastion and so those who were expressing open support were very few. Announcing her candidature against Pinarayi Vijayan on March 16, the woman had said that she had met the Chief Minister in Thiruvananthapuram and "cried and begged him" to ensure that those responsible for the death of the children should be brought to book. She had also said that she would take the support of everyone except the Sangh Parivar in the April 6 polls. Vijayan, however, said that his government had always stood by her and never hurt her. The woman had tonsured her head on February 27 after staging a month-long satyagraha in Palakkad.  Expressing solidarity with her in her fight, two social activists had also tonsured their heads. The LDF government had in January decided to hand over to the CBI the probe into the death of the two girls shortly after the Kerala High Court ordered a re-trial in the sensational Walayar case. Allowing appeals filed by the state government and the mother of the children, the high court had on January 6 this year ordered a re-trial in the case, observing that there were "serious lapses" in the investigation and that there has been "miscarriage of justice". The court had also set aside an October 2019 order of POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Court acquitting the five accused of want of evidence. The eldest of the siblings aged 13 was found hanging inside their hut in Walayar in Palakkad district on January 13, 2017, and her nine-year-old sister had died on March 4 in the same manner. A public outcry and protests erupted in the state after the acquittal of the accused, seeking justice for the family of the girls. The state government had, on November 18, 2019, removed the Public Prosecutor who handled the case and later filed the appeal in the High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/baby-frock-a-symbol-that-pains-voters-in-poll-bound-kerala-966259.html
25-03-2021||National||Delhi High Court to hear MJ Akbar's plea against Priya Ramani's acquittal in defamation case on April 5||The Delhi High Court Thursday said it will hear on April 5 a plea by former Union minister M J Akbar challenging a trial court order acquitting journalist Priya Ramani in the criminal defamation case filed against her over allegations of sexual harassment. The plea, which was scheduled to be heard today, could not be taken up as Justice Mukta Gupta was not holding court. Akbar has challenged the trial court's February 17 order acquitting Ramani in the case on grounds that a woman has the right to put grievances before any platform of her choice even after decades. The trial court had dismissed the complaint filed by Akbar, saying no charges were proved against Ramani. It had said it was of the considered view that the case of Akbar regarding commission of offence punishable under Section 500 (punishment for the offence of defamation) IPC against Ramani is not proved and she is acquitted for the same. The court had said it was shameful that crimes against women are taking place in a country where mega epics like Mahabharata and Ramayana were written about respecting them. The glass ceiling will not prevent Indian women as a roadblock in advancement in society of equal opportunities, it had said. Ramani had made allegations of sexual misconduct against Akbar in the wake of the #MeToo movement in 2018. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ramani on October 15, 2018 for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct decades ago. He resigned as a Union minister on October 17, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-to-hear-mj-akbars-plea-against-priya-ramanis-acquittal-in-defamation-case-on-april-5-966260.html
25-03-2021||National||Showing legs in saree inappropriate: Dilip Ghosh defends 'wear bermuda' remark against Mamata||A day after BJP West Bengal president Dilip Ghosh courted controversy for suggesting Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee should "wear bermuda shorts to display her injured leg", he justified his remark.  "She’s our CM, we expect her to act appropriately, befitting Bengal’s culture. A woman showing her legs in a saree is inappropriate. People are objecting. I found it objectionable so I spoke," Ghosh told ANI.  The ruling TMC on Wednesday slammed his remark as a "distasteful comment" and women expressed outrage over the remark on social media. Even though no one was named in the video of the purported speech by Ghosh, known for his controversial comments in the past, most commentators took the comments to be directed at Banerjee. In the video, Ghosh was seen stating at an election meeting in Purulia on Monday that after the foot was bandaged, she is displaying the leg to everyone. "....she is wearing saree with one leg covered but kept another open for viewing. Haven't seen anyone draping a saree in such a way." "If she has to display her leg for viewing, she can very well wear bermuda shorts. That will help to have a better view," the BJP MP was purportedly heard stating. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/showing-legs-in-saree-inappropriate-dilip-ghosh-defends-wear-bermuda-remark-against-mamata-966263.html
25-03-2021||National||Election Commission orders transfer of 5 officers in West Bengal||An IAS and four IPS officers in West Bengal were removed on Thursday by the Election Commission, two days ahead of the first phase of polling, officials said. Additional Director-General (West Zone) Sanjay Singh was replaced by Rajesh Kumar, as per an official order. District Magistrate and District Election Officer of Jhargram Ayesha Rani was replaced by Joyeshi Dasgupta, it said. Jhargram will be voting in the first phase on March 27. The EC has decided to deploy 127 companies of central forces for booth management in this district, officials said. Arijit Sinha was named the new Superintendent of Police of Diamond Harbour, replacing Avijit Banerji, the order said. Debashish Dhar was named the new SP of Coochbehar, replacing K Kannan. In Kolkata, Deputy Commissioner (South) Sudhir Neelkantha was replaced by Akash Magharia, the order stated. The decision to remove these officers was taken after several allegations from opposition parties were received that they may try to influence the polls in favour of the ruling party, EC sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-orders-transfer-of-5-officers-in-west-bengal-966264.html
25-03-2021||National||New party backed by BJP to eat into minority votes in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that the BJP was backing a newly formed party to ensure that it divides the minority votes to its benefit in an apparent reference to the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Speaking at a rally at Patharpratima in the South 24 Paraganas district the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo further alleged that the BJP even gives money to the founder of the new political party. “A new political party has been founded in the State with support from the BJP. It wants to divide the minority votes to help the BJP. Please do not vote for its candidates,” said Mamata. She further alleged that the CPI(M) and Congress also have a “covert understanding” with the BJP.  She said that only the TMC was capable of stopping the implementation of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the National Register of Citizens (CAA). “Only the TMC can stop the implementation of the CAA and the NRC. Only we can ensure communal harmony,” said Mamata. Lashing out at the BJP for its allegations against her and her party, Mamata asked “ are they calling me a thief and murderer because I am always with the people in times of crisis.” She demanded to know from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah about the dues in provident funds of lakhs of employees and the Centre’s disinvestment bid of PSUs. The Chief Minister dubbed Modi and Shah as the “lords of the thieves.” As for the Central aid to Bengal following the cyclone Amphan, the Chief Minister said that the total damage was Rs. 1 lakh crore but the Prime Minister promised only Rs. 1000 crore in advance. “But it is the State Government’s money. The Centre did not do us any favour. Whether it is Bulbul or Amphan we have always stood by the people. We risked our lives and monitored the situation. We evacuated 19 lakh people from areas affected by Amphan,” said Mamata. As for the allegations of corruption in the distribution of aids following the cyclone Amphan, the TMC supremo said there could have been “ very few exceptions” but if anyone has not received the relief amount he or she can get it by applying to the concerned district administration after the elections. Asking whether the BJP was able to come up with welfare schemes such as the Kanyashree and Khadyasathi, Mamata said if voted to power once again the TMC would come with more such “historic schemes.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-party-backed-by-bjp-to-eat-into-minority-votes-in-bengal-mamata-banerjee-966276.html
25-03-2021||National||Kumbh Mela curtailed to 1 month for first time due to Covid; pilgrims must show 'negative' test report||According to a notification, the congregation on the banks of the Ganges in Haridwar in Uttarakhand will take place from April 1 to 30, with three "shahi snan" (major bathing) dates on April 12, 14 and 27. Thousands of devotes take a dip in the holy river during the mela with their number increasing manifold on the days of "shahi snan". Authorities also expect heavy turnouts on the occasions of Chaitra Pratipada on April 13 and Ram Navami on April 21. Held once in 12 years, the congregation usually lasts around three-and-a-half months. Its last edition was held in Haridwar from January 14 to April 28 in 2010. According to the notification issued on Wednesday, the Kumbh Kshetra (area) covers Neergarh, Tapovan, Bitthal Ashram Marg to Muni-Ki-Reti Road and Rishi-Haridwar bypass in the north, and Narendra Nagar-Rishikesh bypass, the forest checkpost on Rishikesh-Dehradun Road, Rishikesh-Haridwar bypass, Mansa Devi, Billkeshwar Mandir, Tibri Mohand, BHEL residential buildings, Roorkee-Bahadarabad road and up to 13 km on Haridwar-Delhi road in the west. In the south, the congregation area will extend from Bahadarabad-Haridwar bypass to Siddha Sot Setu and from Siddha Sot Setu to Neelkanth Mahadev temple in the east. A "negative" RT-PCR test report, not older than 72 hours before arrival, has been made mandatory for devotees by the Uttarakhand High Court. Devotees who have taken the Covid-19 vaccination will have to upload their certificate in an official portal and follow the guidelines. After the Centre called for stringent measures to control the spread of Covid-19 during Kumbh, the Uttarakhand government had asked people to strictly follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour during the congregation in view of the fresh surge in infections in various parts of the country. In the light of guidelines issued by both the central and state governments in the past for surveillance, containment and caution, Chief Secretary Om Prakash on Monday asked the district administrations, various state and central government organisations and other stakeholders to take all necessary measures to ensure wearing of face mask, maintaining hand hygiene and social distancing by people. These measures are also included in the national directives for Covid-19 management which have to be strictly followed throughout the state, he said. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan had recently written to the Uttarakhand Chief Secretary underlining the need for taking strict measures to check the spread of the pandemic, especially during the congregation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kumbh-mela-curtailed-to-1-month-for-first-time-due-to-covid-pilgrims-must-show-negative-test-report-966290.html
25-03-2021||National||Amid political turmoil in Maharashtra, Supriya Sule meets Sonia Gandhi||NCP leader Supriya Sule met interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Wednesday amid the ongoing turmoil in Maharashtra following corruption allegations levelled against the state home minister. In the wake of the crisis, the BJP has been demanding president's rule in the state. In a tweet, Sule said, "Thank you so much Hon. Mrs. Sonia Gandhi Ji for your valuable guidance. It's always such pleasure interacting with you"'.] Thank you so much Hon. Mrs. Sonia Gandhi Ji for your valuable guidance. It’s always such pleasure interacting with you. The meeting assumes significance as the Maha Vikas Agahdi government in Maharashtra led by Shiv Sena, NCP and the Congress is facing turmoil after former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that the state's Home minister gave a target to cops for collect Rs 100 crore every month. On Wednesday, a delegation led by Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and urged him to seek a "status report" from the state chief secretary on the law and order situation. Fadnavis said BJP leaders requested the governor to seek a detailed report from the state government as Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is not taking any action despite "numerous scandals" coming to fore over the past few days. The party has also alleged corruption in police transfers. Sule's father and NCP president Sharad Pawar is known as the architect of the MVA government in the state and her meeting with Gandhi was aimed at ensuring better coordination among the alliance partners in the state as the opposition BJP mounts an aggressive campaign against it over the alleged corruption charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-political-turmoil-in-maharashtra-supriya-sule-meets-sonia-gandhi-966297.html
25-03-2021||National||Cops turn counsellor as woman faces rejection from kin after Covid-19 recovery||The family members of a 70-year-old woman in Pune refused to let her return home after she recovered from the coronavirus infection in a local hospital, a police official said. However, police personnel played the role of a counsellor and advised the elderly woman's family members, following which they accepted their mistake and she returned home, he said. The woman was admitted to a hospital in the Sinhagad Road area on March 13 after testing positive for the infection. "She was supposed to be discharged on Tuesday after her Covid-19 recovery. We called up the woman's son and asked him to take his mother home," Dr Shubhangi Shah from that hospital said. "However, to our surprise, her family members refused to take her home. When we asked her son where we should send his mother, he asked us to leave her on the streets. We were baffled by his response," she said. Dr Shah said that she then called the Sinhagad police station and sought their help. "With the help of the police, the woman was taken to her home. However, when they reached there, the house was locked. Her family members were contacted again, who told them that they would come by 8 pm," she added. As it was difficult for the police to keep the woman alone outside her home, they took her back to the hospital, where she stayed overnight. "On Wednesday, the police counselled her family members and the woman was reunited with her family," she said. Devidas Gheware, senior police officer from Sinhagad Road police station said that the daughter-in-law of the woman told them that they could not take her home as her father had passed away on Tuesday and she was not in a state to reply. "The family members said they were tense and could not understand how to respond. But they ultimately accepted their mistake and the elderly woman returned home," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cops-turn-counsellor-as-woman-faces-rejection-from-kin-after-covid-19-recovery-966301.html
25-03-2021||National||Mamata friends with malaria, dengue: Amit Shah vows to eradicate diseases in 2 years||Union Home Minister Amit Shah Thursday slammed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee by saying that she is ‘friends with dengue and malaria’ and the state will not get rid of the diseases until she is in power. In his address, he asked the people of the poll-bound state whether they want to see the development of Bengal or the development of the Mamata’s nephew. “You won't get rid of malaria until Didi leaves. She's friends with dengue and malaria. Vote for us, we'll eradicate diseases in 2 years... On one hand, PM Modi is working for tribal welfare, while Didi is working for her nephew. Who do you want?” Shah said in a rally in Bengal’s Jhargram. Highlighting the prevalence of dengue and malaria in the area, the senior BJP leader said, "if you want to get rid of dengue and malaria, you have to defeat Didi in the elections. She has a special affinity with dengue and malaria, and that is why she has done nothing to address the problem here." Accusing the TMC of running a "corrupt dispensation", Shah said the BJP will end the "cut money" culture in Bengal.  Noting that the TMC government has neglected the Adivasis (tribals) and Kurmi caste voters, Shah said if voted to power, then every Kurmi and Adivasi families will get one job each. "We will provide jobs to each Adivasi and Kurmi families of the state. The Adivasis don't get MSP for their produce; we will include their produces in the list of crops so that they also qualify for MSP," he said. In their rallies, Shah and PM Narendra Modi have been pitching the development of tribal people in the state. West Bengal will go to polls in a phased manner, with the first phase scheduled to be held on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-friends-with-malaria-dengue-amit-shah-vows-to-eradicate-diseases-in-2-years-966302.html
25-03-2021||National||India's strategy for vaccination of 45+: Target the super-spreaders||As the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic hits the country, India is ramping up its vaccination drive by opening it up to those aged above 45 years without any comorbidities. The Centre has also tweaked the Co-WIN platform for self-registration and to include the new schedule of the second dose, which now has to be four-six weeks apart instead of two. "The good part about this is that a significant section of the population in this age group is, in a sense, a captive target. So, if we vaccinate all teachers 45 and above, or all corporate employees, then the super-spreaders are curbed to that extent," one source told the publication. The Ministry of Health, on its Twitter account, posted relevant links and information for those above 45 years of age seeking to get vaccinated.  In a letter to chief administrators of all states and Union Territories, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC) has been guiding all aspects of the vaccination drive on the basis of available scientific evidence. "Special focus should be given on optimal utilisation of the capacity of Covid-19 vaccination centres while minimising the wastage of vaccines," Bhushan said in the letter, adding, "The registration on Co-Win would begin from April 1, 2021."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-strategy-for-vaccination-of-45-target-the-super-spreaders-966307.html
25-03-2021||National||SC quashes FIR lodged against journalist Patricia Mukhim over Facebook post||The Supreme Court Thursday quashed an FIR lodged against journalist Patricia Mukhim for allegedly creating communal disharmony through her Facebook post. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao allowed the plea filed by Mukhim against the Meghalaya High Court order which had refused to quash the FIR against her. “We have allowed the appeal,” the bench said while pronouncing the judgement. The top court had reserved its verdict in the matter on February 16. Mukhim’s counsel had earlier argued before the apex court that there was no intention to create disharmony or conflict through the post which referred to an incident of a murderous assault on July 3, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-quashes-fir-lodged-against-journalist-patricia-mukhim-over-facebook-post-966311.html
25-03-2021||National||Honey-gathering Jenu Kuruba tribe protests against eviction from Nagarhole National Park||A group of indigenous people - known for gathering honey - are protesting against their eviction from an Indian tiger reserve, a flashpoint in an ongoing legal battle that has pitted wildlife conservationists against land rights groups across the country. The Jenu Kuruba tribe, which traditionally gathers honey and other forest produce, has lived within the Nagarhole National Park in the southern state of Karnataka for generations. But hundreds of people from the community were evicted after authorities designated the park as a tiger reserve in 1999 and dismissed their claims for land rights under a 2006 federal law designed to protect them. "This is the land of our ancestors. We lived here long before this forest became a national park and a tiger reserve - yet we are being evicted," Shivu Appu, a Jenu Kuruba leader in Nagarhole, said on Thursday. "We have traditional knowledge to take care of the forest and animals. We worship the animals and the trees, and would never destroy what is sacred to us," he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation by phone from the protest site. India's 104 million indigenous people - also known as Adivasis, or "original inhabitants" - make up less than 10% of the country's population, and are among its most impoverished. The Forest Rights Act (FRA) of 2006 aimed to improve their lives by recognising the right of at least 150 million people to inhabit and live off about 40 million hectares (99 million acres) of forest land. But states have been slow to implement the law, and more than half of all claims have been rejected, according to land rights groups and official data. "We are adhering to the procedure and all valid claims have been settled," said Sanjay Mohan, chief of the Karnataka forest department. "Those whose claims were rejected, it is because they did not meet the criteria under the law," he added. The Jenu Kuruba applied for their rights in 2009, but only a few hundred claims have been settled, with thousands more rejected, said Appu, who has camped outside the forest ranger's office for a week with hundreds of others. "For the Jenu Kuruba, community rights are key, yet these have not been recognised," said Roy David, chairman of the Coorg Organisation for Rural Development, that works with indigenous people in Karnataka. "They have nowhere else to go, and cannot make a livelihood if they are forced to leave the forest," he said. In 2017, India's government-run tiger conservation agency directed states not to grant land rights to indigenous people and forest dwellers living in tiger reserves, saying they posed a threat to the wildlife. A group of conservationists and wildlife organisations then filed a lawsuit against the FRA, saying it had caused deforestation and destroyed wildlife. The Supreme Court in 2019 ordered authorities to remove forest-dwellers in states where nearly 2 million claims, each potentially representing a household, had been rejected under the act. The top court later stayed its order to allow states to further examine the rejected claims. "We hope that our rights are recognised," said Appu. "If we have to leave the forest, that will be the end of our tradition, our culture and way of life."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/honey-gathering-jenu-kuruba-tribe-protests-against-eviction-from-nagarhole-national-park-966320.html
25-03-2021||National||Income loss top concern for rural communities post Covid-19 lockdown: Study||Loss of income and livelihood are among the top concerns for rural communities struggling to cope with the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a new study conducted across 10 states. The study conducted by the Indian School of Development Management (ISDM) and IIMPACT, an NGO, is based on a survey conducted in over 4800 households in over 900 villages in Rajasthan, Haryana, Bihar, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, West Bengal and Jharkhand. According to the study titled "Emerging Challenges in the post-Covid context", the loss of income and livelihoods, availability of food and drinking water, and impact on children’s education have emerged as the top immediate concerns of communities in rural India during the pandemic and lockdown phase of 2020. "While only 17 per cent could retain their job or primary source of income during the lockdown, 96 per cent of households surveyed have not been able to build resilience for sustenance beyond 4 months. At least 15 per cent of the households identified reverse migration as one of the key issues that are likely to disrupt the socio-economic fabric," the study said. "Out of every 10 households, four households were unable to sustain themselves even for a month without external support and almost every 3rd graduate from the rural communities in these states worked as domestic help, daily wage labour/migrant labour," it added. The study has recommended policy instruments be designed that address challenges associated with increased informalisation and precarity of jobs across skill categories in rural India while pressing for the need to revisit the universal employment guarantee scheme to account for variable skill levels and capabilities of the rural population given the current context of education and skill development initiatives. Aruna Pandey, Director- Research and Body of Knowledge, ISDM, said "while the universal employment guarantee scheme and the Skill India initiatives have been game-changers in India's story of enabling employment opportunities for its young population, there is an imminent need to integrate such efforts with appropriate policy instruments that will bridge the deep schism and irregularities between the availability of appropriate employment opportunities and level of education of young people in rural India". "Data from the report indicates that almost every third graduate from rural communities interviewed, worked as domestic help or daily wage labour, leading to under-utilisation of their skills and capabilities and exposing them to tangible vulnerabilities associated with the informality of such jobs," Pandey said. A nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. Throwing economic activities out of gear, the lockdown rendered many homeless and out of money, beginning an exodus of migrants to their home states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/income-loss-top-concern-for-rural-communities-post-covid-19-lockdown-study-966324.html
25-03-2021||National||Burqa row: UP minister says he was talking about freedom of choice||After his remarks calling burqa an “evil custom” triggered a row, Uttar Pradesh minister Anand Swarup on Thursday backtracked, saying women should have the freedom to wear their choice of clothes. Shukla, the Uttar Pradesh Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs minister, had on Wednesday described the practice of wearing a burqa as an "inhuman and evil custom" and compared it to the banned triple talaq. "Women of all religions should have the freedom to choose what to wear. Nothing should be imposed on them in the name of conservatism and tradition. Religious leaders should take the society forward with the 21st century," he told reporters here. The Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act 2019 makes the practice of instant divorce through “triple talaq” among Muslims a punishable offence. Under the provisions of the Act, a Muslim man who pronounces “triple talaq” upon his wife can be sentenced to a jail term that may extend to three years. Claiming that the burqa has been banned in several Muslim countries, Shukla said Muslim women should have the right to choose whether or not to wear it and those with progressive thinking are shunning the practice. On being asked if the government will take steps to ban burqas, he said: "This topic is about the society. Muslim religious leaders should take cognizance of this and take the opinion of Muslim women." Earlier, Shukla had written to the Ballia district magistrate, complaining that he is facing difficulties in discharge of his duties due to loudspeakers at mosques and said their volume should be fixed according to the court orders. Elaborating on his complaint, he said court orders restricting the use of sound amplifiers from 10 pm to 6 am should be followed and the volume should be controlled even during the daytime. Referring to the reaction of some Muslim religious leaders over his burqa remark, Shukla said he does not get perturbed by threats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/burqa-row-up-minister-says-he-was-talking-about-freedom-of-choice-966327.html
25-03-2021||National||Majority of smokers don't support proposal to ban sale of loose cigarettes, smoking areas: Survey||An overwhelming majority of smokers do not support the proposal to ban the sale of loose cigarettes and designated smoking areas under the amendments in the law on cigarettes and other tobacco products, according to a study. A survey conducted across 14 cities, including Delhi-NCR, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru, Kolkata, Guwahati and Vadodara, interviewing 1,986 people by non-commercial entity PRAHAR also found that 78 per cent of respondents do not support an increase in age for tobacco consumption from 18 years to 21 years. "The survey found that 87 per cent of the participants do not support the proposal to ban the sale of loose cigarettes. They believe that this decision to reduce tobacco consumption may instead force smokers to buy full packs which will make cigarettes readily available in their hands leading to an increase in consumption of tobacco," PRAHAR (Public Response Against Helplessness and Action for Redressal) said in a statement. Further, 57 per cent of consumers buy loose cigarettes "as it helps them to smoke less", while only 19 per cent go for it because it is cheaper. "Only 7 per cent of respondents felt that a ban on the sale of loose cigarettes will make them smokeless," it said adding  82 per cent of respondents did not support the ban of designated smoking areas. On disallowing branding of tobacco products at the point of sale, 76 per cent of respondents said they do not support this proposal, with 55 per cent of the opinion that it would "limit their fundamental right to make an informed decision as branding is a reinforcement of the legality of the product they are buying". "This is particularly relevant because the market is flooded with illegal and smuggled products. 25 per cent of the consumers feel that the move will encourage unscrupulous retailers to promote products that give them more margin," PRAHAR said. When it comes to increasing the age for tobacco consumption from the current 18 years to 21 years, 78 per cent of respondents said that they do not support the move and 37 per cent believed that it is their fundamental right to decide whether to consume tobacco or not. "Around 8 per cent also felt that this ban will make younger people below 21 years buy illegal products from underground sources," it added. Commenting on the findings of the survey, PRAHAR President and National Convenor Abhay Raj Mishra said, "Consumers believe that the proposed provisions significantly curtail their fundamental rights and freedom to make informed choices and in certain cases will even cause harassment and subject consumers to mental cruelty." He further said,"COTPA (Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act) 2020 proposed amendments are self-defeating as instead of serving tobacco reduction goals, they will distort the market structures and lead to an increase in the growth of illegal and inferior products. What we need is a sustained awareness programme to achieve the goals of tobacco control instead of coercive policy measures." The COTPA Amendment Bill 2020 proposed by the Ministry of Health disallows the retail sale of loose sticks of cigarettes, prohibits the sale of tobacco products to persons below 21 years, put controls on in-shop advertising and promotion amongst others. Menon said it is an established principle that before framing any law which affects a class of stakeholders, the views of the affected party must be sought. However, in the course of framing and seeking public response to the provisions of COTPA Amendment Bill 2020 no attempt was made to seek the views of the consumers and actual users of tobacco products. "Unlike other groups, consumers are not cohesively represented by any associations or bodies. Therefore, PRAHAR took it upon itself to collect the views of the users and table it for the consideration of the policymakers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-of-smokers-dont-support-proposal-to-ban-sale-of-loose-cigarettes-smoking-areas-survey-966335.html
25-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SC strikes down benchmarks for women Army officers; fuel prices slashed for second day||In your evening news brief, Supreme Court strikes down as arbitrary and discriminatory benchmarks set for permanent commission for women Army officers; fuel prices cut for the second day, and Covid-19 negative test certificate must for those travelling to Bengaluru.  Here is the top news of March 25, 2021:   The Supreme Court on Thursday struck down as arbitrary and discriminatory the benchmarks set for permanent commission for women Army officers. In a strong observations, the top court said structures of our society has been created by males for males. Some look harmless but it is a patriarchal reflection of our society. Equality is farce, if it does give equal opportunity to women. A bench presided over by Justice D Y Chandrachud directed the Indian Army to consider the grant of permanent commission for women officers within a month and complete the process within two months thereafter by following the due process.   Petrol and diesel prices were on Thursday cut for the second straight day as international oil prices cooled fell on prospects of speedy recovery in consumption getting clouded by the second wave of Covid-19 cases. Petrol price was cut by 21 paise per litre and diesel by 20 paise, according to a price notification of state-owned fuel retailers. Petrol now costs Rs 90.78 per litre in Delhi and a litre of diesel comes for Rs 81.10. Rates have been reduced across the country and vary from state to state depending on the local incidence of taxation (VAT).   Travellers who are coming to Bengaluru from outside Karnataka will have to show a negative RT-PCR certificate from April 1, announced Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar here on Thursday.  The minister said the rule is applicable only to Bengaluru and not the rest of Karnataka.   Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-strikes-down-benchmarks-for-women-army-officers-fuel-prices-slashed-for-second-day-966338.html
25-03-2021||National||Govt to release pending funds of 2019-20 under MPLADS||The government has decided to release the pending instalments under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme till March 31, 2020, on first priority, Parliament was informed on Thursday. "The government has decided to release the pending instalments of 2019-20 on first priority," Statistics Minister Rao Inderjit Singh said in a written reply to a query in the Rajya Sabha. According to the reply, the Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation has issued a circular in this regard on March 17, 2021. The minister told the House, "The ministry has received demands/requests from Members of Parliament and Nodal District Authorities for release of pending instalments due up to March 31, 2020, to resume the ongoing works and clear the committed liabilities under MPLADS."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-release-pending-funds-of-2019-20-under-mplads-966345.html
25-03-2021||National||INX media case: Chidambaram, Karti 'very much' involved in money laundering, alleges ED||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram's direction to former INX Media promoters for "helping" business interests of his son is "one of the important steps of the scheme of money laundering" devised by the senior Congress leader, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) has alleged in its charge sheet. The central probe agency claimed that the 75-year-old Congress leader was "very much involved" with his son and MP Karti Chidambaram in the process of money laundering and was "involved" in the working of the companies beneficially owned by the latter, some of which have also been made accused in the case. The ED claimed it has recovered emails from seized digital devices that disclosed that Karti used to consult his father regarding matters related to a company "beneficially owned" by him in the past -- Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL). A special court here, empowered to try cases under the criminal sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), had on Wednesday taken cognizance of the ED charge sheet and issued summons to all the 10 accused, including the father-son duo, for April 7. The court had said there was sufficient material to proceed against the Chidambaram's, Karti's chartered accountant S Bhaskararaman, former CEO of INX Media Pratim or Peter Mukerjea and six firms, including INX Media and INX News. The senior Chidambaram, while denying all the charges, has said that summoning the accused was a routine process. "The mails and averments reveal that P Chidambaram was involved in the working of companies of Karti P Chidambaram. Apart from his son, he was closely in touch with Bhaskararaman who was managing all the affairs of illegal transactions of Karti P Chidambaram," the ED claimed in the charge sheet. Bhaskararaman and P Chidambaram were also arrested by the ED, in this case, earlier and later they were granted bail. "In fact, the direction to help Karti Chidambaram is one of the important steps of the scheme of money laundering devised by P Chidambaram along with his son and close confidants," the ED alleged in the charge sheet accessed by PTI. Describing the "evidence" that claim the senior Chidambaram's alleged "involvement" in the case, the prosecution complaint said: "People used to approach Karti Chidambaram and his associates for the work to be done through his father P Chidambaram, in lieu of which he used to get illegal gratification in the companies not directly owned by him, but through his close confidants." "This way he (Karti) was trying to hide his direct link with the illegal gratification received by him. Mails also suggest that Karti P Chidambaram used to consult his father regarding the matters of ASCPL." "The illegal gratification received was invested in properties abroad by Karti Chidambaram and the emails suggest that he was also consulting his father regarding the purchase of properties abroad," the ED alleged. This all shows, it added, that P Chidambaram "was very much involved along with Karti Chidambaram in the process of money laundering and showing the proceeds of crime as untainted property." Karti Chidambaram (49), a sitting Congress MP from the Sivaganga Lok Sabha seat in Tamil Nadu, told the ED in his statement recorded under the PMLA that as he was the son of P Chidambaram, it was "natural" for him to take up these issues with him. Talking about the INX Media money laundering case, the ED said Karti got the "illegal gratification" from INX Media Pvt Ltd in the companies "beneficially owned" by him in the past, in lieu of getting FIPB approval for them from the Finance Ministry which was headed by his father. The Chidambaram's have been questioned by the ED multiple times in this case in the past. Karti was also arrested by the CBI in this case in 2018. The ED stated in its charge sheet that the alleged money laundering instances began with INX Media promoters Peter Mukerjea, his wife Indrani Mukerjea and journalist and the then CEO of INX News Pvt Ltd Vir Sanghvi meeting the then Union finance minister (P Chidambaram) at his office sometime in March 2007 purportedly for "seeking blessings" of the minister for Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIBP), that is now scrapped, approval for FDI in their media group. "FIPB approval was thereafter accorded. However, INX Media Pvt Ltd, contrary to the approval, received excess FDI without seeking a valid approval from the FIPB unit of the Ministry of Finance, which was a pre-requisite as per the policy guidelines, unilaterally made an indirect foreign investment/downstream investment to the tune of Rs 46.41 crores in INX News Pvt Ltd.," the ED said. This FIPB approval, it claimed, was in contravention to the existing law. "In the year 2008, discrepancies were noticed in the FIPB approval of INX Media Pvt Ltd and Peter Mukerjea and Indrani Mukerjea again met Karti Chidambaram to sort out the discrepancies in Hyatt Hotel, New Delhi," the agency alleged. Karti Chidambaram, it claimed, demanded USD 1 million to sort out the issue using influence of his father, who was the Union finance minister then. "The proceeds of crime generated in this case were laundered by his (P Chidambaram's) son and other co-conspirators and were invested in immovable and movable properties" and several shell companies were formed for this purpose, the ED claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inx-media-case-chidambaram-karti-very-much-involved-in-money-laundering-alleges-ed-966346.html
25-03-2021||National||Explained: Which Covid-19 strains present are in India||As worries mounted over a recent study showing 7,684 mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome in India, the country on March 24 reported a new variant of the virus. Setting off alarm bells, the variant, being called the ‘double mutant’, has been found in over 200 samples in Maharashtra, the hardest-hit state by the second wave. If safety protocols are not followed, new versions that can spread faster or dominate the previous version could emerge, they warned as worries mounted over a recent study showing 7,684 mutations in the SARS-CoV-2 genome in India. “That doesn’t mean 7,000 variants are going around in the country. This only shows that the virus is mutating as expected, and we have documented what these mutations are,” Rakesh Mishra, CSIR-CCMB director and study co-author told PTI. What is the difference between a mutant and a strain? A mutation means a change in a nucleic acid base or amino acid molecule, and a virus containing this change is termed a mutant, explained virologist Upasana Ray. Mutations eventually accumulate to generate variants that differ from the original virus more and more, and so, a variant can have limited or even cumulative mutations. However, mutation is not unique to SARS-CoV-2, she said. The longer a virus stays in the population and spreads, the more the mutations and hence more variants. The Health Ministry said from 400 cases reported on March 18, the infections by mutant strains have increased to 795 in the country. The ministry has clarified that there are only three variants of concern, detected in the United Kingdom (UK), South Africa and Brazil. Here is a list of the variants detected in India: Double mutant The Union Health Ministry of India said the new "double mutant" variant of SARS-CoV-2 was detected in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places that have been found in at least 18 states and union territories. As per epidemiologists, "double mutant" refers to an entirely new variant that has the characteristics of two already identified variants. UK variant The coronavirus variant first identified in the UK, known as B.1.1.7, is deadlier than other variants circulating there, a new study confirmed. Overall, the risk of death with B.1.1.7 was 67% higher than the risk with other variants in England. As with earlier variants, patients' risk of death increased with age, male gender, and pre-existing medical conditions. National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director S K Singh said 771 cases of variants of concern (VOCs) have been detected in a total of 10,787 positive samples which include 736 samples positive for viruses of the UK (B.1.1.7) lineage. The UK variant of SARS-CoV-2 was first reported in India on December 29. South African variant In India, 34 samples were found positive for viruses of the South African (B.1.351) lineage. Strains from South Africa and Brazil have been detected in travellers coming to India from these countries. In order to curtail the spread of these variants, the government issued revised guidelines for international arrivals on February 17. Brazilian variant One sample for the Brazilian (P.1) lineage has been found positive in India. The South African and Brazilian variants have the potential to reinfect persons who have been previously infected with SARS-CoV-2. Low prevalence The analysis by CSIR-CCMB found that novel variants worrying many countries globally have so far only low prevalence in India. These include the variants with the immune-escape E484K mutation and the one with the N501Y mutation found to have a higher transmission rate. While the E484K mutation is found in both the South African and Brazil variant lineages, the N501Y mutation is found in the UK variant. Multiple variants can "escape" vaccines As for vaccines, Covishield developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University by the Serum Institute of India and the homegrown Covaxin from Bharat Biotech are effective against the variants of the virus first identified in UK and Brazil. There has been a rise in the number of daily infections in five states: Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, and Madhya Pradesh in the past few days. Of these, Maharashtra and Kerala are the most worrying, accounting for about 75 per cent of the total active Covid-19 cases in the country. On March 25, India added over one lakh coronavirus infections in just two days with 53,476 new cases in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,17,87,534, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/explained-which-covid-19-strains-present-are-in-india-966355.html
25-03-2021||National||India delays vaccine exports as Covid-19 cases soar||India appeared Thursday to have put the brakes on exporting Covid-19 vaccines as it battles a new wave of infections at home and a faltering inoculation drive. India recorded more than 50,000 new coronavirus cases on Thursday for the first time since November, while its aim to inoculate 300 million people by August runs behind schedule with 53 million shots given so far. India is a major vaccine supplier to other nations, particularly poorer ones, including under the Covax global inoculation programme led by the World Health Organization and the Gavi alliance. So far it has sent more than 60 million doses to 76 countries, mostly AstraZeneca shots manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the world's largest vaccine maker by volume. On Thursday the Gavi alliance said deliveries of vaccines to lower-income economies "will face delays" because of a "setback" in Serum obtaining export licences from the Indian government. A Gavi spokesperson said the delays in granting the licences "are due to the increased demand of Covid-19 vaccines in India." "Covax is in talks with the government of India with a view to ensuring deliveries as quickly as possible," the spokesperson said, without giving further details. "SII has pledged that, alongside supplying India, it will prioritise the Covax multilateral solution for equitable distribution. Covax is in talks with the government of India with a view to ensuring deliveries as quickly as possible." The Indian government and Serum were not immediately available for further comment. "It is not clear how long it will take to resolve the delays," an industry source told AFP. India, home to 1.3 billion people, was this month overtaken by Brazil as the second-most infected country after cases dipped in December and January from a peak of nearly 100,000 a day in September. But recent weeks have seen an uptick, with health ministry data on Thursday showing almost 54,000 new infections over the previous 24 hours, the most since October. India's strict lockdown has been steadily eased over the past year and in recent months most activity, including weddings, religious festivals and some cricket matches, returned to normal. Now many regions are reimposing curbs, particularly in the hard-hit western state of Maharashtra where officials have launched random virus checks in crowded areas in the local capital Mumbai -- with those tested having to pay. "Just to enter a mall, you have to give 250 rupees ($3.50) over here, (and) that too with a queue of one hour," said Mumbai resident Mohit Jain as he lined up to enter a shopping mall. "It will cause a lot of inconvenience for the malls as well as for the customers also," he told AFP. The country's known coronavirus cases are approaching 12 million, with more than 160,000 deaths. The health ministry said Wednesday that the variants first detected in Britain, South Africa and Brazil have been found in India, but not in "numbers sufficient to either establish (a) direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases in some states". Meanwhile, India this week decided to allow all over 45 years to be inoculated as it attempts to vaccinate 300 million people by August. "(It) would be good if the government decides to stop the export and look after its own Indian citizens first," Delhi resident Beulah Pillay, 62, said as she received her first dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-delays-vaccine-exports-as-covid-19-cases-soar-966365.html
25-03-2021||National||Bengal polls: BJP candidate gets EC notice for promising voters free trip to Ayodhya||BJP's Pandabeswar candidate Jitendra Tiwari was show-caused by the Election Commission for promising voters a free trip to the temple of Lord Ram in Ayodhya if elected, officials said on Thursday. Tiwari made the promise at two places -- once while speaking at a public meeting in Haripur on March 21, and then at a party meeting, they said. The Trinamool Congress lodged a complaint with the EC on March 22 over the issue. In his reply to the EC notice, Tiwari said that he was unaware that making such a promise would violate the model code of conduct. He also apologised to the EC for "being ignorant".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-polls-bjp-candidate-gets-ec-notice-for-promising-voters-free-trip-to-ayodhya-966366.html
25-03-2021||National||Parliament passes Bill to set up National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development||Parliament approves bill to set up National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development to provide long-term funding for projects amid opposition claims that the body was kept outside the purview of investigation and vigilance mechanisms. The National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill-2021 was passed by the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, is aimed at providing long-term funding to infrastructure projects including in transport, energy, water, sanitation, telecommunications, education sector. The Lok Sabha had passed the Bill on Tuesday. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the development finance institution was required as banks, which do short-term borrowing, could face an asset-liability mismatch if they resorted to long-term lending. “This asset-liability mismatch is not good for the financial sector,” she said responding to the two-hour debate on the Bill. Congress member Jairam Ramesh said the Bill kept the proposed NaBFID, which will be using huge amounts of government money, outside the purview of the CBI, CAG and CVC. “No oversight whatsoever, no CBI, no CVC, no CAG. I can understand CBI and CVC but why no CAG,” Ramesh said, adding that he failed to see the logic behind this. Sitharaman rejected Ramesh’s claims that the NaBFID was beyond oversight and said the the institution was duty bound to present its reports to Parliament every year. “Audited reports are going to come in here. And as and when the Government is going to ask them for a report, they are duty bound to give it and it shall come here. So, Parliament's oversight annually is envisaged and built into the Act itself,” Sitharaman said. She said the NaBFID will initially be 100 per cent owned by the government and it could be brought down at a later stage to 26 per cent. The institution would fund projects from the 7,000 odd identified by the National Infrastructure Pipeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parliament-passes-bill-to-set-up-national-bank-for-financing-infrastructure-and-development-966373.html
25-03-2021||National||Bengal tops in Facebook political ad spend among poll-bound states||Among the four states and one union territory that are going to polls from March 27, West Bengal emerged as the topper in spending for political advertisements on Facebook this year, according to data available with the social media platform. Besides West Bengal, assembly elections will be held in three other states Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and in the union territory of Puducherry. The Facebook ad spend of the Trinamool Congress which seeks to return to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term, exceeds that of the BJP, the main rival of the Mamata Banerjee-led party, in 90 days till March 22, the data revealed. During the period, political parties of West Bengal spent about Rs 3.74 crore on poll-related campaigns which fall under Facebook's advertisement category of 'social issues, election or politics'. In ad spend under this category, West Bengal is followed by Tamil Nadu (Rs 3.3 crore), Assam (Rs 61.77 lakh), Kerala (Rs 38.86 lakh) and Puducherry (Rs 3.34 lakh) during the period, as per the data. The Trinamool Congress has spent the maximum amount among parties, around Rs 1.69 crore, of West Bengal during the period on campaigns such as "Banglar Gorbo Mamata" (Bengal's pride Mamata). It also has constituency level versions such as "Dum Dum-er Garbo Mamata". The TMC's digital advertisements are handled by the Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) which runs other campaigns also for the party on the social media platform. During the period under review, another Facebook page run by the name of "Khotikarok Modi" (Harmful Modi), has spent Rs 33.12 lakh in political ads, according to the data. The state BJPs Facebook ad spend is around Rs 25.31 lakh. It is advertising campaigns such as Amar Paribar BJP Paribar (My family is BJP family) and Aar Noi Annay (No more injustice). The Facebook page of the TMC has 1.3 million followers while that of the West Bengal BJP has 1.7 million followers. The state Congress spent around Rs 5 lakh in advertisements on Facebook while the amount spent by Left parties is negligible. According to an analyst, the total spending on digital advertisements of political parties would be more as they do not always pay directly for campaigns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-tops-in-facebook-political-ad-spend-among-poll-bound-states-966375.html
25-03-2021||National||Rajya Sabha adjourned sine die||Rajya Sabha was on Thursday adjourned sine die, 13 days ahead of its scheduled date of April 8, after the conclusion of the Budget session. Several members of the House had earlier urged the government to curtail the sittings of the Budget session after Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla had tested positive for Covid-19. During the session, the Upper House witnessed a "passionate and quality" debate on Motion of Thanks to the President's address and the Union Budget, said Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu in his valedictory remarks. This is the second session of Parliament, which has been held during the pandemic, in which all Covid-related protocol and standard operating procedures were followed to conduct the session, he added. "The budget session of this Parliament is adjourned sine die ahead of its schedule. Against a total of 33 sittings scheduled, from January 29 to April 8, we are concluding it after having 23 sittings," said Naidu while delivering a brief account of the performance of Rajya Sabha during the session. The Budget session provided the members of this house an opportunity to deliberate issues concerning economic growth and recovery, especially in the post-Covid phase, he said. "This house functioned a total of 104 hours 23 minutes against the total scheduled time of 116 hours and 31 minutes during these 23 sittings," Naidu said, adding that "this in effect means that the productivity of the house, including both the parts of the Budget session, have been about 90 per cent". The productivity of the first part of the session was 99.6 per cent and the second part, which started on March 8 was about 85 per cent. "A total of 21 hours and 26 minutes of the house has been lost due to disruption during this session," he added. However, he also said that the house sat 14 hours and 28 minutes beyond the time to complete the legislative and other business. Over the legislative output, Naidu said Rajya Sabha has passed 19 bills during the session, which includes the Appropriation Bill and Finance Bill. Around 34 hours and 4 minutes were spent on the discussion of the government bills, which comes around 42 per cent of the total functioning time of this house, spent on the legislative business. "A total of 119 members participated in the discussion of the bills," he said, adding that working of three important ministries - Jal Shakti, Railways; and Tourism - has been discussed for 11 hours and 13 minutes, which comes to about 11 per cent of the total functional time of the House. Members raised a total of 273 issues of urgent public importance through 163 Zero Hour Submissions and 110 Special Mentions. "The discussion on Motion of Thanks on the President's address took place four days, with a duration of 15 hours and 37 minutes with 50 members taking part in it. The Union Budget was discussed for 10 hours 43 minutes and three days with 45 members participating into it," he said. According to Naidu, high productivity was witnessed during the last four sessions, which continued in this session as well. "As a result, overall productivity in the last four sessions and this session comes to 94 per cent," he said while appealing to all the parties to maintain the positive momentum in the future also. He also said that the house should strive to achieve 100 per cent productivity, knowing that it is functioning under extraordinary circumstances. Meanwhile, the Upper House chairman also raised his concerns over issues such as less attendance of members and the duration of the meetings, which need further improvements. "I urge all the party leaders to sensitise their members to take the Committee's work seriously given their importance and relevance in our parliamentary system in ensuring executive accountability on behalf of Parliament," said Naidu. People have a lot of expectations from the parliamentarians to guide on the issues concerning the pandemic, the revival of the economy, and the agenda of inclusive growth. "Therefore, we should be guided by the mantra of 'debate, discuss and decide' and not disrupt. This is the only way forward in these challenging times," he said. Naidu also raised concerns over the surge in Covid-19 cases in some of the states and appealed to all the members to guide people to follow the guidelines issued by the central and state governments for containing the spread of the virus. In the second part of the Budget session, both the houses started working simultaneously with relaxed social distancing norms. In the first part of the Budget session, Rajya Sabha met in the first half of the day while Lok Sabha functioned in the afternoon session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-adjourned-sine-die-966380.html
25-03-2021||National||NHAI to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of highways in next 5 years||Union Minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday said the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is planning to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of national highways in the next five years and exhorted industry players to come forward to reap rich dividends by investing in it. Gadkari, who holds road transport portfolio along with MSME, said this will spur growth and the funds could be roped in creating sound infrastructure. "NHAI is planning to raise Rs 1 lakh crore through monetisation of highways under toll operate transfer (TOT) mode in the next five years," Gadkari said addressing CII's national conference on "Road Infrastructure - Creating Demand: Stimulating Growth". The minister said asset monetisation offers a good business opportunity for industry players in existing infrastructure and on the other hand it will help government in unlocking the value of investment made in creating infrastructure. "It will be a win-win situation for both industry players and the government," he said and added that it will result in augmenting infrastructure of the nation. NHAI is authorised to monetise public-funded national highway projects, which are operational and are collecting toll for at least one year after commercial operation, through the TOT model on a case-to-case basis. He also termed the launch of national asset monetisation pipeline as a pathbreaking initiative which will catalyse long-term investment in infrastructure. Besides, he said the government is in the process of setting up a new development finance institution DFI. The institution is being set up on a capital base of Rs 20,000 crore and will have a lending target of Rs 5 lakh crore in three years, he said and added that the government is leaving no stone unturned in ensuring availability of adequate funding and infra creation during Covid-induced slowdown. Terming National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) as the first-of-its kind initiative, the minister said that there are more than 7,300 projects under it to be implemented at a cost of Rs 111 lakh crore by 2025. "Projects worth Rs 44 lakh crore are under implementation under NIP and projects worth Rs 34 lakh crore in the conceptualisation stage, while another Rs 22 lakh crore worth of projects are under development stage," he said. Road building, he said, has reached the pace of 35 km a day and is likely to be 40 km a day by the end of the month. Terming it a phenomenal achievement, the minister said under Rs 5.35 lakh crore Bharatmala, contracts for a length of 13,521 km highways have been awarded while projects for building 16,500 km are under (detailed project report) stage. Bids have been invited for another 4,800 km length of highway projects, he said and complemented the construction industry to match the emerging demand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhai-to-raise-rs-1-lakh-crore-through-monetisation-of-highways-in-next-5-years-966387.html
25-03-2021||National||Mithun leads mega roadshows in poll-bound West Bengal||Bollywood superstar Mithun Chakraborty led three back-to-back roadshows in the Jungle Mahal region of West Bengal on Thursday in support of the BJP candidates. Chakraborty, who was in a white kurta with a long saffron scarf loosely wrapped around his neck, led the first roadshow in Saltora in Bankura, while the second one was in Keshiary in the Paschim Medinipur district. Later, he took part in another roadshow in Jhargram town. Amid chants of 'Jai Shri Ram', Chakraborty was on hoodless vehicles, decked with marigold, and greeted the enthused supporters who gathered in large numbers wherever he went. People went atop their houses and mobbed Chakraborty's car to have one look at the superstar of yesteryears even as shouts of "guru guru" were ringing in the air. "The overwhelming response, the emotion of the people show change is inevitable and irreversible in Bengal," he told reporters in Keshiary. Asked if there was the possibility of him becoming the chief minister if BJP came to power, Chakraborty said, "You are obsessed with the same question." "I am not a hero, I am their Mithun-da and they are my friends. I have a connection with the people of Bengal," Chakraborty said, exuding confidence about the BJP's victory in the state polls. Chakraborty arrived at Saltora around 9.30 am but his helicopter could not land at the temporary helipad at Saltora College ground, continuing to hover for at least 15-20 minutes as a large crowd gathered to see the superstar. The roadshow started around 11 am and a distance of 1.5 km from College More to Ledapalash via Saltora Chowmatha took around two hours. Chakraborty was accompanied by Saltora's BJP candidate Chandana Bauri. In Jhargram, the actor's helicopter landed at the temporary helipad at Raj College Grounds, then he went to the Sabitri Cinema Hall, where the roadshow started and went on till the five-point crossing. A large number of people could be seen on both sides of the road struggling to have one look at the filmstar. Chakraborty, a former TMC MP, had joined the BJP at the Kolkata rally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mithun-leads-mega-roadshows-in-poll-bound-west-bengal-966390.html
25-03-2021||National||No space for Opposition issues, says Congress as Budget Session ends early||The Budget Session of the Parliament concluded on Thursday, two weeks ahead of schedule in view of the elections to five state assemblies with political parties eager to hit the campaign trail. Legislative agenda dominated the 23-day Session that had begun on January 23, with the Opposition slamming the government for not allowing discussion on issues ranging from rising fuel prices to guidelines for digital media in Parliament. “In my 17 years in Parliament, it is for the first time that not a single demand of the Opposition to have Calling Attention Motion, Short Duration Discussion was accepted,” Jairam Ramesh, chief whip of the Congress in the Rajya Sabha, told reporters here. He said that Congress leaders in both the Houses had given notices to raise issues such as curbs on digital media, panic privatisation, rising fuel prices, farmers’ protests but none was accepted by the government. “It means that the government is not keen or prepared for discussion on these issues,” Ramesh said. The first three days of the second part of the Budget Session which began on March 8 witnessed repeated disruptions on issues ranging from high fuel prices to farm laws, with little business being transacted. In the Lok Sabha, the valedictory remarks were made by Bhartruhari Mahtab, who was in the chair, as Speaker Om Birla is recuperating from Covid-19. “The Lok Sabha had 24 sittings that stretched over 134 hours. The productivity of the Lok Sabha was 114%,” Mahtab said. The Rajya Sabha functioned for a total of 104 hours and 23 minutes during its 23 sittings. “The productivity of the House has been about 90%,” Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu said. “Total number of Bills passed by both Houses of Parliament is 18,” Parliamentary Affairs Minister Prahlad Joshi told reporters here. Besides the Union Budget, key Bills that were approved by Parliament include the Insurance (Amendment) Bill, the National Bank for Financing Infrastructure and Development Bill, The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) Order (Amendment) Bill and the Government of National Capital of Delhi (Amendment) Bill.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-space-for-opposition-issues-says-congress-as-budget-session-ends-early-966393.html
25-03-2021||National||LoC silent in March; terror infrastructure in Pakistan remains intact: Army Chief||The Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir has been silent for the first time in around five to six years as not a single shot was fired in March, Army Chief Gen M M Naravane said on Thursday referring to the recent commitment by Indian and Pakistani militaries to observe ceasefire in the region. The Army Chief, however, said the terror infrastructure including terrorist launch-pads on the Pakistani side remained intact, asserting that it cannot be business as usual unless the neighbouring country stops supporting terrorism. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Gen Naravane said he was optimistic that the ceasefire will hold as the Pakistan Army was on board. "I am glad to inform that in the whole month of March, we have not had a single shot fired at the Line of Control (LoC) barring an odd incident. It is for the first time in about five or six years that the LoC has been silent. That really bodes well for the future," he said. "Our core issue is that they have to stop support to terrorism. Unless they stop that it cannot be business as usual," Gen Naravane said at the conclave organised by Times Network. Asked what could have prompted Pakistan to suddenly agree to the ceasefire, Gen Naravane said the duels between the two sides had not resulted any forward movement and that Islamabad has its own internal problems. "I feel that they have their own problems internally and from time-to-time, you have to also see whether a strategy that you are following is actually paying any dividend," he said. "Over so many years, they would have also realised that it is time to make a change and that would have prompted them to extend this olive branch," he added. To a question, the Army Chief said he was optimistic that the ceasefire will hold and even made an apparent reference to recent comments by Pakistan Army Chief General Qamar Javed Bajwa. "I would say we are very optimistic especially with the comments which have been made recently and the very important point is that the agreement is between the DGMOs of both the sides," Gen Naravane said. "So obviously the Pakistan Army is on board and if the Pakistan Army is on board then there is every reason to be quite optimistic of the outcome," he said. On India-Pakistan ties, Bajwa recently said it is "time to bury the past". Gen Naranave also talked about terror infrastructure on the Pakistani side, saying India has intelligence inputs about them. "The terror infrastructure and launch pads remain in place. We have detailed intelligence of each of those camps, locations and likely strength of terrorists awaiting and who have undergone training and are present there, perhaps waiting for an opportunity to cross over," he said. Asked whether Pakistan agreed to the ceasefire under compulsion, the Army Chief said, "Yes, that's quite possible." "We will have to wait and see. Once the snow melts and passes open, if the situation still remains normal then there is a good prognosis for the future, we have to wait and see," he said. When pressed further to explain the possible compulsions of Pakistan, Gen Naravane mentioned the situation in Pakistan's border with Afghanistan as well as pressure on that country to comply with recommendations of the anti-terror watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF). "One is of course the situation on their western border with Afghanistan. Things are not very rosy there as far as they are concerned," he said. "The second is the threat of the FATF which hangs over their head. They are still in the grey list. Probably they would like to show that they are making some efforts to not support terrorism and third of course is their domestic compulsions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/loc-silent-in-march-terror-infrastructure-in-pakistan-remains-intact-army-chief-966397.html
25-03-2021||National||Dissent criminalised in country: Mehbooba Mufti after ED questioning||The former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president Thursday alleged that the dissent had been criminalised in the country. “One who speaks against you (government of India) is being either booked under seditious charges or being summoned by the investigative agencies,” she told reporters after nearly five-hour-long questioning by Enforcement Directorate (ED), here, in connection with money laundering case. The PDP chief said that she was questioned about her father's ancestral property in Bijbehara (Anantnag), “which we have sold out and was asked how you sold it and other related things.” Mehbooba asserted there will be no change in her party's stance over the fight for the rights of the Jammu and Kashmir people especially regarding the restoration of Article 370.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dissent-criminalised-in-country-mehbooba-mufti-after-ed-questioning-966401.html
25-03-2021||National||No proposal at present to increase retirement age of HC judges: Govt in Rajya Sabha||There is no proposal at present to increase the retirement age of high court judges, the government said in Rajya Sabha on Thursday. Responding to a question, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said in a written reply that while every effort is made to fill up the existing vacancies expeditiously, vacancies of judges in high courts do keep on arising on account of retirement, resignation or elevation and also due to increase in the strength of judges. "There is no proposal at present to increase the retirement age of high court judges," he said. He was asked whether the government has any plan to increase the retirement age of high court judges to 65 years. The retirement of the judges of the high courts is 62 years and that of the Supreme Court is 65 years. The minister also said filling up of vacancies in the high courts is a continuous, integrated and collaborative process between the Executive and the Judiciary. It requires consultation and approval from various constitutional authorities both at the state and the central level. The sanctioned strength of judges in the 25 high courts is 1,080. A bill brought by the then UPA government in 2010 to increase the retirement age of high court judges from 62 to 65 years had lapsed after the dissolution of the 15th Lok Sabha in 2014. The Constitution (114th Amendment) Bill, 2010, which provided for increasing the retirement age of high court judges from 62 to 65 years, was introduced in Lok Sabha on July 25, 2010. But it could not be taken up for consideration and passage, and had lapsed. The UPA proposal had sought to bring at par the retirement age of high court judges with that of Supreme Court judges at 65 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-proposal-at-present-to-increase-retirement-age-of-hc-judges-govt-in-rajya-sabha-966405.html
25-03-2021||National||No action in Delkar case against official till April 9: Maharashtra||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Thursday that it will not take any coercive action against Dadra and Nagar Haveli Collector Sandeep Kumar Singh, who has been booked for abetment of suicide of MP Mohan Delkar, till April 9. Delkar, a Member of Parliament from the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli died by suicide in Mumbai in February this year and had left behind a note naming several persons, as per police. Singh had approached HC on Wednesday seeking that the FIR, filed on a complaint by Delkar's son Abhinav, against him in the case be quashed. A bench of Justices SS Shinde and Manish Pitale accepted the state's counsel Deepak Thakre's statement and adjourned the hearing on Singh's plea to April 9. Singh's counsel, senior advocate Amit Desai, told HC the FIR that named Singh as one of the accused in the case was baseless and politically motivated. In his plea, Singh said there was no specific allegation against him in the FIR except the general statement that he along with other accused in the case "gave insulting treatment" to Delkar. He said he did not know Delkar personally and the only action related to the deceased MP that he took was to conduct an inquiry into a trust that the latter was chairing. The inquiry was initiated following directions from the PMO, Singh said in his plea, and prayed that the FIR be quashed and he be protected from any coercive action in the interim.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-action-in-delkar-case-against-official-till-april-9-maharashtra-966410.html
25-03-2021||National||Rehabilitation of Kashmiri migrant pandits in valley maybe on cards, hints LG||Hinting that a proper rehabilitation plan for migrant Kashmiri Pandits maybe in the pipeline, Jammu and Kashmir Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Thursday said a lot has been thought about the community and soon "something is going to happen which you have not even imagined". He also said that 8,000 underground bunkers have been completed along the Line of Control (LoC) and the International Border (IB) for the safety of border residents and 1,200 more such structures will be constructed during the next financial year. "We are also talking about 6,000 jobs and an equal number of residential accommodation for migrant Kashmiri Pandits in the valley. This is a minute part of the rehabilitation of the community in the valley," Sinha told reporters here. Responding to a question about linking the prime minister's employment package with the overall rehabilitation of Pandits living in exile in the valley, he said rehabilitation is a different thing altogether. "These 6,000 jobs for the community were notified earlier but the (recruitment) process got delayed due to various reasons. This is a minute part of the rehabilitation of the community. Our first priority was to complete the process as soon as possible and it has now reached the final stage," he said. Sinha said it is not the final package for the community and the government is doing more for them in the near future. "A lot has been thought about the rehabilitation of Kashmiri Pandits which I do not want to make public today. Shortly, you will get information that something is going to happen which you have not even imagined," he said. Asked about a clause in the contract of Pandit employees that they have to leave their residential quarters on retirement, he said, "I have taken note of it and this will be looked into." On the welfare measures proposed for border residents who have suffered immensely due to Pakistani shelling over the years, the Lt Governor said 8,000 underground bunkers have been constructed so far for their safety, while 1,200 more such structures are being built during the next financial year. "There is a provision in the budget for them as well. And if there is a need, more will be done for them," he said. Fortunately, he said, the shelling by Pakistan has stopped now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rehabilitation-of-kashmiri-migrant-pandits-in-valley-maybe-on-cards-hints-lg-966418.html
25-03-2021||National||Govt trying to construct e-highway on 1,300-km Delhi-Mumbai Expressway: Gadkari||The government is trying to construct a separate 'e-highway' on the 1,300-kilometre-long Delhi-Mumbai Expressway where trucks and buses can ply at a speed of 120 km per hour, Road Transport and Highway Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. Replying to a query during Question Hour in Lok Sabha, Gadkari said the step is expected to bring logistics to cost down by 70 per cent. "We are trying to build 'e-highway' on the 1,300-km highway between Delhi and Mumbai," he said. The minister, however, added that no final decision has been taken on this. Gadkari said Siemens has used this technology and built a similar road in Germany. "Buses and trucks can ply on this e-highway at a speed of 120 kmph and will bring down the logistics cost by 70 per cent," he added. Replying to another question, the minister said Rs 60,000 crore has been spent on constructing roads like Dwarka Expressway, the eastern and the western express bypass which will reduce air pollution in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-trying-to-construct-e-highway-on-1300-km-delhi-mumbai-expressway-gadkari-966420.html
25-03-2021||National||ESIC scheme adds 11.55 lakh new members in January 2021||Around 11.55 lakh new members joined the ESIC-run social security scheme in January 2021 as against 12.22 lakh in the previous month, official data showed on Thursday, giving a perspective on formal sector employment in the country. The latest data is part of a report released by the National Statistical Office (NSO). Gross new enrolments with the Employees' State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) were 8.87 lakh in June 2020, 4.89 lakh in May and 2.63 lakh in April, showing the increase in enrolments after easing of the lockdown, the latest data showed. In July 2020, gross enrolments dipped to 7.63 lakh but improved to 9.5 lakh in August, 11.58 lakh in September and 12.09 lakh in October 2020. But it again dipped to 9.52 lakh in November 2020. The gross enrolments with ESIC improved to 12.22 lakh in December 2020. The government had imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 25 last year to contain the spread of coronavirus infections. Later, restrictions were eased for various economic activities in phases. The NSO report showed that gross enrolments of new subscribers with ESIC were 1.51 crore in 2019-20, compared to 1.49 crore in 2018-19. During September 2017 to March 2018, around 83.35 lakh new subscribers had joined the ESIC scheme. The report said gross new enrolments with ESIC from September 2017 to January 2021 period were 4.75 crore. The NSO report is based on the payroll data of new subscribers of various social security schemes run by ESIC, the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA). It has been releasing such data of these bodies since April 2018, covering the period starting from September 2017. According to the report, net new enrolments with retirement fund body EPFO stood at 13.36 lakh in January, up from 10.81 lakh in December 2020. It showed that during September 2017 to January 2021, around 4.03 crore (gross) new subscribers joined the Employees' Provident Fund scheme. The report, titled 'Payroll Reporting in India: An Employment Perspective - January 2021', said that since the number of subscribers is from various sources, there are elements of overlap and the estimates are not additive. The NSO also said the report gives different perspectives on the levels of employment in the formal sector and does not measure employment at a holistic level.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/esic-scheme-adds-1155-lakh-new-members-in-january-2021-966423.html
25-03-2021||National||UP nun harassment case: Congress portrays Sangh Parivar as anti-women||Latching on to the incident of the alleged harassment of nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation in an express train in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Congress on Thursday sought to project the incident to portray the Sangh Parivar as anti-women. Tweeting in Hindi, Rahul Gandhi, an MP from Wayanad in poll-bound Kerala, said he will no longer address the RSS and organisations attached with it as 'Sangh Parivar' as the organisation is devoid of the attributes of a family. "I am of the view that it is not right to call the RSS organizations attached to it as Sangh Parivar. There are women in the family, there is respect for the elderly, a feeling of compassion and love-- which is not there in the RSS. Now I will not call RSS 'Sangh Parivar'!" the Congress leader said. A day before Gandhi had the RSS family over the attack on nuns in UP saying it a “result of the vicious propaganda run by the Sangh Parivar to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities.” Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces, Gandhi had said. Rahul Gandhi had earlier also spared no occasion to berate the BJP-RSS on women issues and tried to create a Congress versus RSS-BJP binary on the issue of women empowerment. After incidents of alleged rapes in some shelter homes in Bihar and UP in 2018, Gandhi had questioned the “silence” of the Prime Minister and also called RSS a “male chauvinist organisation" that does not have women in it. Gandhi’s remarks asking “Have you ever seen women in shorts working with RSS” had in fact led to sharp reactions from the BJP. In February 2020, when the Supreme Court’s landmark judgement had come favouring permanent commission to women in Armed forces, Congress had accused Modi government of having a “myopic thinking” and pushing “backward 17th century arguments” before the apex court on the issue of giving combat role to women in the Armed Forces. In the judgment then, the apex court had then rejected the Centre's stand of their physiological limitations as being based on "sex stereotypes" and "gender discrimination against women". Indicating that Congress is keen on trying to put the BJP on the mat on women issue latching on to the nun incident in the background of elections in two South Indian states---Kerala and Tamil Nadu AICC spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also went hammer and tongs. “BJP goons attack #Kerala ‘Nun’, #SriLankan Navy detains 20 Tamil fishermen, Yet.... Modi Govt remains oblivious.....! Why? Because People of the two States have rejected the BJP,’ he said. Another Congress MP Shashi Tharoor went on to say “ Kerala nuns attacked by Bajrang Dal men in Jhansi: had our society been as vigilant in acting against those who commit real crimes against women as these zealots are in harassing them, we’d have a safer nation. But protecting women isn’t on the BJP agenda”. Home Minister Amit Shah has already assured action against the culprits of the nun harassment case. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had also taken up the issue with the Centre.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-nun-harassment-case-congress-portrays-sangh-parivar-as-anti-women-966435.html
25-03-2021||National||SC expresses concern over delay in judges' appointment||The Supreme Court on Thursday expressed concern over the delay by the Centre in accepting recommendations by the Collegium on the appointment of judges in high courts, saying there should be a reasonable time-frame for processing the names. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant said the Law Ministry has to respond to the Collegium's recommendations in a time-bound manner. Names cleared by the Supreme Court Collegium are pending with the ministry for more than six months, the bench said. "There are 45 names which have been recommended by the high courts but not sent to the Collegium. There are names we have cleared but the Law Ministry has not cleared yet," it said. The court asked Attorney General K K Venugopal to disclose the status of recommendations made by the Collegium. Supreme Court Bar Association President Vikas Singh asked the court to consider lawyers practising in the top court in making recommendations for appointment of high court judges. The court pointed out that the Collegium did make such recommendations but the bar bodies of the high courts opposed them. The top court was hearing a PIL by NGO 'Lok Prahari' on the appointment of retired judges to the Supreme Court under Article 128 of the Constitution. Out of the sanctioned strength of 1,080 judges in 24 high courts, 419 posts are lying vacant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-expresses-concern-over-delay-in-judges-appointment-966436.html
25-03-2021||National||Campaign for first phase of Assam elections ends||Campaigning for the first phase of polling in Assam on March 27 ended on Thursday. Polling will be conducted in 47 of Assam’s 126 Assembly seats in 22 districts in eastern and North Assam on Saturday for which 264 candidates are in the fray. Of these, only 23 candidates are women. A total of 81,09,815 voters will exercise their franchise in eastern Assam and North Assam constituencies. Assam has a total of 2,33,74,087 electorates. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal (Majuli), president of Asom Pradesh Congress Committee Ripun Bora (Gohpur), AGP President Atul Bora (Bokakhat), Speaker of Assam Legislative Assembly Hitendra Nath Goswami (Jorhat), Akhil Gogoi of Raijor Dal (Sivasagar) and Lurinjyoti Gogoi of Assam Jatiya Parishad (Duliajan) are some of the prominent candidates in the fray in the first phase. Elections in these districts are seen as crucial for the ruling alliance led by the BJP as these areas had witnessed strong protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and have voters belonging to indigenous Assamese and other ethnic communities. Most of them had protested against the CAA as it seeks to give citizenship to post-1971 migrants. The BJP and the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) in 2016 had won 33 of the 47 seats in these regions but many are speculating that the number could decrease this time mainly due to the CAA. Tea garden voters are also going to be crucial both for the BJP and the Congress in the first phase.  The BJP, however, claimed that they would win at least 43 seats in the first phase and the CAA would have no bearing on voting. The Congress says the indigenous Assamese voters would give a “befitting reply” to the BJP in the first phase for bringing in the CAA. Eyes will also be on Raijor Dal and AJP, which were formed out of the anti-CAA agitation in 2019. Polling for 39 seats will be held in the second phase on April 1 and for the rest of the 40 seats in the third and final phase on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/campaign-for-first-phase-of-assam-elections-ends-966445.html
25-03-2021||National||First visit after Covid-19 to neighbour Bangladesh: PM Narendra Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that he will hold "substantive discussions" with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina during his two-day visit to Bangladesh, as he expressed happiness that his first foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic would be to a friendly neighbouring country with which India shares deep ties. Modi said he will be visiting Bangladesh on March 26-27 at the invitation of Prime Minister Hasina, and looks forward to his participation at the Bangladesh National Day celebrations on Friday. In his departure statement, he said, "I am happy that my first foreign visit after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic will be to our friendly neighbouring country, with which India shares deep cultural, linguistic and people-to-people ties." Noting that Bangladesh's National Day celebrations on Friday will commemorate the birth centenary of the Father of the Nation of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Modi said 'Bangabandhu' was one of the tallest leaders of the last century, whose life and ideas continue to inspire millions. "I look forward to visiting Bangabandhu's Samadhi in Tungipara to pay my respects to his memory," the prime minister said. Modi said that he also looks forward to offering prayers to Goddess Kali at the ancient Jashoreshwari Kali Temple, one of the 51 Shaktipeeths in the Puranic tradition. The prime minister said he is looking forward to his interaction with representatives of the Matua community at Orakandi, from where Sri Harichand Thakur disseminated his pious message, Modi said. "I will be having substantive discussions with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, following our very productive virtual meeting in December last year. I also look forward to my meeting with President Abdul Hamid, and to interactions with other Bangladeshi dignitaries," Modi said. "My visit will not only be an occasion to convey appreciation for Bangladesh's remarkable economic and developmental strides under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's visionary leadership, but also to commit India's abiding support for these achievements," he said. Modi said, during his visit, he will also express India's support and solidarity for Bangladesh's fight against Covid-19. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla, while briefing reporters on the PM's visit to Bangladesh, had said on Wednesday that a range of pacts will be signed and new announcements for bolstering cooperation in several areas will be made during the two-day visit. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's War of Liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties. The two prime ministers held a virtual summit on December 17 during which Modi said Bangladesh is a key pillar of New Delhi's 'Neighbourhood First' policy, while Hasina described India as a "true friend" and asserted that both countries could play a significant role in the global and regional value chains by further integrating their economies as well as boosting connectivity. During that summit, the two countries had inked seven agreements to further broadbase cooperation in a plethora of sectors, and restored a cross-border rail link snapped by the 1965 war with Pakistan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/first-visit-after-covid-19-to-neighbour-bangladesh-pm-narendra-modi-966458.html
25-03-2021||National||Covid-19: 2,523 new cases in Karnataka, 10 deaths||Karnataka has recorded 2,523 fresh cases of coronavirus and 10 related fatalities, taking the gross to 9.78 lakh and the toll to 12,471, the Health department said on Thursday. This is for the third consecutive day that the state has reported over 2,000 fresh cases. Out of the fresh cases reported on Thursday, 1,623 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. The day also saw 1,192 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of March 25 evening, cumulatively 9,78,478 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 12,471 deaths and 9,47,781 discharges, the Health Department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 18,207 active cases, 18,057 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 150 are in ICU. Among 10 deaths reported on Thursday, 6 are from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru 2, and one each from Ballari and Belagavi. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,623, Udupi 145, Kalaburagi 100, Mysuru 89, Bidar 78, Dakshina Kannada 72, followed by others. A total of over 2.07 crore samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,08,396 were tested on Thursday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-2523-new-cases-in-karnataka-10-deaths-966464.html
25-03-2021||National||Driving licence test to be tougher, informs Nitin Gadkari||Those seeking driving licences are now required to pass a set of stringent skill tests that include reversing a vehicle with reasonable accuracy to qualify for it, Parliament was informed on Thursday. Also, the passing percentage in order to be eligible to get a driving licence in all regional transport offices (RTOs) has been fixed at 69 per cent, Road Transport, Highways and MSMEs Minister Nitin Gadkari told Lok Sabha in a written reply. "In the case of a vehicle having a reverse gear, driving the vehicle backwards, reverse it into a limited opening either to the right or left under control and with reasonable accuracy", is one of the parameters of qualifying in the driving skill test, Gadkari said. This is as per provisions of the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989. "Passing percentage in all RTOs is 69 per cent. It is also informed that the objective of conducting driving skill test, as per the above provision, is to produce qualified/talented drivers," the minister said. He said that over 50 motor driving training schools or institutions are authorised by the Transport Department, Government of NCT of Delhi, for imparting driving training. A demonstration is shown on the LED screen installed in all ADTTs (Automated Driving Test Tracks), apart from physical/live demonstration at the Driving Test Track itself, before the commencement of the actual driving skill test, he said. Besides, a video link for the driving skill test demo is provided to applicants at the time of booking an appointment for the driving skill test. In another written reply, the minister said the government has notified that certain services related to driving licences and certificate of registration have been made completely online with the help of Aadhaar authentication on a voluntary basis. This has been done to help citizens to avail these services in a hassle-free manner and to reduce the footfall in regional transport offices, which will increase the efficiency of officials of the regional transport offices, the minister said. He said the road transport and highways ministry has also written to all the states and UTs to sensitise them in this regard so that they roll out these services at the earliest. He said the ministry has already undertaken steps for the facilitation of citizens including that all forms, fees and documents under the Act can be submitted online to avoid human intervention. The steps include dealer point registration, he said adding that "for registration of new motor vehicles, the onus to apply for registration stands shifted to dealers and the requirement to produce vehicles before the Authority stands removed, vide the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019. Besides, the minister said the driving licence can be renewed anytime between one year before its expiry till one year after its expiry to facilitate citizens away from home town, visiting abroad, etc.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/driving-licence-test-to-be-tougher-informs-nitin-gadkari-966466.html
25-03-2021||National||Bangladesh redecorates two Hindu temples for Prime Minister Modi’s visit||Bangladesh has redecorated two Hindu temples in the country's southwest ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visit during which he will offer prayers there and attend the grand celebrations of the golden jubilee of the nation's independence and the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. In his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh from March 26 to 27 during which he will also hold restricted and delegation-level talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. Modi would be received by Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport on Friday morning, sources said. During his two-day visit, Modi is scheduled to visit the Jeshoreshwari and Orkandi temples in southwestern Shatkhira and Gopalganj on Saturday. "We have made all preparations to welcome him at this historic temple…We expect him to pray for millions of people of both India and Bangladesh," said Dilip Mukherjee, the priest of the Jeshoreshwari Kali Mandir - an ancient Hindu shrine located in Ishwaripur village in Shyamnagar upazila of Satkhira, which now borders West Bengal. According to Hindu mythology, the Jeshoreshwari temple is one of the 51 Shakti Peeths, scattered across India and neighbouring countries. Records suggest a Hindu king set up the temple in the 16th century. Ahead of his visit to Bangladesh, Modi said on Thursday that he looks forward to offering prayers to Goddess Kali at the ancient Jashoreshwari Kali Temple. Prime Minister Modi will visit the second temple in Gopalganj's Orakandi, the abode of hundreds of Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are residents of West Bengal. Modi said he is looking forward to his interaction with representatives of the Matua community at Orakandi, from where Sri Sri Harichand Thakur disseminated his pious message. "According to the schedule, Prime Minister Modi will exchange views with a delegation of 300 Matua community members after offering 'puja' at Harichand-Gurichand Temple," caretaker of the temple, Padmanav Thakur, told PTI. "We will welcome him with 'Dhaak, Shankh, Ulu' in line with our rituals," he added. Historians said the temple was raised in the 12th century at Orakandi, the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and Matua community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur. Analysts said Modi's planned temple visits carry a political significance at the time of assembly elections in West Bengal. The Hindu community and temple authorities with the government support redecorated both the temples and constructed concrete roads leading to the sites from nearby makeshift helipads and alternative helipads, set up overnight. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Ahead of Modi’s visit, the whole area has turned festive while security has been beefed-up with the deployment of additional police forces. Bangladesh has said extra security measures have been taken for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. On the first-day of his visit, Modi will pay tributes to Bangladesh's 1971 Liberation War martyrs at National Memorial at Savar, attend the birth centenary and golden jubilee celebrations at the National Parade Square and open jointly with Hasina the Bangabandhu-Bapu Museum. Modi will also visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Gopalganj district on Saturday, the first Indian dignitary to ever visit the place. The Prime Minister will also interact with diverse groups of Bangladesh's polity and society which will include the representatives of the country's ruling 14- party alliance, the Opposition party, freedom fighters, community leaders and youth icons. A range of pacts will be signed and new announcements for bolstering cooperation in several areas will be made during his visit. These agreements will cover a number of areas of our cooperation. Some of the areas where agreements will be inked are disaster management, trade and oceanography. There will be new announcements of cooperation in areas of culture, preservation of spirit of 1971, health railways, education, border development, power cooperation and start-ups. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-redecorates-two-hindu-temples-for-prime-minister-modi-s-visit-966469.html
25-03-2021||National||Man identified as TMC leader says four Pakistan can be created if India's Muslims unite, stokes controversy||A video clip, where a local leader, with a TMC poster in hand, is heard stating "four Pakistan can be created if India's 30 per cent Muslims unite", has drawn major flak from the BJP, which sought to know if the ruling party in Bengal endorses such remarks. The TMC, however, has distanced itself from the comment, stating that Sheikh Alam, seen in the video, is not a member of the TMC, and the party doesn't support what he said. The 30-second video apparently shot at Nanoor in Birbhum, has gone viral on social media. Alam is heard saying in the clip, "We minorities constitute 30% (of the population). The rest make for 70%. They (BJP) think they will come to power (in Bengal) with the help of this 70%. If 30% of minorities unite, if India's Muslims unite, four Pakistan can be created. Where will India's 70% go?" Reacting to the clip, BJP national general secretary and the party's Bengal minder, Kailash Vijayvargiya, said it exposes the TMC's real intention. "This video brings out the truth about TMC. This is a serious thing. How can someone staying in India claim that he will turn the country into Pakistan? We will never allow this to happen. Mamataji owes a reply to the people of the state and the country," he said. Senior BJP leader Amit Malviya, in a tweet, wondered if Banerjee endorses Alam's stance. "Yesterday, TMC leader Sheikh Alam, giving a speech in Basa para, Nanoor, in Birbhum AC said, if 30% of Muslims in India come together, then 4 Pakistan can be formed... He obviously owes his allegiance to Mamata Banerjee... Does she endorse this position? Do we want a Bengal like that?" he tweeted. TMC Birbhum district president Anubrata Mandal, however, quickly clarified that Alam was not a leader of the state's ruling camp. "Sheikh Alam is neither a member of the party nor is he a leader from Nanoor. We have no relation with him. We don't support such statements. India is a secular country and will remain so, he said. Sheikh, when approached by reporters, said his words have been misinterpreted. I never said we want to build a Pakistan in India. I just wanted to convey that if the Muslims are threatened, then we, too, know how to care for ourselves," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-identified-as-tmc-leader-says-four-pakistan-can-be-created-if-indias-muslims-unite-stokes-controversy-966470.html
25-03-2021||National||BSNL, MTNL to get spectrum for 5G services without participating in auction||The government will administratively allocate spectrum to telecom public sector units BSNL and MTNL for 5G and future services, Union Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad informed Parliament on Thursday. He said that the allocation of spectrum to BSNL and MTNL will be done on the same principle as proposed for allotment of spectrum for 4G services. "Government also approved to administratively allot spectrum for providing 5G services to BSNL/MTNL, spectrum for maintaining current operations and future services on the same principle as proposed for allotment of spectrum for 4G services," Prasad said in a written reply to the Rajya Sabha. 5G services are yet to start in India. The minister said the government has allocated funds of Rs 24,084 crore for spectrum for 4G services in 2021-22 and BSNL invited an expression of interest (EoI) on January 1 for prior registration and proof of concept (PoC) for its upcoming 4G tender. He said that BSNL will manage the mobile services of MTNL in Delhi Licensed Service Area (LSA) from April 1. Prasad said both the loss-making companies have become EBITDA positive for the half-year ended September 2020 and nine months ended December 2020. As part of the revival package, the government also approved sovereign guarantees for bonds of Rs 15,000 crore to be raised by BSNL and MTNL for their debt restructuring. "BSNL and MTNL have raised Rs 8,500 crore and Rs 6,500 crore respectively on the basis of sovereign guarantee extended by the Government," Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsnl-mtnl-to-get-spectrum-for-5g-services-without-participating-in-auction-966489.html
25-03-2021||National||J&K does have de-radicalisation camps of any kind: Gen Naravane||Army chief Gen MM Naravane on Thursday said no de-radicalisation camps of any kind existed in Jammu and Kashmir, noting that the focus of the government was to increase education and employment avenues for youths of the union territory. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Gen Naravane also said the situation in Jammu and Kashmir has improved significantly. "We do not have any de-radicalisation camps of any kind. So, I don't think we should get that impression that we are herding any local people together in some camps somewhere and trying to brainwash them," he said. "Nothing like that is happening on the ground. But yes the youths are prone to join the militant ranks for various reasons, including, you know it is a very romantic kind of a thing to hold a gun, take your photo and put it out on social media. So that remains a concern," the Army chief added. His remarks came in response to a question that had reference to de-radicalisation camps and the situation in Jammu and Kashmir. Gen Naravane also listed the steps for the youth of Jammu and Kashmir such as opening up avenues for education outside the union territory and increasing employment opportunities for them as part of efforts to deal with the situation. "If your basic needs are being met, then nobody will join the ranks of the militants and that is where the focus is now. It is not just by the Army but by the government as a whole," he said. In January last year, Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat said de-radicalisation camps are operating in the country as it is necessary to isolate people who are completely radicalised. Gen Rawat made the comments while delving into the situation in Kashmir. To a question, the Army chief said radicalisation does have a religious slant to it, but not as much as people would like to believe. "I think the people of Jammu and Kashmir know what is good for them. They are also under the shadow of the guns and sometimes are forced into a particular direction or forced to make certain statements because the security forces cannot be everywhere all the time," he said. "We have to follow the laws of the land; the terrorists do not (have to). Therefore, their power to coax and extract a particular kind of behaviour from the population will always be slightly more," Gen Naravane added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-does-have-de-radicalisation-camps-of-any-kind-gen-naravane-966495.html
25-03-2021||National||Quad won't be military alliance but there will be military cooperation among members: Army Chief||Army Chief Gen MM Naravane Thursday said there will be military cooperation among the member nations of the Quad but it will not be a military alliance like NATO. His comments came two weeks after the top leadership of the Quad grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia vowed to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific at a time China was increasing its military assertiveness in the region. "It will not be a military alliance. There will definitely be military cooperation, both bilaterally between the countries of the Quad and as a quadrilateral also. But it would not be a military alliance in that sense," the Army Chief said. He was replying to a question at the India Economic Conclave. "The Quad is actually supposed to be a quadrilateral security dialogue. We keep calling it Quad but the actual aim of that was a security dialogue and this will of course have security part of it," he said. "But in this, every country will still be looking at its own interest," he said adding Quad will not be a NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organisation).   In their first summit under Quad framework, leaders of India, the US, Japan and Australia deliberated on March 12 on expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and focused on a coronavirus vaccine initiative to effectively deal with the pandemic. The four Quad member countries have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific. Gen Naravane also said that the Quad is not focused against any particular country. "I do not think Quad is aimed at any particular country. That would be a wrong message if at all it has been viewed that way. It is an alliance of like-minded democratic countries who have shared values and who believe in an international order that is based on rules and regulations," he said. The evolving situation in the Indo-Pacific region in the wake of China's increasing military muscle flexing has become a major talking point among leading global powers. The Army Chief also referred to reports of China sending more than 200 fishing vessels into the territorial waters of the Philippines, saying Beijing is trying to bulldoze their way and change the status quo. "They are trying to unilaterally force their way and change the status quo... trying to bulldoze their way and that is not going to be acceptable to any self respecting country," he said. "All these countries are now realising that they need to take a stand and safeguard their interests," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/quad-wont-be-military-alliance-but-there-will-be-military-cooperation-among-members-army-chief-966496.html
25-03-2021||National||Centre set to introduce single-window clearance for investors by Apr 15: DPIIT Secy||As part of furthering the ease of doing business in the country, the government is set to introduce a single-window clearance mechanism for investors by mid-April in order to attract greater foreign investment, a senior official said on Thursday. The single-window portal will integrate the existing clearance systems of various central and state departments. "A lot of hand-holding, a lot of investor support (is being provided) and we are also going to launch a national single window for the investors. We are targeting April 15 for that launch," Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra said at the Times Network India Economic Conclave. All central government departments and 14 state governments, to begin with, will be part of the system, he said. "So they will be all part of that national single window, so the investor is on the one side, all the clearances, approval from central governments and state government on the other, and you can track your investment proposal where it is stuck and take action by the concerned department or state," he said. He also emphasised the need for states to reduce the compliance burden and make it more attractive for foreign investors. A systematic exercise across the Centre and states is being undertaken to eliminate or reduce compliance which has an adverse impact on time and cost of businesses, he added. The exercise is divided into two phases -- till March 31 and August 15, 2021. In phase 1, work is underway for reducing regulatory burden across six areas, including renewal of licences; inspections to be assigned randomly; returns/filings to be standardised; and digitisation and simplification of all manual records or procedures. With regard to the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme, Mohapatra said the total outlay for the scheme is Rs 1.97 lakh crore and expressed hope that notification regarding each sector will be out by April. "First one is the mobile, and certain electronics. The second one was APIs and then the medical devices and pharma. Thereafter in November 2020, 10 more sectors were chosen...each PLI typically covers five years. Mobile and electronics, the selection has already been done and the companies have already been informed," he said. For the APIs and pharma sector, a lot of the selection has been done, he said, adding the Cabinet approval is already in place. "So, I expect by April-end all these 13 (sectors identified for PLI) would be passed the Cabinet. The scheme will be ready for notification," he added. Apart from the PLI scheme, he said, there are other investment proposals which are also waiting to come to India. On the foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows, Mohapatra said even during Covid-19, it has not slowed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-set-to-introduce-single-window-clearance-for-investors-by-apr-15-dpiit-secy-966503.html
25-03-2021||National||India has not banned Covid-19 vaccine exports||India has not imposed any ban on export of coronavirus vaccines and it will continue to supply them to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner, sources told Reuters on Thursday. They said given India's manufacturing capacity and requirements of national vaccination programmes, there may be a need to calibrate the supply schedules from time-to-time. The sources said all stakeholders will have to work together to adjust the schedules as required and the pandemic can only be dealt collectively by such cooperation. "We had stated that keeping in view the domestic requirements of the phased rollout, India will continue to supply Covid-19 vaccines to partner countries over the coming weeks and months in a phased manner," said a source. "This position remains unchanged. We have not imposed any ban on exports of vaccines unlike many other countries," the source added. India started supplying the vaccine doses to foreign countries on January 20. The first countries to receive such vaccines were from the neighbourhood.   So far, India supplied more than 60 million doses of Made-in-India vaccines to over 75  countries including through COVAX which is a global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The government has already announced that people who are 45 and older can be vaccinated from April 1. It is ramping up the nationwide inoculation drive as the Covid-19 cases have increased in many states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-not-banned-covid-19-vaccine-exports-966504.html
25-03-2021||National||Navies of India & Bangladesh hold 7th Staff Talks for 3 days||Navies of India and Bangladesh held the seventh round of Staff Talks here from Tuesday to Thursday on various topics, including coordinated patrol along the international maritime boundary line and bilateral exercise Bongosagar, said an official statement. The Bangladesh Navy delegation was led by Rear Admiral Mohammad Mozammel Haque, the Commander Chattogram Naval Area, and the Indian Navy delegation was led by Rear Admiral J Singh, the Assistant Chief of Naval Staff, the Defence Ministry's statement said.  These Staff Talks were the first bilateral dialogue conducted after the relaxation of Covid-19 travel restrictions, the statement mentioned.  "During the Staff Talks, issues relating to joint cooperative efforts like coordinated patrol along the international maritime boundary line, bilateral exercise Bongosagar, the conduct of naval training and hydrography were discussed," it added. The Bangladesh Navy delegation also held a fruitful interaction with Vice Admiral M S Pawar, the Deputy Chief of Naval Staff of Indian Navy, on Wednesday. India and Bangladesh are currently having the Golden Jubilee celebrations of the 1971 war victory that led to the creation of the neighbouring country.  As a part of the celebrations, a host of joint activities have been conducted which include reciprocal ship visits by both the navies, participation in the Republic Day parade this year by Bangladesh armed forces contingent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/navies-of-india-bangladesh-hold-7th-staff-talks-for-3-days-966505.html
25-03-2021||National||CBI carries out searches at 100 locations across 11 states in separate bank fraud cases||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday carried out nationwide searches at 100 locations in separate alleged bank fraud cases of over Rs 3,700 crore, officials said. The coordinated search operation was spread across 11 states and pertained to 30 FIRs related to bank fraud, they said. "These searches are part of a special drive to book fraudsters on the complaints received from different nationalised banks in India. The complainant banks include Indian Overseas Bank, Union Bank of India, Bank of Baroda, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of India, IDBI, Canara Bank, Indian Bank and Central Bank of India," CBI spokesperson R C Joshi said. The searches were spread across Kanpur, Delhi, Ghaziabad, Mathura, Noida, Gurgaon, Chennai, Thiruvarur, Vellore, Tiruppur, Bengaluru, Guntur, Hyderabad, Ballari, Vadodara, Kolkata, West Godavari, Surat, Mumbai, Bhopal, Nimadi, Tirupati Visakhapatnam, Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Karnal, Jaipur and Sri Ganganagar. "It may be stated that the CBI has been receiving a number of complaints from various banks alleging cheating, diversion of funds, submission of fake/forged documents by different defaulting firms while obtaining loans/credit facilities etc," Joshi said. The CBI added it was receiving allegations that such firms have been turning defaulters, resulting in the loans becoming Non-Performing Assets (NPAs), thus causing heavy losses to the public sector banks. "After scrutiny, the cases are registered by CBI. Thorough investigation is carried out in order to book the culprits, take them to face the law and endeavour to salvage public money," Joshi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cbi-carries-out-searches-at-100-locations-across-11-states-in-separate-bank-fraud-cases-966508.html
25-03-2021||National||Only 11,000 Covid-19 samples sequenced by INSACOG so far||A network of 10 government research laboratories, established nearly three months ago, has sequenced just under 11,000 Covid-19 positive samples instead of the original target of more than 50,000 such samples by now. When the central government in December announced creation of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) by stitching together 10 biology laboratories, the plan was to carry out genome sequencing of 5% of all Covid-19 positive samples for a comprehensive genomic surveillance of the population at large and a section of international travellers. Going by that plan, the consortium should have sequenced more than 50,000 genomes by now. Instead it has mapped 10,787 virus genomes, which is not enough to conclude whether the current surge is associated with any variant of the novel coronavirus. The network’s accomplishment so far is nowhere near the target set by the government though, health officials say, it is an improvement from the abysmally low level of sequencing that was being carried out before the formation of INSACOG. Scientists and government officials told DH that the consortium was yet to receive the government funding – to be released by the Department of Biotechnology. The laboratories are currently using their internal resources for the work, but they need funds to scale up as each sequencing cost nearly Rs 5000. “We need the money to buy the chemicals and consumables as well as to hire manpower for data processing,” director of one of the laboratories told DH. Also, Pune-based National Institute of Virology, one of the consortium members, refused to share its sequences with other partners in the consortium, triggering an unforeseen challenge. “I don’t understand why they (NIV) don’t want to share the information,” observed one senior scientist. “INSACOG operations would take time to stabilise such programmes are built on the principles of cooperation,” said another consortium scientist. The scientists said the consortium offered a provisional diagnosis for the current surge in Maharashtra and Punjab. But more studies are needed to determine whether the provisional diagnosis would hold. “Though three variants of concerns (UK, South Africa and Brazil) and a new double mutant variant have been found in India, these have not been detected in numbers sufficient to either establish or direct relationship or explain the rapid increase in cases. Genomic sequencing and epidemiological studies are continuing to further analyze the situation,” the Union Health Ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. Meanwhile, the number of fresh cases on Thursday touched a new high of 53,476 with Maharashtra accounting for the lion’s share (31,855) of such cases. India also reported 251 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of Covid-19 active cases is now just short of four lakhs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/only-11000-covid-19-samples-sequenced-by-insacog-so-far-966510.html
25-03-2021||National||Sri Lankan Navy arrests 54 Indian fishermen, detains five boats||The Sri Lankan Navy has arrested 54 Indian fishermen and detained five of their boats for allegedly fishing in that country's waters, officials here said on Thursday. The fishermen, hailing from Rameswaram and Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu and Karaikal, an enclave of neighbouring Puducherry, were picked up from near Neduntheevu on Wednesday night by the Lankan navy, officials from Fisheries and police departments said. They have been taken to different locaations in Sri Lanka for further probe and are likely to be handed over to authorities to be isolated along with the detained boats, officials added. Ramanathapuram Lok Sabha MP K Nawas Kani took up the matter with the Centre. Fishermen association representatives expressed concern over such repeated instances of Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu being arrested by the Lankan navy and urged the Centre and state government to ensure their early release. They threatened to shun fishing operations indefinitely if the fishermen were not released at the earliest and also warned of boycotting the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sri-lankan-navy-arrests-54-indian-fishermen-detains-five-boats-966525.html
25-03-2021||National||Supreme Court to deliver judgement in Tata Sons-Cyrus Mistry case on Friday||A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde and comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian would pronounce the verdict at 11 am on March 26.  It is to be seen whether the long-drawn legal battle between Ratan Tata and Mistry reaches its finality with the judgement. The court had reserved the verdict on December 17, last year.  Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Tata Sons, had submitted that Mistry walked away from the board on October 24, 2016, and later wrote a nasty email. Senior advocate C A Sundaram, representing Cyrus Investments, rebutted that he was removed and he did not walk away.   On the final hearing in the matter, Tatas had pointed out that Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s case on quasi partnership is a misrepresentation of facts. Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s entry into Tata Sons in 1996 was not a part of some grand alliance. Salve had submitted that there should be a “selection committee” to “unselect” a person is “nonsensical”.  “A selection committee selects and recommends a candidate for the position of chairman. However, the removal can only be done by the Board because only the Board is privy to the incumbent chairman’s work and can take a decision on removal," Salve said.   He said that Shapoorji Pallonji Group’s case on quasi partnership is a fiction that they have peddled before the court. Tata Group denied that Tata Sons is a partnership between the Tatas and the Mistry’s.  It claimed Mistry’s status is that of an investor and they have got huge returns. “They don’t have any special rights under the company’s articles," Salve had said. Shapoorji Pallonji Group counsel argued that Mistry was removed because he was going to place a draft governance structure at the Board meeting on October 24, 2016.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-to-deliver-judgement-in-tata-sons-cyrus-mistry-case-on-friday-966526.html
25-03-2021||National||Uttarakhand CM Rawat orders steps on war footing to stop forest fires||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Thursday asked Principal Chief Conservator of Forests Rajiv Bhartari to take steps on a war footing to stop forest fires in the state. A robust mechanism should be developed and adequate arrangements made to deal with forest fires, Rawat said. He asked Bhartari to use helicopters, if necessary, to douse wildfires in remote hilly areas which are hard to access. Forest fire management should be reviewed regularly and availability of all necessary equipment ensured up to the field level, an official statement quoting the chief minister said here. Firelines should be monitored with the help of drones, Rawat said. The chief minister said awareness about forest fires should be developed among people, and help should be taken from locals to stop these fires. "Forests can be saved only with active help from locals," Rawat added. In Uttarakhand, forest fires usually start from February and continue for four months, but the state witnessed wildfires even during the winter this time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-rawat-orders-steps-on-war-footing-to-stop-forest-fires-966532.html
25-03-2021||National||India, Bangladesh likely to ink at least 5 MoUs during PM Modi's visit: Foreign Minister||India and Bangladesh are expected to sign at least five Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's two-day visit to the country to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of its independence and the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. On his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, Prime Minister Modi will visit Bangladesh from March 26 to 27 during which he will also hold restricted and delegation-level talks with Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. "The number of MoUs could be more or less…but five-plus (instruments are likely to be signed)," Bangladesh Foreign Minister Dr A K Abdul Momen told reporters here. He said the two sides were still in negotiations over the number of MoUs to be signed after Prime Minister Modi's bilateral meeting with his counterpart Hasina on Saturday. Momen, however, said the Indian prime minister's main objective was to join the celebrations but the two leaders would hold talks wherein all major issues were likely to be discussed. After his arrival at the Dhaka airport on Friday morning, Modi is scheduled to go straight to the National Martyrs’ Memorial in Savar to pay tributes to the 1971 Liberation War the martyrs. Shortly afterwards, he will visit the Bangabandhu Memorial Museum at Dhanmondi 32, originally the Bangladesh founder's private residence, to pay homage to his memories. Later, Modi will join the celebration programme as the guest of honour at the National Parade Square. Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid will be the chief guest at the function, which would be chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. In the evening, Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the “Bangabandhu-Bapu Museum” jointly with his counterpart at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre. He will also attend a state banquet hosted in his honour by Hasina. On Saturday, Modi will visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Gopalganj district, the first Indian dignitary to ever visit the place. He is also scheduled to visit the Jeshoreshwari and Orkandi temples in southwestern Shatkhira and Gopalganj on Saturday. In the afternoon, Modi will hold talks with Hasina at the Prime Minister’s Office, where the MoUs are to be signed and a number of projects inaugurated virtually. Later, he will meet President Md Abdul Hamid at Bangabhaban presidential palace before leaving for New Delhi in the evening. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties. Maldives President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, Nepal President Bidya Devi Bhandari, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa and Bhutan Prime Minister Dr Lotay Tshering have already attended the 10-day special programme, which began on March 17, coinciding with Bangabandhu’s birthday. Seve ral global leaders, including Queen Elizabeth II, Pope Francis, Chinese President Xi Jinping, German President Frank-Walter Steinmeier and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, sent video messages on the occasion. US Ambassador to Bangladesh Earl Miller is scheduled to read out a letter from President Joe Biden virtually on Friday, at the final grand ceremony at National Parade Square, to be joined by Prime Minister Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-likely-to-ink-at-least-5-mous-during-pm-modis-visit-foreign-minister-966537.html
25-03-2021||National||New India in making, infrastructure to be no less than US, Europe in 5 years: Nitin Gadkari||A new India is in the making with infrastructure which will be no less than that in the US and Europe in five years, and a solid foundation has already been laid with over Rs 17 lakh crore worth of projects in the last five-year period, Union Minister Nitin Gadkari said on Thursday. Development of backward regions, the northeast and border areas remains one of the topmost priorities of the government, the road transport, highways and MSME minister said. "In five years time, I can give a guarantee that India's infrastructure will change...It will be no less than the US or European countries...A new India is emerging," Gadkari said at the Times Network India Economic Conclave. The minister said that its foundation has already been laid with a mammoth Rs 17 lakh crore worth of work done in infrastructure in his ministries in the last five years. He said that a network of green expressway corridors is being laid, including the Rs 1 lakh crore Delhi-Mumbai Expressway and added that the 30 km Dwarka Expressway, being built at a cost of Rs 10,000 crore, is an engineering marvel and would result in a Singapore-like place on Delhi's borders. He also said that border roads are being augmented and about 90 per cent of work has been completed on the Kailash Mansarovar route project via Pithoragarh. Work is being done there on war-footing with the Australian tunnelling method in minus 8-degree temperatures, he said. With the completion of this project, the arduous trek through treacherous high-altitude terrain can be avoided by the pilgrims of Kailash Mansarovar Yatra and the period of journey will be reduced by many days. At present, travel to Kailash Mansarovar takes around two to three weeks through Sikkim or Nepal routes. In addition, work is in full swing on the Char Dham project to provide all-weather connectivity to Gangotri, Yamunotri, Badrinath and Kedarnath at a cost of about Rs 12,000 crore, the minister noted. Besides, 17 such highways have been built in Rajasthan and other areas that can double up as airstrips, he said. Work on the Zojilla tunnel is underway to provide all-weather connectivity to people in Leh and Ladakh who remain cut off from the rest of the country for six months every year, he said. Gadkari further said the work to develop backward areas should have been initiated earlier as there are places where there are no roads for 200-300 kms, adding that the plight of people living in such areas can well be imagined. He said the focus was on world-class infrastructure and his ministry has achieved the target of building 35 kms of roads per day in 358 days and exuded confidence that the road building pace will reach 40 kms by the end of the fiscal. The feat could be achieved despite the Covid-19 pandemic, he said and added that he believed in the performance audit of officials besides the financial audit. The minister said despite the pandemic and farmers' agitation which resulted in Rs 10,000 crore toll revenue loss, the toll collection this fiscal has been Rs 34,000 crore as against Rs 24,000 crore last year. He added that despite Covid-19, construction companies' turnover could double due to massive highways work and said that concerted efforts would result in economic growth. In reply to a query, he said discoms' loss would be around Rs 7 lakh crore if losses of all states are combined, including Rs 90,000 crore losses for Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh each and Rs 80,000 crore for Maharashtra, as he stressed on minimising it. On the farmers' agitation, Gadkari said in a democracy everyone has the right to agitate but they should also think about the hardships caused to ordinary people. About the upcoming West Bengal elections, the minister said the state was set for change and BJP was a good alternative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-india-in-making-infrastructure-to-be-no-less-than-us-europe-in-5-years-nitin-gadkari-966538.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||DH Radio | The Lead: After high drama and President's Rule, what's next for Puducherry?||In this episode of the Lead, get to know who are the personalities of the Puducherry polls, how the alliances stack up and how has the Kiran Bedi- Narayanswamy tussle affected the elections.  Once a French Riviera in the east, the Union Territory of Puducherry hogged the limelight with the LG-Chief minister tussle, a somewhat replica of what had happened in Delhi. And more recently, with the fall of the V Narayanaswamy government by defections, the UT was abuzz with political drama. What does this mean for the Congress and will the BJP unfurl its flag here too? Puducherry or formerly Pondicherry is a Union Territory of India which has its own Assembly with a strength of 33 members out of which 3 are nominated by the Central government. The UT is not a continuous landmass but has territories elsewhere on the peninsula. In 2016, the Congress-led alliance formed the government under the leadership of V  Narayanswamy, whose infamous tussle with first women Lieutenant-Governor Kiran Bedi had been the talk of the town ever since she was deputed to the UT. Ahmed: Today, we are joined by our special correspondent from Chennai E T B Sivapriyan to tell about the UT and what's happening this year. Hi, Sivapriyan. Welcome to DH Radio. E T B Sivapriyan: Hi. Ahmed: With the exodus of the MLAs in Puducherry, how are the alliances placed in the Union Territory? E T B Sivapriyan: The Congress has seen a lot of exodus in the past two months, a maximum number of people have gone to the BJP and one person has gone to the splinter group called the NR-Congress, which was launched in 2011...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-radio-the-lead-after-high-drama-and-presidents-rule-whats-next-for-puducherry-966138.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||RSS workers collected Rs 57 cr in Vidarbha for Ram temple||Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) volunteers have collected funds worth Rs 57 crore from 27 lakh families in Maharashtra's Vidarbha region for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. RSS's Vidarbha 'prant karyavah' Dipak Tamshettiwar told this in a press conference here on Wednesday. "During the recently-concluded special donation campaign for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya, 70,796 RSS volunteers, including 7,512 women, visited 12,310 villages and 27,67,991 families in Vidarbha and collected Rs 57 crore," he said. There are 11 districts in Vidarbha region- Yavatmal, Akola, Amravati, Wardha, Buldhana, Washim, Nagpur, Chandrapur, Bhandara, Gadchiroli and Gondia. A total of 20,64,622 volunteers, including 80,424 women, visited as many as 5,45,737 villages and 12,42,21,214 families in the country for the Ram temple donation drive, he said. However, he said that he did not have any information about the total amount collected under the drive across the country. Tamshettiwar also said that Dattatreya Hosabale, who was recently elected as the 'sar karyavah' (general secretary) of the RSS, would start working from Nagpur, the Sangh's headquarters, in a few months time. Hosabale was elected to the post during the annual meeting of the Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha (ABPS), the Sangh's highest decision-making body, held in Bengaluru. "The base camp of Hosabale is Lucknow and RSS pracharaks keep moving across the country. Considering Hosabale's schedule as decided before became the 'sar karyavah', Hosabale may come to Nagpur in next two to three months," he said in response to a query.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rss-workers-collected-rs-57-cr-in-vidarbha-for-ram-temple-966199.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Times Now-C-Voter opinion poll: TMC likely to retain power in Bengal, BJP may clinch 37% votes this time||The West Bengal Assembly election 2021 is set to be a closely-fought contest, with both the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP leaving no stone unturned to convince the voters about their sincerity to work for the state. Even the Sanjukta Morcha of the CPI(M), Congress and the Indian Secular Front has increased the intensity of their campaigning as the voting in Bengal is set to begin from March 27. According to the Times Now-C-Voter opinion poll, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee-led TMC has a clear advantage over others in Bengal. But the BJP is also not far behind and will pose a serious challenge to Mamata's aspiration to become the chief minister for the third consecutive time.   As per the survey, TMC may win 160 seats out of the total 294 in the fray, which is 51 seats lesser than the seats it won in 2016. It predicts that the BJP will hugely improve on its performance in the 2016 Assembly polls when it got three seats and win 112 seats in the 2021 polls. The 'Sanjukta Morcha' is likely to be at the third spot with 22 seats. The difference between the vote percentage of the TMC and the BJP is likely to narrow in the upcoming elections. The TMC is predicted to get 42.1 per cent of votes, 2.8 per cent than what it got in the 2016 Assembly polls, while the BJP will probably increase its 10.2 per cent of votes in 2016 to 37.4 per cent in 2021. The Sanjukta Morcha may get 13 per cent votes. In terms of the projected range of seats, the TMC may win in 152 to 168 constituencies, BJP in 104 to 120 seats, and Sanjukta Morcha is predicted to bag 18 to 26 seats. The survey also sought the response of 17,890 people on who should be the next chief minister, and it seems like that Mamata Banerjee is still the crowd favourite. A whopping 54.9 per cent want the TMC supremo to lead the state, whereas 32.3 per cent rooted for Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh. They are followed by BJP leader Mukul Roy with 6.5 per cent votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/times-now-c-voter-opinion-poll-tmc-likely-to-retain-power-in-bengal-bjp-may-clinch-37-votes-this-time-966211.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||A year after lockdown: When political discourse became more acerbic, battleground shifted to virtual space||The political battleground shifted to the virtual space for much of the 12 months since March 25 when the country went into lockdown, the distance lending itself not to detachment but to a more divisive and acerbic discourse as the country fought off a pandemic. Online press briefings and acidic Twitter wars drove the divide deeper, said political analysts as they looked back at an extraordinary year that saw the economy nosedive, people confined to their homes and joblessness for millions, including high-end executives and migrant workers, while Covid-19 continued its spread. The tone was set on March 24, 2020 itself when Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the evening and announced a lockdown from midnight, setting off panic through the country with many people stuck far from home and many others ill prepared for what the days ahead would bring. The decision came in for sharp criticism from Opposition parties such as the Congress and the Left. One big reason for the deeper divide was the government taking decisions to fight the pandemic unilaterally, especially in the initial phase, agreed political commentators Sanjay Kumar and Rasheed Kidwai. Sanjay K Pandey, a professor at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and a political commentator, however, said the opposition must also share the blame for the polarising discourse as it could have played a more constructive role. Every issue, he said, has become a confrontational one and that is not healthy for Indian politics. "The pandemic has shown the limitations of a government (globally) and also their importance as we can see the vaccine programme on which the Indian government has done well," he told PTI. The government and Opposition should both stop playing politics as both are equally responsible, Pandey added. Kumar, co-director of Lokniti, a research programme at the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies, said citizens want all parties to come together when the country is in a crisis. So when the lockdown was imposed, it was expected the Opposition would not be critical. Instead, Opposition parties came down heavily on the decision. "The reason was very simple -- if you remember the first lockdown, there was hardly any consultation with the Opposition parties or chief ministers. If you do a lockdown, there are various stakeholders, none of them were consulted," he told PTI. "Later on, when the lockdown was extended...consultation started taking place, but the damage was already done," he said. As the reality of Covid-19 set in, diverse opinions and societal discord over issues such as the Citizenship (Amendment) Act went into the backburner. People began the difficult process of coming to terms with an unprecedented situation, but their political leaders continued the slugfest. While the Opposition, led by the Congress, accused the government of negligence and reacting late to the public health crisis, the BJP-led Centre strenuously rejected the charges and asserted that the early imposition of the lockdown helped get the situation under control. The year was punctuated by bitter wrangling on a variety of issues. The prime minister's 'taali-thaali' call to honour 'Covid-19 warriors' and the lighting of 'diyas' was attacked by several Opposition leaders, including former Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Scenes of migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometres, many without any footwear, broke hearts and evoked a scathing response with Opposition leaders accusing the government of being oblivious to their plight. The Centre, however, asserted the lockdown was necessary to save lives and had been imposed with proper planning and implementation. While Gandhi came down hard on the government for its lockdown strategy and handling of the migrant crisis, the ruling BJP accused him of doing "politics of misery" over the issue of migrants. It was not all Covid related of course. Who can forget the uproar in the Rajya Sabha during the passage of the contentious farm laws that led to the suspension of eight Opposition MPs for the remainder of the session. The suspended leaders held an overnight sit-in in the Parliament complex, an episode that saw high drama with Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh bringing tea for them in the morning. Almost every issue saw the BJP and the Opposition parties squaring off in a no-holds-barred attack and counter attack – from the Hathras rape case and the farmer protests to the package for economic recovery announced by the government and doing away with Question Hour in the Monsoon Session. Asked if the political discourse had become more acerbic post-lockdown, Kidwai answered in the affirmative and claimed the reason was that the government decided on steps to fight the pandemic "unilaterally". Like in all other sectors, politics also took time to understand the magnitude of the pandemic. With politicians unable to meet physically with the media and speak out against or for the government, they realised that online press conferences were the way forward to make themselves heard. What followed was a slew of online press interactions, from both the Opposition and the ruling National Democratic Alliance. Online sparring through memes, tweets and posting of videos became the new normal. However, it was business as usual in the Bihar elections. Despite talk from both the NDA and the Opposition that campaigning would be digital, the reality was quite the opposite. As the elections approached in October-November, the BJP, Janata Dal (United), Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Congress started by holding virtual rallies. But that was short-lived. Soon, a massive physical campaign blitzkrieg began and none seemed to care about the pandemic. Though political action did shift significantly into the virtual space post-lockdown, the Bihar polls were an example of politicians not being able to stick to the online campaign template, Kumar said. Pandey and Kidwai agreed that the increasing trend of online and social media platforms being used for political messaging increased with the onset of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/a-year-after-lockdown-when-political-discourse-became-more-acerbic-battleground-shifted-to-virtual-space-966221.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Mamata not interested in Bengal's development, says Adityanath||Seeking to corner his West Bengal counterpart on development and corruption issues, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday said that she was not interested in the development of the state. He also said that the days of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government were numbered and after 35 days, the BJP will come to power in Bengal and usher in development. Adityanath slammed Mamata Banerjee for not implementing central projects such as the Ayushman Bharat, Kisan Samman Nidhi, PM Awas Yojana and the Ujjwala scheme in Bengal. He asked if people of Uttar Pradesh were getting the benefits of these schemes, why should people of Bengal be deprived? “It shows that Mamata Banerjee is not bothered about development. But only shields goons and promotes extortion,” said Adityanath. He further alleged that although Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave Rs 1,000 crore to Bengal following the cyclone Amphan, the affected people never got it as it was usurped by the TMC leaders. Adityanath said that after the people of Bengal vote the BJP to power in the state, they will get the benefits of the Centre's welfare schemes. “Earlier, West Bengal was an advanced and flourishing state. Then the Congress, Left Front and the TMC brought industrial growth to a grinding halt in the state and under their rule, rampant corruption became prevalent||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mamata-not-interested-in-bengals-development-says-adityanath-966269.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Will no longer call RSS 'Sangh Parivar', it’s a misnomer: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday said it is not right to call the RSS and its associated groups 'Sangh Parivar' as a family has women, respect for elders, compassion and affection, and the organisation has none of these. Gandhi's remarks come a day after he said the alleged harassment of nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation in Uttar Pradesh was a result of the Sangh Parivar's "vicious propaganda" to pitch one community against another and trample on minorities. In a tweet in Hindi on Thursday, he said he will no longer refer to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh as 'Sangh Parivar', united family. "I believe it is not right to call the RSS and associated organizations Sangh Parivar -- there are women in the family, there is respect for the elderly, a sense of compassion and affection -- which is not there in the RSS," he said on Twitter. "Now I will not call RSS 'Sangh Parivar'!" the Congress leader added. मेरा मानना है कि RSS व सम्बंधित संगठन को संघ परिवार कहना सही नहीं- परिवार में महिलाएँ होती हैं, बुजुर्गों के लिए सम्मान होता, करुणा और स्नेह की भावना होती है- जो RSS में नहीं है। अब RSS को संघ परिवार नहीं कहूँगा!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-no-longer-call-rss-sangh-parivar-it-s-a-misnomer-rahul-gandhi-966295.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||TMC supporter killed in crude blomb blast in Bengal's Andal||A 40-year-old man, known to be a TMC supporter, was killed in a crude bomb blast in Paschim Bardhaman district of poll-bound West Bengal, police said on Thursday. Several others were also injured in the explosion that happened in Jamdabad Benedi in Andal police station limits late on Wednesday, triggering tension in the area days ahead of the elections amid a political slugfest over the law and order situation. According to local sources, TMC supporter Sarban Chowdhury along with a few others was making crude bombs at a house in the village when the "accidental explosion" happened. He was taken to a private hospital in Raniganj where he died while undergoing treatment on Thursday morning. Those injured could not be identified and their whereabouts were not immediately known, police said. The house was also damaged in the explosion, they said, adding that an investigation is underway. Andal is in the Pandabeswar assembly constituency where elections will be held in the seventh phase on April 26. The opposition BJP and CPI(M) said that the incident point to the deteriorating law and order situation in the state with TMC "goons" making bombs to disturb peace during the elections. "The TMC candidate from here is an expert in bomb- making. He has given the responsibility of killing me to some people and this incident was the result of that. There are plans to attack me during the elections," Pandabeswar's BJP candidate Jitendra Tiwari alleged. Local CPI(M) leader Pravat Bauri said the person who was killed was "well-known" for his bomb-making skills. "They are trying to create tension in the area ahead of the elections," he said. Denying the charges, TMC said the party has no connection to the incident. "This incident happened because of a fight between BJP old-timers and the new people who have joined the party. Unnecessarily TMC is being blamed to divert the attention," TMC's head of the local panchayat Birbahadur Singh said. Tiwari, former district president of the TMC, joined the BJP ahead of the elections and was made the party's candidate from the seat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-supporter-killed-in-crude-blomb-blast-in-bengals-andal-966354.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||No development in ten years, Mamata took West Bengal back to 19th century: Rajnath Singh||Accusing Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of "taking back Bengal to the 19th century, with no development work undertaken in the past 10 years", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday said the TMC dispensation, just like its predecessor, the Left Front, has wronged the people of the state. Singh, during his public meeting here in Purulia district, took a dig at the TMC's 'khela hobe' (game will be played) slogan, and said Bengal, now on, will witness only work and development. Alleging that the TMC supremo delivers speeches encouraging acts of violence and aggression, the union minister wondered if the chief minister "seeks to divide the country" by repeatedly terming people who have come from other states as outsiders. He also sought to know if people from Bengal are treated as outsiders elsewhere. Stressing that the Bharatiya Jan Sangh, which later became the BJP, was established by Syama Prasad Mookerjee -- a son of Bengal -- Singh said, "Will any brother from this state be considered an outsider in Uttar Pradesh? All people born on the soil of India are brothers to each other." Claiming that the TMC dispensation has done nothing for the people of Bengal, Singh said, "How is it possible that those belonging to one party (BJP) are outsiders, while you, having ruined Bengal, are an insider? The CM, instead of undertaking development work, makes thoughtless remarks. "Neither 'Maa nor mati or manush' (mother, motherland, and people) feel safe in the state." 'Maa, Mati, manush' is another slogan that was coined by the TMC during 2009 general election. Singh further accused Banerjee of not fulfilling her promise of putting an end to water crisis in the state. "Prime Minister Narendra Modi, on his part, has promised piped water availablility in every household of the country by the end of 2024," the defence minister stated. Maintaining that the BJP government at the Centre has never discriminated against the people of the state, as often alleged by the TMC, the senior saffron party leader said, "The Congress-led UPA government at the Centre had given Rs 1.32 lakh crore to Bengal under the 13th Finance Commission, while the Modi government allotted Rs 4.48 lakh crore to the state under the 14th Finance Commission." Insisting that more than 150 saffron camp workers have been killed in West Bengal, the senir BJP leader said that it is the responsibility of the state's chief minister to ensure the safety and security of its people, no matter which party they bore allegiance to. "Bomb-making factories are openly being run in Bengal. If the same had happened in Uttar Pradesh (of which he was once the chief minister), the matter would have been dealt with sternly. "The BJP, if allowed to form government in Bengal, will make security arrangements not just for saffron camp workers, but also those belonging to the Congress, Left and the TMC," he said, exuding confidence that his party will bag more than 200 seats in the state. Emphasising that the BJP is not a party that creates enmity between people, he said, the TMC supremo has been trying to divide the people of Bengal on religious lines.  "The BJP will not practice discrimination on the basis of religion. It would rather punish anyone creating trouble or indulging in such crimes. Now no one will be able to stop Durga Puja celebrations or Saraswati Puja in Bengal," he said. Controversy had erupted in 2017 at a school in Tehatta, Nadia district, over celebration of Saraswati puja, with one section of students apparently trying to stop another group from observing the festival. In that very year, the West Bengal government had tried imposing curbs on Durga idol immersion, as the occasion coincided with Muharram, but the high court later eased the restrictions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-development-in-ten-years-mamata-took-west-bengal-back-to-19th-century-rajnath-singh-966404.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Farmers plan another 'historic' Bharat Bandh; Farmers-govt deadlock persists amid polls||With no resolution in sight despite four months of protests and 11 rounds of failed talks with the government, the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha has called another 'Bharat Bandh' on Friday in the middle of the ongoing assembly poll campaign in four states. After joining the nationwide strike of central trade unions on November 26 last year, the farmer bodies had held a Bharat Bandh on December 8 last year. The Republic Day march of farmers on January 26  had kicked up a huge controversy after a group of protesting farmers had marched to Red Fort and hoisted a religious flag there. Farmers later also took their protests to poll-bound states. This time, the four poll-bound states — West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam and the Union Territory Puducherry — have been kept out of the nationwide shut down on March 26. This comes even as farmer unions had earlier held protests in poll-bound states, more elaborately in crucial West Bengal, where BJP is trying hard to stop a hattrick to power by Mamata Banerjee-led TMC. The 6 AM to 6 PM shutdown is likely to affect transport services, both rail and road, and hamper the functioning of commercial establishments. Ambulance, school buses, vehicles of Armed forces,  foreign tourists and those engaged in essential services as well as food supply will be exempt from the bandh restrictions. In a press statement, the Morcha said that the Bandh will be “historic” and it will be backed by trader bodies, trade unions, bus unions and railway unions. Confederation of All India Traders, however, said that markets will remain open on March 26 and that it was not participating in the Bandh. Farmers mainly from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh have been protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders of Delhi, seeking a complete rollback of the three farm laws passed by the Centre and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops. After making an offer to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, the government has stiffened its stand as the offer was rejected by the farmer unions. Insisting that the Centre must withdraw the three contentious farms laws, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday, however, said the agitating farmers are prepared for a long haul and will relent only when their demands are met.  After the enactment of the farm laws in September last year, the NDA government lost its time-tested ally Shiromani Akali Dal, whose base is among farmers in Punjab, where Assembly polls are due next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-plan-another-historic-bharat-bandh-farmers-govt-deadlock-persists-amid-polls-966454.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Politicians have no business talking about how people dress: Smriti Irani||Politicians have no business talking about how people dress because ultimately their service is of policy making and ensuring rule of law, Union Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said on Thursday, reacting to the controversial "ripped jeans" remarks by Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat. Rawat had drawn flak when he said that youngsters follow strange fashion trends due to a lack of values and consider themselves to be big shots after wearing jeans ripped at the knees. Rawat then went on to describe the attire of a woman who sat next to him on a flight. He described her as wearing boots, jeans ripped at the knees, bangles in her hands and with two children travelling with her. He also said she runs an NGO, goes out in society and has two children and wondered what values she would give them. Speaking at the Seventh Edition of Times Network India Economic Conclave on 'Ladies Who Lead', Irani said there are certain things which are sacrosanct and one of them is a woman's right to choose the way she wants to live her life and engage with society as she deems fit. "Irrespective, men, women, transgender, politicians have absolutely no business talking about how people dress, what they eat, what they do because ultimately our service is of policy making and ensuring rule of law. There have been faux pas made by many politicians -- men and women," Irani said. "It is not as though these particular positions have been taken only by men and I think with growing urgency there is conversation across our country in all communities that there are certain things which are sacrosanct and one of them is woman's right to choose the way she wants to live her life and engage with society as she deems fit as long as you don't break the law I have absolutely no business telling you what to do," she added. Responding to a question on why she is calling her party colleague Rawat's remarks a faux pas, she said, "No one in their enlightened mind will make that statement." On the alleged absence of top Congress leaders in the West Bengal poll campaign, Irani said politically the Congress party knows that in West Bengal it has no gains to be made and its political leadership has accepted defeat even before the first vote is cast. "I think it speaks volumes about their leadership that they did not stand in support of their own political workers and their own ecosystem within the state of West Bengal and this is possibly the first time that in Bengal elections the Congress by its very demeanour of its political leadership has accepted defeat even before the first vote is cast," Irani said. Talking about women reservation, she said the BJP was the first party to make 33 per cent reservation within itself. "People like Nirmala (Sitharaman) and me received our first organisational positions because of that. There have been many women who never had an opportunity to serve in higher offices. Today if you look at global indices which talk about political empowerment of women...women serving in panchayats have not been recognised internationally," Irani said. "In India, we have 1.3 million women serving in panchayats, no other nation in the world has such a big contingent of women politically serving doesn't get recognition. There is this potential that needs more and more opportunities because wherever women have been given equal opportunity to compete they have done well," she added. On the #metoo movement in India involving former Union minister M J Akbar and journalist Priya Ramani, Irani said if there is a violation of law it is a woman's right to pursue justice. "There can be no debate on it," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/politicians-have-no-business-talking-about-how-people-dress-smriti-irani-966478.html
25-03-2021||National Politics||Congress leader Jairam Ramesh to move SC against MMDR Bill||Senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh on Thursday said he would soon move the Supreme Court against certain provisions of the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, passed by Parliament earlier this week. Ramesh said certain provisions of the Bill were in violation of the Supreme Court order that had declared such mines that do not follow environment protection laws as illegal. The Bill that was passed by Parliament removes this definition of illegal mines and goes against the ruling of the Supreme Court, Ramesh said. “I am going to challenge this in the Supreme Court,” the former Environment Minister said. The legislation pertaining to mines and another delineating the powers of the Governor could be challenged in the Supreme Court, Ramesh said. However, Ramesh was not emphatic about moving the Supreme Court against the Government of the National Capital Territory (Amendment) Bill. “Our stand has been put out clearly by Abhishek Manu Singhvi in Parliament that the Bill was unconstitutional,” Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-leader-jairam-ramesh-to-move-sc-against-mmdr-bill-966543.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 cases surge in Uttarakhand, negative RT-PCR report must during Kumbh Mela||With Covid cases surging again in Uttarakhand, the state government on Wednesday made it mandatory for devotees to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours for attending the forthcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar. Covid-19 cases continued to rise again in Uttarakhand with 200 infections reported on Wednesday out of which the maximum were detected in Haridwar which is in the final stages of preparations to host the Kumbh Mela starting from April 1. Haridwar reported the highest number with 71 cases, Dehradun 63, Nainital 22 Udham Singh Nagar 14, Pauri, Rudraparayag and Tehri eight each, Pithoragarh  five and Almora one, a Covid-19 control room bulletin here said. Meanwhile, it has been made mandatory once again to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours for devotees gathering in Haridwar for the forthcoming congregation. Chief Secretary Om Prakash said the Uttarakhand High Court has issued clear directives in this regard. The High Court has said it will be mandatory to bring a negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours or a vaccination report for attending the Kumbh. Soon after taking over as Chief Minister, Tirath Singh Rawat had said it was not compulsory to bring a negative RT-PCR test report for devotees gathering for the Kumbh. It is a religious event that comes once in 12 years and devotees can attend it freely, he had said. However, he later ordered strict compliance with the guidelines issued by the Centre in view of the surging positive cases. Lying low for a few months, the Covid cases in Uttarakhand are showing a rising trend of late. However, no fresh Covid-19 cases were detected on Wednesday in Bageshwar, Chamoli, Champawat and Uttarkashi districts. There were no Covid casualties in the state either.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-surge-in-uttarakhand-negative-rt-pcr-report-must-during-kumbh-mela-966058.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Indian Railways says nuns questioned in Jansi after complaints of human trafficking||Indian Railway on Wednesday clarified that nuns  were detained in Jansi railway station on March 19 after receiving complaint on suspicion of human trafficking against them. "On March 19, we received a complaint on suspicion of human trafficking, against 2 nuns travelling with 2 young girls in Utkal Express. After the probe, we found that there was no case of human trafficking. They were immediately released and sent back," the railway official said.   The railway issued clarification after it was reported in the media that two nuns and two postulants were taken off an express train on March 19 for questioning by railway police in UP's Jhansi following complaints from Bajrang Dal activists that two women were allegedly being taken forcibly for religious conversion. The issue was kicked up row after Congress and Left Parties attacked the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government alleging that right wing activists harassed nuns.   Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Wednesday assured Kerala that strong action will be taken against those who involve in harassing nuns belonging to a Kerala-based congregation.   Shah's assurance came in the background of BJP Kanjirappally assembly candidate for April 6 polls, K J Alphonse, who raised the issue with the Union Minister. Even Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and sought strict action against those "who disrupt and impair the freedom of individual rights" guaranteed by the Constitution.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-railways-says-nuns-questioned-in-jansi-after-complaints-of-human-trafficking-966081.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||As Tulip garden opens in Srinagar, PM Modi urges tourists to visit Jammu and Kashmir||Nestled on the foothills of the Zabarwan range overlooking Dal Lake, Asia’s largest Tulip garden was thrown open in Srinagar on Thursday, marking the beginning of a new tourism season in Kashmir. Last season, 1.3 million tulips at the garden withered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, with over 1.5 million tulips ready to bloom this season, it is expected to give impetus to the ailing tourism sector of Kashmir which has been badly hit by the two consecutive bad seasons. Director Floriculture, Farooq Ahmad Rather said that because of Covid-19, all the safety protocols were in place. “Nobody will be allowed inside the garden without the mask. Apart from it, the Department will deploy its men to ensure adherence to social distancing protocols. Sanitisers too have been placed inside the garden,” he said. On Wednesday even Prime Minister Narendra Modi shared pictures of the majestic garden on his Twitter account and urged people to visit it to enjoy the hospitality of people in the Union Territory. “Tomorrow, 25th March is special for Jammu and Kashmir. A majestic tulip garden on the foothills of the Zabarwan Mountains will open for visitors. The Garden will see over 15 lakh flowers of more than 64 varieties in bloom,” he tweeted. In another tweet, he urged people to visit J&K. “Whenever you get the opportunity, do visit Jammu and Kashmir and witness the scenic Tulip festival. In addition to the tulips, you will experience the warm hospitality of the people of Jammu and Kashmir,” PM Modi tweeted. The garden spread over 120 acres was ranked fourth-biggest tulip garden among the world’s biggest tulip gardens by the World Tulip Society in 2017.  It was also touted among the top 5 tulip destinations in the world at the Tulip Summit in Canada in 2017. Tulips in Kashmir remain in bloom for 15-20 days from the last week of March to mid-April depending upon the temperature. While Tulips are normally associated with the Turks and Dutch, Kashmir is fast catching up with this craze to somehow squeeze itself into the exclusive zone of Tulip-growing regions of the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-tulip-garden-opens-in-srinagar-pm-modi-urges-tourists-to-visit-jammu-and-kashmir-966202.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||J&K prepares for largest Amarnath yatra this year||Despite the sudden surge in Covid-19 infections across the country, six lakh yatris are expected to pay obeisance at the 3888-metre-high Amarnath cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas this year during the 56-day long annual pilgrimage which will begin on June 28. Jammu and Kashmir administration is making necessary preparations for receiving the pilgrims with Chief Secretary, B V R Subrahmanyam directing the officers to make the yatra safe and hassle-free for the pilgrims. Subrahmanyam, who chaired a meeting to review the preparations for the yatra, enjoined upon the administration to undertake preparations for an expected footfall of six lakh yatris this year, an official spokesperson said. To ensure secure passage of pilgrims, directions were issued to appropriately ramp up the holding capacities, yatri accommodations, and public utilities across the route from Lakhanpur to the Holy cave and vice-versa; with special attention to arrangements in consideration of weather extremities, he said. Deputy Commissioners were directed to enhance the holding-capacity of transit camps under their jurisdictions to accommodate approximately 1.22 lakh yatris including both the cave-bound pilgrims as well as those on the return journey on a daily basis, the spokesperson said. They were asked to project additional requirements of resources to the Tourism Department for timely projection and approval. Last year the annual yatra was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic while in 2019 the pilgrimage was cut short following intelligence inputs of ‘terror threats’ ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. If six lakh pilgrims visit this year, it will be the largest number of yatris who will perform Dashan at the Holy Cave shrine. Since Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) took the control of the yatra in 2001, the number of pilgrims who visited the holy cave was 1.91 lakh during that year, followed by 1.10 lakh in 2002, 1.70 lakh in 2003, 4 lakh in 2004, 3.88 lakh in 2005, 3.47 lakh in 2006, 2.96 lakh in 2007, 5.33 lakh in 2008, 3.81 lakh in 2009, 4.55 lakh in 2010, 6.21 lakh in 2011, 6.35 lakh in 2012 and 3.54 lakh in 2013, 3.72 lakh in 2014, 3.52 in 2015, 2.21 in 2016, 2.60 in 2017 and 2.85 in 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-prepares-for-largest-amarnath-yatra-this-year-966224.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||PMLA case: Mehbooba Mufti appears before Enforcement Directorate in Srinagar||Former Chief Minister of Jammu and Kashmir and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti was on Thursday questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with an alleged money laundering case. Reports said the PDP chief appeared at the ED office in posh Rajbagh area here, at 11 am to record her statement under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Earlier, the ED had issued summon to Mehbooba on March 5, asking her to appear before the probe agency for questioning in a money laundering case in New Delhi on March 15. However, she approached Delhi High Court and pleaded for a stay on the summons, but the Court did not grant the same. Later the 61-year-old firebrand PDP president requested the ED officials to question her in Srinagar and not in Delhi and her request was reportedly accepted. Mehbooba, who was released last year after more than a year in detention following the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, is the second high-profile leader from the Union Territory (UT), who has been questioned by the ED in money laundering case. The beleaguered PDP president has also been accused by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of being in touch with Hizb-ul-Mujhaideen militant commanders and “paying them money to carry forward the agenda of secession of Jammu and Kashmir from the Union of India by way of violent means.” Earlier, another former CM and president of National Conference (NC), Farooq Abdullah, was questioned by the ED several times in 2019 and 2020 in connection with an alleged money laundering case in J&K Cricket Association (JKCA). Last year in December, the ED attached property worth Rs 11.86 crore belonging to Abdullah in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pmla-case-mehbooba-mufti-appears-before-enforcement-directorate-in-srinagar-966231.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Devotees make beeline to offer liquor at shrine, Covid-19 norms go for a toss||Notwithstanding the surge in Covid-19 cases, several devotees without face masks and not adhering to social distancing norms converged to pay obeisance to Baba Rode Shah shrine in Punjab's Amritsar district and offered liquor bottles to seek his blessings. The unusual fair, being held for the last 90 years, ended on Wednesday in Bhoma village, situated on the Amritsar-Fatehgarh Churian Road. A relative of Baba and sarpanch of Bhoma, Gurnek Singh, who manages the shrine, said Baba used to collect liquor in a vessel and offer it to his devotees, but he himself never drank. Though liquor is offered at the shrine throughout the year, the offering increases during the fair. "It is a gathering of animated devotees who thronged the samadhi of Baba Rode Shah, clutching bottles of liquor as offerings for grant of a boon," said Gursewak Singh of same village Earlier, the first day of the fair was reserved for male devotees while the second day was for women, but with the passing of time, both men and women offer liquor to the 'samadhi' at the same time. During the course of the fair, it is quite common to see devotees making their way to the 'samadhi' with the bottles and other containers full of liquor which is offered at the shrine. It is then distributed among the devotees, male and female, who drink the liquor as 'prasad'. The uniqueness of this shrine is that only liquor is accepted as offerings from the devotees. The devotees scramble to reach the shrine where liquor is distributed in glasses. The Baba, who belonged to Dhawaan village in Gurdaspur district, left his family and settled in Bhoma in 1896. According to the legend, the Baba, who became a saint, was once approached by a farmer of the same village as he was childless despite being married for a couple of years. With the blessings of the saint, a male child was born to the couple, who offered Rs 500 to the saint for his blessings. But the saint refused to accept the money and asked the couple to purchase a bottle of liquor and offer it as parshad to his devotees. The Baba died in 1924. Since then, a fair is held in his memory every year and people from Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh visit the shrine to seek his blessings by offering and getting liquor as 'prasad'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/devotees-make-beeline-to-offer-liquor-at-shrine-covid-19-norms-go-for-a-toss-966232.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh policeman trying to resolve crop dispute shot dead||A sub-inspector in Uttar Pradesh was shot dead allegedly while he was trying to resolve a dispute between two brothers over the selling of crop in the state's Agra district, about 350 kilometres from here. According to the police sources, the incident happened when the policeman, identified as Prashant Yadav, had gone to Nahara village in the district on Wednesday evening to get information about a clash between two brothers over their share in the potato harvest. Sources said that Shivnath Kumar, the elder brother, was on his way to the local market to sell the crop, when the younger one, identified as Vishwanath objected to it and demanded that he be given his share in the crop. As the two brothers clashed, a villager informed the police.  The policeman tried to persuade the two brothers to resolve the matter amicably but both remained adamant, sources said. Even as Yadav was discussing the matter with them, Vishwanath took out a pistol and fired at the sub-inspector. The policeman, who was hit in the neck, collapsed and died even before he could be taken to the hospital. The culprit managed to flee from the spot. Police have launched an operation to nab the culprit. Special teams have been formed to nab him, sources said. The Uttar Pradesh government announced an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh to the next of the kin of the deceased policeman. The government also said that the National Security Act (NSA) would be slapped on the culprit. Only last year, eight Uttar Pradesh policemen were shot dead by gangster Vikas Dubey in the state's Kanpur district. Vikas was later killed in an encounter with the police. In 2018, Subodh Kumar was shot dead during a clash between two groups over cow slaughter in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahar district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-policeman-trying-to-resolve-crop-dispute-shot-dead-966243.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||SC directs status quo on supply of Yamuna water to Delhi till Friday||The Supreme Court Thursday directed governments of Punjab, Haryana and others to maintain status quo on supply of Yamuna water to Delhi till tomorrow. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde issued notices to Haryana, Punjab and Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) and asked them to file their responses on the application by Friday. Senior advocate A M Singhvi, appearing for DJB, said that water level has fallen in the national capital. Senior lawyer Shyam Divan, appearing for Haryana, said that full level of water supply has been made. Senior advocate Vikas Singh, who also appeared in the matter, said that a court commissioner should be appointed to verify the water level. Divan said no application has been filed for the appointment of court commissioner in the matter. “This is about the fundamental right to water. We will not go into technical issue whether court commissioner can be appointed only after the application. If the need arises, we can appoint it,” said the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. Advocate Gautam Narayan, who also appeared for DJB, argued that Haryana says they are doing some repair work. Singhvi said that canal repair works should not be done in the months of March and April when the water demand is at its peak. He said DJB had written several letters last month to Haryana on the issue but has not received any reply. “We have two crore urban population. We have Luteyns Delhi, we have Aam Aadmis. This will cut down 25 per cent water supply,” he said. The bench, while issuing notice on the application, said it would hear the matter on Friday. In its fresh application filed in the top court, the DJB has said that direction be issued to Haryana government to release the water to avert a potential severe crisis in the national capital. It has claimed that Haryana government has reduced the supply of raw water to Delhi, resulting in shortage of water supply in the national capital. DJB chairman Raghav Chadha said in a statement earlier this month that regular fall in the level of the Yamuna, especially during summers, along with the discharge of pollutants that cause rise in ammonia levels, is a matter of grave concern. The DJB had said that Delhi is facing a potential severe water crisis due to high ammonia levels in the Yamuna and the continuously depleting water level at Wazirabad barrage, which supplies drinking water to the Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants. Raw water is sourced from the Yamuna and is drawn at Wazirabad barrage, it had said, adding that the quantity and quality of raw water at Wazirabad Barrage is dependent on the release of water by the Haryana government. Haryana supplies water to Delhi through the Carrier-Lined Channel (CLC), Delhi Sub-Branch (DSB) and the Yamuna. The CLC and DSB supply water from Hathni Kund via Munak canal and Bhakra Beas Management Board. At present, Delhi receives 479 million gallons water a day (MGD) against 609 MGD from Haryana. Besides, Delhi draws 90 MGD groundwater and receives 250 MGD from the Upper Ganga Canal. The normal level of the Yamuna near Wazirabad Pond should be 674.50 feet but it has dropped to 670.90 feet. The fall in the water level at Wazirabad pond has affected water production at Wazirabad, Okhla and Chandrawal water treatment plants which supply drinking water to central, north, west and south Delhi. As per the DJB, currently, Haryana through CLC canal is supplying only 549.16 cusecs against 683 cusecs and Delhi Sub-Branch canal is supplying 306.63 cusecs against 330 cusecs. The treatment capacity at Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants has dipped by 30 per cent. The same has reduced by 15 per cent at Okhla WTP, he had said. On January 19, the top court had sought a report from a committee, set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), regarding the recommendations made by the panel for improving the water quality of Yamuna river and the extent to which authorities have implemented them. The NGT had on July 26, 2018 constituted the monitoring committee comprising its former expert member B S Sajwan and former Delhi chief secretary Shailaja Chandra on the cleaning of Yamuna river and had directed it to submit an action plan in this regard. The apex court had on January 13 said that pollution-free water is a fundamental right which a welfare state is “bound to ensure”, and issued notices to the Centre, CPCB and five states including Delhi and Haryana on the issue. The top court, while appointing senior advocate Meenakshi Arora as amicus curiae, had directed its registry to register the suo motu case as 'Remediation of polluted rivers', said it would first take up the issue of contamination of the Yamuna river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-directs-status-quo-on-supply-of-yamuna-water-to-delhi-till-friday-966291.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Successive Congress govts gave unemployment, insurgency, infiltration to Assam: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday alleged that the successive Congress governments in Assam had given only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration. On the Congress electoral tie-ups with parties like Badruddin Ajmal-led All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in Assam and the Indian Secular Force floated by a Muslim cleric in West Bengal, he claimed that Rahul Gandhi is "going the Jinnah way". Addressing an election rally at Palasbari of Kamrup district, Chouhan said development in the state came in only after the BJP formed government five years ago. "Congress-ruled Assam for so many years, but what did they give? The Congress governments gave only unemployment, violence, insurgency and infiltration," the senior BJP leader said. The people of the North-Eastern state could see the first glimpse of development when Prime Minister Narendra Modi assumed power and a BJP government took charge of Assam in 2016, Chouhan claimed. "I also request you all that do not trust the five guarantees of the Congress. They never fulfil their promises. You go to other states where Rahul Gandhi had promised to waive farm loans within 10 days of forming governments," he added. The Congress has "guaranteed" that if it is voted to power, a law will be enacted to nullify the CAA, five lakh government jobs will be given, 200 units of electricity will be free for all, housewives will get Rs 2,000 per month and minimum wages of tea garden workers will be raised to Rs 365. Addressing a press conference in Guwahati later, Chouhan claimed that after Congress came to power in Madhya Pradesh in 2018, it did not waive agricultural loans. The Kamal Nath government in MP fell in 2020 following a rebellion in the Congress camp and Chouhan became chief minister. He presented some video clips of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi promising to waive farm loans, which were claimed to be made before the 2018 assembly election in MP. The chief minister claimed that farmers in his state stopped paying instalments after Congress formed the government. But as it did not waive farm loans, banks sent notices to farmers to recover the loans with more interests, Chouhan said.  "Rahul Gandhi is telling lies everywhere. I think in the name Rahul, R stands for rejected, A for absent-minded, H for hopeless, U for useless and L for a liar," Chouhan said. Likewise, in the case of the INC (Indian National Congress), I stands for irresponsible, N for nepotism and C for corrupt, he added. "The Congress has joined hands with (AIUDF president) Badruddin Ajmal, who is harbouring infiltrators. The Assamese culture and heritage will be threatened by Ajmal. "The Congress tied up with the Muslim League in Kerala, Furfura Sharif in West Bengal and Ajmal in Assam. Rahul Gandhi is going the Jinnah way," Chouhan said. The CPI(M)-headed Left Front and the Congress have joined hands with the newly-formed Indian Secular Front floated by Abbas Siddiqui, an influential Muslim cleric of Furfura Sharif in West Bengal's Hooghly district, to forge an alliance. Earlier this month, Chouhan had claimed that instead of following Mahatma Gandhi, the Congress is following in 'Jinnah's footsteps' and it will 'destroy' the country. Chouhan said that if voted to power, the saffron party will come up with a law to prevent love jihad, as has been done in Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. The word "love jihad" is used by right-wing activists to refer to the alleged campaign of Muslims forcing Hindu girls to convert in the guise of love.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/successive-congress-govts-gave-unemployment-insurgency-infiltration-to-assam-shivraj-singh-chouhan-966305.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||J-K Police opposes Mehbooba Mufti's passport renewal citing 'adverse report'||The Jammu and Kashmir Police has opposed giving passport to former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti citing "adverse report" against her, officials said on Thursday. A report has been submitted to the Jammu and Kashmir High Court which is hearing a petition filed by Mehbooba over the delay in clearing her passport application. Mehbooba had applied for a fresh passport in December last year after the previous one expired on May 31, but the application has not been cleared till date in the absence of a police verification report. The officials said that "an adverse report" has been filed against her by the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), but refused to elaborate saying the matter would be taken up before the high court. Hearing the petition on March 23, Additional Solicitor General T M Shamsi, representing the Ministry of External Affairs and the Regional Passport office, sought a short adjournment after the counsel representing the Jammu and Kashmir CID informed Justice Ali Mohammed Magrey that the verification report on her passport application had been submitted on March 18. However, Shamsi informed the court that he had received a communication from the Passport Officer in Srinagar on March 22 and the contents "reveal that the verification of the petitioner is under process and as soon as verification process is completed, the requisite report will be submitted immediately for further course of action". "Communication further reveals that CID verification report in respect of the petitioner is still awaited from the JK CID. Copy of communication so produced by Shamsi...is taken on record," Justice Magrey said while posting the matter for further hearing on March 29. The counsel for Mehbooba had submitted that the stand taken by the Regional Passport Officer, Srinagar with reference to non-availability of report from the JK CID, has delayed issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner. In the petition, Mehbooba said her passport expired on May 31 last year and accordingly she applied for issuance of a fresh passport before the authorities concerned on December 11, 2020. Mehbooba's counsel submitted that according to instructions issued by the Ministry of External Affairs, the passport of an individual is to be issued within 30 days but in the instant case, despite lapse of three months, passport has not been issued to the petitioner due to the pending police verification. The 61-year-old politician was put under preventive custody on August 5, 2019, the day the central government revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories. She was released in October last year after the Union Territory administration revoked the charges under the Public Safety Act against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/j-k-police-opposes-mehbooba-muftis-passport-renewal-citing-adverse-report-966318.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||2 CRPF personnel killed, 2 injured in Srinagar LeT attack||At least two CRPF personnel, including an officer, were killed and two others were injured after militants fired upon the paramilitary forces in the Lawaypora area on Srinagar outskirts on Thursday. Reports said the militants fired upon a road opening party (ROP) of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) in Lawaypora injuring four paramilitary personnel. A CRPF spokesperson said two among the injured personnel succumbed while the other two were moved to Army’s 92-base hospital in Srinagar. One of the slain CRPF officers was identified as sub-inspector Manga Ram Dev Barman. Soon after the attack, security forces cordoned off the area and launched a manhunt to nab the attackers, reports said. Inspector General Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militants were involved in the attack. On December 30 last year, three ‘militants’ were killed in the same area. The Army said they were planning a big attack. However, the families of the slain refuted the claims of the Army and the police, claiming they were civilians and not ultras.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-crpf-personnel-killed-2-injured-in-srinagar-let-attack-966342.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan government issues order for no functions during Holi, Shab-e-Barat||No functions related to the festivals of Holi and Shab-e-Barat will be allowed at public places in Rajasthan on March 28 and 29 to curb the spread of coronavirus, a government order said. The state government issued an order on Wednesday restricting public gatherings during Holi and Shab-e-Barat in public places/parks/markets/religious places, etc. on March 28 and 29. There will be no permission to organise public functions or gathering at public places to celebrate the festivals. Action will be taken if there are gatherings or congregations, according to the order issued by the home department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-issues-order-for-no-functions-during-holi-shab-e-barat-966409.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||With faulty policies of BJP govt, inflation has broken people's back: Akhilesh Yadav||Alleging that people are in trouble due to the policies of the BJP government, Samajwadi Party President Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said that inflation has broken their back and the public is now thinking of getting rid of the saffron party's misrule. "The common man in the country is a harried lot and is in trouble due to the faulty policies of the BJP government (at the Centre). While inflation has broken their back, there are no employment opportunities. Markets have not yet recovered from the recession. Every section of society is troubled. Surrounded by apprehensions of the future, people are now thinking of getting rid of the BJP misrule and are awaiting polls," Akhilesh said in a statement issued here. "The festival of Holi is approaching but the price rise has faded the enthusiasm of the people. Edible oil, ghee, nuts, everything is out of reach of the general public. It is said that since December, almost everything is being sold 25 per cent costlier.  Due to heavy adulteration in the food items that are being sold in the market, people will be sick due to poisoning. The BJP government has nothing to do with this and, it is giving open freedom of loot.  This is what the BJP calls an opportunity in a disaster," he said. On the farmers, he said, "The farmers are staging a peaceful sit-in demanding the minimum support price (MSP) to be given and to revoke farm laws. The BJP government is not ready to listen to them. More than 250 farmers have sacrificed themselves in the movement. The BJP has not even spoken two words of condolences for them so far." "The farmers fear that the new agri laws will lead to large industrial houses dominating their farming and they will be forced to become agricultural labourers instead of farm owners," he said. By running "mehngai express' (price rise express), the Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister has added to the existing woes of the people and this should be counted as part of his 4-year achievements, Yadav further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-faulty-policies-of-bjp-govt-inflation-has-broken-peoples-back-akhilesh-yadav-966461.html
25-03-2021||North and Central||Free speech can't be stifled by cases: Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said free speech of the citizens of this country cannot be stifled by implicating them in criminal cases unless it has the tendency to affect public order. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat said disapprobation of governmental inaction or cry for justice cannot be termed as something promoting enmity among communities. The court allowed a plea by Shillong Times' Editor Patricia Mukhim for quashing an FIR lodged on July 6, 2020 at Shillong for her two-day-old Facebook post, related to an attack on non-tribal boys by a group of 25 unidentified boys.  The court said her Facebook post read in its entirety, pleaded for equality of non-tribals of Meghalaya, which reflected no intention on her part to promote class or community hatred or any attempt to incite people belonging to a community to indulge in any violence. "Disapprobation of governmental inaction cannot be branded as an attempt to promote hatred between different communities," the bench said.  The court said her fervent plea for protection of non-tribals living in Meghalaya and for their equality cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be categorised as hate speech. "It was a call for justice - for action according to law, which every citizen has a right to expect and articulate," the bench said. The High Court declined to quash the case saying the reference to the attack on the non-tribals by the tribals has propensity to cause a rift between two communities. On her appeal, the top court said close scrutiny of the Facebook post would indicate her agony, and was directed against the apathy shown by the Meghalaya Chief Minister, the Director-General of Police and others. "If the victims voice their discontent, and speak out, especially if the state authorities turn a blind eye, or drag their feet, such voicing of discontent is really a cry for anguish, for justice denied – or delayed," the bench said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/free-speech-cant-be-stifled-by-cases-supreme-court-966539.html
25-03-2021||Oasis||Abandon your mental impurities||Mental impurities have been summarised by ancient Indian sages as arishadvargas or enemies of the mind --Kama (Lust), Krodha (Anger), Lobha (Greed), Moha (Delusion), Mada (Intoxication), Matsarya (Envy) supported by their variants Dambha (Pride), Darpa (Arrogance), Asuya (Jealousy), Irshya (jealousy), Ahankara (Pride), Raga (Anger) and Dvesha (Envy). We must abandon them gradually and when bereft of these negative passions, the mind attains mental purity and absolute peace of mind. The impact of these passions of the mind varies widely and deeply but is extremely dangerous in the long run. All these impurities have the demonic strength of robbing the peace and tranquillity of an individual and collectively can destroy the individual,  the community and eventually the human race. History has abundant examples of these destructive stories.     The negative impact of these impurities begins with their power to destroy the integrity and character of a human being by destroying his capability of discriminating between good and bad and terminating in annihilating his character and life.  They culminate in the individual leading a life of a beast slipping into the debris of sin. The features of pure thought are easily identifiable. Pure thought, or its synonym pure mind, is free from anything that debases, contaminates, pollutes or encourages harmful or negative thoughts towards oneself or others.    Broadly,  pure mnd consists of love, affection, trust, impartiality, non-violence, not thinking ill of others in any way, working and wishing for the well being of all human beings and always striving to be reliable and trustworthy. Both pure and impure thoughts are powerful tools and, therefore, we should always discriminate and entertain pure thoughts so that we reap worthy results.    Let us recall the old adage ‘sow a thought, reap an action; sow an action, reap a consequence; sow a consequence, reap a character; sow a character and reap  a destiny’. Fortunately, the militancy of these impurities of the mind can be controlled and mental purity can be cultivated and habituated. Some of the simple ways of controlling and containing the impurities of the mind are-- Trying to be God-like, loving all and hating none and striving to be a spiritual person, always entertaining and nourishing only positive thoughts, taking responsibility for one’s actions, exercising moderation in all thoughts and actions , seeking and staying in the company of righteous people--satsang--and, generally keeping away the Arishadvargas mentioned above.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/abandon-your-mental-impurities-966066.html
25-03-2021||Panorama||Why Modi can afford protracted discord with farmers||The BJP seems to have deduced that outside of the headlines and certain pockets of farmers’ resistance elsewhere, beyond Punjab and Haryana, the protest against the Centre’s three farm laws isn’t costing it much politically in the rest of the country. The farm leaders’ flirtation with election campaign in West Bengal apart, in none of the four states going to elections is the issue of farmers’ agitation central to the debate. As of now, this prolonged protest, mostly concentrated around the borders of the national capital, appears to have a long shelf life even beyond the wheat harvest and procurement exercise. Stakeholders on either side of the divide don’t seem to be suffering much from the protracted conflict. So, why has the Modi government opted for a ‘go slow’ approach after back-to-back rounds of dialogue with the farm leaders? Just like the three farm bills and the opposition to it, the devil lies in the detail. Currently, the BJP’s electoral stake in Punjab or Haryana is not sizable, but the farmers’ resistance has woken up the party to the need for a long-term strategy. Currently, its strategy is to tire out the protesters and to send out a signal to the rest of the country how small sections of people (read farmers) have been obstructing a nationalist party’s vision for India’s grandeur, said a political analyst. The dynamics of the relationship between poll results in the four states heading for elections and an angry farm sector will be interesting to watch. Those election results will not only decide the direction and intensity of the farmers’ agitation, it will also determine if the Centre, hemmed in by unrelenting farmers, chooses the path of confrontation or reconciliation. The BJP won’t mind its waning in Punjab and Haryana if it helps the party gain sizable footprints in other states with a narrative built around its claim of standing up for the national interest in the face of the farmers’ protest. Things have come to a stage when both sides of the divide can afford to let the protest stretch longer, said a farm economist, requesting anonymity. As long as the Delhi borders -- Singhu, Tikri and even Ghazipur -- thrive in the headlines, the farm leaders can stay ensconced in their new-found importance. On the other hand, the BJP, too, can rest assured that the Modi-worshipping hordes, the urban business and trading classes as well as the service sector will only shift closer to the political right. Indeed, with the farmers’ unions weaving a narrative that the new laws are aimed against farmers, big and small, and being able to rope in labour unions, it is becoming a clear Left vs Right fight. The BJP is aware of its falling stock in Punjab. Its marriage of convenience with the Akali Dal has ended in a divorce. Punjab goes to polls in less than 11 months and the BJP, which fought on 23 seats out of the total 117 in alliance with the Akali Dal last time, is struggling to find winnable candidates for the remaining seats. The party’s denials apart, in Haryana, too, the BJP is treading on thin ice. Its alliance partner, the Janata Jananayak Party (JJP), led by Dushyant Chautala, who is the Deputy CM in M L Khattar’s government, has arguably done little beyond lip service when it comes to supporting farmers, despite its pro-farmer credentials. Chautala, who is looking to make further inroads into Jat-land, is unwilling to rock the boat for now. He holds sizable cabinet portfolios in the government and would want to make hay while the sun shines. The politics around the farmers’ agitation has the Congress in Haryana smiling, despite losing the no-confidence motion it proposed against the Khattar government recently. The Congress managed not only to garner the support of some independents in the state Assembly, who voted in support of the motion, it also won in its bid to expose the JJP for failing to walk the talk. Farm leaders had given a clarion call to MLAs to vote in favour of the no-confidence motion. Not one JJP legislator heeded the call. The Congress proved its point that both the JJP and the BJP were faking their pro-farmer credentials. A not-so-big state like Punjab has more than three scores of farmers’ unions, something that could undermine the calls for farm unity. Some of these unions are ploughing a lonely furrow on the farm agitation. Personality clashes, conflicts over agenda, turf fights and allegations of being hand-in-glove with one party or the other have been the bane of the farm unions’ narrative for decades now. The Centre is waiting for some critical point in the agitation for the current semblance of unity to unravel. In fact, if the unions have remained united so far, it is more because of pressure from the grassroots than due to the ability of their leaders to manage or reconcile contradictions. The fault-lines between farm labourers and farmer unions are much deeper and wider than new-to-the-issue hacks converging upon the tent cities at Delhi’s borders realise. Vast sections of farm labourers in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh belong to the lower castes, with a history of exploitation at the hands of upper caste farmers. What has gone almost unnoticed in Punjab but is being felt intensely by many is the widening of the urban-rural fault-line. While one sees small crowds of people venturing out at town squares waving farmers’ flags and asking people to honk if they support the agitation, many urban folks see this phenomenon as the countryside taking over the cities. If further fault-lines emerge within the ongoing movement, or when they will inevitably do after protesters return to their villages, the frustration within the ranks of farmers and the labour class then will likely open new possibilities even for the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/why-modi-can-afford-protracted-discord-with-farmers-966062.html
25-03-2021||Panorama||We should not ignore retinoblastoma||Retinoblastoma is the most frequently occurring eye cancer in children. It is a tumour that originates in the retina-- this is a thin layer in the back of the eye that helps us to see. Here are our top five reasons explaining why we shouldn’t ignore retinoblastoma. Retinoblastoma uncommon can affect any child  “Eye cancer in a child? You must be joking doctor!” exclaimed Subhash father of a three-month-old Priya who had retinoblastoma in both eyes. As an ocular oncologist, this is a difficult situation we encounter in our clinics while breaking the bad news to parents with children who have eye cancer. Retinoblastoma affects one in 16,000- 18,000 live births. Worldwide 8,000 new cases are reported each year, of which more than 1,400 cases are from India. It also accounts for 3% of all childhood cancers. Most of these patients (90%) are less than three years of age.  Early diagnosis and treatment can save lives  The two most common presenting symptom of the disease are white reflex in a child’s eye and squinting of the eye. The other uncommon symptoms may be that the child has a big or small eye, red-eye, or swollen eyelids. It is of utmost importance that the child is checked by an eye cancer specialist as soon as he develops any of these symptoms. Retinoblastoma is curable if detected early and treated appropriately. Parents play a very important role in the early diagnosis of retinoblastoma. The improvement in diagnosis and treatment of eye cancer has increased the survival rates and most patients survive the disease. The treatment of retinoblastoma depends on the stage at which the child presents to us. Different forms of therapy are available.  For smaller tumours, laser or freezing therapy (cryotherapy) usually suffices. For larger tumours, the available modalities are intravenous (drip) chemotherapy, eye injection chemotherapy, rarely radiotherapy. Thus, spreading awareness will help in early diagnosis and appropriate treatment of this deadly cancer. Whenever we are treating cancer there are three goals that we want to achieve- First, save a life. Second, save the eye. Third, save vision of the patient, in that order. So, despite our best efforts to save lives in a significant percentage of patients eye removal surgery is required. This is more true for the developing nations where delayed presentation, incorrect diagnosis, poor compliance to treatment owing to poor access to health care facilities, financial constraints, cultural belief systems are the major hurdles to successful therapy. Whenever retinoblastoma is left untreated, the tumour is likely to spread outside the eye, to the brain and different parts of the body and can cause life risk to the patient. The five-year survival rate of patients with retinoblastoma in India is around 90%. Long term follow up is important to detect tumour recurrence and non-eye cancers Concerns of eye tumour recurrence and late treatment-related complications justify the long-term follow-up of retinoblastoma survivors. These patients are at an increased risk of second tumours like sarcoma, lymphoma, leukaemia which again requires early diagnosis and prompt treatment. (The writer is consultant at an eye cancer institute in Vijayawada)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/we-should-not-ignore-retinoblastoma-966064.html
25-03-2021||Right in the Middle||The confounded||In some homes, if something doesn’t work or goes wrong, it is immediately attended to. People who live in such homes lead peaceful, stress-free lives. Then, there are homes where people let things slide until there is total chaos. This is Gometi’s house. Take, for example, bulbs. Suppose one of the bulbs is fused, no one will bother to change it. The husband and wife will make a half-hearted attempt but never get down to it. “There are three other bulbs in the room. Nothing to get into a flap about,” they would say. So the family manages with three functional lights which are on most of the time, giving the impression that it is Diwali. Then the second, third and fourth bulbs fuse and the room is plunged into darkness.  Husband, wife and daughter rush around frantically looking for new bulbs. “I bought a whole box the other day. Where are they?”, the husband asks. “I have no idea. You are the one that put them in a handy place where it would be easy to find them”, countered the wife. “Trash can?” suggested the daughter helpfully. She received a quelling look. The next morning, the daughter had to be dropped at school. She discovered a box of bulbs – among other things – in the back seat of the car in pristine condition. The father buys ballpoint pens by the score. Yet, when one is needed, not one can be found. Again, everybody begins rummaging through the house – from kennel to the kitchen – but the pens prove elusive. “Perhaps the dogs chewed them up”, ventured the daughter, which wasn’t received too well. “They did chew up my homework”, the daughter said defensively. “I will buy another score and put it on my desk and nobody will touch it”, said the father severely. Then, while looking for a nail cutter, the wife discovered the pens, ensconced at the back of a drawer.  Take a thing like Maggi noodles. Not even in their wildest dreams would anyone expect it to go missing. But the unexpected always happens in that house. Because of the lockdown, the family stocked up on groceries. They bought a lot of ready-to-eat foods, among them a mega packet of Maggi noodles. “I will make it for you in a jiffy”, mother said airily. “I can make it myself, provided I can find it”, replied the daughter. A thorough search yielded no results. Father accused the mother of being disorganised whereupon mother told him to take over the running of the house. In the meantime, the daughter made herself a cheese sandwich. The next afternoon, while making lunch, the mother located the noodles. The packet was nestling against the rice bin!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/the-confounded-966061.html
25-03-2021||South||As Covid-19 cases shoot up again, Andhra Pradesh targets one crore vaccinations by April end||As the daily new Covid-19 cases breached the 500 mark for the first time this year, the Jaganmohan Reddy government has set a target of vaccinating one crore population by April end, covering 25 lakh people each week. About four lakh health and frontline workers, and 59.08 lakh citizens who are either over 60 years age or 45 years and above with co-morbidities are yet to be vaccinated in Andhra Pradesh. The Central government has decided to provide the Covid-19 vaccine to all those above 45 years age from 1 April. AP health officials said that 585 new positive cases were recorded from the 35,066 samples tested between Tuesday and Wednesday mornings. The state has 2946 active cases at present and a total of 8,95,121 Covid-19 cases registered till Wednesday. Reviewing the pace of the vaccination programme on Wednesday, Reddy directed the officials to initiate the immunization in all the urban areas from Monday, “as the civic polls are completed.” Reddy remarked that the uncertainty over the MPTC and ZPTC polls has become an impediment in the vaccination programme as human resources have to be allocated for the conduct of the local body polls. To expedite the immunization, the CM proposed a pilot project under which eight villages are covered in every mandal every week, by allocating the healthcare personnel four days a week in the rural areas. “Involve village, ward secretariats, volunteers, Asha workers. Initiate awareness campaigns so that everyone gets vaccinated without any fear,” Reddy said. The Chief Minister also emphasized on the “village doctor concept”, directing authorities to make sure “that each mandal has two PHCs, and each PHC two physicians.” Covid-19 tests should be conducted in the RT-PCR method and all existing facilities to treat Covid-19 patients should be continued, the CM instructed. Officials said that 5,000 beds are presently available for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/as-covid-19-cases-shoot-up-again-andhra-pradesh-targets-one-crore-vaccinations-by-april-end-966078.html
25-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu polls: A doctor's prescription for voters; BJP's Dr Saraswathi offers free knee surgery||Septuagenarian C K Saraswathi who is seeking her electoral fortunes from Modakkurichi Assembly constituency in the district on a BJP ticket has offered free knee surgeries to the deserving. This medical doctor by profession makes it a point to wear a face mask during her fervent election campaign and braves the soaring mercury to engage in hectic electioneering. Her prescription for a healthy constituency also includes attuning the young minds through introduction of moral instruction and religious books, nurturing talent, particularly at village level and ensuring employment. Notwithstanding the welfare schemes assured by her BJP, Saraswathi has offered knee surgeries to the deserving, at her personal expense.  "I heard that several people in the constituency are suffering from knee problems and being poor they are unable to afford expensive treatment. The affected persons may come to my hospital for treatment and knee surgery free of cost after the election," Dr Saraswathi told P T I. Modakkurichi from where the 76-year old soft-spoken doctor is contesting has been a bastion of the AIADMK in whose alliance the BJP is now contesting the April 6 elections. The AIADMK had retained the seat continuously for a decade and has parted with the segment to the saffron ally this time. Saraswathi is pitted against former DMK minister and party senior Subbulakshmi Jegadesan. She focuses about the welfare schemes being implemented for the people by the BJP-led government at the Centre and the AIADMK government in the state. Highlighting the salient features of the poll manifesto of the two parties, she says both the centre and state governments took effective measures to contain the spread of coronavirus. Talented rural youth will be identified and trained to excel in international sports competition. Apart from providing sports complexes for rural youth she has promised to encourage Jallikattu bull tamers by ensuring them a quota in government jobs. Introduction of digital education in all government schools is among her other promises. Saraswathi said would she also strive for obtaining national recognition for the traditional Tamil martial arts Silambam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-polls-a-doctors-prescription-for-voters-bjps-dr-saraswathi-offers-free-knee-surgery-966185.html
25-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: BJP hopes to chug into Palakkad with 'Metro Man' Sreedharan's candidature||In a literal young versus old battle, BJP's 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan will take on sitting Congress MLA Shafi Parambil here for the April 6 Kerala Assembly elections, seeking to convert his technocrat charisma into votes. A fierce triangular contest is expected this time in Palakkad, held by the United Democratic Front (UDF) since 2011, as the ruling LDF has also fielded a first timer, to take on the Congress and the BJP. The BJP, buoyed by its success in Palakkad in the recent civic polls, has fielded the 88-year-old Sreedharan to fight it out with the 38-year-old Parambil, seeking a hatrick of terms. Clad in a pastel colour shirt and traditional dhoti, Sreedharan moves swiftly from one voter to another with folded hands and his trademark gentle smile. At 88, age seems to be no barrier for Sreedharan to fit himself into the garb of a seasoned politician, as stated by his critics. Talking to people gathered around and reminding them to cast their votes on April 6 Assembly polls, the technocrat-turned-political leader travels from one place to another quickly, mingling with the crowd at ease. With the unexpected entry of Sreedharan in the poll fray as BJP nominee, Palakkad, the land of palmyra, paddy fields and chariot races incentral Kerala, has now captured national attention. While UDF has once again reposed faith in Parambil, the ruling CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), fresh from its good show in the recent civic polls in the state, aims to upset the plans of the two national parties. It has fielded a new face, C P Pramod to take on the other two. The UDF is banking on the popular image and personal influence of Parambil in the constituency and on various development and welfare initiatives implemented by him. Of the total 1.37 lakh votes polled during the 2016 Assembly elections, Shafi had garnered 57,559 votes while his nearest rival Shobha Surendran of BJP got 40,076 votes and CPI(M) candidate N N Krishnadas received 38,675 votes. A constant presence in the constituency, the young Parambil could successfully establish close personal ties with different walks of people including those in various Hindu communities during his 10-year stint. The Congress Legislator said he was sure the voters in Palakkad were happy with his performance in the last 10 years and would give him another chance to represent them in the Assembly. Known for his firebrand speeches, Shafi is also the state president of Youth Congress. However, Sreedharan seems unfazed by the youngster's popularity and is making all attempts to reach out to maximum number of voters in limited time. He also seemed to be unperturbed about the controversies and criticisms raised by his political opponents. The octogenarian recently hit headlines after photos of some voters washing his feet and others prostrating at his feet, went viral. Though his critics alleged that the photos reflected his 'feudal mindset', an unfazed Sreedharan said washing elders' feet reflected Indian culture. The former technocrat, who has vowed to make Palakkad city the best in the country in five years, talks more development and less politics during the campaign meetings. "My main focus and priority is development. The BJP is fighting the polls on the plank of development," he said. The BJP is pinning hope on its increasing vote share in the constituency, which comprises Pirayiri, Kannadi and Mathur village panchayats and Palakkad Municipality. Palakkad Municipality is one of the two civic bodies in which the saffron party is in power in the state.  If the BJP's vote share in Palakkad was 19.86 per cent in the 2011 Assembly polls, it increased to 29.08 per cent in 2016 and touched 29.76 per cent during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The saffron party hopes that Sreedharan's high profile persona and clean image would bring it rich electoral dividends. It also wants to make a mark among the various Hindu communities, who seem have a soft corner for the UDF candidate, through Sreedharan's candidature. Meanwhile, LDF nominee Pramod, entrusted with the task of taking on two big players, is making all possible efforts to reach out to maximum number of voters. During the campaign, he highlights the development programmes implemented by the Pinarayi Vijayan government in various sectors, especially in health, education and infrastructure during the last five years. His hopes lie on the votes garnered by the Left front in Palakkad Assembly segment during the last Parliamentary elections. LDF candidate M B Rajesh had polled 32.83 per cent votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The Palakkad Assembly constituency has 1,88,534 registered voters including 96,774 women and three transgenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-bjp-hopes-to-chug-into-palakkad-with-metro-man-sreedharans-candidature-966192.html
25-03-2021||South||From preparing dosa, fried fish to breaking coconuts, washing clothes, candidates spice up TN poll campaigns||Amusing spectacles unfold every day with candidates attempting a variety of things from donning the role of a chef to washing clothes to woo voters, spicing up the campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls in Tamil Nadu. Amid laughter and claps, AIADMK candidate from Royapuram here, D Jayakumar filled a pot fully with water for a woman by manually operating a roadside handpump. Also, the Fisheries Minister Jayakumar dons the signature 'MGR' cap sometimes and goes around his constituency on a cycle-rickshaw to seek votes. During his campaign, DMK nominee from Virugambakkam AVM Prabakar Raja displayed his culinary skills at a small eatery by quickly pouring batter on the tawa and making a hot dosa. If Makkal Needhi Maiam candidate Priyadarshini from Egmore sat at a roadside eatery, prepared spicy fried fish and requested support, popular actor and independent candidate Mansoor Ali Khan is going solo on a moped to seek votes. Contesting from Thondamuthur (Coimbatore region), Khan broke coconuts with dexterity using a machete belonging to a vendor selling tender coconut. When there was no one to buy the coconut he broke, he paid for it and drank the coconut water. Touring Sowcarpet here, which is home to a large number of natives of northern states, DMK nominee from Harbour constituency P K Sekar Babu and Lok Sabha MP Dayanidhi Maran sported bright red Rajasthani headgear. In the past polls, DMK wall posters in Hindi in this area were not uncommon. Going several steps ahead of all of them was the Nagapattinam segment contestant belonging to the AIADMK, Thanga Kathiravan. While canvassing votes, he spotted a woman washing clothes in Nagore in front of her house. Not stopping with offering to wash clothes of her household, he did that and after squeezing the clothes dry, came his punchline. He told her that she need not strain herself so much to wash clothes as AIADMK has promised washing machine for every household and the only thing she needed to do was to vote for the two-leaves symbol. AIADMK rival and Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam chief TTV Dhinakaran, during his campaign, mimicked late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi's voice to rounds of applause from his supporters. He imitated the late leader's voice to mock at the DMK's poll promise of Rs 1,000, 'rights' assistance to women family heads every month. Dhinakaran is fighting both the AIADMK and the DMK and he has branded the two parties as betrayers and evil force respectively. Many candidates, including former Chennai Mayor and AIADMK nominee 'Saidai' Duraisamy, did not miss an opportunity to prepare tea by stepping into roadside tea shops. BJP's star candidate Khushbu Sundar even prepared tea at the residence of a voter in her Thousand Lights segment here. Another feature seen during the current election is candidates, cutting across party lines, honouring voters with a shawl while seeking votes in both rural and urban areas. Several candidates make it a point to touch the feet of the elderly to seek their blessings, which is, however, not unusual. While AIADMK candidates V V Rajan Chellappa and M R Vijayabaskar tried their hands at traditional handlooms, PMK's M Thilaga Bama helped a vegetable vendor and several other aspirants flock to places of worship, praying for success. Also, song-dance shows, in which performers recreate popular numbers with lyrics to suit a specific party, and performances by folk artists add colour to campaigns. In a poll event, some even dressed up like 'Chhota Bheem,' 'Motu' and 'Patlu,' cartoon characters popular with children. "Stalin thaan Vaararu," (Stalin is coming) and "Boomi Ulla Varai" (a song in praise of 'Amma' Jayalalithaa) are among the campaign songs that reverberate in the poll meetings of the DMK and AIADMK.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/from-preparing-dosa-fried-fish-to-breaking-coconuts-washing-clothes-candidates-spice-up-tn-poll-campaigns-966220.html
25-03-2021||South||Taxmen search premises linked to DMK leader in poll-bound Tamil Nadu||Sleuths of the Income Tax department on Thursday conducted searches in premises linked to a noted DMK leader in Tamil Nadu, sources said. The searches over suspected tax evasion began in the morning and it covered multiple premises connected to a prominent leader of the main opposition DMK, based in Tamil Nadu's Tiruvannamalai district. Further details related to the searches are awaited. Assembly elections are scheduled on April 6 in Tamil Nadu and over the past few weeks, several premises associated with others, including political functionaries, have been searched in the state by income tax investigation officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/taxmen-search-premises-linked-to-dmk-leader-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-966323.html
25-03-2021||South||Attack on nuns upsets BJP's attempts to woo Christian votes in Kerala||The recent attack on two nuns from Kerala in Uttar Pradesh may become a setback to the attempts of the BJP to make inroads into the Christian vote banks in Kerala. As soon the the incident came to light, the CPM and the Congress in Kerala took it up. Forums like the Kerala Catholic Bishops Council had expressed anxiety over the incident. Demonstrations were also staged by some prominent churches. A four member group comprising of two nuns attached to the Sacred Heart convent that comes under the Syro Malabar church in Kerala were allegedly harassed and intimidated by a group of Bajrang Dal activists at Jhansi on March 19. The nuns, who were traveling from Delhi to Odisha, were accused of converting peolple. The incident came to light at a time when BJP's national leaders including Home Minister Amit Shah were campaigning for the party in Kerala. As soon as the incident came to light, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan sent a letter to Shah urging that stringent action should be taken against the accused. He also said that such incidents would tarnish the nation's image and tradition of religious tolerance and practices. The Centre should strongly condemn such attempts to impair individual freedoms, he said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is also on election campaign in Kerala, said the incident was the outcome of vicious propaganda of the Sangh Parivar groups to pitch one community against another and trample the minorities. "Time for us as a nation to introspect and take corrective steps to defeat such divisive forces," he tweeted. In a damage control effort, Amit Shah said during an election meeting in Kerala on Wednesday that stringent action would be taken against the attack. Sources close the BJP leadership said that the incident had upset the BJP candidates, especially in the Christian pockets of the state. The BJP was trying to make inroads into the Christian community that comes to 18 percent of state's population. Even national leaders of the party has been constantly meeting church leaders seeking support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/attack-on-nuns-upsets-bjps-attempts-to-woo-christian-votes-in-kerala-966381.html
25-03-2021||South||Kerala CM takes exception to EC decision to put on hold elections to RS seats||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday took strong exception to the Election Commission's (EC) decision to keep in abeyance the schedule of elections to fill three Rajya Sabha seats from the state after the Centre flagged some issues. His reaction comes a day after the EC decided to put the elections to three RS seats on hold. The three seats are currently held by Abdul Wahab of the IUML, K K Ragesh of the CPI(M) and Vayalar Ravi of the Congress. All the MPs are due to retire on April 21. Election to these seats was to be held on April 12 and the notification was to be issued on Wednesday. "The EC had initiated the election process. But, suddenly it was halted. Such a decision can be seen only as an attack on democracy and the Constitution of the country," Vijayan said. Hitting out at the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre, he said it does not have any right to interfere in the affairs of the poll body. Addressing a press meet, the CM noted that Article 324 of the Constitution states that the power of superintendence, direction and control of elections to Parliament, state legislatures, office of President and the office of Vice-President shall be vested with the Election Commission. "... It's been said that the election was kept in abeyance following the instruction of the Law Ministry," he alleged. Terming it as amove against Article 324, Vijayan sought to know the reason behind such a decision. Sources privy of the matter said that the Law Ministry pointed to the assembly polls in Kerala scheduled to be held on April 6 and asked if it was legally tenable to hold an exercise, where MLAs of an outgoing assembly can vote to elect Rajya Sabha members. Members of the Legislative Assembly elect Rajya Sabha members. MLAs of the outgoing assembly, in which the ruling LDF has a majority, were to elect the three new members.  Kerala assembly elections will be held on April 6 and counting on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-takes-exception-to-ec-decision-to-put-on-hold-elections-to-rs-seats-966388.html
25-03-2021||South||Kurnool Airport inaugurated again with all facilities||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy inaugurated the Kurnool Airport on Thursday, over two years after its first “inauguration” by his predecessor Chandrababu Naidu. Flight operations from the airport, located at Orvakal, about 25 kms from the city, would commence from March 28, with services to Bengaluru, Visakhapatnam, and Chennai. Kurnool is the sixth civilian airport in the state after Visakhapatnam, Tirupati, Vijayawada, Rajamundry and Kadapa. The Rayalaseema town is the designated judicial capital of the state, as per the YSRCP government plans. Jagan had met home minister Amit Shah in January requesting the centre to issue a notification to set up the AP high court at Kurnool. Reddy had also reminded Shah that the BJP's 2019 election manifesto endorsed the location of AP HC at Kurnool. The high court, at present, is functioning from Amaravati. The Kurnool Airport is named after Uyyalavada Narasimha Reddy, a valiant chieftain from the present day Kurnool district who had rebelled against the British in the 1840s. Executed in 1847, Uyyalavada is hailed as “the first-ever freedom fighter of the country.” Telugu film star Chiranjeevi's 2019 movie Sye Raa Narasimha Reddy was based on the chronicles-legends of Uyyalavada. In January 2019, ahead of the general and state assembly elections, the then CM Naidu had inaugurated the Kurnool airport, which was just the runway and terminal building. Addressing the gathering on Thursday, Chief Minister Reddy stated that the airport is now equipped with all the latest technology, fine infrastructure, and parking facility for four air-crafts. “The airport will position the judicial capital on par with other cities.” The CM slammed the previous TDP government for inaugurating an incomplete airport in a rush, “without even securing the DGCA, ATC permissions.” Reddy remarked that Naidu used the “inauguration” event as a political stunt, to garner the local votes. “We have made the airport fully functional within 18 months, by spending Rs 110 crore,” Reddy said. Hardeep Singh Puri, the civil aviation minister, joined the event virtually. Kurnool services are under the Regional Connectivity Scheme – Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik. The centre and the Andhra Pradesh government share the VGF towards the operations on an 80:20 basis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kurnool-airport-inaugurated-again-with-all-facilities-966427.html
25-03-2021||South||Puducherry government to disburse cash under free rice scheme for card holders via DBT mode||Puducherry Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has approved a proposal of the territorial government to disburse Rs 15.71 crores through banks under DBT mode to card holders in April. A release said each of the families coming under below poverty line and AAY categories would be distributed Rs 600 per card. Families coming under above poverty line category would be distributed Rs 300 per card. The Lt Governor has also approved proposal to provide Rs 4.09 crores as grant to operate the National Urban Livelihood Mission by the Puducherry Urban Development Agency. Schools that had secured 100 per cent results in urban limits in the final public examinations in March or April last year would be granted incentive of Rs 2 lakh per school and those in rural areas that had achieved 90 per cent pass in public examinations would get Rs 1 lakh as incentive. This would entail an expenditure of Rs 2.02 crores for the government, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-government-to-disburse-cash-under-free-rice-scheme-for-card-holders-via-dbt-mode-966441.html
25-03-2021||South||Gold smuggling case: Vijayan hits out at Amit Shah, asks why Customs unable to catch culprit even after 9 months||A day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah slammed him over the gold smuggling case, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday asked why the Customs department, under the BJP government, was unable to catch the person who had sent the gold even after nine months. As a counter to Shah's queries, the chief minister also posed some questions to the senior BJP leader asking him if he was aware his cabinet colleague repeatedly said the gold was not smuggled through diplomatic baggage. Shah was disappointe dover not getting anything against the Left government even after all the central agencies have investigated for over nine months, Vijayan told a press conference here. Shah had yesterday alleged that the Marxist leader had links with the prime accused in the scam. "I call upon Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan Ji to answer this straight question - Did the prime accused in the gold scam work in your office or not? Did your government give this accused monthly remuneration of Rs 3 lakh?" Shah had asked as he kickstarted the second leg of the election campaign in the southern state. Vijayan asked why the central government was not arresting the person who had sent the gold even after nine months. "We understand his disappointment in not getting anything against the Left government even after all these agencies probing it for so long.The people of Kerala know the answers to his questions," Vijayan said. The Chief Minister posed some questions to the Home Minister and asked whether he was aware of the fact that his cabinet colleague refused to accept the fact that the gold was smuggled in a diplomatic baggage in order to help the accused escape. "The person who had sent the gold from abroad is yet to be nabbed.Who used the gold sent from abroad? Why was an RSS affiliated and tainted officer in another smuggling case appointed in Thiruvananthapuram Airport?" "Is he aware of his cabinet colleague, the union minister of state for External Affairs, who repeatedly maintained that the gold was not smuggled in a diplomatic baggage," Vijayan asked. He said the state expects the home minister to answer these questions. On July 5 last year, the customs department at the International Airport here had seized gold worth about Rs 15 crore from a diplomatic baggage addressed to the UAE consulate at Thiruvanathapuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/gold-smuggling-case-vijayan-hits-out-at-amit-shah-asks-why-customs-unable-to-catch-culprit-even-after-9-months-966447.html
25-03-2021||South||No calculated grooming: DMK's Mahesh refutes claims of identity politics, backs Udhayanidhi||Tamil actor, producer and now politician Udhayanidhi Stalin is set to make his electoral debut in the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. Son of DMK president M K Stalin and grandson of late DMK founder M Karunanidhi, 43-year-old Udhayanidhi is popular for producing and acting in several movies such as Kuruvi, Aadhavan, Manmadhan Anbu and Oru Kal Oru Kannadi (OKOK). He won awards for best debut in the 2012 movie Oru Kal Oru Kannadi. After seeing his fair share of successes in the film industry, he is set to make his foray into politics. After Udhayanidhi's nomination, other political parties slammed DMK calling accusing it of identity politics. Refuting the claims, Mahesh told Indian Express, “There was no calculated grooming… but something that evolved due to the contributions made by our families.” Udhayanidhi was the managing director of the party’s mouthpiece Murasoli earlier and on July 4, 2019, he took over from his father as the secretary of DMK’s Youth Wing. Tamil Nadu is set to go to polls on April 6 in a single phase, and campaigning by major political players is already in full swing in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-calculated-grooming-dmks-mahesh-refutes-claims-of-identity-politics-backs-udhayanidhi-966451.html
25-03-2021||South||Amaravati land case: TDP releases videos of farmers refuting YSRCP govt's claims||The Telugu Desam Party has on Thursday released few videos of Amaravati farmers stating that they never actually complained about their lands being taken away forcibly or deceitfully in 2015. The TDP is claiming the videos are proof enough that the Jaganmohan Reddy government was misusing the state police to target former CM Chandrababu Naidu with a false case. The Opposition party's assertion comes about a fortnight after the Andhra Pradesh CID booked former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu and his colleague municipal administration and urban development minister P Narayana charging them of involvement in the alleged Amaravati land scam case. The Andhra Pradesh High Court last Friday provided a four-week reprieve to the two from the CID probe. Naidu and Narayana had moved the court challenging the FIRs against them. The CID's March 12 case was based on a complaint by ruling YSRCP MLA Alla Rama Krishna Reddy alleging that SC/ST-assigned lands in the Amaravati capital region were procured deceitfully by persons close to the then TDP government. Mangalagiri MLA Alla has charged that government orders were modified later, causing “irreparable loss to the weaker sections.” Naidu is made the prime accused under the SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act 1989, AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act 1977 and various IPC sections. “The CID officials betrayed the farmers by taking their signatures for confirmation whether they sold their assignment lands voluntarily or not. But then these unsuspecting locals were shown as complainants to book false cases against Chandrababu Naidu,” TDP leader Dhulipalla Narendra told reporters on Thursday. “This is an atrocious conspiracy to defame the former CM and to crush the Amaravati capital project,” the former MLA said, while releasing the videos of “sting operation on the Amaravati residents shown by the CID as complainants.” Dhulipalla said that the contentious Government Order 41 pertaining to the assignment lands was issued based on a proposal from the then Guntur collector Kantilal Dande and the higher-up official's approval. “Naidu and Narayana merely ratified the proposal in their capacity as the then CM and minister, respectively.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amaravati-land-case-tdp-releases-videos-of-farmers-refuting-ysrcp-govts-claims-966452.html
25-03-2021||South||Congress targets Kerala CM on fishing contract with US firm, CM dismisses allegations||The Congress on Thursday alleged that the involvement of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's office in the deep sea fishing contract between the state government and a US-based firm was exposed now and attempts by him to absolve from its responsibility has "miserably failed". However, Vijayan refuted the allegation and said there is a conspiracy to target the Chief Minister's office in the matter. Chennithala's attack on the chief minister came at a press conference here in response to a channel report that showcased "proof" about the knowledge and involvement of the Chief Minister and his office in the controversial project. "There is ample evidence to substantiate that the Chief Minister was well aware of the project and all details about the controversial proposal submitted by the US-based firm which mooted the project for deep sea fishing in Kerala coast," the Congress leader said. "I have not seen such a Chief Minister who tells nothing but lies," he added. A row had erupted over the MoU signed for deep-sea fishing resulting in the government terminating the pact inked with the US firm, EMCC, for deep-sea trawling and construction of state-of-the-art trawler-boats. However, the government had put the blame solely on Prashant, Managing Director of the Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) Limited, for proposing and proceeding with such a project without consulting or informing the state government. Prashant served as the private secretary to Chennithala when he became the state home minister in 2014. "There is a conspiracy hatched to target the Chief Minister's office. Since the probe is going on, I am not revealing much now. These days, nothing can be kept as a secret for long. The beginning of this issue itself was part of that conspiracy." "We have done so much for the fishermen community and have their support..," Vijayan said, adding this has irked the opposition parties. The Chief Minister said the LDF has declared in its manifesto for the assembly polls a Rs 5,000 crore package for coastal area development to protect the shores from erosion, harbour and market development along the coasts, among others,||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-targets-kerala-cm-on-fishing-contract-with-us-firm-cm-dismisses-allegations-966459.html
25-03-2021||South||Free chopper, iPhone, car, a picnic to Moon: Promises of a Tamil Nadu candidate||Expensive iPhones, a three-storied building with a swimming pool, a "small helicopter" and a 10-day tour to the Moon. Yes, you heard it right. To the Moon. Hold on. There is more: Rs 1 crore for each household, and a car worth Rs 20 lakh and a robot for women to help them with chores. These are some of the "promises" made by Thulam Saravanan who is contesting as an independent candidate in the Madurai (South) constituency. Does he have the funds to implement them? No. "I borrowed Rs 10,000 to pay the fees for filing my nomination. I didn't have money even for that," he told Deccan Herald. Then why did Saravanan promise everything under the Moon and including the moon?  "I wanted to create awareness among people on false promises being made by political parties during elections. I wanted to tell them that anything can be promised but implementation is the key," Saravanan said. A pamphlet by Saravanan promising the above mentioned and many more has now gone viral with many "ruing" they were not part of the constituency from where he is contesting. Saravanan plans to distribute 20,000 such pamphlets to his voters to tell them not to believe promises made by political parties. "People should not vote on promises made by parties during elections. They should vote for honest people. I think my pamphlet will help them think on such promises," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-chopper-iphone-car-a-picnic-to-moon-promises-of-a-tamil-nadu-candidate-966482.html
25-03-2021||South||Stalin decries 'DMK anti-Hindu campaign' allegation, says his party respects all beliefs||DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday asserted that his party respected beliefs of all the people and does not interfere in matters of faith of anyone. Always, during the run up to the elections, "some leaders and some dishonest persons who do not want the DMK to capture power run a campaign that the DMK is anti-Hindu," Stalin said. "Firmly and with humility, I would like to convey that the DMK does not interefere in anyone's faith. The government that would be led by me will respect the beliefs of all the people and I would like to make this clear from Tiruvannamalai," he said in his campaign here for the April 6 Assembly polls. The DMK chief's assertion follows AIADMK top leader and Chief Minister K Palaniswami's allegation that Stalin disrespected beliefs by removing 'kumkum' and sacred ash when it was offered to him on different occasions. Stalin, however, has now taken up 'Vel' (a spear like weapon of Lord Muruga) and it showed the power of Lord Muruga, he said. On earlier occasions too, Palaniswami had accused Stalin of displaying Vel as polls were round the corner. Faith was also a matter of choice of the people and such aspects should not be ridiculed which could hurt the sentiments of believers, Palaniswami said in a poll meet elsewhere. Stalin said those who would like to stoke communal passions should understand that "this is Tamil Nadu. Our Tamil people have a clarity that spiritualism and politics are two different things." "It will take another 100 years for the BJP to understand this," he said, alleging the saffron partymen do not have wisdom and they never gave a thought to anything. "That is why they have released the list of their candidates for the Tamil Nadu Assembly polls in Hindi. It is a government (BJP-led Centre) for the Hindi speaking people," he alleged. Tiruvannamalai is a hub of spiritualism and home to the Sri Arunachaleswarar temple, an ancient Shiva shrine. Many venerated saints, including Ramana Maharishi, have worshipped in this temple through the ages and the town is dotted with many ashrams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/stalin-decries-dmk-anti-hindu-campaign-allegation-says-his-party-respects-all-beliefs-966497.html
25-03-2021||South||Relief for Oommen Chandy as he says he's been cleared of sexual abuse allegation||In a possible shot in the arm for former Kerala Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, the Congress leader said that a Crime Branch report had come out stating that there was no evidence to support the sexual abuse allegation against him. The fresh development further strengthens claims that there was political motivation behind the Kerala Left Front government's recent decision to hand over the probe into the abuse allegation to the CBI. A woman accused in a series of cheating cases over a solar power project raised the sexual abuse allegation against Chandy while he was the Chief Minister. The Kerala Police that probed the case for years could not uncover any evidence. A report from the Kerala Home Department said that there was no evidence to support the allegations against Chandy. The woman had alleged that Chandy sexually abused her at the Chief Minister's official residence in 2012.  Chandy, who has been an MLA for more than 50 years, is contesting from his sitting seat Puthupally in the Kottayam district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/relief-for-oommen-chandy-as-he-says-hes-been-cleared-of-sexual-abuse-allegation-966502.html
25-03-2021||State||Sex scandal: Women MLCs walk out over Ibrahim's remark||Two women MLCs walked out of the Legislative Council on Wednesday “disgusted” at the manner in which the sex scandal was being described by some Congress leaders. BJP members Tejaswini Gowda and Bharathi Shetty said there were hardly three women in the Upper House (Congress’ Veena Achaiah being the third) and that they were uncomfortable with the excessive reference to the sex scandal. They walked out in protest after Congress member C M Ibrahim made a derogatory remark against the six ministers who recently moved court to get an injunction against the publication or broadcast of anything defamatory or unverified about them. “They broke the bed and then ran to court,” Ibrahim said, ticking off the women.  Meanwhile, Ibrahim insisted that the discussion on the sex CD issue was in the larger interest of the people in the state. “Why did the six ministers run to the court, fearing that CDs against them would be released? What is the content of these alleged CDs? Does it show them talking about issues in the government or are they discussing the horse trading episode in Mumbai? People of this state deserve to know,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sex-scandal-women-mlcs-walk-out-over-ibrahims-remark-966055.html
25-03-2021||State||‘9 officials suspended for guidance value lapses’||Nine officials have been suspended in connection with the registration of properties at lower guidance value than what is stipulated, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday. The minister was responding to a question raised by BJP MLC N Ravi Kumar. The minister, on the floor of the House, also directed the suspension of a sub-registrar in Belagavi, accused of tampering with the guidance value. Meanwhile, Kumar pointed out that such irregularities were rampant in almost all taluks. In some BDA Layouts near Magadi Road including Kaveripura, Maruthi Nagar, Meenakshi Nagar, Ranganathapura and Sannakki Bayalu, as many as 337 sale deeds were registered at low guidance values causing a loss to the tune of Rs 103 crore to the state exchequer, he said. There were similar instances in Belagavi, too, headded.  To this, Ashoka responded that, so far, no such instances were identified in the areas in Bengaluru mentioned by the MLC. “The residents of these areas are from economically weaker sections. The guidance value is low here as it is. Nonetheless, the government will inquire into the alleged irregularities,” he assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/9-officials-suspended-for-guidance-value-lapses-966056.html
25-03-2021||State||New order issued on social gatherings: Govt to HC||The government on Wednesday informed the High Court that a fresh notification has been issued on March 24, dealing with Covid-19 regulations in public places, compounding amount and officers authorised for the purpose.  The organisers of public events, including religious and political, will be responsible for violation of norms such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the government to give adequate publicity to the notification for the benefit of the public. The compounding amount for violation of guidelines has been notified at Rs 250 in BBMP and municipal corporation areas and Rs 100 in otherareas. The officers authorised to compound the offences include BBMP marshals, a police official not below the rank of head constable, health inspectors, bill collectors, panchayat development officers and secretaries of grampanchayats. The compounding amount for violation of guidelines in non air-conditioned halls and stores will be Rs 5,000, while it is Rs 10,000 for air-conditioned halls, branded shops, star hotels and outdoor events, including religious and political rallies. The government informed the court that an FIR has been registered against ex-MLA Vijayanand Kashappanavar for violation of Covid norms during the rally by Akhila Bharatha Lingayat Panchamasali Maha Sabha on February 21. The FIR stated that approximately 80,000 people had gathered for the rally further Kashappanavar, along with 4,000 supporters, proceeded from Mehkri Circle on Ballari Road towards Freedom Park without following the rules. The court directed the police inspector of Sadashivanagar station to ensure that the case is taken to its logical conclusion. The court also directed the investigating officer to submit details of investigation in a sealed cover.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/new-order-issued-on-social-gatherings-govt-to-hc-966057.html
25-03-2021||State||BSY defends borrowing, says govt has no magic wand||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday defended his government’s decision to borrow more loans to fund development works.  In his reply to the discussion on the 2021-22 Budget in the Legislative Assembly, Yediyurappa asked how could the government revive the economy without resorting to loans. “When governments in the past have raised loans in times of prosperity, how can we take up development works without borrowing money when Karnataka is facing adverse conditions due to the pandemic and floods,” he asked.  The government, he said, was borrowing loans only to ensure that the development cycle is maintained while ensuring relief for those affected by the pandemic. In the 2021-22 fiscal, Karnataka is set to borrow Rs 71,642 crore. In the previous 2020-21 fiscal, the state resorted to borrowing Rs 70,671 crore.  Yediyurappa read out his reply amidst sloganeering and disorder by Congress legislators who were protesting in the well of the Assembly demanding a court-monitored probe into the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and that he should be booked for rape. Also, the Congress wants the resignation of six ministers who moved court seeking an injunction against the media.  There was no “magic wand” with the government nor was the treasury an “Akshaya Patra” in the face of an unprecedented global pandemic, he said.  “I’ve presented eight budgets of which seven were revenue surplus ones. But, the dire conditions faced by the state has made it impossible. The government is ready to initiate corrective measures to address the situation,” he said, referring to the revenue deficit budget this time.  The government has come under fire for committed expenditure amounting to 102% of revenue receipts. “A few people think that committed expenditure meant salaries, administrative expenses and loan servicing. But, this is a misconception,” Yediyurappa said, adding that it included grant-in-aid to local bodies, social security pensions and other financial assistance measures. Yediyurappa also said that Karnataka had to lose out on its share in devolution as the 15th Finance Commission prioritized the welfare of backward states. No cut in SCP-TSP funds Dismissing allegations of decrease in the Scheduled Class Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan (SCP-TSP) allocation, Yediyurappa said the outlay in the new fiscal will be equal to what it was last year - Rs 27,700 crore.  The government has already set up committees to merge various departments to rationalize expenditure and enhance non-tax revenue collection to improve the state’s finances, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bsy-defends-borrowing-says-govt-has-no-magic-wand-966063.html
25-03-2021||State||Mega Lok Adalat in Karnataka on March 27||Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) has organised another Mega Lok Adalat in the state on March 27, 2021. The KSLSA had organised two Mega Lok Adalats amidst the Covid-19 pandemic in September and December 2020. Justice Aravind Kumar, who is also the executive chairman of KSLSA, informed that around 2.74 lakh cases have been identified for settlement in the Lok Adalat to be held on March 27. Former Lokayukta Justice N Santosh Hegde will inaugurate the Mega Lok Adalat in which 958 judges/judicial officers will hear the matters. "In the Lok Adalat held on September 19, 2020, a total 1,15,938 cases, including 7,383 pre-­litigation cases and 1,08,555 pending cases, were settled. In the Lok Adalat held in December 2020, a total 2,63,215 cases, including 16,325 pre­-litigation cases and 2,46,890 pending cases, were disposed of. This apart, a sum of Rs 41.59 crore was deposited to the credit of the government which was collected as fine and penalty," he said. In the Lok Adalat to be held on March 27, matters such as MACT cases, matters related to financial institutions, criminal compoundable cases, including Negotiable Instruments Act cases, civil suits, family court matters (except divorce) will be taken up either physically or through video conference.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mega-lok-adalat-in-karnataka-on-march-27-966065.html
25-03-2021||State||2024 elections will be led by Mamata: HDK||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will, in all likelihood, emerge as the leader at the forefront against the ruling regime ahead of the 2024 general elections, former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy said on Wednesday.  He was speaking at a Women's Day event organised at JP Bhavan here. Kumaraswamy asked all women leaders in his party to emulate Banerjee's courage. "She was born a commoner and struggled her way through. She has fought for several social issues. Those who she nurtured have backstabbed her today and joined BJP. If she wins these elections, she will likely lead the fight ahead of the 2024 elections." he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/2024-elections-will-be-led-by-mamata-hdk-966069.html
25-03-2021||State||Fee cut order caused Rs 2,500 crore loss: Private schools||The private unaided schools estimate a loss of Rs 2,525 crore because of the decision taken by the government to cut 30% fees during the current academic year, says a survey.  The survey was conducted by the associated management of primary and secondary schools in Karnataka. Of the 3,655-member schools, 70 participated.  They spoke about the financial loss occurring due to the decision taken by the government to cut 30% from the tuition fee collected during the previous year. As mentioned in the survey report, which has also been submitted to the Karnataka High Court, the schools which fall under budget category (Rs 35,000 fee per year) have been reeling under a crisis because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The problem is compounded as there is zero support from the government and now, the fee cut. In the survey, the school managements mentioned that the fee cut order had caused huge insecurity and school managements had become loan defaulters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/fee-cut-order-caused-rs-2500-crore-loss-private-schools-966070.html
25-03-2021||State||12th century statue unearthed in Karnataka||A 4.5-foot-tall statue of Channakeshavaswami, dating back to the 12th century, was discovered while extracting sand in Hemavathy river at Halebeluru village in the taluk on Tuesday. The discovery came to light on Wednesday. The sculpture resembles the statue at the Belur Channakeshavaswamy temple. Except slight scratches while lifting it with the help of the earth mover, there is no damage to the statue. It is said that the people who found the sculpture left it covered under the sand out of fear and then informed the authorities. There is a Channakeshava temple in the village, dating back to the Hoysala period. Renovation works are in progress at the temple, which is in a dilapidated condition. The discovered sculpture has been kept on the temple premises. The residents cleaned the sculpture and performed puja to it.  Tahsildar H B Jayakumar and police officials visited the spot. "The beautiful statue resembles those from the Hoysala period. This has been brought to the notice of the deputy commissioner. Further action will be taken as per his suggestions," Jayakumar said. The residents have urged the authorities to hand over the statue to the temple after research by the department of archaeology and museums.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/12th-century-statue-unearthed-in-karnataka-966071.html
25-03-2021||State||Evening engg colleges walk into sunset as admissions fall||The All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) has taken a decision to do away with the concept of evening engineering colleges. It has given oral instructions to institutions that run evening engineering classes in this regard. Some of the colleges which reported no admission this academic year have already been convertedinto day colleges.  Sources in AICTE told DH that the decision was taken during the 2019-20 academic year. “While the decision was taken during the last academic year, it will be implemented for the 2021-22 admissions. This will be communicated to the state higher education departments concerned for further action,” said an official from AICTE.  The decision to discontinue evening engineering colleges has come as a huge disappointment to the working professionals who would seek admission to these colleges to pursue higher education. “The admissions were made through a Common Entrance Test ranking and candidates opting for evening colleges were largely working professionals,” said the principal of an evening engineering college. These colleges were nicknamed ‘second shift college’ as they used to function with the same infrastructure, faculty and other resources of regular engineering colleges.   Prof H N Ramesh, principal, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE), Bengaluru, said, “As per the oral communication by AICTE, there may not be any evening engineering colleges from the next academic year.” UVCE was one of the most sought after evening engineering colleges in Karnataka with an intake of 180 students per year. Data from KEA shows a falling demand for engineering colleges across the state.  While the evening engineering colleges functioned like any other engineering college, the duration of the course was just three years, while it is four years in regular colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/evening-engg-colleges-walk-into-sunset-as-admissions-fall-966074.html
25-03-2021||State||Over 2,000 new Covid cases in Karnataka for second day in a row||For the second consecutive day on Wednesday, Karnataka logged over 2,000 fresh cases, reporting 2,298 new infections and 12 related fatalities. With the addition of the new cases, the caseload mounted to 9,75,955 and the toll to 12,461, a health department bulletin said. The state reported 2,010 cases on Tuesday. A total of over 2,06,74,133 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,08,013 were tested on Wednesday alone. Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,398 cases today. The day also saw 995 patients getting discharged after recovery, taking the cumulative tally to 9,46,589 discharges. According to the bulletin, out of 16,886 active cases, 16,743 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and stable, while 143 are in ICU. Seven deaths were reported from Bengaluru Urban today, Mysuru 2, and one each from Dharwad, Kalaburagi and Koppal. Kalaburagi accounted for 118 cases, Tumakuru 94, Bidar 82, Udupi 79, Mysuru 74, Hassan 60, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 4,21,236, followed by Mysuru 55,046 and Ballari 39,566. Among discharges too, Bengaluru Urban tops the list with 4,05,152, followed by Mysuru 53,550 and Ballari 38,805.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-2000-new-covid-cases-in-karnataka-for-second-day-in-a-row-966130.html
25-03-2021||State||Karnataka CM meets Assamese delegation, discusses issues related to community's welfare||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday met a delegation of the Assamese community here and discussed with them various issues related to their welfare. The delegation met the chief minister to seek regularisation of a piece of land in Bengaluru where an Assamese 'naamghar' (prayer hall) was set up and the allotment of another piece of land to the community. "Met the delegation of Assamese community & discussed various issues pertaining to the welfare of community in Karnataka. Our brothers & sisters of Assam are partners in development of our State & my Govt is committed to safeguard their interests," the chief minister said in a tweet. Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal thanked his Karnataka counterpart for meeting the delegation. "Thank you @BSYBJP ji for engaging with the Assamese community. Your support will motivate our community to add more value and warmth to Karnataka and we will together move forward with PM Shri @narendramodi ji's mantra of Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat," Sonowal quote tweeted Yediyurappa's post. In a statement, general secretary of the Sreemanta Sankardeva Cultural Society, Bengaluru, Rajeeb Barman said the delegation met the Karnataka chief minister to request him to regularise the existing (5,000 square feet) land, where the 'naamghar' is located and allotment of an additional adjacent piece of land. The chief minister assured the delegation to follow up the mater, Barman said. Barman extended gratitude to Assam chief minister and Union Minister for Development of North Eastern Region Jitendra Singh for initiating the discussion with the Karnataka government and expediting the process.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-meets-assamese-delegation-discusses-issues-related-to-communitys-welfare-966265.html
25-03-2021||State||Karnataka HC gets two new additional judges||Justice Rajendra Badamikar and Justice Khazi Jaibunnisa Mohiuddin took oath as additional judges of the Karnataka High Court on Thursday. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka administered the oath. With this appointment, the strength of high court judges goes up to 49 as against sanctioned strength of 62. Justice Rajendra Badamikar joined the judicial service as a Munsiff in October 1993. Justice Badamikar was working as Registrar General of the High Court. Justice Khazi Jayabunnisa Mohiuddin joined the judicial service as a Munsiff in October 1993 and was working as Registrar (Vigilance).||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-gets-two-new-additional-judges-966507.html
25-03-2021||State||Govt plans new cess for transport workers' welfare||In a bid to woo workers in the private transport sector, the B S Yediyurappa administration has drafted a law that proposes to introduce a new cess that will be used for their welfare. The cess, which is proposed to be levied at the time of registration of vehicles, will go towards a pool of funds for social security measures for transport workers. Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar told DH that the government will finalize this within a month's time. Be it auto-rickshaws, cabs or private buses, a certain percentage of the vehicle registration fee will go towards the creation of this cess. Although the government is mulling fixing the cess at 1% of the registration fee, the amount is yet to be finalized. The draft Karnataka State Motor Transport and other Workers Social Security and Welfare Cess Bill, which Hebbar's department is piloting, is awaiting the Finance department's approval. The Labour Department is also in talks with the Transport Department for this. A separate transport workers' welfare board will be created, on similar lines of the construction workers' welfare board, the minister said.  "Drivers lead an extremely difficult life. In the case of exigencies, their families have to get justice. We have studied similar legislation in Tamil Nadu, which seeks to protect its workers," Hebbar said.  The move comes in the wake of last year's Covid-19 lockdown during which the government promised financial aid to various sections of society, but struggled to deliver on the promise. Even though the government had assured Rs 5,000 cash benefit for construction workers, barbers and washermen, many beneficiaries have had to wait for more than a year to get this amount. "At present drivers, conductors, cleaners get a compensation of Rs 5 lakh in case of accidental death and Rs 2 lakh in case of injuries. The state government used to give grants for this. However, the grants have reduced over the years, especially in the post-Covid period," a Labour Department official said. Creating a separate pool of funds for the workers' welfare will benefit them in crisis, the official said.  The department is also discussing whether this should apply only for drivers or if it should include cleaners, conductors and other workers too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/govt-plans-new-cess-for-transport-workers-welfare-966509.html
25-03-2021||State||Kangana’s tweet: Karnataka HC quashes order for investigation||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday set aside the order of a local court in Tumakuru directing the police to investigate a private complaint filed against Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut on her tweets about farmers opposing the farming bills. Justice H P Sandesh directed the Tumakuru court to look into the matter afresh. During the hearing the bench asked the advocate appearing for Kangana as to who gave the power or authority to make such comments/allegations. The bench asked what would have been Kangana's response if similar allegations were made against her. The private complaint was filed in a local court in Tumakuru for her tweet saying that people spreading rumours about farm bills are terrorists. While setting aside the order directing the police investigation, the High Court pointed out that the magistrate did not satisfy himself on the question whether the averments in the complaint constituted offences alleged. With this order the FIR registered against Kangana stands quashed, however the private complaint will be heard by the magistrate afresh. The private complaint was filed by Ramesh Naik L, an advocate. The complainant alleged that Kangana had posted the tweet on September 21 in her Twitter handle with an intention to hurt those who were opposing the farm bills. The actor had claimed that those who had spread misinformation and rumours about Citizens Amendment Act (CAA) are now spreading rumours about farm bills and causing terror in the nation and they are terrorists. The complainant said the content of the tweet was provocative. He claimed the authorities failed to take action and prayed for the court's intervention directing the police to investigate. In her petition challenging the order of the Tumakuru court, Kangana stated that the private complaint was filed on September 25, 2020, within three days after filing a police complaint. She also contended that there was complete non-application of mind on the part of the magistrate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kangana-s-tweet-karnataka-hc-quashes-order-for-investigation-966511.html
25-03-2021||State||Covid-19 vaccination in densely populated areas: HC seeks govt's response||The High Court on Thursday directed the government to file a response on persuading people residing in thickly populated areas, including slums and shanties, to take vaccines.  A division bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar, was hearing a batch of petitions on issues surrounding Covid-19. The court said there are a large number of citizens residing in slums, shanties which include workers working at sites of infrastructural projects in Bengaluru. “The question is whether the government should make special efforts to persuade the citizens residing in thickly populated localities who are more vulnerable to the infection of Covid-19 to take vaccines. Perhaps, it will be a measure in the direction of curbing the spread of infection of Covid-19,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-vaccination-in-densely-populated-areas-hc-seeks-govts-response-966512.html
25-03-2021||State||Over 60 MLAs assure B S Yediyurappa of support||More than 60 BJP legislators met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday in what was seen as a show of strength and support for his administration.  The MLAs, many of whom are known to be Yediyurappa loyalists, came to the CM’s home office Krishna for the meeting that was anchored by Honnali MLA M P Renukacharya.  “We discussed issues pertaining to their constituencies and the upcoming bypolls,” Yediyurappa said. “It was resolved that all of us should work together.” Thursday’s meeting was significant in more ways than one. The MLAs seem to have assured Yediyurappa that they supported his leadership and wanted him to continue as the CM in the wake of former Union minister Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s repeated claims on change in leadership.  The MLAs told Yediyurappa of a signature campaign they had started against Yatnal. A petition signed by the MLAs seeking action against Yatnal will be submitted to the party leadership.  Also, the MLAs got an opportunity to complain against ministers. For quite some time, MLAs have been unhappy with the functioning of some ministers, especially about them being inaccessible. Apparently, MLAs frowned at being directed by ministers to the CM for their works.   For instance, MLAs are said to have complained with Yediyurappa that Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa had put on hold funds granted by the Finance department. Matters pertaining to the departments of minor irrigation, health, social welfare and public works were also discussed.  “We have told the CM that we are with him and that he should continue as CM and that the government is doing well,” Renukacharya, the CM’s political secretary, said, praising Yediyurappa for treating MLAs with respect. Asked about complaints against ministers, Renukacharya said: “We have told the CM whatever we had to. CM has assured that our problems wouldbe resolved.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-60-mlas-assure-b-s-yediyurappa-of-support-966516.html
25-03-2021||State||Hand-stamp, app to keep vigil on infected, home-isolated: Sudhakar||The government will soon bring back measures, including mobile-based tracking, for people who test positive for Covid-19 as well as those under quarantine to check violations. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday that indelible ink would be used to stamp the hand of home-isolated Covid positive patients in Bengaluru, and the government will keep track of home quarantined persons with the Quarantine Watch app which was deployed last year. "Previously, there would be a seal on home-quarantined people's hands. Now this will make a come back due to the second wave. We will see to it that the seal is made with indelible ink and not erased with any solution. The stamping process will begin in a couple of days," the minister said, in response to questions about people being able to easily erase it last year during the first wave of the pandemic. As per the State Covid-19 War Room report of March 23, as many as 23,484 people are in quarantine. This includes Covid positive patients in home isolation, and primary and secondary contacts in home-quarantine. Quarantine Watch app Since home-quarantined individuals are breaching quarantine frequently, the  app will be in use again, Sudhakar said. "Most Covid positive individuals are in the age-group of 20 to 40 years. And those over the age of 70 are more serious patients. The Quarantine Watch app that was previously used to monitor them will be in use again so that they don't breach quarantine and endanger others," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hand-stamp-app-to-keep-vigil-on-infected-home-isolated-sudhakar-966535.html
25-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: I have shocking evidence, claims Ramesh Jarkiholi||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi on Thursday claimed that he had ‘shocking’ evidence to show who was behind the sex scandal in which he is embroiled.  “I have (evidence) right here in my pocket. You’ll be shocked. I’ll let it out when I have to,” Ramesh told reporters.  Ramesh said this evidence was against that ‘great leader’ whom he believes orchestrated the sex scandal. “I haven’t revealed the name of the ‘great leader’ because what if he’s innocent and someone else was just using his name? So, let’s wait,” he said. The former minister downplayed a second video by the unidentified woman, who has accused him of sexual exploitation, seeking protection for her parents. “Please think about the puppetry and conspiracy involved in this,” Ramesh said. “First, her video came out half-an-hour after I filed my complaint on March 13. Now, she says her video had been sent on March 12 itself. There’s politics behind this,” he said. “I’m ready to face ten more CDs.”  The woman, according to Ramesh, was under pressure. “Also, look at the planning...what was (her) voice then and what is it now?”  The Belagavi strongman said he will not keep quiet till those involved in this ‘conspiracy’ are put behind bars. “We have also readied evidence over the last ten days,” he said. “I haven’t wronged and I will 100% succeed. With God’s blessings, I’ll come out of this.” On the Congress’ demand that he should be booked for rape, Ramesh said: “Till a few days ago, I had a lot of respect for (Congress Legislature Party leader) Siddaramaiah. I don’t know why he’s pressing for a rape case against me. God bless him.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-i-have-shocking-evidence-claims-ramesh-jarkiholi-966281.html
25-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||HD Kumaraswamy urges Karnataka govt to withdraw cases against BKU leader Rakesh Tikait||Terming cases registered against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on charges of delivering provocative speeches as an 'attempt to silence' the voice of farmers, JD(S) leader H D Kumaraswamy on Thursday demanded that it be withdrawn. Cases have been registered against Tikait in Shivamogga and Haveri. "The police have booked a case against Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait in Shivamogga and Haveri on the charges of delivering provocative speeches. This is nothing but an attempt to silence the voice of farmers," Kumaraswamy said. In a series of tweets, the former CM sought to know if cases had to really be booked against those indulging in provocative speeches, "how many should have been booked against BJP leaders by now? If they really wanted to book cases against those indulging in provocative speeches, how many cases should have been booked against BJP leaders by now?2/4 Tikait, who is at the forefront of the protests against the anti-farm laws in Delhi, was in Shivamogga on March 20 and addressed the first Raitha Mahapanchayat of south India, during which he had called upon farmers of Karnataka to intensify the protest against the anti-farm laws and block entries into Bengaluru with tractors. Police had registered a suo motu case on Tuesday against him under section 153 of the IPC. The Haveri police too have registered a suo motu case against Tikait for allegedly making a provocative speech during the Raitha Mahapanchayat held there on Sunday. Noting that there is no provocative element in Tikaits statement- "Farmers need not come to Delhi for the struggle against new farm laws. You can launch a struggle here itself like the one in Delhi, Kumaraswamy said, in fact, it is "faulty grasping" if someone feels that his statement is provocative. There is no provocative element in Tikait’s statement- “Farmers need not come to Delhi for the struggle against new farm laws. You can launch a struggle here itself like the one in Delhi”. In fact it is 'faulty grasping' if someone feels that his statement is provocative.3/4 "It is well within the rights granted by the Constitution to take up struggles and to give a call for struggle. He (Tikait) did not call for assaulting or killing. The case against Tikait should be withdrawn at the earliest," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hd-kumaraswamy-urges-karnataka-govt-to-withdraw-cases-against-bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-966330.html
25-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt to tighten watch on home-quarantined persons||The government will soon bring back tight restrictions, including surveillance, for people who test positive for Covid-19 as well as those under quarantine to check violations. Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Thursday tha0t indelible ink would be used to stamp the hand of home-isolated Covid-positive patients in Bengaluru and the government will keep track of home-quarantined persons with the Quarantine Watch app which was deployed last year. "Previously, there would be a seal on home-quarantined people's hands. Now, this will make a comeback due to the second wave. We will see to it that the seal is made with indelible ink and not erased with any solution. The stamping process will begin in a couple of days," the minister said, in response to questions about people being able to easily erase it last year during the first wave of the pandemic.  Since home-quarantined individuals are breaching quarantine frequently, the home quarantine app will be in use again, Sudhakar said. "Most Covid-positive individuals are in the age group of 20 to 40 years of age. And mortalities are being observed in older age groups. The app, previously used to monitor them, will be in use again. This is so that they don't breach quarantine and endanger others," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-to-tighten-watch-on-home-quarantined-persons-966331.html
25-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Will give protection to woman involved in sex scandal: Karnataka HM||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday reiterated the government’s willingness to provide security to the woman believed to be involved in the sex scandal and her parents.  “We will make arrangements to provide security to her parents,” Bommai said in response to the unidentified woman’s video statement Thursday seeking protection for her parents.  This woman, who is believed to be the one seen in sleaze videos with BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi, has not been located by authorities till date.  “We are ready to take the woman’s statement and give her protection provided she tells us where she is. She can testify under protection wherever she is, or she can come here,” Bommai said. He asserted that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was carrying out an unbiased probe into the scandal. “That’s why we’ve questioned Ramesh Jarkiholi also,” he said. “Our investigation isn’t for or against anyone. We just want the truth to come out.”  The minister declined to reveal details on the SIT probe. “When a case is being investigated, there will be new developments and twists. It’s not appropriate to comment on everything,” he said.  Meanwhile, Women & Child Development Minister Shashikala Jolle told reporters that her department was ready to help the woman. “If any help is required from my department, I will not fall behind in protecting the woman,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/will-give-protection-to-woman-involved-in-sex-scandal-karnataka-hm-966398.html
25-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi sex CD row: Woman releases video doubting SIT's credibility||A woman allegedly involved in the sex CD scandal that has caused a political storm released another video on Thursday, stating that she was ready to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) if her parents were given full security. In the viral video clip, the woman referred to a previous clip in which she had sought personal protection. She said she had sent the video statement to the SIT and the Bengaluru commissioner of police on March 12, but it was released on the next day soon after former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi filed a complaint. SIT chief Soumendu Mukherjee, additional commissioner of police (West), said no such video was sent by the woman to the team. "We have served five notices to her till now but there is no response from her," he said, adding, "We have requested her to appear before the SIT, or to identify the place, day and time, where we will go and provide her security and record her statement." The woman is untraceable for the last 23 days. The second video released on Thursday is 1 minute 13 seconds long. The clip released to media persons was played from a laptop and recorded from an unknown device. The officials suspect that the woman, with the help of others, was releasing the video to a person who is re-recording it from another device to ensure that the officials don't get clues about their location. What she said in the CD "I am 100% sure that my parents have not filed a complaint on their own... because they know that their daughter has not made any mistake. There is no need for them to be in fear. For me, my parents' safety is important. When I get to know they are safe, I will appear before the SIT and provide the statement and follow the procedure. Before that, I request Siddaramaiah (former chief minister), D K Shivakumar (KPCC president), Ramesh Kumar (former speaker) and women's organisations to ensure the safety of my father and mother. On March 12, I made a video and sent it to the commissioner of police office and the SIT. On March 13, after the former minister filed a complaint, my video was released in a hurry. I don't understand whose side the SIT team is on, whom they are trying to safeguard."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-sex-cd-row-woman-releases-video-doubting-sits-credibility-966402.html
25-03-2021||West||Man attempts self-immolation after power supply is cut||A man attempted to set himself on fire at the office of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) here on Wednesday evening after his power connection was cut for non-payment of bill, police said. But the attempt was foiled before he could do any harm to himself, an official said. Rajesh Sudam Band (42), a resident of Old Mangalwari are, had not paid electricity bills for the last two years and run up dues of Rs 65,176, the official said. After sending him several notices, MSEDCL disconnected the power supply to his house on Wednesday afternoon. Band arrived at the MSEDCL office in Wardhaman Nagar late in the evening when officials were in a meeting. He poured kerosene on himself and another person who was with him took out a matchbox. But MSEDCL officials immediately snatched away the matchbox and alerted the police. Band was taken to police station and offence under Section 309 of Indian Penal Code (attempt to commit suicide) was registered against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-attempts-self-immolation-after-power-supply-is-cut-966092.html
25-03-2021||West||DH Toon | SC asks ex-Mumbai top cop to approach HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to approach the Bombay High Court with his plea for CBI probe against Maharastra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh into his alleged "corrupt practices" including giving collection target of Rs 100 crore. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) invoked UAPA against suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vazein in the case involving explosive laden-Scorpio near Antilia, the Carmichael Road residence of India’s top businessman Mukesh Ambani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dh-toon-sc-asks-ex-mumbai-top-cop-to-approach-hc-966123.html
25-03-2021||West||Will welcome probe against me if Maharashtra CM orders it, says Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said he would welcome a probe if Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray orders any into former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh's allegation of corruption against him. Deshmukh made the comment in a midnight tweet and also shared the copy of his March 21 letter to Thackeray, in which he had sought immediate probe into Singh's allegation. "I had demanded the honourable chief minister to order probe into Param Bir Singh's allegation against me to clear the air. I will welcome if the honourable chief minister orders probe," Deshmukh tweeted, adding "Satyamev Jayate" (truth shall prevail). In his letter, Deshmukh had said that there is "no truth" in the allegations levelled against him and demanded investigation into the matter. In his eight-page letter to Thackeray, Singh on March 20 had created a flutter in Maharashtras political circles, claiming that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. On the same day, Deshmukh trashed the allegations Singh made against him. Under fire over the handling of the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai, the state government had on March 17 transferred Param Bir Singh from the post of city police commissioner to the low-key home guard department. A day after that, Deshmukh had said Singh was transferred after some of the latter's colleagues committed "serious and unforgivable mistakes".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-welcome-probe-against-me-if-maharashtra-cm-orders-it-says-deshmukh-966181.html
25-03-2021||West||As Maharashtra Covid-19 cases rise, Dharavi back in spotlight||Mumbai’s Dharavi pattern may have been appreciated across the world including the World Health Organization and World Bank for the way it flattened the curve last year but Asia’s largest slum cluster has again emerged as a Covid-19 hotspot. On Wednesday, 62 cases were reported from Dharavi – the highest so far this year – since it reached a peak of 85 on September 11, 2020. The rising cases in Dharavi have rattled the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) and the Maharashtra government. However, the majority of the cases are asymptomatic and patients are home quarantined. The deaths are low and in March this year, just two patients have succumbed to the infection. Dharavi falls in BMC’s G/North administrative ward, which is on mission mode to combat the situation. The slum currently has 237 active Covid-19 cases while the progressive total is 4,531. According to Assistant Municipal Commissioner Kiran Dighavkar, they are focusing on the vaccination drive and ensuring everything possible to combat the spread. “We have successfully vaccinated 5,822 citizens so far and are going into mission mode to vaccinate a maximum number of residents in Dadar-Mahim-Dharavi. We will involve local representatives, NGOs and PMPs. Community participation is the key to combating the pandemic,” he said. The closest vaccination centre to Dharavi is the Covid jumbo field centre at the Bandra-Kurla Complex. The BMC now has set up five vaccination booths at an urban health centre, popularly known as “Chhota Sion Hospital”, located off the 60-Feet Road. The BMC is also setting up two Covid Care Centres (CCCs) in the vicinity – at Vanmali Hall in Dadar with 100 beds and at Mahim Nature Park with 200 beds, which can be scaled up. Spread over 2.1 sq kms, Dharavi – sandwiched between Central and Western suburban railway lines of Mumbai – is a sort of mini-India, with about 10 lakh people staying and working. However, several of them have migrated back to their hometowns waiting for businesses to start in full swing. The first Covid-19 positive case and death from Dharavi was reported on April 1, 2020, when a 56-year-old man died. Throughout April and the first fortnight of May, the cases zoomed but then it was low in June-July. In Dharavi, the BMC had adopted the 4Ts strategy – Tracing-Tracking-Testing-Treating as part of the ‘Chase the Virus’ initiative to break the cycle. On 25 December, for the first time, Dharavi reported zero cases and then subsequently on January 22, 26, 27 and 21 and February 2. However, after that, the cases are increasing gradually.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-maharashtra-covid-19-cases-rise-dharavi-back-in-spotlight-966203.html
25-03-2021||West||Mumbai's radio-collared leopards send interesting data||Two leopards – Savitri and Maharaja – who were radio-collared and released in the Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai – have started sending interesting data on their movements, their kills and where they spend time. On 20 February, a female leopard L115, aged around three named Savitri, was radio-collared and released on the southern area of SGNP. On 22 February, a male leopard L 93, aged between 6-8 years named Maharaja was radio-collared on the northern periphery of the SGNP. SGNP is the only national park in the world to be located within metropolitan limits – and is home to 45-odd leopards, making it the highest leopard density across the globe. The data was shared by Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest Sunil Limaye, SGNP Field Director and Chief Conservator of Forest G Mallikarjuna, senior scientist Dr Vidya Athreya and researcher Nikit Surve, both from Wildlife Conservation Society-India. On one occasion, Savitri started at 7.30 pm in the morning and did a ‘parikrama’ of the Tulsi Lake covering a distance of 4.57 kms in 11 hours. The study has revealed that the male leopard Maharaja walked three times from SGNP to Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary (TWS) crossing the busy Chinchoti Bhiwandi highway and also Vasai-Diva railway line. He walked around 62 km in 6days where it covered 8 km during day time (7 am to 7 pm) and 54 km during night time(7 pm to 7 am). “Maharaja only lives inside the forested landscape but has moved between two different Protected Areas – SGNP and TWS – crossing the road and railway line. Savitri uses both SGNP and Thane Territorial Division areas indicating our man-made boundaries are not relevant to the animals. Therefore any mitigation measures have to involve not only wildlife but territorial divisions as well. Both rest in the day and move in the night,” the study states. The entire project involves radio-collaring of five leopards. While two of them were already radio-collared, the rest three would be done by the end of this year. The SGNP-TWS-Thane Territorial Division is a green lung of Mumbai – and leopards move in the night and crossroads, railway lines and streams. In the past, there have been several instances of leopards getting killed while crossing the busy Mumbai-Ahmedabad highway and on the roads surrounding Sanjay Gandhi National park including Thane Ghodbunder Road and also in Aarey milk Colony.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-radio-collared-leopards-send-interesting-data-966230.html
25-03-2021||West||Rs 4 crore fine collected from maskless people in month in Mumbai||Mumbai police have collected a fine of Rs four crore in a month from two lakh people in the city, who were found not wearing mask despite the surge in Covid-19 cases, an official said on Thursday. The amount was collected from February 20, he said. "Rs four crore fine was collected from two lakh people at different locations across the city after they were found not wearing mask," Mumbai police spokesperson DCP S Chaitanya said. "While 50 per cent of the collected fine will go to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), the rest of the amount will be used for the police welfare activities," he said, adding that the drive would continue. Mumbai on Wednesday reported its highest one-day rise in Covid-19 cases so far with 5,185 new infections coming to light, which took the caseload in the country's financial capital to 3,74,611. There are 39 active containment zones in the city, which include slums and chawls, while 432 buildings have been sealed so far after patients were found there, the civic body has said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-4-crore-fine-collected-from-maskless-people-in-month-in-mumbai-966247.html
25-03-2021||West||Goa govt will recover money from errant mine owners: Pramod Sawant||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday assured the legislative Assembly that the state government will recover money from mine owners indicted in the Shah Commission report on illegal mining in the state. The Directorate of Mines and Geology has issued notices to the mine owners for recovery, he said. "The government has submitted an affidavit before the High Court assuring to recover the amount mentioned in the Shah Commission report," Sawant said. Sardesai alleged that mine owners were running the State Directorate of Mines and Geology, which is clear from the fact that although the Shah Commission had indicted them in 2012, not a single rupee had been recovered from them till date. The Shah Commission had pegged the mining scam in the state to the tune of Rs 35,000 crore. The GFP MLA further alleged that the state crime branch, which had filed a case before the Goa bench of Bombay High Court, had requested the judges to stay the proceedings. Refuting the allegations, Sawant said the state government had filed an affidavit before the High Court bench seeking to transfer the cases to a special court, following which the court had stayed the proceedings. During the discussion, Sardesai pointed out that NGO Goa Foundation had filed a petition before the High Court pleading that state government should recover Rs 1,580 crore, which were identified by a team of chartered accountants and a demand notice for the same was sent to the mine owners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-govt-will-recover-money-from-errant-mine-owners-pramod-sawant-966248.html
25-03-2021||West||Ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh files plea in Bombay HC for CBI probe against Deshmukh||Former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh moved the Bombay High Court on Thursday maintaining charges of corruption against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and the former's removal from the most sought-after police post. Last week, Singh, a 1987-batch IPS officer, was shunted out and made the Commandant General of Home Guards. Thereafter, he had shot off a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he alleged that Deshmukh had asked for Rs 100 crore a month from suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Subsequently, he moved the Supreme Court, which asked him to approach the Bombay High Court, describing the charges as 'serious'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ex-mumbai-top-cop-param-bir-singh-files-plea-in-bombay-hc-for-cbi-probe-against-deshmukh-966271.html
25-03-2021||West||Maharashtra leaders warn of action against officers for 'helping' Centre against MVA||Senior leaders of the ruling NCP and Congress in Maharashtra on Thursday warned of strict action against some IPS and IAS officers, who allegedly secretly helped the BJP-led Centre against the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. Their warning comes in the wake of allegations that a senior IPS officer had illegally tapped calls of several politicians who were against the BJP, while the opposition party said that the phone tapping was done after due permission, and claimed that it revealed a "transfer scam". Speaking to reporters, state Deputy Chief Minister and senior NCP leader Ajit Pawar said, "No officer will be spared if found guilty. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has also asked the chief secretary to prepare a detailed report on whether some officials have erred or not. If they are found involved, they will face action." NCP leader Jitendra Awhad had on Wednesday alleged that the then Commissioner of Intelligence Rashmi Shukla had intercepted calls without permission from then Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Sitaram Kunte. Permission was sought for intercepting the calls of certain persons, but actually, the calls of some other persons were tapped, he had claimed. BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had alleged that the MVA government had suppressed Rashmi Shukla's report, which said that as per the intercepted phone calls, some police officials and politicians were allegedly involved in a transfer scam in the state home department. Pawar said, "Phone calls are generally tapped only for preventing some serious action. It is done with the permission of additional chief secretary of home department. Current chief secretary of Maharashtra Sitaram Kunte was ACS (home) then. He is known as a very straightforward officer. The CM has asked Kunte to prepare a detailed report on the allegations levelled by Fadnavis." Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole, while addressing a press conference on Thursday, alleged that there are some IAS and IPS officers in the Maharashtra cadre, who have been secretly helping the BJP-led Union government and all of them will face action as they have breached the oath of secrecy. "We have come to know that there are some IAS and IPS officers who have been secretly helping the BJP-led Centre against the MVA government. They have breached the oath of secrecy, and hence they will face action," he said. Reacting to Fadnavis's allegation, Patole said, "He is clearly misleading the people and maligning the image of the state at the national level..." The BJP has been targeting the Maharashtra government ever since it lost power, he alleged. When asked whether the MVA government is shielding home minister Anil Deshmukh in the wake of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's allegation of corruption against him, Patole said, "We are setting up an inquiry into the charges levelled by Singh in the letter. When Fadnavis was the chief minister, he used to give clean chit to his minister on his own."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-leaders-warn-of-action-against-officers-for-helping-centre-against-mva-966309.html
25-03-2021||West||Issue of Param Bir Singh's letter now over for Maha Vikas Aghadi, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the controversy surrounding former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh's allegation of corruption against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh is now over for the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state. He made the statement while speaking to reporters in New Delhi. "The issue of that letter (written by Singh) is now over for the MVA government. Home Minister Anil Deshmukh has also welcomed any inquiry into this matter," Raut said. "Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Anil Deshmukh were of the opinion that an inquiry be set up to probe the claims made by Singh in the letter. As a retired judge would be monitoring the inquiry, there is no need for removing Deshmukh from his post," he said adding there is no precedent for it. It would be clear who tried to malign the image of the state, the Shiv Sena MP said. Singh had sent an eight-page letter to Thackeray on March 20, claiming that Deshmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore monthly from bars and hotels. However, the minister had refuted the allegation. Raut also criticised Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari for not taking any decision on the names of 12 candidates recommended by the state cabinet for their nomination to the Legislative Council from his quota. "Is the governor doing PhD on those 12 candidates? Does he want to achieve a record of sitting on the names for maximum number of days? He is not respecting the constitutionally-recommended names of 12 candidates," he said. Reacting to a query related to a Maharashtra BJP delegation meeting the governor on Wednesday, the Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member said, "The opposition in Maharashtra should respect their post and duty. The opposition leader should act seriously, otherwise, people will call them fools. They would become a laughing stock." The BJP delegation led by Devendra Fadnavis met the governor on Wednesday and submitted a memorandum, urging him to seek a "status report" from the state chief secretary on the law and order situation in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/issue-of-param-bir-singhs-letter-now-over-for-maha-vikas-aghadi-says-sanjay-raut-966312.html
25-03-2021||West||BJP slams Sanjay Raut for rallying behind Anil Deshmukh despite allegation||Maharashtra BJP leader Pravin Darekar on Thursday hit out at Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut for his refusal to seek state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh's resignation despite "serious" allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh. Singh had last week written a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in which he alleged that Deshnmukh wanted police officers to collect Rs 100 crore per month from bars and hotels. Darekar said, "Sena leader Sanjay Raut had no problem in seeking the resignation of Sanjay Rathod, a minister who belonged to his own party, over his alleged involvement in the suspicious death of a young woman last month." Rathod resigned as state minister in Februaury. "However, he is refusing to demand NCP leader and home minister Anil Deshmukh's resignation despite serious charges levelled against him by Param Bir Singh. Is Raut a spokesperson of the NCP or the Shiv Sena?" the Leader of Opposition in state Legislative Council said. Raut is throwing his weight behind Deshmukh and said there is no need for his resignation, Darekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-slams-sanjay-raut-for-rallying-behind-anil-deshmukh-despite-allegation-966315.html
25-03-2021||West||Ambani bomb scare case: Being made scapegoat, says Vaze; NIA custody extended till April 3||A special court here on Thursday extended the NIA custody of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with the recovery of the explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house, till April 3. He had nothing to do with the crime and had been made a scapegoat, he told the special NIA court. Vaze (49), an assistant police inspector with Mumbai crime branch, was arrested on March 13 by the National Investigation agency. He was produced before the court after his earlier remand expired. The NIA, which has invoked the stringent provisions of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) against Vaze, sought his custody for another 15 days. "I have been made a scapegoat and have nothing to do with the case," Vaze told judge P R Sitre during the hearing. "I was investigating officer of the case for one and a half days and did whatever I could in that capacity. But there was a sudden change in some plan somewhere. I went to the NIA office on my own and was arrested," the police officer said, adding he had not confessed to anything. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, the NIA lawyer, told court that everybody was shocked to find that a policeman was involved in the crime. During the probe, the NIA recovered 62 bullets from his house and it needed to probe why they were kept there, Singh said. The police department had issued Vaze 30 bullets of which only five were recovered, and the rest were yet to be found, the ASG added. The murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran -- who had claimed that the SUV found near Ambani's house had been stolen from his possession -- was a connected case, and the NIA got the custody of two other accused arrested in that case from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad only the day before, Singh said. They need to confront Vaze with the other accused, he added. The NIA has taken over the Hiran case too. However, the judge extended the custody only till April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ambani-bomb-scare-case-being-made-scapegoat-says-vaze-nia-custody-extended-till-april-3-966333.html
25-03-2021||West||Heatwave conditions observed in Mumbai, Konkan cities||With the scorching sun and soaring Mercury, the financial capital of Mumbai and the coastal Konkan belt of Maharashtra are facing heatwave conditions. The heatwave started on Thursday and is expected to remain till Saturday, according to the Regional Meteorological Centre of the IMD. “Heatwave conditions likely in Konkan including Mumbai coming three days up to 27 March,” said Dr KS Hosalikar, Head SID, Climate Research & Services, Pune. Isolated pockets of the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and the neighbouring Thane, Palghar and Raigad districts in North Konkan and Ratnagiri-Sindhudurg in South Konkan all are recording high temperatures. In Mumbai, the Colaba observatory recorded a maximum 35.4 degrees Celsius while Santacruz recorded around 39 degrees Celsius. Palghar crossed 41 degrees Celsius in the afternoon. “A very hot and dry day again…he situation is likely to continue for the next 2 to three days,” said Hosalikar. “Dapoli station in Ratnagiri in South Konkan recorded 38 plus in the afternoon, with humidity around 40 per cent. Heatwave conditions releasing in both North as well as South Konkan as forecasted,” he said. Meanwhile, Shreekant Naik, a resident of Vasai, said: “I am feeling the heat…it is unbearable. It is just the end of March and the temperatures are soaring.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heatwave-conditions-observed-in-mumbai-konkan-cities-966349.html
25-03-2021||West||Time for inept MVA govt to quit, says Maharashtra BJP Chief Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP Chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday said the Uddhav Thackeray government had failed on all fronts and it was time for people to come forward and demand that it relinquish power. Addressing party functionaries in Thane, Patil said the MVA government was busy indulging in "extortion" while the people of the state were facing distress due to the COVID-19 pandemic. He said thousands of people face disconnection of electricity supply as part of government action amid the outbreak. People should come forward to "save Maharashtra", the BJP leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/time-for-inept-mva-govt-to-quit-says-maharashtra-bjp-chief-chandrakant-patil-966399.html
25-03-2021||West||As Covid-19 surges in Mumbai, BMC gears up for worst-case scenario||As cases in India’s financial capital of Mumbai continue to zoom, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is factoring in the worst-case scenario and making preparations for 10,000 Covid-19 patients per day. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has completed 10-lakh vaccinations. Besides, testing is being increased, which include RT-PCRs and also RATs in public places, and the hospital bed strength is being augmented. However, Mumbai’s Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said that the situation is under control and there is no reason to panic. “The municipal corporation is in full control of the situation and there is nothing to be panic,” he said. Chahal’s statement on Thursday comes in wake of the record high of 5,458 cases vis-à-vis 40,400 tests.  The positivity rate is 12 per cent and the percentage of asymptomatic patients is 84 per cent. The BMC is gearing up the total availability of DCHC/DCH Covid beds from 13,733 to 21,000 in the next 15 days in various hospitals of Mumbai. “Assuming that the number of positives in the due course of time in Mumbai increases to 10,000 per day with the assumption that 15 per cent of these would be symptomatic – requiring beds as per ICMR guidelines,” Chahal said. He pointed out that assuming that every symptomatic patient requires a bed and considering a 14 days bed occupancy, the total beds needed to handle 10,000 cases per day for a period of next six to eight weeks, around 21,000 beds would be needed. Chahal pointed out that the mortality rate is low at 4.6 per day and 0.3 per cent of the total positive cases between 10 February and March 24. He said 10 lakh vaccination has been completed in the city and the BMC has taken a decision to conduct 1 one vaccination per day. “Vaccination is the ultimate remedy to ending this pandemic,” he said, however, added that citizens need to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-covid-19-surges-in-mumbai-bmc-gears-up-for-worst-case-scenario-966408.html
25-03-2021||West||Mumbai sees over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for second day in a row||The Covid-19 pandemic continued to raise concern as the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and Maharashtra crossed the 35,000 and 10,000-mark, respectively, on Thursday. Mumbai on Thursday reported over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for the second day in a row.  In Maharashtra, 35,952 cases and 111 deaths were reported taking the progressive total to 26,00,833 and 53,795, respectively. On the other hand, Mumbai and MMR continue to post record 24-hour figures of 5,505 and 10,062, respectively. With 5,504 new Covid-19 cases, Mumbai saw the biggest-ever spike since the outbreak. The financial capital saw 2,281 recoveries and 14 deaths in the last 24 hours. On Wednesday, Mumbai had recorded 5,185 new Covid-19 cases and six deaths. The total active cases in the state now stand at 2,62,685.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-over-5000-new-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-a-row-966429.html
25-03-2021||West||Warrant against Kangana cancelled as she appears in court||A Mumbai court on Thursday cancelled a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut after she appeared before it in connection with the defamation complaint filed by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate court had issued a summons to Ranaut last month, directing her to appear on March 1. As she failed to turn up, the court issued a bailable warrant against her. The warrant was cancelled on Thursday as the actor remained present, her lawyer Rizwan Siddiquee said. Akhtar has filed a complaint against Ranaut for allegedly making false statements against him when she railed about nepotism and `cliques' in Bollywood in the aftermath of Sushant Singh Rajput's death. Last month, Mumbai police submitted a report in the court, saying prima facie an offence of defamation was made out against her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/warrant-against-kangana-cancelled-as-she-appears-in-court-966463.html
25-03-2021||West||Phone tapping row: Rashmi Shukla may have leaked letter to Fadnavis, alleges Maharashtra Chief Secretary||Amid allegations of cash for police transfers and promotions in Maharashtra that put the Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government in a mess, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte alleged that IPS officer Rashmi Shukla may have 'leaked' her confidential letter on alleged corruption in transfers in the Maharashtra police department to BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis. In a five-page 'fact-finding' report submitted to Thackeray, Kunte said that IPS officer Rashmi Shukla had unauthorisedly tapped phones and she had apologised for it in 2020. On August 25, Shukla, the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department, had submitted a report to the then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal, who had forwarded it to Kunte, then Additional Chief Secretary (Home), to be brought to the eyes of Thackeray.  Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis has alleged that Thackeray forwarded the report to state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. Incidentally, both Jaiswal and Shukla had opted for Central deputation, and are the Director General, CISF and Additional Director General, CRPF, respectively. In the report submitted to Thackeray on Thursday evening, Kunte stated that no permission for phone tapping was granted under Indian Telegraph Act – and she clearly overstepped her brief. When confronted, Shukla had admitted her mistake and apologised, citing certain personal and family issues like her husband’s death due to cancer and her children’s education. “She (Shukla) had met the Chief Minister, Home Minister (Anil Deshmukh) and myself and expressed regrets for the matter… She also sought permission to withdraw her report… Since she was a woman officer with recent traumatic problems and had admitted her fault, a sympathetic view was taken and the matter was not pursued further… Meanwhile, she was transferred to a Central posting,” Kunte said in the report. He said that the manner in which the ‘Top Secret’ report has come into the public domain is a matter of concern. “This matter is very serious and is liable for the most stringent action… It has infringed the privacy and brought avoidable disrepute to those officers and persons whose phones were tapped,” said Kunte. "Despite stamping the letter as TOP SECRET, Rashmi Shukla seems to have leaked the letter, which is very serious matter. If it is proved, she will be liable for strictest action against her," Kunte's report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/phone-tapping-row-rashmi-shukla-may-have-leaked-letter-to-fadnavis-alleges-maharashtra-chief-secretary-966520.html
25-03-2021||West||Gujarat Assembly: Congress MLA reprimanded for Savarkar remark||Gujarat Congress MLA Rutvik Makwana was on Thursday reprimanded by Assembly Speaker Rajendra Trivedi for a "controversial statement" on freedom fighter and Hindutva ideologue VD Savarkar. Makwana had made the statement on Thursday last week and the Speaker had, at the time, asked him to either apologise or bring evidence to support his claim. As evidence, Makwana produced some articles, a write- up by a former RBI governor and a book on Savarkar by author Jaywant Joglekar etc. However, Speaker Trivedi told the House "the controversial statement made by the MLA, which I do not want to repeat here, does not get support from the evidence produced by him". "This is because these are mere personal opinions of the writers, and these personal opinions cannot be counted as authentic evidence," Trivedi added. Reprimanding the MLA, Trivedi said Makwana should not make such allegations in the future against the country's respectable individuals. Trivedi added that, in case any member wanted to make such comments in the future, he will have to take the Speaker's prior permission with authentic evidence in support. Meanwhile, Leader of the Opposition Paresh Dhanani said he had authentic evidence on the issue and added that the opposition was ready for a discussion. TheSpeaker requested him to not stretch the issue or else he will also be counted as supporting Makwana's statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-assembly-congress-mla-reprimanded-for-savarkar-remark-966528.html
25-03-2021||West||NIA officials take Vaze to Thane creek where Hiren's body was found||Officials of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Thursday evening took suspended police officer Sachin Vaze to Reti Bunder creek in Thane where businessman Mansukh Hiren's body had been found. The NIA, which has now taken over both the Ambani security scare case as well as the Hiren murder matter, got further custody of Waze till April 3 earlier in the day. In the evening, some seven or eight officials took Vaze to the spot where Hiren's body had been found on March 5, a local police official said. On Wednesday, the NIA had taken custody from the Maharashtra Anti Terrorism Squad (ATS) of suspended police officer Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Gaur in the Hiren case. Vaze was arrested by the NIA on March 13 in connection with the Scorpio with gelatin sticks and a threat letter found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house in south Mumbai on February 25. Hiren had claimed that this Scorpio had been stolen from his possession a week earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-officials-take-vaze-to-thane-creek-where-hirens-body-was-found-966529.html
25-03-2021||West||After BJP, ruling MVA to knock Maharashtra Governor's door||After the BJP submitted a 100-point list to Bhagat Singh Koshyari highlighting failures of the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi, the ruling dispensation too has decided to meet the Governor. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP confirmed that a government delegation will meet Koshyari once he is back. “He is out of Mumbai, we will meet him once he is back,” he told reporters on Thursday. It may be mentioned that a BJP delegation comprising Leader of Opposition in Assembly and ex-Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, his counterpart in the Council Pravin Darekar, state unit President Chandrakant Patil, his Mumbai counterpart Mangal Prabhat Lodha and senior leaders Sudhir Mungantiwar, Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and Ashish Shelar met Governor on Wednesday. During the meeting, they apprised Governor on 100 points where they felt the MVA government has failed to discharge its Constitutional duties including the corruption charges made by ex-Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and the alleged corruption in the police transfers and promotions – as mentioned in the intelligence report. Pawar said that Thackeray has asked for a report from Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, who was then the Additional Chief Secretary (Home). Meanwhile, many senior MVA leaders are of the opinion that a judicial inquiry be held vis-à-vis Singh’s charges against Deshmukh. They called for action against senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla, the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department, for leaking out an intelligence report to the opposition members. In a related development, Housing Minister Jitendra Awhad alleged that Shukla had threatened some of the MLAs when the BJP was trying to cobble up support to form a government. He also named Minister of State for Cultural Affairs Rajendra Yadravkar, who later confirmed the development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/after-bjp-ruling-mva-to-knock-maharashtra-governors-door-966531.html
