26-03-2021||First Edit||Conquest of Delhi: A legislative coup||The passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021, by Parliament this week amounts to a legislative coup to whittle down the powers of the elected government of the Union Territory and vest these powers in the Lieutenant-Governor (L-G). Since the L-G is an appointee of the Centre, this effectively means vesting these powers in the central government. The bill defines the term “government” as the “Lieutenant-Governor”. It lays down that the cabinet has to seek the advice and opinion of the L-G before taking action on any decision and makes it mandatory for all files to be routed through the L-G. Article 239AA of the Constitution, which empowers the L-G to refer a difference of opinion with the Council of Ministers to the President, has been stretched to give the L-G the power to contradict the elected government on every issue and disable it. The statement of objects and reasons of the bill claims that it seeks to give effect to the 2018 judgement of the Supreme Court which had made clear the division of powers between the elected government and the L-G. The Supreme Court had upheld the pre-eminence of the elected government in all matters other than police, public order and land, and had made it clear that the L-G, who has “no independent decision-making power’’, has to abide by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers in all areas under its jurisdiction. This was after a series of confrontations between the Arvind Kejriwal-led AAP government and the L-G over a number of issues. It was thought that the Supreme Court order had settled the issues. But the new law has raked them up. It violates the Supreme Court’s order and the spirit of Article 239AA as interpreted by the court.  All parties, including the AAP and the BJP, had declared in public that they favoured statehood for Delhi. By curtailing even the powers that it had as a Union Territory, the Narendra Modi government has taken a big step backward. The bill declares null and void any rule that empowers the Assembly or its committees to discuss any matter of day-to-day administration or conduct. This undermines the elected government and its ability to carry on the daily administration of the territory. There may be a message in the Centre’s stance, expressed through the bill, not only for the Delhi government but for all state governments as well. Though the BJP has made declarations of commitment to federalism it has, as a policy, favoured a strong Centre and weak states. The AAP and other opposition parties have opposed the bill, and its constitutional validity will certainly be questioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/conquest-of-delhi-a-legislative-coup-966603.html
26-03-2021||First Edit||Moves to step up vaccination key||Three important decisions taken by the government in the last few days will have a bearing on the management of the Covid-19 pandemic. One is to calibrate the export of the Covishield vaccine to other countries and another is to further open up vaccination to all persons above 45 years of age. The first will increase the supply of vaccines within the country, as there are reports of shortage in some places. The second decision is, contradictorily, to prevent the wastage of vaccines, which too has been reported. It will also lead to coverage of a larger segment of the population. The third decision is to push back the second shot of the Covishield vaccine from four weeks after the first shot to 6-8 weeks. This is because the optimal immunogenicity period is said to start after eight weeks, but the shortage of supplies could also have been a factor.   The decisions have been taken in view of the surge in cases of infection in many parts of the country, which many experts fear could lead to a second wave of the epidemic. Over 60,000 cases were reported on Friday, the highest number of cases in a day in the last few months. The situation is serious in Maharashtra and the number of cases is rising in states like Karnataka and Punjab, too. A year ago this week, a nation-wide lockdown was imposed and it was gradually relaxed as the pandemic started subsiding. Now, restrictions on movements and some other measures to slow down the spread of the virus have been announced in some areas, and they may be imposed in more places in the coming days. There are also concerns over the discovery of new transmissible variants of the virus.  Increasing the number and scope of vaccinations and ensuring that Covid protocols are followed by everyone are the most important measures required to counter the resurging threat. The three decisions together will hopefully help take the vaccine to more people. While five million vaccinations a day are required, the number achieved has rarely crossed three million. But the vaccine has been wasted in many centres because of low turnout. Making it available to everyone over 45 will help to attract more people for vaccination. More private hospitals should be persuaded to offer vaccination and rules relaxed for coverage of more people. Vaccines of other companies should also be considered for use and manufacturing facilities need to be scaled up. Protocols are widely violated in election rallies and other gatherings, and the Kumbh Mela and the coming Holi festivals are likely to be ‘super spreader’ events. The country cannot afford a second coming of the pandemic and its consequences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/moves-to-step-up-vaccination-key-967015.html
26-03-2021||In Perspective||Crowds as handmaidens||With election season knocking on the doors of a few states and one Union Territory of India – Assam, West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry – even as a spike in Covid cases is being reported from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala, it might just be that both the politician and the coronavirus need human assembly to thrive. The way politicians are holding mammoth rallies betrays a paradoxical stand between what is being preached and what’s being practised. How our politicians use crowds as handmaidens, courting them, intimidating them, fooling them, exploiting them, according to their needs! In West Bengal, the so-called second wave of Covid-19 cases would be thought of as an anti-democratic wedge, irritant or distraction, eminently making room for post-truth narratives of the actual spread, because the top ministers, including the PM and Bengal CM, are courting crowds in massive rallies. The top epidemiologists advising governments cannot prize public health over democratic assemblies and even if they do, who would listen to them? Therefore, at public rallies, the crowds of non-vaccinated and non-masked people jostling for a darshan of their leaders – no matter whether they have either been bribed or intimidated, or have come of their own accord. The rally on February 28, touted to be one of the largest meetings the iconic Brigade Parade Ground in Kolkata has seen in some time, was called by the CPM-led Left Front to launch the newly formed Samyukta Morcha of the Congress, the Left and the newly minted Indian Secular Front, led by cleric Abbas Siddiqui. Narendra Modi’s rally on the same ground exactly a week later, was designed to outperform the turnout of the Left rally, for the crowds to be showcased as an agent of support for the BJP, Covid protocols be damned. Modi also feigned wonder in his opening remarks, proclaiming that he had never seen such a huge rally in his life. Heated arguments ensued over the size of the two consecutive rallies; allegations were rife that a large number of BJP handles on social media shared photos of the 2019 Left rally at the same ground, passing it off as their own rally of 2021. Why must not all our leaders be booked for playing footsie with public health? Why must not they be condemned as super spreaders? Isn’t it the very threat of contagion that has been cited to keep schools and colleges in a limbo for over a year? Thus, education has already gone for a toss with the fear of Covid spreading being bandied about, but then the pecking order is: first the government and politics, then far down the order of things, education, lack of which might make us a nation of scoundrels. But who wants an educated nation? To what end, pray, is so much stone hammered? People amassing in great numbers to join a carnival, at the funeral rites of a popular person, engaging in a buying spree at a shopping mall, or in a football stadium are threats during a pandemic. But, for the politicians, the presence of huge crowds at their public rallies is a show of strength that comes to salve their egos, even if it does not translate into votes. The paradox goes further. Our politicians court public rallies during a pandemic on democratic grounds. But when a group of people seek to gather in order to restore democracy and protest against the government, go against a ruling junta, a system of governance, against a citizenship law or farm laws, or a vested interest, they become anti-nationals. Worse, when a group of people beat or burn someone to death, the same powers that be find that the mob cannot be blamed, they cannot be caught, and the collective havoc they wreak must be expunged from our collective memory. They, who we assume are driven mad and out of control by their crowd membership, are free to go berserk, rant and rave, to lynch, rape, riot and kill. Manipulating crowd behaviour is the staple of demagogues. They must add up to electoral gains. While crowds cannot be allowed to serve a role as a collective agent for change, the role of the anonymous mob as unruly, boisterous and often murderous body of persons who disturb public order and destroy a cultural artefact or religious symbol such as the Babri Masjid has been exploited time and again. A year ago, disaggregating crowds by putting restrictions on their right to assembly citing the pandemic was the name for disaggregating disaffection against the government. Now in the election-bound states, the crowds are courted, despite the pandemic. Crowds can be used as a show of strength, riled as illegal immigrants, or made as a symbol of the superlative when they pack one of the world’s largest stadiums at Motera, made to vote en masse by some majoritarian stratagem, cajoled with some false hope, stirred with rabid nationalism, scared with a bogey of foreign aggression, or exploited using the good, old bogeys of caste and religion. Manipulation of crowds is easy, when they can be fed false narratives, or be kept largely uneducated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/crowds-as-handmaidens-966769.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Forest dept seizes 18 tiger nails; 2 teeth||Forest Mobile Squad arrested two persons who were trying to sell tiger nails and teeth at Hunsur, in the district, on Thursday. The authorities took Shankar, 40, of K R Pet taluk in Mandya district and Ganesh, 48, of Hunsur, are the accused who were smuggling 18 tiger nails and two teeth, said Deputy Conservator of Forests A T Poovaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/forest-dept-seizes-18-tiger-nails-2-teeth-966573.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Miscreants who fired at SI arrested in Dakshina Kannada||The police arrested three youth who had opened fire at police personnel including Sub Inspector Vinod Reddy posted in Kodange check post in Vittal Police station limits in the wee hours on Friday. Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police (SP) B M Laxmi Prasad said armed miscreants fired at the police and in the melee to escape the car, in which they were travelling, rammed at the barricades and came to a halt. The inmates inside the car attempted to flee. But police swung into action and succeeded in arresting Mohammed Wakir, Abdul Latif and Ashfaq. The police also seized one car, a pistol, 13 live rounds, and one dagger from the arrested. The SP said that they were part of the `D' gang group operating in Kasargod, Paivalike, Miyapadavu in neighbouring Kerala. The police had learnt that the accused were piling up firearms and even had shared a video clipping of proudly displaying pistols. A case was registered against the gang in Manjeshwara Police Station. Investigations revealed that the gang had even opened fire inside a bar in Uppala in Manjeshwara on March 25. When police rushed to the spot, they also had fired at the police before fleeing from the spot.  Vittal police had registered a case and Bantwal Circle Inspector is investigating it. The police have booked cases under sections 143, 147, 148, 353, 307, 149 of IPC act, Section 25, 27 of Arms Act, 21(b), 22 (c) of NDPS Act 1985.  IGP (western range) Devajyoti Ray, SP Laxmi Prasad, DySP Valentine D'Souza and Circle Inspector Nagaraj T||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/miscreants-who-fired-at-si-arrested-in-dakshina-kannada-966940.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cash heist with hawala link busted, five held in Mangaluru||A cash heist with a hawala link was busted and five youth were arrested by police on Friday. Mangaluru Commissioner of police N Shashi Kumar said one Abdul Salaman had complained of being robbed by unidentified miscreants on March 4. The gang after threatening him with a knife had sped with his two-wheeler and cash worth Rs 16.2 lakh. Abdul claimed that he was carrying the money to buy gold jewellery for his niece's wedding. Based on the CCTV footage obtained from the spot, police had filed cases under section 392 and 397. But during the course of the investigation, police traced the links of the heist to a systematic hawala transaction. The commissioner said the police realised that the robbery was stage-managed to earn quick money by agents and sub-agents without arousing the suspicion of their hawala operators. Commissioner said the Hawala agents, sub-agents, collect money from their `boss' and deliver it to different persons in Mangaluru. The cash is either delivered in person or through bank transactions and depositing in the bank accounts of beneficiaries with the help of cash deposit machines. Hawala agents or sub-agents receive a monthly pay of Rs 8,000 and commission up to Rs 500 per transaction.  The commissioner informed that these hawala agents also follow a set of rules. They do not use mobile phones during a financial transaction. Based on the robbery incident police arrested five youth including Mohammed Rifath Ali alias Raashith (fish vendor from Ullal), Ashfaq alias Juttu (works in APMC and hails from Faisal Nagara), Jafar Sadiq (who is into sand business and hails from BC Road), Mohammed Ismail runs a business and is a Gulf returnee and K H Mayyadi, a driver from Padubidri. The police recovered Rs 95,000 cash, two bikes, a car and have launched a search for a dozen more accused youth. Incidentally, Abdul Salaman, who filed a complaint is a Hawala agent and was absconding with his family. Commissioner said Ismail is the main mastermind who had planned the heist. Rifath and Sadiq were at the spot of stage-managed robbery while Ashfaq and Ismail were the coordinators for the robbery. There are many cases registered under different IPC sections against Mohammed Rifath in Bantwal town, Mangaluru Rural, Ullal stations. While Asfaq has many cases against him in Mangaluru Rural station and Kankanady station. There are many cases against Mohammed Ismail in Kankanady station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cash-heist-with-hawala-link-busted-five-held-in-mangaluru-966946.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police commissioner for linking of traffic violation data with RTO, insurance companies||City Police Commissioner Chandragupta opined that linking the traffic violation database with Regional Transport Office (RTO) and insurance companies will help in collecting the pending fine. A majority of the cases are pending as the violators or the owners of the vehicles neglect Field Traffic Violation Report (FTVR) notices. Thus, linking violation database with RTO and insurance companies will help in collecting the pending fine. City police had experimented in this regard and was found successful. Now, we have sent a report and the initiative can be taken up across the state, he said. The owners of the vehicles can obtain no objection certificate (NOC) after paying the pending fine, he said. The commissioner also said, “The intention of the police is not to harass the public but to ensure their safety by streamlining the traffic. We are committed for the safety of the people.” The commissioner also said that it is not possible to stop checking by the traffic police. The drive is a must to check minor driving, riding without helmet and without valid driving license among the others. However, the drive will be conducted between 10 am and 12.30 pm and 3 pm and 5 pm. The vehicles will not be stopped during the peak hours, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-commissioner-for-linking-of-traffic-violation-data-with-rto-insurance-companies-966954.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Anxiety mounts as students test Covid-positive in Srirangapatna taluk||The rising number of Covid cases among the students of government schools has caused anxiety among the parents, in Srirangapatna taluk, Mandya district. As a result, the number of students attending the schools has seen a decline. The students of Naguvanahalli, K Shettahalli and other schools have tested positive for Covid. Three students each from Naguvanahalli and K Shettahalli government schools have tested positive, according to Block Education Officer M R Anantharaju. An eighth standard student of Karnataka Public School in Arakere, in the taluk too has tested positive. More than 15 people have tested positive in M Shettahalli. The government primary and high schools have been closed. BEO Anantharaju and education coordinator Pratibha have been visiting the schools and advising the students to follow Covid precautions. Health officer S D Bannur said, "The health personnel of the primary health centres of the respective region are paying visits to the schools every day to ensure there are no students with symptoms of Covid."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/anxiety-mounts-as-students-test-covid-positive-in-srirangapatna-taluk-966957.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Enthusiasm, hard work, compassion keys for success: Karajagi||Renowned academician and motivational speaker Gururaja Karajagi said that enthusiasm, hard work and compassion are the keys to success and happiness. He was speaking during ‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’, a workshop for students, organised by Deccan Herald and Prajavani publications, in association with University of Mysore (UoM), at Senate Bhavan, Manasagangotri, in Mysuru on Friday. Karajagi said, “Success is not just money, power or physical strength. Even though they are vital for a comfortable and healthy living, it is not all. Luck favours those who work hard.” “We cannot list out all Presidents of India at one go. But, the unforgettable President is A P J Abdul Kalam. He had a child-like heart. The first phone call he made, after assuming office as President, was to his close friend Verghese Kurien, the legendary social entrepreneur. His conversation began thus: “I have a problem”. The problem was that he would get a salary, for being the President. For that, Kurien suggested him to divert the funds to his pet project Provision of Urban Amenities to Rural Areas (PURA). For many people, lack of money is problem. But, for Kalam, possession of money was a problem. Even though Mahatma Gandhi did not have any power or post, he is revered by all,” he said. Inaugurating the event online, Vice-Chancellor G Hemantha Kumar said, “Children and youth need inspiration of seniors, to be successful and resourceful. Educated parents can guide their children on the right path. There are self-made successful people, who draw inspiration remotely, with hard work. But, generally such workshops help a lot of youth, to choose the right path.” “The century-old UoM has taken up several steps for the welfare of its students, with focus on their future. While some students are under pressure to seek a job immediately after education, some aspire for higher studies. The UoM assists both,” he said. Registrar R Shivappa said, “Past and present help us to mould our future. For a dynamic society to progress, we need lessons from history. Similarly, we learn from the experiences of our parents, grandparents, teachers and other seniors. Life lessons are as important as lessons of our courses. Events like ‘Bhavishyada Dhaari’ are a ray of hope at a time when we are facing the Covid crisis.” Executive Editor of Prajavani Ravindra Bhat, General Manager (Circulation) Oliver Lesly Velitinger, owner of Mysore Tarpaulins Y Veerabhadra and president of Navodaya Foundation S R Ravi were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/enthusiasm-hard-work-compassion-keys-for-success-karajagi-966964.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19 norms violated at Nanjangud Rathotsava||Thousands of people gathered for Srikanteshwara Doddajatra Mahotsava in Nanjangud town on Friday, violating Covid-19 norms. Besides, there were a few anxious moments, as the right wheel of a chariot, carrying an idol of Goddess Parvathi, was damaged. Due to Covid second wave scare, Mysuru district administration had permitted only 500 people to be part of the event and had also issued passes. But, more than 5,000 people had gathered at the temple town, right from the crack of dawn, ignoring social distancing. The five chariots were taken out in a procession, during the auspicious Meena Lagna, between 6 am and 7 am. In place of Gauthama Ratha, Srikanteshwara idol was placed in a smaller chariot in the 1.5-km procession around the temple. The chariots carrying the idols of Parvathi, Ganesha, Subramanya and Chandikeshwara accompanied it. It returned to the temple at 8 am. As soon as the procession began, the right wheel of the chariot carrying Parvathi’s idol developed a crack, moving 20 ft, hindering the car festival for a few minutes. Later, another chariot was brought, the idol was shifted and the procession continued. As per the directions of the taluk administration, barricades were erected at the points connecting the Raja Beedhi, on Thursday evening and police personnel were deployed. But, the people residing in the areas near the ratha beedhi gathered in front of the temple and were walking through the narrow lanes around the temple, making it difficult for the authorities. Speaking to DH, MLA B Harshavardhan said, “The negligence of the officials resulted in the incident, where one of the wheels of a chariot was damaged. The engineer concerned should have inspected the chariots. I have directed the temple executive officer Ravindra to conduct an enquiry on which department inspected the chariots, and submit a report.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-norms-violated-at-nanjangud-rathotsava-966970.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Kota Srinivas Poojary assures 6th pay commission salary for Muzrai department staffers||Minister for Muzrai and Backward Classes Welfare Kota Srinivas Poojary said that the salaries of Muzrai department employees will be paid as per the recommendations of the Sixth Pay Commission and a final decision will be taken soon. In a press conference here, the minister said that a meeting of State Dharmika Parishat is convened at Vidhan Soudha on April 9, to discuss about the salaries. “There are a few technical problems to implement the Sixth Pay Commission recommendations and a majority of them are sorted out. The recommendations will be implemented after holding a discussion with Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa,” he said.  Poojary said that the process of setting up management committees for ‘B’ and ‘C’ category temples, across Karnataka, is under progress. The respective district-level Dharmika Parishat will finalise the management committees. Training will be imparted to the management committee members on their role and responsibilities, the minister said. The minister said that priests are demanding health and life insurance and pension. The matter will be discussed with the CM and a decision will be taken in a month, he said. The minister said that the department has issued strict guidelines, following the outbreak of Covid-19 second wave. Several jatra mahotsavas were held across the state and thus, the department has directed to limit the celebrations only to religious rituals. The department would restrict large gatherings and also ban entry of the devotees to the temples, if the spread of Covid increases, he said. The minister said that the Backward Classes Welfare Department is running more than 2,400 hostels and all precautionary measures are in place to contain the spread of Covid. In order to improve the hostels, district-level officials are directed to stay in a hostel once a week and state-level officials are asked to stay in a hostel once in a fortnight.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kota-srinivas-poojary-assures-6th-pay-commission-salary-for-muzrai-department-staffers-966971.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress stages protest in Mandya over MySugar factory, farm laws||Urging the government to resume the MySugar (Mysore Sugar) factory immediately, to check the rise in prices of essential commodities and to drop the amendments to farm laws, members of Congress youth wing staged a protest, by taking out a bullock cart and tractor tally in Mandya on Friday. More than 100 bullock carts, 45 tractors and hundreds of motorbikes were part of the procession, which started at MySugar factory, culminated at the deputy commissioner's office, via Sanjay Circle. They raised slogans against the state and the Union governments. Former minister N Cheluvarayaswamy rode a bullock cart. The protestors explained that the closure of MySugar factory has affected hundreds of farmers. They opposed the government's move to lease the factory for 40 years to a private player and demanded the government to take steps to run the factory. Condemning the new farm laws of the governments, they claimed that it would sound the death knell for the farmers. Even though the farmers have been staging a protest for the last 110 days in Delhi, the government has not considered their demands and is trying to favour corporate companies, they alleged. Though the price of crude oil has come down, the government has not taken any measure to slash fuel prices in India. The rising price of cooking oils, pulses and vegetables is causing hardships for common man, they said. Former MP G Madegowda flagged off the rally. Former minister P M Narendraswamy and C D Gangadhar were among the participants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-stages-protest-in-mandya-over-mysugar-factory-farm-laws-966973.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Resentment over BJP candidate’s selection for Basavakalyan bypoll||A day after the BJP announced its nominee for the April 17 bypoll to Basavakalyan Assembly segment, resentment over candidate selection reared its head with a section of party leaders and workers hitting the streets in protest. The BJP leadership picked Sharanu Salagar as party candidate for Basavakalyan Assembly by-election. Former MLA Mallikarjun Khuba, who was one of the aspirants of the party ticket, on Friday endorsed former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy's remarks that a deal had been struck for the BJP ticket to the Basavakalyan seat. Kumaraswamy had on Thursday alleged that a BJP ticket aspirant had paid huge money to the party high command for the Basavakalyan bypoll ticket. "Having faith in BJP, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, I had jumped ship from JD(S) to the BJP. Now, the ticket has been issued to an outsider, ignoring me" Mallikarjun Khuba lamented. Khuba said he would chalk out future course of action after consulting his supporters. Meanwhile, hundreds of BJP workers staged a protest in Basavakalyan town on Friday against the party leadership and Bidar MP Bhagawanth Khuba for fielding Sharanu Salagar for the bypoll.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/resentment-over-bjp-candidate-s-selection-for-basavakalyan-bypoll-966979.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress fields Satish Jarkiholi for Belagavi Lok Sabha bypoll||Congress on Friday announced the candidature of its MLA Satish Jarkiholi for Belagavi Lok Sabha segment by-poll, which is scheduled on April 17. He will face Mangala Angadi from BJP. The election was necessitated after the death of Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi in September last year. Satish Jarkiholi is currently MLA from Yamakana Maradi Assembly segment and is also Congress state unit working president. This year's election campaign will be interesting as Congress may use the sex scandal involving Satish’s brother Ramesh Jarkiholi to its advantage in the upcoming bypolls. However, former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi having taken a backseat due to the scandal, the BJP has deployed Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar as in-charge of the Belgaum bypoll. Shettar’s son is married to Angadi’s daughter. The Congress fielded former MP Chinta Mohan for the ensuing bye-election to Tirupati (SC) Parliamentary constituency of Andhra Pradesh. He will take on Karnataka Chief Secretary Ratna Prabha, who will fight from BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-fields-satish-jarkiholi-for-belagavi-lok-sabha-bypoll-966723.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Confident of people's support, says Mangala Angadi||BJP’s Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency candidate Mangala Suresh Angadi on Friday expressed confidence that she will emerge victorious in the April 17 bypoll. Mangala is the wife of Suresh Angadi, who was a Union minister before his death in September last year. Taking to Twitter, Mangal said she is grateful to the BJP for having given her the bypoll ticket. “At a time when the people of Belagavi felt orphaned with the untimely demise of Suresh Angadi, the BJP has given me a new responsibility keeping in mind Suresh’s dream and vision and the love, pride and confidence people had for him,” she said.  “I am confident that voters of the constituency, party leaders and workers will give me the love, faith and cooperation that they had for Suresh Angadi,” she said.  The BJP’s decision to field Mangala for the bypoll has set off a discussion within the party circles. While the party hopes to cash in on a ‘sympathy’ wave with her candidature, fielding someone from Suresh’s family goes against the anti-dynasty stand taken by the party leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/confident-of-peoples-support-says-mangala-angadi-966977.html
26-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||JD(S), BJP ploy to split votes in Basavakalyan: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Friday said the JD(S)' move to field a Muslim candidate for the upcoming Basavakalyan assembly bypoll was a “ploy” to split minority votes. “This is understanding politics. It’s a ploy with the BJP to cause a setback to our candidate,” Siddaramaiah told reporters.  The JD(S) has fielded Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri as its candidate for the Basavakalyan bypoll as if to reassert its secular credentials.  “Why is it that the JD(S) has fielded a candidate only in Basavakalyan and not in Maski or Belgaum? There are 40,000 minority votes that will go to Congress. To divide this, they’ve fielded a Muslim candidate. I appeal to minority voters of Basavakalyan to please understand this ploy,” Siddaramaiah said.  The Congress leader said his party has a good chance in the April 17 bypolls to the Belgaum Lok Sabha, Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments.  KTPP Amendment Siddaramaiah slammed the B S Yediyurappa administration for amending the Karnataka Transparency in Public Procurement (KTPP) Act exempting the state-run KRIDL from the tender process for works up to Rs 2 crore. “When we were in power, we passed a law reserving 50% of tenders for SC/ST contractors up to Rs 50 lakh, which I wanted to increase to Rs 1 crore. With the new amendment, where will SC/ST contractors get the benefit? They will be cheated,” he said. “Also, this will lead to corruption as there won’t be competition. KRIDL anyway does low-quality work. It’ll help MLAs give works to their choice of people and make money,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-bjp-ploy-to-split-votes-in-basavakalyan-siddaramaiah-966978.html
26-03-2021||Main Article||Khaki-Khadi nexus||The allegation by Param Bir Singh, the recently deposed Police Commissioner of Mumbai, that Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh demanded bribes from a subordinate police officer would not come as a surprise to many police officers. While Station House Officers (SHO) collecting hafta from various sources, including street vendors, and sharing the booty with their colleagues and higher-ups is common knowledge, the politician being in the loop has now come out into the open.    There was a time when politicians had no say in police functioning. The department head managed it professionally, and he was answerable only to the government. The Home portfolio was not a department of choice for many politicians. I remember an aspiring minister telling me, “What do you get from Home department, except salutes?” But politicians have since become smarter. They have discovered that they could get money, too, not just salutes. The politician realised which police stations, considered ‘lucrative’, are in great demand. Those are the stations in whose jurisdictions are located liquor shops, bars and restaurants, brothel houses and gambling dens. And there are stations in whose jurisdiction real estate development is taking place where police officers not only get money but also get a flat or two as gifts from the developers. There are also units like the Crime Branch, where officers make money by simply threatening a gangster or setting one gangster against the other and ‘giving protection’ to them. As the number of contending police officers for such lucrative posts is many times higher than the availability of such posts, many officers are willing not only to pay an initial price to get such postings but also to make recurring monthly payments to those who get them such ‘coveted’ posts. They openly flout the rule that stipulates bringing political influence in respect of service matters as misconduct. There is a race among police officers to outbid each other to get such posts. And there is a race among politicians, too, to recommend ‘their’ candidates for those posts. This ‘system’ cuts across party lines, but usually it is the local legislator or the minister in charge of the district or the Home Minister who gets such work done. But making money is not the sole reason for politicians to interfere in police postings. Politicians want the men they trust as SHOs in their constituencies to use them to suppress dissent, silence political opponents, and to aid them in illegal activities. Usually, a police officer belonging to their community or closely known to them or a native of their constituency is selected. But the important criterion is that the selected officer should be willing to do their bidding. It is like having a private army at government expense. Hence, apart from money, caste plays a major role in postings. After getting a police officer of choice, if the officer doesn’t toe the line, the same politician gets the officer posted out. There was a time when within 12 months, a politician would get three or four officers posted to the same police station to increase his earnings. To overcome this problem, some states gave a minimum tenure to SHOs and officers manning ‘executive’ posts. But politicians have already found loopholes in this procedure. When postings were decided by senior police officers, merit played a major role. But when senior officers themselves started vying for postings to districts and ranges and even to head the department by approaching politicians, they had no moral right to discipline their subordinates, and hence the system of politicians deciding police postings came to take root. What started as interference in the posting of SHOs slowly extended to higher ranks which mattered, like Circle Inspectors, Deputy SPs and even District Superintendents of Police. Initially, there was resistance on the part of some officers in the police hierarchy to such interference, but slowly they had to give in. With coalition governments becoming the order of the day, Chief Ministers and Home Ministers, too, started to agree to the demands of legislators and allowed them to have a say in police postings. Alarmed at the situation, Prakash Singh, a retired IPS officer, approached the Supreme Court and sought its intervention. A slew of reforms was mandated by the top court in 2006, the most important of which was related to postings, including the Head of State Police. While most states ignored these directions completely, some states implemented watered down versions. Dealing with Param Bir Singh’s petition on March 24, the Supreme Court remarked, “…there has been no seriousness by all concerned to ever implement the directions enshrined in the (Prakash Singh) judgement.” It is no secret that apart from politicians, some police officers themselves are responsible for this. And the political decisions in police postings continue as a quid pro quo. But the irony is that if the cop gets into trouble, as Mumbai Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze has, no politician will save him. Is there a way to break this nexus? Here are some things that need to be done. Those posts that are considered ‘executive’ should not have a tenure of more than 18 months. A person posted to such a post should not be posted to similar ‘executive’ posts for at least five years after completing his term. An officer should have served a minimum of five years of non-uniformed posting immediately preceding his posting to an executive post. There must be a roster system for postings. All postings should be decided by a committee consisting of five senior officers and its recommendation must be implemented. And those who are facing charges of corruption or criminal cases should not be considered for ‘executive’ postings. All cases of corruption should be enquired into speedily and sanctions for prosecutions should mandatorily be decided within a month of a request being made by the investigating authority. The conduct rules dealing with bringing political pressure for postings should be strictly enforced. If these suggestions are formulated as Rules, political interference in police work might reduce. (The writer is a former Director-General of Police, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/khaki-khadi-nexus-966770.html
26-03-2021||Main Article||The Yogi and the Prince||The first is a ‘yogi’ in the making. The recurring images of 2021 are those of PM Narendra Modi in a striking, cascading snowy beard framed by luxuriant white mane, launching events and election rallies -- still a veritable lion in spring. An image makeover from a tough, muscular administrator, an astute politician, the unquestioned party supremo and a much adored and feared ruler, to an elder sage, not entirely a saint, but a Raj Rishi -- still reigning over matters of State, with the reins firmly in his hand -- is a big political gamble.  His fans on social media share his pictures with words of raving adulation, juxtaposing him alongside the towering figure of the poet laureate of Bengal, Rabindranath Tagore; in Tamil Nadu, he must seem like Periyar; in Pondicherry, the mystic Shri Aurobindo. It’s like looking at some ancient paintings and temple sculptures where the same figure takes on different forms when viewed from different angles by the beholder. If Modi had the current round of elections in mind when he decided to embark on this transformation, it’s sheer marketing genius, requiring foresight, insight and advanced planning to go from his clipped white beard and well-groomed visage that had already propelled him to the heights of a demigod to this sagely figure. It’s also fraught with political risks. Who can divine the mind of the public? It is inscrutably fickle. Will those who loved a strong, muscular leader -- on which premise Modi’s image was assiduously built over decades -- accept a new, softer, sapient being, a persona now portrayed in complete contrast to the former?  The problem with strong leaders is, over time they develop opaque vision and don’t see what everyone else can see. They become cocksure. As Bertrand Russell said, “Nobody should be certain of anything. If you’re certain, you’re certainly wrong, because nothing deserves certainty.” A lack of certainty, being unsure and accepting dilemmas, is necessary in a leader as it will make him humble and impel him to seek wider consultations and reduce committing grave errors. But history bears out, strong leaders cast a spell on their people. Will Modi, going forward, consult widely, in keeping with the new image he is morphing into? From time immemorial, Indians have had a special fascination for sadhus, babas, swamis, maharishis, gurus, and the like. That world is full of charlatans and crooks. It has also been blessed with many noble souls. Modi’s moment of epiphany – to fashion himself into a sanyasi -- may have come when he went to the cave in Kedarnath. If you visit the Himalayas and sit on a peak and watch the sun rise or behold the Ganga in the higher reaches at sunset, you too will wish to just walk away forever from this base material world and dissolve in the mountain mist.  So, this dramatic transformation from a Commissar, who justified all means to achieve ends for his country, to a Yogi who has transcended all mundane and corporeal grossness of life, while being in the thick of venal politics, yet floating above it like the lotus flower, the symbol of the BJP, is an apt metaphor. The imagery is perfect. Will the people embrace Modi in the new avatar? Only time will tell.  At the other end of the spectrum, you have Rahul Gandhi, the ‘prince’ who is not able to shake off the image of a dilettante, of an easy-going dynast with privileges and entitlement -- an image that has stuck to him. He comes across as more of a perennial Prince Hamlet, forever dilly-dallying and postponing. Nehru was suave, a great thinker, but he was not a ditherer, never suffered fools, and did not let emotions and sentiment make him squeamish. Many feel that Rahul doesn’t seem to inspire his cadre and seems to lack that killer instinct his opponents possess to lead a political party. Napoleon once said. “I’m no capuchin” (I’m no saint)." An Italian proverb says, “If you wish to succeed, you must not be too good." Emerson, speaking of Napoleon, said,“Napoleon renounced, once for all, sentiments and affections, and would help himself with his hand and his head...it’s an advantage, within certain limits, to have renounced the dominion of sentiments, of gratitude and generosity; since what was an impassable bar to us, and others, becomes a convenient weapon for our purposes...”   Rahul Gandhi’s recent interviews and interactions with economists, intellectuals and reputed foreign universities reveal him as a decent, relatively young man with knowledge and maturity. He’s no ‘Pappu,’ nor an imbecile as made out by his opponents. He has wit and a sense of repartee. He is a bugbear and a gadfly who continues to bite Modi, and Modi can’t shake him off. He attracts crowds and media attention as he and his family name still have charisma with large sections of the population. He is seen as the only fierce and consistent critic of Modi from the opposition parties. The rest are conspicuous by their silence.  He seems strong as a Sherpa, accomplished in martial arts, and he has displayed phenomenal fitness on stage, competing with young athletes and besting them easily. Yet, for all his discreet attempts at image transformation, he’s perceived as weak while Modi is seen as strong. Rahul’s ambivalence when it comes to leading his party and his equivocation on many issues seem stark in contrast to the shrewd mercilessness, swiftness and purposive actions of not just Modi but of his own grandmother, Indira Gandhi.  Will the image change Rahul is attempting of himself crystallise in the minds of the populace? Will it count with the voters? Can the people decipher the precise man that he is? Will he be able to steer Congress out of its morass and unseat Modi as the latter changes his own persona and reinvents himself? We have to wait and see.  It’s not enough to “Know thyself”. To win a battle, you must “Know thy enemy,” as Sun Tzu said. Maybe, Rahul must study Modi.  (The writer is a farmer, soldier and entrepreneur)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-yogi-and-the-prince-967017.html
26-03-2021||Mysuru||Mysuru sees 89 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths||Eighty-nine persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Mysuru district, on Thursday, while two succumbed to the disease. While 68 of them are the contacts of infected persons, 15 are patients of influenza-like illness (ILI) and six are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. With this, the total cases increased to 55,135. With two deaths, the total deaths have increased to 1,046 till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/mysuru-sees-89-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-966576.html
26-03-2021||Mysuru||Nanjandud Ratha festival celebrated in Mysuru||The Srikanteshwara Swamy Jatra Mahotsava was held with religious fervour at Nanjangud in Mysuru district on Friday. Though Covid restrictions were imposed and devotees from other places banned, there were more than five thousand devotees gathered at the temple town, on Friday morning. Only 500 people, all locals, were issued passes to participate in the event.  The small silver chariots carrying the idols were pulled during the auspicious Meena lagna between 6 am and 7 am. The wheel of the chariot carrying the parvathy idol was damaged during the procession. However, the authorities brought another chariot, shifted the idol, after which the procession continued.  Lakhs of devotees used to throng Nanjangud to be a part of the Panchamaharathotsava and pull the Gauthama Ratha every year. This year the district administration has not given permission for the car festival. Hence, the small chariots were taken on a procession on the Ratha Beedhi, with idols of Ganesha, Subramanya, Chandikeshwara, Parvathy and Srikanteshwara Swamy. The car festival was cancelled due to Covid-19 last year also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/nanjandud-ratha-festival-celebrated-in-mysuru-966936.html
26-03-2021||National||Cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses given crosses 5.46 crore: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India has crossed 5.46 crore with  15,20,111 doses being given till Thursday evening, the Union Health Ministry said. A total of 5,46,65,820 vaccine doses have been given, according to the provisional report till 7 pm. These include 80,18,757 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 50,92,757 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 85,53,228 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 33,19,005 FLWs who have taken the second dose. Besides, 2,42,50,649 beneficiaries more than 60-years-old and 54,31,424 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 with specific comorbidities were also administered the first dose. "Total 15,20,111 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Thursday, the sixty-ninth day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. Out of which 14,07,520 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 1,12,591 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said, adding that final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The 14,07,520 include 9,95,387 beneficiaries aged above 60 and   2,99,475 individuals aged 45-60 with comorbidities.  The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of the frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination has commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-number-of-covid-vaccine-doses-given-crosses-546-crore-govt-966559.html
26-03-2021||National||Jal Shakti Ministry gives nod to grant national project status to Upper Bhadra Project||A step closer to declare the Upper Bhadra project as a national project, an investment committee in the Union Jal Shakti Ministry on Thursday gave its nod to grant a national project tag with an estimated investment of Rs 16,125 crore. The next step would be, the proposal would will go to Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for final approval to grant national project status,  said an official in the Ministry of Jal Shakti. Earlier, Central Water Commission under the Jal Shakti Ministry had approved the granting of national project status to the Upper Bhadra project. Once it gets the national project tag, the Centre is expected to provide about Rs 16,125 crore fund for implement various irrigation programme to irrigate around 2.25 lakh hectares in Davangere, Chitradurga, Tumakuru and Chikkamagaluru districts. Earlier, the state government had requested the Centre to grant national project status to the Upper Bhadra project so that it gets central government funding and execute the project at the earliest. The two-decade-old project, now estimated to cost Rs 22,000 crore, will be the first from the state to receive the national project tag. As per the central government guidelines, only projects covering over 2 lakh hectares under drip irrigation qualify to receive funding from the Centre if they receive national project status. Since the proposal sent by Karnataka Government meets all criteria, the Jal Shakti Ministry agreed to grant national project status to it, said the official. Designed in 2000, the Upper Bhadra project received administrative approval in 2003 with the cost of Rs 2,813 crore. However, the delay in getting forest clearances and land acquisition led to huge cost escalation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jal-shakti-ministry-gives-nod-to-grant-national-project-status-to-upper-bhadra-project-966563.html
26-03-2021||National||Govt launches second trench of coal auction||The Centre on Thursday launched the second Tranche of auction for commercial coal mining offering 67 mines for sale of fossil fuel. This is the highest number of mines on offer in a particular tranche of auction after commencement of the auction regime since 2014, the Government said in a statement. The blocks on offer are a mix of mines with small and large reserves, coking and non-coking mines and fully and partially explored blocks spread across 6 states - Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. Launching the auction process here, Union Coal Minister Pralhad Joshi said, looking at the past success, the government is moving towards adopting a ‘Rolling Auction’ mechanism for conducting future auctions. Coal is the first mineral resource where Rolling Auction mechanism is being implemented in which a pool of coal blocks will always remain available for auctions.  He also said that along with promoting commercial coal mining, the government is also looking at reforming the existing e-auction mechanism of Coal India Ltd (CIL) and considering clubbing different e-auction windows of CIL into one. This will help in moving towards 'One Price for One Coal Grade'. Selling coal at market-determined prices through one e-auction window would help in simplifying the system and promoting transparency, said a statement from the Ministry of Coal. Total 19 mines were successfully auctioned in thefirst-ever tranche of commercial coal mining auctions held last year with the premium quoted by the successful bidders ranging from 9.5 per cent to 66.75 per cent. The agreements between the Ministry of Coal and the successful bidders were signed in January this year. States will fetch around Rs. 7000 crores of revenues from these auctions considering production at peak rated capacity of 51 Million Tonnes Per Annum (MTPA), the statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-launches-second-trench-of-coal-auction-966620.html
26-03-2021||National||Less than 10% railway stations have CCTV cameras||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday informed Lok Sabha that railways has installed closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at 686 stations out of the 7,349 railway stations in India which is less than 10 per cent. “Online monitoring through CCTV cameras is done at passenger reservation centres as well as other areas of major railway stations, Goyal said while replying to a question. "If any unlawful/suspicious activity is observed, immediate action is taken. Presently, prevention of entry of persons is not done by using CCTV monitoring. However, surveillance on persons indulging in suspicious/objectionable activities is maintained and intervention is made as and when the need arises," he said. Of the 686 stations, Karnataka has CCTV cameras at 30 stations, 21 stations in Kerala have that facility, 156 are in Maharashtra. In northeastern states, except Tripura and Nagaland which have one station each with cameras, and Puducherry have no stations with CCTV cameras, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/less-than-10-railway-stations-have-cctv-cameras-966621.html
26-03-2021||National||Kerala, Uttar Pradesh account for over 77% child pornography cases||Kerala and Uttar Pradesh accounted for 77.45% of the cases of children being used for pornography in three years between 2017 and 2019 even as such cases shot by around 14 times during the period nationally. The number of cases of child abuse on the internet also rose by three times during the period with Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and West Bengal topping the list of ignominy. The figures provided by the Ministry of Women and Child Development in Rajya Sabha on Thursday showed that the cases of child pornography rose from seven cases in 2017 to 44 in 2018 and 102 in 2019. Kerala has the highest number of such cases with 45 followed by Uttar Pradesh by 34 and Madhya Pradesh 10. The topper Kerala had no such case in 2017 but 2018 recorded 18 such cases and 2019 reported 27, the highest for any state in any of the three years. Uttar Pradesh reported 34 cases -- one in 2017, eight in 2018 and 25 in 2019. When it comes to cases of child abuse on the internet, there were a total of 88 cases in 2017, which rose to 232 in 2018 and 305 in 2019. Uttar Pradesh had the highest number of 128 cases in three years followed by Kerala 55, Madhya Pradesh 40, Karnataka 35 and West Bengal 29. In a written reply in Rajya Sabha, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani said the Centre has implemented the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, which is a comprehensive law that provides protection to children from the offences of sexual assault, sexual harassment and pornography. "The POCSO Act has been amended in 2019 in order to make it more effective in dealing with cases of child sex abuse in the country. It addresses the need for stringent measures to deter the rising trend of child sex abuse in the country on one hand and the menace of relatively new kind of crimes on the other hand. Further the definition of child pornography has been included under Section 2(da) and punishment under Section 14 and Section 15 of the Act has been provided," she added. Irani also said the government periodically blocks websites containing extreme child sexual abuse material (CSAM) based on Interpol's 'worst of list' received through the CBI, the national nodal agency for Interpol in India. The Centre has also issued an order to Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to work out a suitable arrangement for receiving Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), UK list of CSAM websites and webpages on a dynamic basis and block access to child pornography. The Department of Telecom has requested all ISPs to make suitable arrangements to spread awareness among their subscribers about the use of parental control filters in the end-user machines through messages of email, invoices, SMS and website among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-uttar-pradesh-account-for-over-77-child-pornography-cases-966646.html
26-03-2021||National||US adds India to list of countries affected by African swine fever||The United States has notified that India has been added to the list of countries that have been affected by African swine fever, imposing restrictions on the import of pork and pork products from the country. In a federal notification issued on Thursday, the United States Department of Agriculture's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) said India has been to the list of regions “we consider to be affected” with African Swine Fever (ASF.) “We took this action on May 13, 2020 when the disease was confirmed and are now publishing notice in the regulations. Pork and pork products from India, including casings, are subject to APHIS import restrictions designed to mitigate the risk of ASF introduction into the United States,” the Department of Agriculture (USDA) said. It said on May 9 last year, the veterinary authorities of India reported to APHIS the occurrence of ASF in that country. “Therefore, in response to this outbreak, on May 13, 2020, APHIS added India to the list of regions where ASF exists or is reasonably believed to exist. This notice serves as an official record and public notification of that action,” the USDA said. ASF is a highly contagious animal disease of wild and domestic swine. It can spread rapidly in swine populations with extremely high rates of morbidity and mortality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-adds-india-to-list-of-countries-affected-by-african-swine-fever-966648.html
26-03-2021||National||India, US agree to work constructively to resolve key bilateral trade issues||India and the United States have agreed to work constructively to resolve key outstanding bilateral trade issues and to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the trade relationship, the Biden administration has said. United States Trade Representative Katherine Tai discussed the important trade and investment relationship between the two countries during her maiden phone call with her Indian counterpart Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal. “They committed to strengthening cooperation on shared objectives and to revitalise engagement through the US-India Trade Policy Forum. They also agreed to work constructively to resolve key outstanding bilateral trade issues and to take a comprehensive look at ways to expand the trade relationship,” the United States Trade Representative (USTR) said in a readout of the call on Thursday. Tai, who was confirmed by the Senate only a few days ago, stressed the critical importance of cooperation on a broad set of issues, including digital trade, intellectual property, agriculture, labour, and climate and environment. Tai and Goyal agreed to hold the next ministerial-level meeting of the Trade Policy Forum during 2021, the USTR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-agree-to-work-constructively-to-resolve-key-bilateral-trade-issues-966654.html
26-03-2021||National||10 things you need to know about today's Bharat Bandh||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a front of farmer unions protesting against the contentious farm laws, has called for a complete Bharat Bandh on Friday. Here are the 10 things you need to know about today's Bharat Bandh: 1. The SKM, in a statement, said that from 6 am to 6 pm, all road and rail transport, markets and other public places will be closed across the country on March 26  which marks the fourth month of the farmers' agitation along Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. 2. Senior farmers' leader Balbir Singh Rajewal had said that trade unions from organised and unorganised sectors, and transport and other associations have extended their support for the 'Bharat Bandh' call. However, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT), which claimed representation of eight crore traders in the country, said that markets will remain open as it is not participating in the 'Bharat Bandh'. 3. Rajewal said that the protesting farmers will block rail tracks in various places.  All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked.  4. SKM leader Darshan Pal said that supplies of vegetables and milk will also be stopped by the protesting farmers. 5. The SKM said that all shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under the complete Bharat Bandh. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well. The Odisha government on Thursday declared the closure of all educational institutions across the state in view of the Bandh. 6. However, emergency services like ambulance and fire will be allowed during the nationwide shutdown, it said. 7. The major impact of the 'Bharat Bandh' will be felt in Haryana and Punjab, said another farmer leader. 8. The SKM has appealed to people in the poll-bound states and Union Territory of Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal, Kerala and Puducherry to not observe the Bandh. 9. Apart from repealing the three farm laws, the demands of the protesting union include cancellation of all police cases against farmers, withdrawal of electricity bill and pollution bill and reduction in prices of diesel, petrol and gas. 10.The SKM has also appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but deadlock continued as both sides stuck to their stand. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-things-you-need-to-know-about-todays-bharat-bandh-966661.html
26-03-2021||National||US lawmaker applauds India for sending Covid vaccines to African countries||A top American lawmaker has praised India for sending Covid-19 vaccines to African countries, asserting it has shown “good faith” in humanity. India has made “vaccines available to 30 other countries in Africa,” Congresswoman Karen Bass said on India's vaccine delivery efforts in Africa during a markup of the House Foreign Affairs Committee on Thursday. “Although there are reports that the Serum Institute of India is suspending major exports of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to the continent, they have shown a good faith in humanity,” Bass, the Democratic Congresswoman from California, said as she referred to her recent meeting with India’s Ambassador to the US Taranjit Singh Sandhu. India, among others, made a grant in a delivery of 30,000 Covid-19 vaccines to Botswana, she said. During another hearing by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on Democracy in Latin America and Caribbean, Organization of American States Secretary-General Luis Almagro praised similar Indian move in the region. “Some countries have been, India for example, provided donations, many donations to Caribbean countries. Of course, this makes countries grateful because when you don't find solutions anywhere else, you find solutions wherever you can in order to vaccinate your people,” he said. “That is why I asked during my presentations for a stronger commitment of the United States of America in order to help deliver vaccines to Canada and to Mexico -- you have a third border that is Caribbean countries -- Caribbean countries -- they should be attended too -- they should be taken care of too,” Almagro said. India has so far sent more than 60 million doses of Covid19 vaccines to over 70 countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-lawmaker-applauds-india-for-sending-covid-vaccines-to-african-countries-966662.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi leaves for Bangladesh on two-day visit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi left for Bangladesh on Friday on a two-day visit during which he will take part in a wide range of programmes aimed at furthering cooperation between the two countries. "PM @narendramodi emplanes for Dhaka. During his Bangladesh visit he will take part in a wide range of programmes aimed at furthering cooperation with our friendly neighbour," the PMO tweeted, sharing a picture of Modi boarding the aircraft. The prime minister had on Thursday said he will hold substantive discussions with his Bangladeshi counterpart, Sheikh Hasina, during the visit, as he expressed happiness that his first foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic will be to a friendly neighbouring country with which India shares deep ties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-for-bangladesh-on-two-day-visit-966672.html
26-03-2021||National||India sees over 59,000 new Covid-19 cases, 257 deaths, biggest spike so far this year||India saw 59,118 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,18,46,652, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Friday. The active caseload breached the 4 lakh-mark again after around three-and-half months. Registering an increase for the 16th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 4,21,066 comprising 3.55 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 95.09 per cent, the data stated. The 59,118 new infections reported in a span of 24 hours were the highest since October 18, 2020. The death toll increased to 1,60,949 with 257 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 61,871 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 18. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,64,637, while the case fatality rate was recorded at 1.36 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 23,86,04,638 samples have been tested up to March 25 with 11,00,756 samples being tested on Thursday. The 257 new fatalities include 111 from Maharashtra, 43 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 from Kerala, 11 from Tamil Nadu and 10 from Karnataka. A total of 1,60,949  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,795 from Maharashtra, 12,641 from Tamil Nadu, 12,471 from Karnataka, 10,978 from Delhi, 10,316 from West Bengal, 8,773 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,201 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,517 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-59000-new-covid-19-cases-257-deaths-biggest-spike-so-far-this-year-966680.html
26-03-2021||National||India’s gift of 2 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses to be sent to UN peacekeepers on March 27||The 2,00,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines, announced as a gift by India, will be sent to the UN peacekeepers on March 27 and then will be distributed to the peacekeeping missions. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had announced in February that India will gift 200,000 Covid-19 doses for UN peacekeepers. “Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 2,00,000 doses for them,” Jaishankar said had said while addressing the UN Security Council open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020) on the cessation of hostilities in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Quoting the Bhagvad Gita, Jaishankar had said “Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind.” The 2,00,000 doses essentially mean that it will be possible to administer the required double doses of Covid-19 vaccines to all UN peacekeepers across missions. According to UN Peacekeeping, as of January 31, 2021, a total of 85,782 personnel are serving in 12 peacekeeping operations across the world led by the Department of Peace Operations. A total of 121 nations are contributing uniformed personnel to the UN peacekeeping missions. India is traditionally among the largest troop contributing countries to peacekeeping missions. Sources said the 2,00,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine will depart Mumbai via Qatar Airways on March 27. The shipment will go to Copenhagen, where it will be safely stored in a facility, re-packaged and quickly distributed to peacekeeping missions for the peacekeepers. The Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield is being manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute. The SII has collaborated with Oxford University and pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca for making the vaccine. Covaxin is the indigenously developed vaccine by pharma company Bharat Biotech. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had said that he is “extremely grateful” for the gift of 2,00,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers announced by India, the world's biggest drugmaker. Under India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative, which translates into Vaccine Friendship, the country has been providing vaccines to nations across the world -- from India’s immediate neighbours to countries in Latin America and Africa -- and is a significant source of supply to the COVAX facility. More than 58 million Made in India coronavirus vaccine doses have reached about 70 countries in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-s-gift-of-2-lakh-covid-19-vaccine-doses-to-be-sent-to-un-peacekeepers-on-march-27-966683.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi hails Bangabandhu, stresses on partnership between India, Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that the assassination of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in 1975 deprived the region of the destiny that could and should have been "ours to share" as he asserted that it was time to once again chart a bold ambition for partnership between India and Bangladesh. In an opinion piece titled ‘Imagining a different South Asia with Bangabandhu’ published in The Daily Star newspaper on Friday, Prime Minister Modi promised that India will remain Bangladesh's partner as they jointly march towards the golden future for which Bangabandhu, and millions of patriotic Bangladeshis, and indeed thousands of Indians, gave their all. "The assassination of the Father of Bangladesh deprived the region of the destiny that could and should have been ours to share," Modi said. "As we look back on Bangabandhu’s life and struggle, I ask myself, what could our subcontinent have looked like, had this modern-day giant not been assassinated?" wrote Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus. Modi said the Bangabandhu’s killers wanted to reverse the gains of Bangladesh's independence, for which he had led a heroic struggle. "They also wanted to strike a mortal blow to Bangabandhu's dream of building a cooperative, peaceful and harmonious subcontinent," he said. Despite unflinching commitment to his cause, and despite all the persecutions he suffered, Bangabandhu retained a generosity of spirit that is a mark of true greatness, Modi said, adding that the Bangladeshi leader's progressive belief in fairness, equality and inclusiveness is captured in the words he wrote in the 1950s, "I know at least this much: no one should be murdered because he holds views different from mine." "In him, we saw a tall leader whose vision went beyond the narrow confines of physical borders and social divisions. That is why we join our Bangladeshi sisters and brothers in celebrating Bangabandhu's memory in this very special Mujib Borsho," Modi wrote. Modi said that with Bangabandhu at the helm, Bangladesh and the region would have evolved along a very different trajectory. "A sovereign, self-confident Bangladesh, at peace with its neighbours, bearing friendship to all and malice towards none, was rising fast from the ashes of a painful war. If this had continued, perhaps India and Bangladesh could have achieved many decades ago some of the accomplishments that we were able to reach only recently,” Modi said. Citing the example of the 2015 Land Boundary Agreement between India and Bangladesh, Modi said that had Bangabandhu been at the helm longer, this achievement may have come much earlier. "With the spirit of the Liberation War energising us, and with Bangabandhu as the guiding star, this region, at least the Bay of Bengal area, might have been in a different reality now," he said. Modi said that he firmly believes that the two countries are once again striving towards a destiny that the Liberation of Bangladesh had once augured for the region. "It is time to once again chart a bold ambition for our partnership, as Bangabandhu would have done. With the spirit and enterprise of our people as our Bhagya Vidhata, the dispenser of our shared destiny, such a future is closer than ever," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-bangabandhu-stresses-on-partnership-between-india-bangladesh-966686.html
26-03-2021||National||Bharat Bandh: Traffic movement suspended on Ghazipur border||The Delhi Police on Friday closed both carriageways of National Highway-24 passing through the Ghazipur border in view of the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions protesting against the three agri laws. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting unions, have given a call for the bandh. In a tweet, the Delhi Traffic Police said, "Traffic movement is closed on Ghazipur Border NH-24 (Both carriageways)." The one side of the carriageway was earlier opened on March 15 for traffic. However, the other side from Ghaziabad towards Delhi is closed since the farmers' protest started. The Delhi Police has said adequate security arrangements have been put in place in view of the bandh. Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal had said there will be intense patrolling to maintain peace in the national capital. "There will be adequate security arrangements in all police districts during the bandh. "The patrolling staff will roam in their area throughout the day and their focus will be to maintain peace in busy marketplaces," Biswal had said. The nationwide shutdown will start at 6 am and it will be in force up to 6 pm across the country to mark four months of the farmers' agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri, farmer leaders had said. The Morcha said the bandh will also be observed in the national capital. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price on their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bharat-bandh-traffic-movement-suspended-on-ghazipur-border-966694.html
26-03-2021||National||Former RBI deputy governor K C Chakrabarty passes away||Former Deputy Governor of Reserve Bank K C Chakrabarty passed away following a heart attack on Friday. He was 68. Chakrabarty, a commercial banker-turned-central banker, died at his home in suburban Chembur, banking industry sources said. After his stint at state-run lenders like Bank of Baroda, Indian Bank and Punjab National Bank, the outspoken Chakrabarty had joined the RBI as a DG in 2009 and resigned in 2014, three months before his term ended. Before banking, Chakrabarty had taught at the Banaras Hindu University before entering commercial banking. At RBI, he handled a variety of departments including banking regulation and supervision as the DG. Following reports of an "RBI official" putting question marks over policy efficacy in tackling inflation, he was stripped of many responsibilities by the then Governor D Subbarao, and was left with only the Rajbhasha Department. Subsequently, his responsibilities were restored. At RBI, he had a reputation for sharp wit, humour and quick retorts. He frequently critiqued his former commercial banking colleagues for blaming rise in dud loans as 'system-generated NPAs', insisted on financial inclusion targets and had a very public spat with former SBI chairman Pratip Chaudhuri over interest on cash reserve ratio (CRR). After his resignation, he had shifted base to London, where he was posted earlier in his career while working for Bank of Baroda. In 2018, his name cropped up as a suspect in two cases investigated by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), including one related to the Vijay Mallya-owned Kingfisher Airlines. He was also prevented from flying out to London because of a lookout circular against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-rbi-deputy-governor-k-c-chakrabarty-passes-away-966711.html
26-03-2021||National||SC rules in favour of Tatas in corporate battle with Cyrus Mistry||The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the removal of Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons and director on the board of the company. The Court ruled in favour of Tatas in one of the most high-profile and publicly fought corporate battles. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian set aside the NCLAT order restoring Mistry as the chairman of Tata Sons. The top court also refused to consider a plea by Shapoorji Pallonji group for fair compensation of their equity shares in Tata Sons.  It said value of SP group shares will depend on valuation of Tata Sons’ equities and that the court would not get into determining what should be a fair value. Mistry was handpicked by chairman emeritus Ratan Tata in 2012 and sacked in 2016 as chairman of the salt-to-software conglomerate. On January 10, 2020, the court stayed in toto the NCLAT order of December 18, 2019 which reinstated Mistry, noting several "lacunae".  NCLAT had held the group's chairman emeritus Ratan Tata's actions against Mistry were oppressive and the appointment of a new chairman was illegal. The top court had reserved the verdict on December 17, last year in cross appeals filed by Tata Sons, Ratan Tata and Cyrus Investment and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-rules-in-favour-of-tatas-in-corporate-battle-with-cyrus-mistry-966712.html
26-03-2021||National||SC reserves judgment on Maratha reservation issue||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its judgement on petitions challenging the constitutional validity of a law that grants reservation to the Maratha community in education and jobs in Maharashtra. The apex court reserved its judgment in challenge to the constitutionality of the Maharashtra SEBC Act which extends reservations in public employment and education for the Maratha Community and on the question of whether the Indra Sawhney case requires revisiting. [Maratha Reservations Case] Supreme Court reserves Judgment on: - challenge to Maharashtra SEBC Act- challenge to 102nd Constitutional amendment- whether the Indra Sawhney case requires a re-look More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-reserves-judgment-on-maratha-reservation-issue-966714.html
26-03-2021||National||SC dismisses plea to stay sale of electoral bonds ahead of Assembly polls||The Supreme Court on Friday refused to stay the sale of fresh set of electoral bonds from April 1, amid state Assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam and Union Territory Puducherry. "Since the electoral bonds were allowed to be released in 2018 and 2019 and 2020 without interruption, and sufficient safeguards are there, we do not see any justification to stay the electoral bonds at present," a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde said. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian dismissed the application filed by advocate Prashant Bhushan on behalf of NGO 'Association of Democratic Reforms' to restrain the authorities from release fresh tranche of bonds. The court had on March 24 reserved the order in the case after hearing arguments from all the parties. Attorney General of India K K Venugopal had then assured the Court that funds received through electoral bonds were white money that could only be issued through cheque and demand draft, and for which Know Your Customer (KYC) norms had to be followed. He said that the Electoral Bonds scheme will be open from April 1 to 10 after permission was granted by the Election Commission. Advocate Prashant Bhushan appearing for ADR, had argued that the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has written a letter in which it was stated that the electoral bond scheme was fraught with risk and would impact India's financial system. He also claimed the RBI raised the apprehension that this would facilitate money laundering through shell company. The Finance Ministry on January 02, 2018 notified the Electoral Bond Scheme, 2018. As per the scheme, an electoral bond is a bond issued in the nature of promissory note, it may be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or entities incorporated or established in India. The bonds are issued in multiples of Rs 1,000, Rs 10,000, Rs 1 lakh, Rs 10 lakhs and Rs 1 crore.  The petitioner asked the court to restrain the authorities from further selling of Electoral Bonds during pendency of the petition against its validity. It maintained that the Electoral Bonds Scheme has opened the floodgates to unlimited corporate donations to political parties and anonymous financing by Indian as well as foreign companies, which can have serious repercussions on Indian democracy. SC rejects charge that bonds are opaque The Supreme Court on Friday rejected the charge that the scheme of Electoral Bonds, introduced on January 2, 2018, was totally opaque, allowing even foreign firms to pay donations to the political parties for favours. The bench said the apprehension that foreign corporate houses may buy the bonds and attempt to influence the electoral process in the country, was misconceived as under Clause 3 of the Scheme, the Bonds may be purchased only by a person, who is a citizen of India or a company incorporated or established here. With regard to a charge of bonds being opaque with no details of donors in public domain, the bench said, "it is not as though the operations under the Scheme are behind iron curtains incapable of being pierced." The court said since the scheme mandated political parties to file audited statements of accounts and also since the Companies Act requires financial statements of registered companies to be filed with the Registrar of Companies, the purchase as well as encashment of the bonds, happening only through banking channels, is always reflected in documents that eventually come to the public domain. "All that is required is a little more effort to cull out such information from both sides (purchaser of bond and political party) and do some “match the following," the bench added. It said despite the fact that the Scheme provided anonymity, it was intended to ensure that everything happened only through banking channels.   Bhushan claimed the first purchase may be through banking channels, someone may repurchase the bonds from the first buyer by using black money and hand it over to a political party.  "This contention arises out of ignorance of the scheme. Under Clause 14, the Bonds are not tradable. Moreover, the first buyer will not stand to gain anything out of such sale except losing white money for the black," the bench added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-to-stay-sale-of-electoral-bonds-ahead-of-assembly-polls-966716.html
26-03-2021||National||Supreme Court rejects Sushant Singh Rajput's sister plea challenging FIR by Rhea Chakraborty||The Supreme Court on Friday declined to consider a plea by Priyanka Singh, sister of late actor Sushant Singh Rajput, against the Bombay High Court order which refused to quash the FIR filed against her by Mumbai police on a complaint from actor Rhea Chakraborty.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We are not inclined to entertain this petition.”  Senior advocate Vikas Singh, representing Singh, argued that the High Court has overreached its power by examining allegations that were placed before police through media reports.  Singh’s plea said it is pertinent to note that Rhea’s entire case is based on a media report which does not have any credibility as to the source or authenticity of such reports. Rhea, in her complaint on the basis of which the FIR was filed, had alleged that the sisters conspired with Dr Tarun Kumar to obtain a false prescription for administering banned medicines to the late actor. The Bombay High Court had observed that there was a prima facie case found against Singh in the FIR lodged at the instance of Rhea. However, the High Court quashed the proceedings against Sushant’s other sister Meetu Singh, who was also named as an accused in the FIR. The plea contended that it is also shocking that the High Court had recorded observations against Dr Kumar, who is a senior cardiologist working in RML Hospital Delhi and was not before the court in the proceedings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-rejects-sushant-singh-rajputs-sister-plea-challenging-fir-by-rhea-chakraborty-966718.html
26-03-2021||National||Delhi High Court sets aside single-judge order asking Centre to extend oil contract with Vedanta till 2030||The Delhi High Court on Friday set aside a single-judge order directing the Centre to extend till 2030 its production sharing contract (PSC) with Vedanta Ltd and ONGC to produce oil from the Barmer oil field in Rajasthan. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh allowed the central government's appeal against the single judge's order of May 31, 2018 order in favour of Vedanta, formerly Cairn India. The detailed judgement is yet to be uploaded on the high court's website. The central government had claimed that the PSC with Vedanta will fall under the new policy for such contracts. The contention was opposed by the company. The single judge had held that Vedanta was entitled to an extension of its contract, which was to expire in 2020, for a further period of 10 years on the same terms and agreements when it was first entered into in 1995. While the government's appeal was pending, the PSC was being extended from time to time for brief periods since May 2020. The May 31, 2018, order had come on Vedanta's plea for extension of the PSC which the company and the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) have with the government to extract oil from the Barmer block in Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-sets-aside-single-judge-order-asking-centre-to-extend-oil-contract-with-vedanta-till-2030-966719.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi uses new VVIP aircraft for first time on Bangladesh trip||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday went from Delhi to Dhaka on a new custom-made VVIP aircraft, using it for the first time on a foreign journey. The prime minister is on a two-day visit to Bangladesh. India and Bangladesh are currently celebrating the golden jubilee of the 1971 war victory. India had defeated Pakistan in December 1971, which led to the creation of Bangladesh. The B777 aircraft, which has registration number VT-ALW, was delivered by Boeing to the Indian government in October last year.  The aircraft, which has call sign AI1 or Air India One, departed from Delhi around 8 am and landed at the Dhaka airport around 10.30 am on Friday, government officials said. Another custom-made B777 aircraft, with registration number VT-ALV, was also delivered by the American aircraft giant to the Indian government in October last year. Both custom-made planes are to fly only president, vice president and prime minister of the country. These two aircraft were part of Air India's commercial fleet for a few months in 2018 before they were sent back to Boeing for retrofitting for VVIP travel.  The B777 planes have state-of-the-art missile defence systems called Large Aircraft Infrared Countermeasures and Self-Protection Suites.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-uses-new-vvip-aircraft-for-first-time-on-bangladesh-trip-966724.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi pays homage to martyrs of Bangladesh War of Independence||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Friday visited the National Martyr's memorial at Savar here and paid homage to those who died in the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence. On reaching the memorial, Modi also planted a sapling of the Arjuna tree there. "This sapling has been planted as a mark of respect for the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. After planting the sapling, Modi paid homage to the martyrs at the memorial, comprising seven pairs of triangular-shaped walls -- each representing a significant chapter in Bangladesh's history, including the 1952 'Bhasha Andolan' (Language Movement) -- through which Bangladesh became an independent nation from Pakistan. Sharing a picture of Modi laying a wreath at the memorial, the Ministry of External Affairs tweeted, "Prime Minister @narendramodi paying solemn tribute at the National Martyr’s Memorial to the brave-hearts of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, for their great sacrifices." The prime minister also signed the visitor's book at the memorial. Modi arrived in Dhaka on a two-day visit during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. He received a guard of honour at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-pays-homage-to-martyrs-of-bangladesh-war-of-independence-966727.html
26-03-2021||National||8 injured in stone-pelting during clash in UP's Shamli||Eight people, including three women, were injured in stone-pelting during a clash over a petty issue between two groups in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday at Chadav village in Kandhla Police Station area, police said, adding, seven people, identified as Manoj, Ajay, Parvesh, Rohit, Sanjiv, Amit and Ravinder, were arrested in connection with the case. According to police, the two groups share an old enmity and the fight on Thursday started after Sanjiv stopped Ajay's wife Rina from filling up water from a handpump. An altercation ensued which soon turned violent as others also got involved, Station House Officer Rojant Tyagi said. Police rushed to the spot and brought the situation under control, the SHO said. Meanwhile, security was tightened in the village as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-injured-in-stone-pelting-during-clash-in-ups-shamli-966730.html
26-03-2021||National||President Ram Nath admitted to Army Hospital after complaints of chest discomfort; condition stable||President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday complained of “chest discomfort” and was taken to the Army Hospital for a health check-up. Kovind, 75, underwent a routine check-up and was kept under observation at the hospital. “President of India visited Army Hospital (R&R) following chest discomfort this morning. He is undergoing routine check-up and is under observation,” the hospital said in a medical bulletin. “His condition is stable,” it said. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan visited the President in the hospital. “Hon'ble President was his jovial self and is keeping hale & hearty. The medical team attending to him reaffirmed that he is stable. The country prays for his good health & well being,” the Health Minister said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is on an official visit to Bangladesh, spoke to Kovind’s son Prashant Kumar and enquired about his well being. “PM Narendra Modi spoke to Rashtrapati Ji's son. He enquired about the President's health and prayed for his well-being,” the Prime Minister’s Office said on Twitter. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the Army Hospital to enquire about the President’s well being. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot expressed concern about Koivnd’s health. “I pray for his good health & well-being,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-admitted-to-army-hospital-after-complaints-of-chest-discomfort-condition-stable-966738.html
26-03-2021||National||ISRO embarking on replicating NASA partnership model in India||The ISRO is embarking on a mission of a different kind by taking the Indian Institute of Space Science and Technology (IIST) to a much higher, futuristic research orbit. The Bengaluru-headquarteted space agency is striking a partnership with the IIST -- something similar to the JPL- Caltech model in the United States. JPL (Jet Propulsion Laboratory) is federally funded by US space agency NASA and managed by Caltech (California Institute of Technology). To coordinate joint research activities between ISRO centres and IIST, akin to the Caltech-JPL model, a dedicated framework has now been put into place, with CBPO (Capacity Building Programme Office) located at ISRO headquarters here as a focal point. An Advanced Space Research Group has been created to identify application-oriented research projects of importance to ISRO (Indian Space Research Organisation) centres and matching with the interests of IIST faculty. An Empowered Overseeing Committee has been constituted to review and approve the proposals. CBPO Director, P V Venkitakrishnan told P T I that under the initiative, "very advanced, totally new and futuristic projects" -- nothing that has been done by ISRO -- would be taken up. "Twenty-eight to 30 projects have been identified", he said. It's a mix of two-years, 3-5 years, and seven-year projects that would be pursued by IIST faculty. Thiruvananthapuram-based IIST, an autonomous institution under the Department of Space (DoS) and a 'Deemed to be University', is similar to Caltech, according to him. Asked about the time-frame by which he expects the partnership to reach the JPL-Caltech level, Venkitakrishnan said: "We are expecting within eight to ten years. That is our ambition, our aim". It was noted that NASA's JPL, founded by Caltech faculty, is the leading centre for the robotic exploration of the solar system. It also conducts Earth-orbit and astronomy missions. JPL's workforce includes a diverse population of scientists, engineers, technologists, developers, communicators, designers, safety experts and business administrators. Venkitakrishnan said through the Post-doctoral fellowship programme offered by IIST, ISRO wants to attract more and more talent towards space research. He also said that the Union government has been requested to accord 'Institute of National Importance' status to IIST. Once approved, various ISRO centres would become constituent learning centres, allowing IIST to have a wider off-campus, he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-embarking-on-replicating-nasa-partnership-model-in-india-966743.html
26-03-2021||National||Some people in Delhi preparing to form UPA-II, claims Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Friday said that "some people in Delhi" are preparing to form UPA-II, which is why the existing UPA needs to be strengthened if the opposition is to fight the BJP. He made the statement while speaking to reporters in Delhi, a day after he reiterated that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should head the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) that is currently being led by Congress. Replying to a question, Raut said the "drama" of forming "third, fourth or fifth fronts" has failed so far, hence the existing UPA needs to be strengthened. "Some people in Delhi are preparing to form UPA-II. Hence, I am saying this out of concern. The UPA-I has to be strengthened," he said, without specifying who these people in the national capital are. He said the importance of the present-day UPA will reduce if the UPA-II is formed and then the opposition parties will have nothing in their hands. On Raut's suggestion that Pawar should lead the UPA, Maharashtra Congress leaders had on Thursday asked the Shiv Sena leader to desist from making such comments as his party is not even part of the alliance. When asked about the Maharashtra Congress leaders' comments and its state unit chief Nana Patole also questioning Raut if he is the spokesperson of Pawar, the Shiv Sena leader replied, "Maybe. Sharad Pawar is a leader of the country. All know what Sharad Pawar or Uddhav Thackeray are." Raut said one need not be part of the UPA to speak about it. "The issue of the UPA is not of a state, but a national one. So the people from the state should not talk about it," he added. The Rajya Sabha member said that discussion needs to be held on strengthening the alliance of the opposition parties if they are to take on the BJP. "If the (Congress) leaders in Maharashtra are not getting this, then they need to study...they are our colleagues, but they should understand. "We will give a reply if Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi are to speak on this issue. But they are not speaking. They are also analysing this (the situation)," he added. The Parliamentarian also said that Maharashtra Congress leaders should also make it clear whether they think the UPA should not be strengthened. "Sonia Gandhi is leading the UPA. She has led it in an excellent manner for 17 years. But considering the future politics, the issue needs to be discussed," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/some-people-in-delhi-preparing-to-form-upa-ii-claims-raut-966752.html
26-03-2021||National||Vaccinate all above 20 years in hotspots to contain Covid-19 second wave, says virologist Dr T Jacob John||With health officials detecting new variants of the novel coronavirus in the country amid the second wave of Covid-19, Dr T Jacob John, retired professor and head, departments of clinical virology and microbiology, Christian Medical College (Vellore), and former director of ICMR’s Centre of Advanced Research in Virology, said that the best way to contain the spread was the "vaccination of all persons above an arbitrary age of 20 years in the hotspots of transmission and self-quarantine instructions for those with any symptoms likely to be Covid-19 - even the mildest." "What we see is that there is hardly any discipline by people or enforcement by authorities," Dr John said. He suspected that two things had ignited the spike in cases. "One, the lowering of guard by people with impunity and the government in a mood not to push - considering festivals (Kumbh Mela) and impending elections - with rallies and crowd collections," he said. "Two, many mutant viruses that have higher transmission efficiency were in the making but only this week they were looked for." "The best way is to ensure the well-known prevention of infection, which is universal mask-wearing and with masks, physical distancing relaxed to three feet or even two feet," he explained. "No indoor activities with crowds and air conditioning and hand hygiene after touching surfaces/objects on which droplets of others might have fallen." The Centre, on Tuesday, had announced that starting from April 1, people above 45 years old would be able to receive the vaccines against Covid-19.  Dr John said, however, that "the age 45 does not make sense if infection control is the objective. The opening up of vaccinations for those above 45 is to start from April 1. That will not help in reducing the current speed of spread." No breather for health workers Meanwhile, medical professionals are back to combating the second wave after a year without respite. "The beginning of the first wave was difficult because of the novelty of the disease, the unpreparedness, the lack of research on treatment strategies and prognosis, panic and of course, shortage of PPE," said Dr Mansi Khanderia, a Bengaluru-based medical oncologist. "With the second wave, even though we are prepared strategically and logistically, we are mentally and physically exhausted as it's been a year of relentless efforts with no 'breather' for the medical fraternity," she said. "The vaccine drive is certainly reassuring as we expect to see less severe forms of the disease but people refusing to pull up their masks or behave responsibly is adversely affecting our morale. As they say 'the second blow makes the fray'," she added. Compounding the problem is the vaccine hesitancy among the population and the self-imposed delay in getting inoculated. "We have a robust universal immunisation programme for children and all vaccines have expected reactions and few adverse events. Never before has any clinical trial received so much interest and misinterpretation by people who aren’t trained in medical biostatistics," explained Dr Mansi. "The misinformation on WhatsApp and social media and the political interference to interpret science are responsible for the hesitancy," she said. Dr Mansi explained that people expected vaccine to be a weapon against masks instead of the virus. "We need to understand, vaccines have just joined as the chief weapon in the war against Covid-19 but masks, hand-washing and social distancing continue to be our primary weapons in this battle. People need to understand that even if they do get infected with Covid-19, they are less likely to die because of severe disease if they have been vaccinated," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vaccinate-all-above-20-years-in-hotspots-to-contain-covid-19-second-wave-says-virologist-dr-t-jacob-john-966754.html
26-03-2021||National||Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat registers sharp rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Five states — Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Gujarat — have registered a sharp rise in daily Covid-19 cases, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday as India recorded 59,118 new infections, the highest single-day rise so far this year. After touching its lowest mark in mid-February, India's active Covid-19 caseload is on a steady rise and has breached the 4-lakh mark again after around three-and-half months. As of date, there are 4.21 lakh active cases in the country, a net rise of 25,874 infections in a day. "Three states — Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab — together account for 73.64 per cent of the total active cases in the country," the health ministry said. As for daily Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra reported the highest 35,952 infections in a day, followed by 2,661 in Punjab and 2,523 in Karnataka. According to the ministry, Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Gujarat collectively account for 80 per cent of the new Covid-19 cases.  Ten states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan — are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it highlighted India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,12,64,637 with 32,987 people recuperating in a day. Besides, 257 deaths were reported in a day. Six states account for 78.6 per cent of the new deaths with Maharashtra reporting 111 fatalities and Punjab 43, the health ministry said. Fourteen states and Union Territories have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a day. These are Rajasthan, Jammu and Kashmir, Jharkhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Lakshadweep, Sikkim, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Ladakh, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh. Meanwhile, over 5.5 crore vaccine doses have been administered through 9,01,887 sessions throughout the country according to a provisional report till 7 am on Friday. These include 80,34,547 healthcare and 85,99,981 frontline workers who have received the first dose, 51,04,398 healthcare and 33,98,570 frontline workers who have been administered the second dose. Also, 55,99,772 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities and 2,47,67,172 senior citizens have been given the first dose of vaccine. On March 25, day 69 of the vaccination drive, more than 23 lakh vaccine doses were given, of which 21,54,934 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 40,595 sessions for 1st dose and 2,03,797 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose of vaccine. Ten states — Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra — account for nearly 70 per cent of the vaccine doses given in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-punjab-karnataka-chhattisgarh-gujarat-registers-sharp-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-966785.html
26-03-2021||National||ED raids premises of ex-United Bank of India CMD Archana Bhargava||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday said it has searched two premises of former United Bank of India (UBI) CMD Archana Bhargava in connection with a money-laundering investigation. It said the action against the banker, also a former executive director of Canara Bank, was undertaken in Delhi under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and is based on a 2018 FIR filed against her by the CBI for alleged possession of disproportionate assets. "As per the CBI FIR, she had amassed disproportionate assets to the tune of Rs 3.63 crore during the check period when she was occupying senior positions in various public sector banks," the agency said in a statement. "The searches were carried out by the ED to trace the proceeds of crime and to unearth the documentary evidence showing acquisition, routing, layering and projection (as legitimate assets) of the said proceeds of crime amounting to Rs 3.63 crore, leading to commission of the offence of money-laundering," the agency added. As a result of searches, it said, ED has recovered certain "incriminating documents and electronic evidences pertaining to aforesaid further reinforcing the case against Archana Bhargava." The ED said this is a second case of money laundering filed against the ex-banker and she was already being probed by it under the criminal sections of PMLA on the basis of a 2016 CBI FIR. "The said FIR pertains to use of Kolkata-based shell companies to layer the proceeds of crime into the accounts of Rank Mercantile Private Limited (RMPL), a company owned by her husband and son," the ED said. Bhargava became a Deputy General Manager of Punjab National Bank in 2004 and General Manager in 2008. She worked as Executive Director at Canara Bank from April 1, 20011 to April 22, 2013. She joined the United Bank of India on April 23, 2013, as Chairperson-cum-Managing Director, a position she held till February 20, 2014.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ed-raids-premises-of-ex-united-bank-of-india-cmd-archana-bhargava-966791.html
26-03-2021||National||In a first, ITBP deploys retired combat canines as 'therapy dogs'||In a novel initiative, border guarding force ITBP has decided to utilise the services of its retired combat canines as 'therapy dogs' to help in the early recuperation of personnel undergoing medical treatment and also for their specially-abled children. The challenges of life after retirement for the aged and out-of-service four-legged soldiers has been a subject of concern for various central armed police forces (CAPFs) that deploy about 3,500 dogs for a variety of roles in the internal security domain -- ranging from detecting hidden explosives to sniffing out terrorists and drugs and assault and guard duties. The issue was also discussed during a recently-held national conference on police canines that was conducted by the newly-created cell for this subject in the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). Dogs, at present, who retire from these central forces are usually handed over to animal NGOs or kept at a retirement home within the organisation for post-retirement care. A first batch of five dogs who have been living in their 'retirement home' at the ITBP national training centre for dogs and animals at Bhanu near Chandigarh have been inducted for a second innings task of being 'therapy dogs'. Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Sudhakar Natarajan, the veterinary chief of the ITBP, tells PTI that Pooja, Tom, Rambo, Rani and Gravey, who recently retired from active service, are just over 11-years-old and have served in various anti-Naxal operations and counter-insurgency grids of the country along with their handlers accompanying Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) patrols. "All five dogs have started visiting ITBP hospitals and have given soothing emotional support to patients, that is a welcome break for them from the dreary hospital monotony. "Also, these dogs have interacted with children with special needs, and the spark seen in their eyes is to be seen to be believed. An immediate connection between the child and dog was remarkable," Natarajan said about the preliminary findings of the new move. A compliance report submitted by the border force to its administrative department - the Union home ministry - on Thursday said that the force plans to visit local schools, where specially-abled children are taught, with these 'therapy dogs' to spread joy.  The report said the experiment is being watched and analysed.  "Our veteran K9 (canine) heroes have just been deployed as therapy dogs. The response of patients (ITBP troops under treatment in their hospitals) was very encouraging. "Many are long-term patients and they expressed unalloyed joy in engaging with these dogs in non-verbal communication, purely from the heart. The long term effects on engagement with therapy dogs are being observed," the report said. DIG Natarajan, the brain behind the move, said the aim of the initiative is to ensure that the canine soldiers who served with sincere dedication in the prime of their age and helped to save numerous lives from potential life threats, are taken care off even in their heydays. "We are fully committed to looking after our darling veteran hero K9s who have served the nation, and now even in their retired life they are contributing as therapy dogs to give emotional support to patients and special children. "Since our dogs are highly trained and socialised, they are being used as a supportive therapy to manage autism and other spectral disorders in children," he said. The DIG, also a veterinarian, said specially-abled children "connect with our furry darlings directly at the organic emotional level, that is not the case with human-to-human interaction, where expectations are involved". Citing scientific studies, he says it has been proved by research that the very act of petting and having non-verbal, no-strings-attached interaction with a dog increases the dopamine level, reduces stress hormones and improves muscular coordination and hyperactivity in special kids.  ITBP spokesperson Vivek Kumar Pandey said they are looking forward to further deepen the human and 'therapy dogs' bond and while the force has taken the first step in this direction, it expects services of more such dog-soldiers can be utilised in this domain. The ITBP is about 90,000 personnel strong and its primary task is to guard the 3,488 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China apart from rendering a variety of security duties in the hinterland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-a-first-itbp-deploys-retired-combat-canines-as-therapy-dogs-966798.html
26-03-2021||National||Election Commission working with IIT-Madras on Blockchain Technology for e-voting||The Election Commission of India is working with IIT-Madras on using Blockchain Technology for remote voting and considerable development in that direction is expected by 2024 General Elections, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said on Friday. Interacting with Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers at the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, he said though "One Nation One Elections" is desirable, it is difficult to achieve it as it requires amendments of existing laws and political consensus. "We are doing a project with IIT-Madras, Chennai, and some of the eminent scientists. We are doing a Blockchain project. We are very hopeful by 2024 Lok Sabha elections you will see a lot of fundamental differences the way we (Election Commission) is working, including this (e-voting)," Arora replied when asked if the EC is working to introduce app-based e-voting for the convenience of citizens to vote remotely. He said the EC is also working on linking Aadhaar card with voter id as part of electoral reforms. On "One Nation One Election," he said the existing laws will have to be amended to undertake that gigantic exercise which also requires political consensus. "It's a desirable goal, difficult to achieve till the basic laws are amended...Unless you align the life of Parliament with the life of the state legislatures by amendments of the law...You also need certain political consensus across the spectrum," he said, when one of the probationers asked if 'polls for all at one go' is possible. He welcomed the NPA's move to send the trainee IPS officers to poll-bound states of West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu to understand the election process at the ground level. West Bengal has law and order issues virtually on a day to day basis forcing the EC to appoint two senior officials as Police Observers while Assam has issues on the border, he said referring to the poll-bound states, the EC said. As Tamil Nadu is an "expenditure sensitive" state, the Commission has appointed two Special Expenditure Observers who have excellent domain knowledge and impeccable career record, to curb money flow during the polls, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/election-commission-working-with-iit-madras-on-blockchain-technology-for-e-voting-966817.html
26-03-2021||National||Government planning to bring more population groups under Covid-19 vaccination drive: Harsh Vardhan||The Centre is planning to widen the scope of the Covid-19 immunisation drive by bringing more population groups under its ambit, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday, days after everyone above 45 years was made eligible to get vaccinated from April 1. He said people have embraced the 'Made in India' vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust that the country crossed the last one crore vaccinations in just under four days. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on Jan. 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated first and the immunisation of frontline workers followed from Feb. 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccinations commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified comorbid conditions. "A few days ago, the government announced that from April 1 all citizens aged 45 years and above, whether having any comorbidity or not, will be eligible to get vaccinated. The government is already planning to widen the umbrella of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries soon to cover other sections of the population," Vardhan said. He made these remarks during his keynote address on 'Reshape Tomorrow Summit' organised by The Economic Times, according to a Health Ministry statement. "I have often called 2020 the year of science. A vaccine development process that used to take many years, often decades, has been condensed to about 11 months. "Just in January last year, research started with a previously unknown virus and we now have not just one, but several vaccines that will be administered to millions of people before the end of the year with several other types of Covid-19 vaccines also on the way," the minister said. Both Covaxin and Covishield are being manufactured in India. However, Covaxin by Bharat Biotech has been developed in the country under the ambit of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) showcasing the nation's remarkable scientific acumen and vaccine development capability to the world, he said. "People have embraced our 'Made in India” vaccines, and it is due to this enthusiasm and trust that we crossed our last one crore vaccinations in just under four days," the minister was quoted as saying in a statement. Vardhan also described India's investment in the 'test, track and treat' strategy along with the behavioural change campaign as the bedrock of the country's highest recovery rate and minuscule fatality rate, it said. He praised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's decision to allocate Rs 35,000 crore for the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the 2021-22 budget.  "On Jan. 16, India started its national vaccination programme against the SARS-CoV-2 virus. That day witnessed vaccination of the highest number of beneficiaries anywhere in the world on the first day. Back then, our priority was to use the Covid-19 vaccine as a shield to protect our healthcare and frontline workers. "Within the first 34 days, we touched 1 crore vaccinations, and in the subsequent weeks, we opened the vaccination to other priority groups. Throughout this vaccination drive, our focus has been on keeping the services as citizen-friendly as possible," Vardhan said. To speed up the pace of the vaccination drive, the Centre has lifted time restrictions and people can now get immunised round the clock according to their convenience across India, he said. Applauding the collaborative approach followed by India for planning and execution of the vaccination drive, Vardhan propounded the exercise as an excellent example of how the federal system could work in synergy to maximise the reach of a programme. The vaccination drive is being coordinated as a 'Jan Bhagidari Aandolan' involving many stakeholders like ministries, departments, professional bodies, medical colleges, NGOs, CSOs, media houses, private sector, youth and women volunteer groups, he added. "In these trying times when the clamour for 'vaccine nationalism' is on the rise, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, being a champion of global cooperation and humanity, has led the way by example. "His decision to extend help to our global family not only resonates well with our age-old virtues of 'Vasudhaivakutumbakam', exalting the entire world as one family but has also further cemented India's stature as a true leader in the comity of nations," the health minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-planning-to-bring-more-population-groups-under-covid-19-vaccination-drive-harsh-vardhan-966819.html
26-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on PIL by Swamy against 1991 law on places of worship||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice to the Centre on a PIL by BJP MP Subramanian Swamy challenging the validity of Places of Worship Act 1991 which mandated to maintain character of all shrines in the country as prevailed on August 15, 1947. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a response from the Union government on the fresh plea and tagged the matter with a pending plea by a Delhi BJP leader and advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay. Swamy, in his plea, claimed the 1991 law was unconstitutional and void ab initio, besides being against the basic structure of the Constitution as it bars any person to approach the Supreme Court under Article 32 for enforcement of his or her fundamental rights including the right to religion. The plea, having Satya Paul Sabharwal, a student of law, as co-petitioner was argued by Swamy himself. The petitioner contended the 1991 law was a "barrier, depriving the petitioner the right to pray at a place where, due to foreign oppression and invasion, a Hindu temple of a certain significance according to faith and belief of Hindus was/is converted". Swamy cited the instance of Kashi Vishwanath Temple at Varanasi, one of the twelve Jyotirlingas, which was first destroyed by the army of Qutb-ud-din Aibak, in 1194 CE. In 1669 CE, Emperor Aurangzeb again destroyed the temple and built the Gyanvapi Mosque in its place. The remains of the erstwhile Temple can be seen in the foundation, the columns and at the rear part of the mosque, he claimed. "Section 3 of the Act bars any conversion of any place of worship of any religious denomination into a place of worship of a different section of the same religious denomination or of a different religious denomination or any section thereof. Such a provision deprives one’s right to pray at the place which was destroyed by past invasion of foreign forces’ and which still exists as a temple," he said. Maintaining that the 1991 law was obsolete and outdated, Swamy said a mosque does not enjoy the immunity from any form of acquisition as it is not an essential part of the practice of the religion of Islam and Namaz (prayer) by Muslims can be offered anywhere, even in open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-pil-by-swamy-against-1991-law-on-places-of-worship-966821.html
26-03-2021||National||India-Pakistan: Brigadiers meet, discuss the peace road map as summer approaches||A month after the Indian and Pakistani armies decided to maintain a ceasefire across the Line of Control, Brigadiers from the two countries met on Friday to discuss the road map to implement the ceasefire protocol for the coming months. "Post the Director Generals of Military Operations understanding, a Brigade Commander level flag meeting was held between Indian and Pakistan armies at Poonch Rawalakot Crossing Point on March 26, 2021 to discuss the implementation mechanism,” Indian Army sources said. With summer a few weeks away, the Indian Army is now more cautious on the western front as historically, the Pakistani Army is known to push infiltrators in summer months when the snow melts in the upper reaches of the Himalayas, making the passes accessible. This is generally the time when firing from across the border increases to give the infiltrators a cover. On February 25, the armies of India and Pakistan announced stopping the cross border firing along the Line of Control from midnight of February 24-25 in order to have a peaceful atmosphere along the disputed border. The plan was finalised by the two DGMOs when they spoke on the hotline. Since then, there has been no firing across the LoC, which is a much welcome peace after more than 5,000 incidents of ceasefire violations in 2020. While India and Pakistan have had a ceasefire agreement since 2003, thousands of ceasefire violations were reported in the last three years, shattering the fragile border peace. The agreement was mostly followed by the two sides till the 2016 Uri terror attack happened.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-pakistan-brigadiers-meet-discuss-the-peace-road-map-as-summer-approaches-966826.html
26-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: SC upholds removal of Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons; PM Modi visits Bangladesh||In your evening news brief, SC upholds removal of Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons; Japanese owner of the container ship blocking the Suez Canal aims to free the ship "tomorrow night Japan time" and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on a two-day visit to Bangladesh. Here is the top news of March 26, 2021: The Supreme Court on Friday upheld the removal of Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons and director on the board of the company. The Court ruled in favour of Tatas in one of the most high-profile and publicly fought corporate battles. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian set aside the NCLAT order restoring Mistry as the chairman of Tata Sons. The top court also refused to consider a plea by Shapoorji Pallonji group for fair compensation of their equity shares in Tata Sons.  The top court also refused to consider a plea by Shapoorji Pallonji group for fair compensation of their equity shares in Tata Sons. It said the value of SP group shares will depend on the valuation of Tata Sons’ equities and that the court would not get into determining what should be a fair value. Shoei Kisen, the Japanese owner of the container ship blocking the Suez Canal, said it aims to free the ship "tomorrow night Japan time", the Nikkei reported on Friday. The 400 m (430-yard) Ever Given, leased by Taiwan's Evergreen Marine Corp, is blocking transit through one of the world's busiest shipping channels for oil and grain and other trade linking Asia and Europe. A spokeswoman for the owner in Japan said that the refloating work was ongoing but that the company did not yet know when the effort would succeed. Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived here on Friday on a two-day visit to Bangladesh during which he will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of dip... Source: DHNS/ PTI||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-sc-upholds-removal-of-cyrus-mistry-as-executive-chairman-of-tata-sons-pm-modi-visits-bangladesh-966827.html
26-03-2021||National||Bangladesh Liberation War martyrs devoted their lives 'resisting injustice': PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday paid homage to the martyrs of the 1971 Bangladesh War of Independence against Pakistan and said they devoted their life towards "preserving righteousness and resisting injustice". Army bugles played the Last Post as the Bangladesh national flag was hoisted at half-mast in a ceremonial manner as Modi stood in solemn silence in front of the National Martyr's memorial at Savar, about 35 km north-west of Dhaka, after placing a wreath. "At the National Martyrs' Memorial, paid homage to the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh. Their struggles and sacrifices are inspiring. They devoted their life towards preserving righteousness and resisting injustice," the prime minister tweeted in both English and Bengali languages. At the National Martyrs' Memorial, paid homage to the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh. Their struggles and sacrifices are inspiring. They devoted their life towards preserving righteousness and resisting injustice. "Also planted an Arjuna Tree sapling," he added. Designed by structural engineer and architect Syed Mainul Hossain, the memorial at Savar comprises seven pairs of triangular-shaped walls -- each representing a significant chapter in Bangladesh's history, including the 1952 'Bhasha Andolan' (Language Movement) -- through which Bangladesh became an independent nation from Pakistan. “I pay my heartfelt tribute to the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh whose glorious sacrifices enabled the birth of this great Nation. May every visitor to this revered ground honour the sacred memory of the millions who were slain but not silenced. Their valour will continue to inspire future generations to fight injustice and defend the cause of righteousness," Modi wrote in the visitor's book at the memorial. “On behalf of the people of India, I pray that the eternal flame at Savar remains a lasting reminder of the noble victory of truth and courage over deceit and oppression,” he wrote. On reaching the memorial, Modi planted a sapling of the Arjuna tree "to commemorate sacrifices of the patriotic martyrs of Bangladesh", the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) tweeted. In the sacred memory of the millions who were slain but not silenced! "This sapling has been planted as a mark of respect for the valorous martyrs of Bangladesh," the Prime Minister's Office tweeted. In another tweet, the PMO said, in the same complex, the then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee had also planted a sapling during his Bangladesh visit in 1999. Vajpayee had planted a sapling of Cape jasmine that time. From the pages of history. Sharing a picture of Modi laying the wreath at the memorial, the Ministry of External Affairs tweeted, "Prime Minister @narendramodi paying solemn tribute at the National Martyr’s Memorial to the brave-hearts of the Liberation War of Bangladesh, for their great sacrifices." Later, Modi met political leaders from the ruling Grand Alliance as well as the opposition parties. In a statement, the MEA said the prime minister, as part of his two-day visit to Bangladesh, met political leaders from 14 Party Alliance along with the Convener. "Discussions centred on diverse issues of bilateral relations were held during the meeting to strengthen ties between the two nations," it said. The PM also interacted with opposition leaders from various political parties of Bangladesh. The engagement involved discussions on a wide gamut of issues pertaining to the two countries' bilateral relations, the MEA said. Modi also met the community leaders, including representatives of minorities and 'Mukhtijoddhas' -- the fighters of the Bangladesh Liberation War. Eminent young achievers from different walks of life interacted with the prime minister in Dhaka. During his visit to Bangladesh, Modi will attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, was received by Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival. A salute of 19 guns and Guard of honour were accorded to Prime Minister Modi at the airport.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-liberation-war-martyrs-devoted-their-lives-resisting-injustice-pm-modi-966833.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi in Bangladesh: What to expect from PM's first overseas trip since Covid-19||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is currently in Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus. Modi, who is on a two-day visit, was received by Bangladeshi Prime Minister Hasina at Dhaka's Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport upon his arrival and was welcomed with a salute of 19 guns and Guard of honour at the airport.  Other than holding talks with Hasina, PM Modi will also be attending the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. On his first day, Modi met political leaders from 14 Party Alliance along with the Convener, said the MEA in a statement. "Discussions centred on diverse issues of bilateral relations were held during the meeting to strengthen ties between the two nations," it said. The PM also interacted with opposition leaders from various political parties of Bangladesh. The engagement involved discussions on a wide gamut of issues pertaining to the two countries' bilateral relations, the MEA said. Modi also met the community leaders, including representatives of minorities and 'Mukhtijoddhas' -- the fighters of the Bangladesh Liberation War. In addition to that, PM Modi is scheduled to inaugurate the "Bangabandhu-Bapu Museum" jointly with his counterpart at the Bangabandhu International Conference Centre. He will also attend a state banquet hosted in his honour by Hasina. On Saturday, Modi will visit the mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at Tungipara in Gopalganj district, the first Indian dignitary to ever visit the place. He is also scheduled to visit the Jeshoreshwari and Orkandi temples in southwestern Shatkhira and Gopalganj on Saturday. On Saturday afternoon, Modi will hold talks with Hasina at the Prime Minister’s Office, where at least five MoUs are expected to be signed and a number of projects inaugurated virtually. Later, he will meet President Hamid at Bangabhaban presidential palace before leaving for New Delhi in the evening. The prime minister had on Thursday said he will hold substantive discussions with Hasina during the visit, as he expressed happiness that his first foreign tour after the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic will be to a friendly neighbouring country with which India shares deep ties. "Our partnership with Bangladesh is an important pillar of our Neighbourhood First policy, and we are committed to further deepen and diversify it. We will continue to support Bangladesh's remarkable development journey, under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's dynamic leadership," Modi tweeted ahead of his visit. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-in-bangladesh-what-to-expect-from-pms-first-overseas-trip-since-covid-19-966838.html
26-03-2021||National||Delhi HC dismisses PIL against enhanced exam fees charged by CBSE||The Delhi High Court Friday dismissed a PIL which said that poor children studying in classes 10 and 12 at government schools would not be able to afford the board exam fees and sought a direction to the AAP government to pay as it had done in the past. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh said there was no right for full or partial waiver of examination fees and it was the government's decision whether it can foot the bill based on the facts and circumstances of each year and the other priorities of the administration. The court said it was not inclined to direct the government to fully or partially waive the exam fees and saw no reason to entertain the petition. "With these observations, the petition is dismissed," it said. The petition was filed by a society, Parents Forum for Meaningful Education, contending that the CBSE "arbitrarily" enhanced the exam fees in 2019-20 and was charging the same in 2020-21 too when everyone has been hit financially by the pandemic. In 2019-20, the Delhi government foot the exam fees of students studying in class 10 and 12 in its schools, and assured the parents that the matter would be sorted for the future, the society had said in its plea. The government had in another similar matter told the court that it cannot foot the bill in 2020-21 as it had done last year as the amount was over Rs 100 crore. The society had in its plea said that CBSE was charging Rs 1,500 as board exam fees for class 10 and 12 and the amount goes up to Rs 2,400 for science stream students as they also have practicals. The petition contended that in the prevailing situation, parents of children in government schools may not be able to pay such amounts in one go. "It has emerged that respondent 2 (Delhi government) has not only failed to sort out the matter as promised last year but this year it has declined to meet the steep fee obligation thereby abandoning lakhs of children in class 10 and 12 in its schools," the petition claimed. The petition had also sought creation of an empowered committee to examine the fixation of exam fees by CBSE for students in schools run by the Delhi government and to ensure that such children "receive the minimum learning environment and opportunity for equal chances of success at the board examination".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-dismisses-pil-against-enhanced-exam-fees-charged-by-cbse-966841.html
26-03-2021||National||Notorious peddlers Shahrukh Bullet, Shadab Batata arrested by Narcotics Control Bureau||In a major swoop, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested two notorious drug traffickers Shahrukh Khan alias Shahrukh Bullet and Shadab Shaikh alias Shadab Batata from Mumbai. The operation was carried out by teams led by NCP’s Zonal Director Sameer Wankhede on Thursday. Acting on a tip-off, a team of NCB Mumbai seized a total of 2.029 kg Mephedrone and 160 grams of Ephedrine along with Rs. 1,15,500 cash, foreign currencies such as Iranian Rials, Polish Zloty and Omani Rial, two vehicles Toyota Fortuner and Hyundai i20, and a note counting machine. Both of them are history sheeters and operate in the western suburbs of Mumbai. While Shahrukh has an offence under section 336 of the Indian Penal Code (act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others), Shadab faces a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/notorious-peddlers-shahrukh-bullet-shadab-batata-arrested-by-narcotics-control-bureau-966847.html
26-03-2021||National||Nikita Tomar murder case: Two convicts sentenced to life imprisonment by Haryana court||A fast-track court in Haryana's Faridabad on Friday sentenced two men to life imprisonment in connection with the murder of Nikita Tomar, five months after she was shot outside her college in a crime caught on camera. The court has also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000 each on convicts Tausif and Rehan, defence counsel Adal Singh Rawat told reporters outside the court. On Wednesday, the court had convicted the two men in the case. Prime accused Tausif and another accused Rehan were held guilty and third accused Azharuddin was acquitted in the case. Nikita Tomar was killed in Ballabhgarh in the Faridabad district on October 26 by Tausif, who had been pressuring her to marry him, police had then said. The final-year B.Com student had stepped out of her college after an exam when Tausif confronted her, trying to force her into a car, police had said. The two accused were later arrested on the basis of CCTV footage of the crime. The Faridabad Police had filed a 700-page charge sheet before the court on November 6, less than two weeks after the murder.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nikita-tomar-murder-case-two-convicts-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-by-haryana-court-966863.html
26-03-2021||National||IPS officer Shukla tried to induce MLAs to back BJP, alleges another Maha minister||Maharashtra Minister and NCP leader Hasan Mushrif on Friday accused IPS officer Rashmi Shukla of making offers "worth crores" to independent MLAs to induce them to support the BJP after the 2019 Assembly polls. While Mushrif sought a probe against Shukla, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut also made a similar allegation and asked why the state government had been lenient towards such officials. Mushrif, Rural Development Minister in the Sena-NCP-Congress government, alleged that Shukla was in touch with independent MLAs from October 24, 2019 when the poll results were announced, to November 24, 2019, days before the Sena-led MVA government was formed. Another NCP minister Jitendra Awhad and independent MLA and minister Rajendra Patil-Yadravkar had earlier accused Shukla, who is at the centre of a phone-tapping controversy, of contacting MLAs on behalf of the BJP after elections. The IPS officer has not offered any comment on the allegations yet. The BJP, which had fallen out with ally Sena, did not have enough numbers to form a government after the polls. "Minister of State for Public Health Rajendra Patil- Yadravkar had received such a call....Shukla was making offers worth crores to independent MLAs for supporting the BJP. She was trying to see that BJP retained power," Mushrif told reporters. A senior IPS officer being involved in such things was a very serious matter, he said. "Hence, I request the chief minister that besides the phone tapping issue, these phone calls to independent MLAs should be probed too and strict action should be taken against her after checking her call detail records," the NCP leader said. Earlier this week, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis cited a letter written by Shukla, then commissioner of State Intelligence, to the then Director General of Police about alleged corruption in police transfers with details of some intercepted calls. Mushrif termed Fadnavis' allegations as "hollow". "Fadnavis should apologise to people for defaming Maharashtra. I suspect that this is being done to divert the direction of the ongoing probe into the bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran," the NCP leader said. The BJP leader should forget his "dream" of coming back to power as the MVA coalition was strong, he said. Speaking to the media earlier in the day, Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut too alleged that Shukla had tried to pressurise independent MLAs and those from smaller parties into supporting the BJP after the 2019 polls. It was surprising that she continued in her post for five to six months after the Uddhav Thackeray government was formed, he said. "We came across such three-four officials. (NCP chief) Sharad Pawar also noted this. It was Pawar's view too that such officials should not be kept close," Raut added. Had action been taken against Shukla in time, Fadnavis would not have got the chance to make allegations about `corruption' in police transfers, he said. Raut also claimed that his and Pawar's phones too were being tapped when the Shiv Sena and NCP were in the process of forming government. He knows that "the Centre taps phones of all", the Rajya Sabha member said. "Those in the state government should realize the seriousness of the issue and think how long they will rely on such officials," he added. Following Fandnavis' allegations, chief minister Thackeray had asked chief secretary Sitaram Kunte to submit a report. Kunte, in his report, alleged that it was Shukla herself who appeared to have leaked her letter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ips-officer-shukla-tried-to-induce-mlas-to-back-bjp-alleges-another-maha-minister-966868.html
26-03-2021||National||I did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom when I was 20-22: PM Modi||Slamming Pakistan and its army for the genocide in erstwhile East Pakistan, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that he too had been imprisoned for participating in a ‘satyagraha’ in India for the liberation of Bangladesh. He said that India and Bangladesh should jointly fight against the “common threat”. The Prime Minister participated in the celebration of 50th anniversary of the independence of Bangladesh and the birth centenary of the founder of the neighbouring nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka. His visit however triggered widespread protest in Bangladesh, not only by Islamists for alleged persecution of Muslims in India, but also by the leftist organisations. Four people were killed in Chittagong, when police cracked down on the protesting activists of the radical Hifazat-e-Islam Bangladesh. Modi recalled the role of the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and the valour and sacrifices of the Indian Army soldiers in helping the ‘Muktijoddhas’ or the liberation warriors of Bangladesh to end the repressive rule of Pakistan in east Pakistan and give birth to the new nation in 1971. Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of Bangladesh, too expressed her gratitude to the Indian Army soldiers for training the Muktijoddhas and fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with them against the Pakistan Army. “My brothers and sisters of Bangladesh, I want to say something to the youths of this country and remind them very proudly. My participation in the struggle for the liberation of Bangladesh was one of the first movements of my life,” Modi said, adding: “I was then 20 or 22-year-old and I, along with a few others, had participated in the satyagraha for Bangladesh. I had courted arrest and had the opportunity to go to jail.”<.p> Modi’s two-day tour to Bangladesh was his first visit to a foreign nation after the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020 forced him to suspend all overseas tours for almost a year. He was welcomed by Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, herself, after the new VVIP aircraft of the Air India landed at the Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport in Dhaka. He had separate meetings with the leaders of the ruling and opposition coalitions in Bangladesh, apart from paying homage to the fallen “Muktijoddhas” at the National Martyrs’ Memorial in Dhaka. He said that people of India were as much eager for liberation of Bangladesh as were the people of erstwhile East Pakistan themselves. “The pictures of horrible crimes and atrocities committed by Pakistan Army in Bangladesh was so disturbing that I could not sleep several nights.” He slammed Pakistan Government for the massacre of the people of Bangladesh. “We (India and Bangladesh) have shared vision and shared challenges. We must keep in mind that while we have similar opportunities to explore in the area of trade and development, we also face similar threats, such as terrorism,” he said. “The ideologies and forces responsible for inhuman acts (of 1971) are still active even today. We not only need to be alert, but also need to stay united to fight them.” The Government of India recently decided to honour Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 posthumously. The Prime Minister on Friday formally handed over the award to Bangabandhu’s daughters Sheikh Hasina and Sheikh Rehana in Dhaka. He also took with him 1.2 million doses of “Made-in-India Covid-19 vaccines for Bangladesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/i-did-satyagraha-for-bangladeshs-freedom-when-i-was-20-22-pm-modi-966873.html
26-03-2021||National||ISRO revises launch schedule of GISAT-1 after 'minor issue' with satellite||The Indian Space Research Organisation has revised the launch schedule of geo imaging satellite GISAT-1 onboard GSLV-F10 rocket following a "minor issue" with the spacecraft. The Bengaluru-headquartered space agency was earlier looking to launch the satellite on March 28, subject to weather conditions. "There is a minor issue with the satellite", ISRO sources told PTI. "As of now, we are planning to launch it on April 18". GISAT-1 was originally planned to be launched from Sriharikota spaceport, about 100 kms north of Chennai, on March five last year but was postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. ISRO sources had earlier said the delay in the launch was due to Covid-19-induced lockdown which affected normal work. According to ISRO, GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian sub-continent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals. Weighing about 2,268kg, GISAT-1 is the first state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite that will be placed in a Geosynchronous Transfer Orbit by GSLV-F10. "Subsequently, the satellite will reach the final geostationary orbit using its onboard propulsion system", ISRO had said a few days before the planned launch in March last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-revises-launch-schedule-of-gisat-1-after-minor-issue-with-satellite-966884.html
26-03-2021||National||Take steps to regulate crowd during upcoming festivals: MHA to states||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday asked state governments and union territory administrations to take necessary steps to regulate crowd during upcoming festivals like Holi, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr, amid surging cases of Covid-19 in the country. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla shot off letters to states and union territories asking them to issue necessary instructions to district administrations and police to scrupulously enforce Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in all public gatherings during the festivals. On March 24, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare wrote to states asking them to consider imposing local restrictions in public observation of festivals and limit or do away with mass gatherings in the exercise of powers conferred under Section 22 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Earlier this week, Delhi and Mumbai banned public celebration and gatherings for upcoming festivals, including Holi, amid the renewed surge in Covid-19 cases. "The country is passing through a critical juncture, as the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths have been on the rise in many states and union territories in the recent past," Bhalla said in his letter. After assessing the situation, he said, states have been asked to strictly enforce test-track-treat protocol, Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and SOPs for various activities such as the opening of schools, hotels, shopping malls, multiplexes and gymnasiums among others. In the letter, he said, "in view of the upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, harvesting festivals, Easter, Eid-ul-Fitr etc, state governments and union territory administrations should take necessary measures during these festivals by ensuring strict observance of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, such as wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing..." "As has been emphasised time and again by the health experts, strict adherence to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places and gatherings will help in breaking the chain of transmission and reduce the incidence of Covid-19 cases in the country," he said. Bhalla also instructed states to publicise these to create public awareness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/take-steps-to-regulate-crowd-during-upcoming-festivals-mha-to-states-966885.html
26-03-2021||National||China a 'challenging neighbour', says Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Friday said that in many ways China is a "challenging neighbour" for India and that he has always seen lessons from that country's growth. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, he also described as "sensible" the recent agreement between the director-generals of military operations(DGMO) of India and Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir. "We always wanted normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan. Everybody knows what that means. If there are trends in that direction, of course, I would welcome it," he said. Asked during the interaction on whether India will engage with the Taliban, Jaishankar noted that it would like to clearly see a sovereign democratic and inclusive Afghanistan that takes into account the interests of its minorities. "There is something called the peace and reconciliation process and everybody else is saying that the Taliban is reaching out and changing etc. Let us wait and watch." To a question whether China has become indispensable to economic calculations, Jaishankar said the Chinese have a salience in the global economy. "I do not think anybody can deny it. I think one needs to appreciate what they have done to their national capabilities in the last 40-odd years," he said. He said the Chinese in many ways, starting with then US President Richard Nixon and former US Secretary of State Henry A Kissinger, had "outthought" the West, adding "not just them but their successive generations." "And not just America, the West as a whole which explains why they are where they are today," he added. At the same time, Jaishankar noted that it would be difficult to say what will happen in the future as there are a lot of "contradictions and frictions" out there today. "But when it comes to us, we need to ask ourselves: so we have this neighbour who has done spectacularly well. So do we just stand there with our hands in our pocket and marvel at what they have done or do we say this is an inspiration, I need to also strengthen my competitiveness and my capabilities and so on," he said. Jaishankar clarified that his comments are not a political statement and that it is an international relations or even a domestic governance observation. "We were about the same size of economy when Rajiv Gandhi went to China in 1988 and look at the difference today. So for me I have always seen lessons in China's growth," he said. "To me, in many ways, yes China is a neighbour and it is in many ways a challenging neighbour," he added. Following a series of military and diplomatic talks, India and China completed withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in line with an agreement on disengagement last month. The two countries were locked in a tense border standoff since May 5 last in eastern Ladakh. Asked whether the agreement between the DGMOs of India and Pakistan and the talks between Indus commissioners of the two sides were a sign of thaw in ties, Jaishankar said, "I think the agreements between the DGMOs is a sensible agreement because I don't think Pakistan either did themselves or us good by encouraging or facilitating infiltrators and terrorists across the Line of Control and the IB (international border). When pressed whether these are positive developments, Jaishankar said '' yes". Jaishankar confirmed that he was travelling to Tajikistan capital Dushanbe to attend the 'Heart of Asia' conference but did not give a specific reply to questions on whether he will meet his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi on the sidelines of the event. "My scheduling is in progress. So far I do not think any such meeting (is scheduled)," he said. The Heart of Asia conference is scheduled to take place on March 30. The external affairs minister identified infrastructure, manufacturing and education as some of the key sectors for India and listed steps taken by the government in these areas. On the coronavirus crisis, the minister said it challenged almost all across the world, noting that India has done well in dealing with the pandemic. "There would be very very few examples where a government or the leader of the government come out stronger after Covid. We are one of them. So we must have done a few things right," he said. When asked whether governments in the sub-continent, particularly India, have become more authoritarian following the pandemic as alleged in some quarters, he strongly rejected such views and apprehensions. The external affairs minister said the state fulfilled its responsibility of ensuring food and healthcare to millions of people following the pandemic. "One of the many false debates we are having is that somewhere the Covid would be used for crackdown etc. I think the reality is completely different," he said. Jaishankar also added: "There is a larger point. Somewhere liberty and freedom is not about bad governance and letting things sort of go around on their own....I cannot find a better word. I would say that is a very 'jhola-wala' attitude to the realities of life." He also talked about the approach of various countries in global vaccine supplies and listed how India supplied them to over 75 countries. "Lot of people are saying vaccine nationalism, but I would say it's vaccine self-centeredness because a lot of people are focusing on their own needs and there is nothing wrong with that but sometimes to the exclusion of others," he added. "What we have done with vaccines is a message to the world, it's a message to the neighbourhood," he said. India supplied more than 60 million doses of Made-in-India vaccines to over 75 countries including through COVAX which is a global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The external affairs minister said "absolutely" when asked whether domestic demand was the government's top priority. He also mentioned that the domestic demand for vaccines is going to go up as the government already announced that people who are 45 and older will be vaccinated from April 1. "So in many cases, we have told our international partners that look Covid rates are going up in India; we are expanding our own vaccination ambit and so we are sure you will understand that," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-a-challenging-neighbour-says-jaishankar-966886.html
26-03-2021||National||Five shot dead in violent Bangladesh demonstrations against PM Modi's visit||Five supporters of a hardline Islamist group were shot dead in Bangladesh on Friday during violent demonstrations across the country against a visit by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, officials said. The disturbances came as Bangladesh marked 50 years of independence with rights groups calling for an end to growing authoritarianism including forced disappearances and extra-judicial killings. Police said four bodies of members of Hefazat-e-Islam, a hardline Islamist group, were brought to Chittagong Medical College Hospital after violence erupted at Hathazari, a rural town where the group's main leaders are based. "We got four bodies here. They are all hit with bullets. Three of them are madrasa students and another a tailor," Alauddin Talukder, a police inspector at the hospital, told AFP. He said at least four other demonstrators were critically injured but did not say who opened fire. Ruhul Amin, the government administrator of Hathazari town, said up to 1,500 supporters of Hefazat attacked a police station chanting anti-Modi slogans. "They attacked us all of a sudden," he said, without confirming whether any protesters were killed. Violence also spread at Jatrabari, a neighbourhood in the capital Dhaka, and in the eastern border district of Brahmanbaria with thousands of madrasa students demonstrating in the two places. At Brahmanbaria one person was killed during clashes with police, a police spokesman told AFP, adding officers "opened live fire" and lobbed tear gas at Islamists protesting Modi's visit for the independence day celebrations. Hefazat spokesman Jakaria Noman Foyezi told AFP the deceased was a supporter of the group. He added some 100,000 supporters of the group staged protests in at least 22 cities and towns across the country. Police also fired tear gas and rubber bullets at over 4,000 madrasa students at Jatrabari, where the protesters barricaded a key highway linking Dhaka with the southeastern region, police said. "They went unruly and even threw a Molotov cocktail bomb at police," Dhaka Metropolitan Police deputy commissioner Shah Iftekhar told AFP. Hathazari is home to one of Bangladesh's largest madrasas and is the headquarters of the Hefazat, which was formed in 2010 and is believed to be the country's largest hardline Islamist outfit. Another Hefazat spokesman Mir Idris accused police of "opening fire" at their "peaceful" supporters at Hathazari. "There were some 5,000 protesters. They were all Hefazat supporters and they were mostly madrasa students. They were protesting Modi's visit and police actions against demonstrators in Dhaka," he said. He was referring to other smaller clashes at the compound of the country's largest mosque in central Dhaka after Friday prayers when police fired rubber bullets and tear gas at brick-throwing Islamist supporters. At least nine of the protesters there were injured, he said. Hefazat is known for its nationwide network and large-scale protests demanding blasphemy laws in Bangladesh. In 2013 police clashed with tens of thousands of Hefazat supporters in Dhaka, leaving nearly 50 people dead. Hefazat aside, a diverse range of Bangladeshi groups -- including students, leftist and other Islamist outfits -- have been staging protests over the last few days against Modi's visit. They accuse Modi and his Hindu-nationalist government of stoking religious tensions and inciting anti-Muslim violence including in the Indian state of Gujarat in 2002 when 1,000 people died. Modi was Gujarat's chief minister at the time. On Thursday more than 40 people were injured, including four police officers, during a student demonstration. At least 33 people were detained for violence. Clashes also occurred at the elite state-run Dhaka University Thursday evening, when pro-government student activists allegedly beat dozens of anti-Modi student protesters. The former East Pakistan emerged as a new nation in 1971 after a brutal war involving India, which Bangladesh says killed as many as three million and displaced many more. For decades the nation was ravaged by famines, coups and natural disasters but in recent years under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina it has boomed economically with GDP per head more than quadrupling since 2000, although the human rights situation has deteriorated sharply, activists say.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-shot-dead-in-violent-bangladesh-demonstrations-against-pm-modis-visit-966887.html
26-03-2021||National||Coal-mining scam in West Bengal: CBI summons 'mastermind' Majhi for questioning on March 30||The CBI has summoned the alleged mastermind of an illegal coal-mining scam in West Bengal, Anup Manjhi, for questioning in connection with the case on March 30, officials said on Friday. The Supreme Court restrained the agency on Thursday from arresting Manjhi till April 6. "The petitioner shall not be arrested until April 6. This order has been passed without going into the merit of the case. We clarify that this order will not restrain the investigation," a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud said. The bench, also comprising justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna, directed that Majhi shall cooperate in the probe. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has already questioned Rujira Banerjee, wife of Abhishek Banerjee, Lok Sabha MP from Diamond Harbour and the nephew of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who wields considerable influence in the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the ruling party in the state. The agency had also questioned Abhishek Banerjee's sister-in-law and her family members in connection with the case. The multi-crore-rupee coal pilferage scam is related to the Eastern Coalfields Limited (ECL) mines located in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against Anup Manjhi alias Lala, the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coal-mining-scam-in-west-bengal-cbi-summons-mastermind-majhi-for-questioning-on-march-30-966893.html
26-03-2021||National||Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen calls on PM Modi, discusses bilateral ties||Bangladesh Foreign Minister A K Abdul Momen on Friday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi during which the two leaders reflected on strengthening their all-encompassing partnership based on sovereignty, equality, trust and understanding that transcends the bilateral strategic partnership. Modi arrived here in Bangladesh on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. During their talks, both the leaders reflected on deepening the fraternal ties and strengthening the all-encompassing partnership based on sovereignty, equality, trust and understanding that transcends a strategic partnership between the two countries, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. At the main Independence Day function, Prime Minister Modi hailed Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's leadership and the contributions of the Indian Army in Bangladesh's 1971 freedom war.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladesh-foreign-minister-a-k-abdul-momen-calls-on-pm-modi-discusses-bilateral-ties-966899.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi hands over Gandhi Peace Prize for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to his daughter||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020, being conferred by India upon Bangladesh's 'Father of the Nation' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, to his daughter Sheikh Rehana and the younger sister of premier Sheikh Hasina. Modi arrived in Bangladesh on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Hasina. Speaking at the National Day programme of Bangladesh, Modi said it was an honour for India to confer Gandhi Peace Prize on Mujibur Rahman. He handed over the award, a citation, a plaque and a shawl to Sheikh Rehana in the presence of Prime Minister Hasina. The Gandhi Peace Prize is an annual award instituted by the government of India since 1995, the 125th birth anniversary commemoration year of Mahatma Gandhi. Modi earlier said Bangabandhu was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. The award carries an amount of Rs 1 crore, a citation, plaque and an exquisite traditional handicraft/ handloom item. Mujibur Rahman was imprisoned in Pakistan when Bangladesh was born. Pakistan was forced to set him free on January 8, 1972. He returned to Dhaka on January 10, 1972. He later took over as Prime Minister of Bangladesh but was assassinated by some military officers during a coup d'etat on August 15, 1975. His wife, brother, sons and daughters-in-law were also assassinated along with him. Hasina and her sister Sheikh Rehana survived as they were in Europe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hands-over-gandhi-peace-prize-for-sheikh-mujibur-rahman-to-his-daughter-966903.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi dons 'Mujib jacket' to pay tribute to Bangladesh's 'Father of the Nation' Mujibur rahman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday donned a black 'Mujib jacket' made of handcrafted Khadi fabric as he paid tribute to 'Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman at the main event here to mark the country’s 50 years of independence. An immensely popular outfit in Bangladesh, the Mujib jacket is a tailored high-necked sleeveless coat for men with two pockets on the lower half, a front pocket on the left part and five or six buttons. The coat used to be the signature garment worn by 'Bangabandhu', the founding father of Bangladesh. A recent press release issued by the Ministry of Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises said the Khadi and Village Industries Commission (KVIC) has supplied 100 custom-designed 'Mujib jackets' that will be the attire of dignitaries during the prime minister's Bangladesh visit. As Bangladesh celebrates “Mujib Borsho”, the birth centenary of Rahman, Indira Gandhi Cultural Centre of the Indian High Commission in Dhaka, had placed an order for 100 Mujib jackets, ahead of the prime minister's visit, it said. The specially designed jackets have been made of high-quality handcrafted Poly Khadi fabric. The black Mujib jackets have been designed with 6 buttons, two pockets on the lower half and a front pocket on the left, as worn by Rahman. In keeping with the eco-friendly nature of the Khadi fabric, the covers for these jackets too have been made of black Khadi cotton fabric with Khadi India’s logo embroidered over it. During the National Day event, Prime Minister Modi handed over the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020, being conferred by India upon Rahman, to his daughters -- Bangladesh premier Sheikh Hasina and her younger sister Sheikh Rehana. "This is one of the most memorable days of my life. I am grateful that Bangladesh has included me in this event. I am grateful that Bangladesh has invited India to take part in this function. It is a matter of our pride that we got the opportunity to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with Gandhi Peace Prize," said Modi. The Gandhi Peace Prize is an annual award instituted by the government of India since 1995, the 125th birth anniversary commemoration year of Mahatma Gandhi. The Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 was conferred on Bangabandhu early this week. It was for the first time that the award was given away posthumously. Modi arrived in Bangladesh on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Hasina.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-dons-mujib-jacket-to-pay-tribute-to-bangladeshs-father-of-the-nation-mujibur-rahman-966907.html
26-03-2021||National||Who we are in reality gets lost in playing characters: Abhishek Bachchan||Actor Abhishek Bachchan says it would be difficult for him to evaluate the kind of person he is, considering how mixed it is with the characters he has played. Giving the example of his latest film "The Big Bull", Bachchan, known for his roles in films such as "Bunty Aur Babli", "Yuva", "Guru", "Bluffmaster" and "Dhoom", said for him, it's not important whether he resembles his role or not. Asked whether he looks for relatability in his roles, Bachchan told PTI, "It is very difficult to say for an actor because who we are in reality gets lost because we are busy playing so many characters, you don’t get the time to sit down and evaluate what kind of a person you actually are." The 45-year-old actor said he identified with the aspirational nature of the character in the film, which maps the rise and fall of a stock broker with dreams of becoming India's richest man. “All of us are very aspirational in life, we want to achieve, we want to fulfill our dreams and Hemant Shah (his role) is no different. "His determination, his doggedness to achieve what he wants to achieve, are unique to him. I don’t think it is important whether I am like that or not. I think it is important that I am convinced that Hemant should be like that,” he added. Directed by Kookie Gulati and produced by Ajay Devgn, the film is inspired by events from the late '80s and early '90s that shook the country's financial sector. The actor said Gulati and Arjun Dhawan, who has written the film, have peppered the script with a lot of realism in "how a person would deal with" a journey that begins from a small chawl in Mumbai and leads him to one of the biggest high rises in the city. “Hemant Shah is a character, who has stars in his eyes, he has big dreams for himself and how he is very determined and focused about how to achieve it. But he has his flaws and that is something that I found interesting,” he added. There were reports that the film is inspired from the life of stockbroker Harshad Mehta, who is infamous for his role in the 1992 securities scam. But Bachchan said his Hemant Shah is fictional with the team taking inspiration from certain real-life incidents and people. "To say that he is based on one just particular person I think will be erroneous," he said. Bachchan, however, has seen the Hansal Mehta-directed and Pratik Gandhi-starrer “Scam 1992: The Harshad Mehta Story”, and thoroughly enjoyed it. “It was a wonderful show, a great achievement by the entire team. The show had great writing, wonderful group of actors, every department excelled and I really enjoyed watching it. It is nice to see good work being done,” he said. The most fun aspect of shooting the film for Bachchan was to indulge in the '80s and '90s nostalgia as "Big Bull" is set in that era. “The thing that I was most excited about was that I got to drink Gold Spot again. It was my favourite drink as a kid and I was so happy that they managed to get Gold Spot. I was also excited to travel in those cars, dress in that style. It was nice the way the era was recreated,” Bachchan said. The film will release on Disney+ Hotstar VIP on April 8, bypassing a theatrical outing due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The Big Bull" also features Ileana D'Cruz, Nikita Dutta, Soham Shah, Ram Kapoor, Supriya Pathak and Saurabh Shukla. The movie is produced by Devgn and Anand Pandit with Kumar Mangat Pathak and Vikrant Sharma attached as co-producers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/who-we-are-in-reality-gets-lost-in-playing-characters-abhishek-bachchan-966914.html
26-03-2021||National||Closely monitoring recent surge in Covid-19 cases: Harsh Vardhan||The recent surge in coronavirus cases in the country is being closely monitored and measures, including strict enforcement of Covid protocols and creating micro-containment zones, will be taken to keep a check the contagion, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. Vaccination drive is going on and its pace is increasing with each passing day. Priority groups have been identified on the basis of recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC), he said. "The focus is protecting those at highest risk of mortality and those involved in pandemic response. As of Friday, 5.31 crore doses have been administered. In January, 2.4 lakh doses were being administered daily, whereas in the last week of March it was 20 lakh. Now, the government has expanded the coverage to citizens above 45 years. "The pace of vaccination is going to increase. As for imposing restrictions, Covid-19 situation continues to evolve and change each day. The silver lining here is that we are better prepared now to tackle any challenges that the pandemic throws our way," he said. Steps, including include strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols as well as creating micro-containment zones wherever needed will be used to keep a check on the rise in cases, he said at the 'India Economic Conclave' organised by Times Now. Commenting on the Covid-19 trajectory in India and the recent surge in cases, Vardhan said concerted efforts of the Centre and the states and the country's investment in the 'test, track and treat' strategy have resulted in India recording one of the lowest cases and deaths per million population. "We have amply demonstrated that our policy of test, track and treat effectively contains the transmission of the virus." The health minister said a graded opening up of the economy and beginning commercial activities followed a sustained decline in Covid-19 epi-curve in the country. "This was essential to negate the economic impact that Covid-19 has had globally, including India. Historically, the pandemics of the past have come in waves and Covid is no exception. This was amply witnessed when the second wave hit Europe and the Americas. It still eludes the scientific community why pandemics behave in this way," he said. Vardhan said physical distancing is an established non-pharmaceutical intervention to suppress and contain the transmission of Covid-19. "The modality for ensuring physical distancing measures has to be evidence-based. In this context, partial lockdowns, such as night curfews or weekend lockdowns, would not have much impact on the transmission cycle." "As for the vaccine, there are still many critical unknowns, especially with regards to the impact on transmission and duration of protection these vaccines offer. Further, what is clear is it reduces the severity of the disease and hence impacts mortality." The health minister said the vaccination drive is being conducted in accordance with emerging science-based data analysed through algorithms which suggest that if a majority of the population are immunised then it is possible to get control over the disease. "This is like achieving herd immunity through vaccination," he said. Six vaccines are at different stages of trial and will be granted permission as and when they complete all statutory requirements. The Drugs Controller General of India is looking on this matter, Vardhan added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/closely-monitoring-recent-surge-in-covid-19-cases-harsh-vardhan-966916.html
26-03-2021||National||Farmers' 'Bharat Bandh' call evokes mixed response||Farmers squatted on roads and rail corridors in several parts of Punjab and Haryana as the Bharat bandh called by them on Friday received a mixed response in other parts of the country. The Sanyukta Kisan Morcha, spearheading the farmers’ protests against the three farm laws, had given the call for a nationwide shutdown to mark four months of their agitation on the borders of the national capital. Barring Punjab and Haryana, the shutdown call received a mixed response from other parts of the country such as Bihar, Odisha, Bundelkhand, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Railways cancelled four Shatabdi trains, while the movement of 35 passenger trains and 40 goods trains were affected due to the protests. In Delhi, the metro rail services remained largely unaffected, but traffic snarls were reported from places near the protests sites at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders. In Gujarat, farmer leader Yudhvir Singh was arrested by the police while addressing a press conference at Motera in Ahmedabad, while Uttar Pradesh Police rounded up several CPI(ML) and All India Kisan Sabha activists. In Punjab and Haryana, farmers gathered at several highways and roads, including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Ferozepur, Pathankot, Jhajjar, Jind, Panchkula, Kaithal, Yamunanagar and Bhiwani districts. Farmer union leaders said they were allowing ambulances and other emergency vehicles as well as marriage processions to pass. Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni issued an appeal to the agitating farmers to ensure the smooth passage of essential supplies or even sick persons travelling in private vehicles. “We have to protest peacefully,” Chaduni said. Thousands of farmers have been protesting at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders since November 26 last year demanding rollback of the three farm laws, which they claim have been enacted to benefit big corporate houses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-bharat-bandh-call-evokes-mixed-response-966917.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi assures Bangladesh Opposition party of 'doing best' on water-sharing deal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured Bangladesh's main parliamentary Opposition Jatiya Party of doing his best to ink the long-awaited deal over the Teesta and other common rivers. His comments came during a meeting with the Jatiya Party leaders. Modi is here on a two-day visit to attend the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and hold talks with his counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Jatiya Party's chief patron Raushan Ershad led the four-member delegation in the meeting with Modi at the Sonargaon Hotel. The meeting lasted for 25 minutes. The Jatiya Party delegation during the meeting raised the longstanding issue of resolving the water-sharing of Teesta and other 54 common rivers with India. "I have already made the commitment on inking a treaty on water-sharing of Teesta River. Discussions at the technical level are underway over this. We must sign the treaty," Jatiya Party Secretary General Ziauddin Ahmed Bablu quoting the Indian premier as saying. Jatiya Party Chairman G M Quader told a newspaper that Modi simultaneously assured that "we will do whatever is necessary for our friendly country Bangladesh". Quader said his party requested the Indian premier to introduce an on-arrival visa for Bangladeshis, increase people-to-people connectivity and scholarships for Bangladeshi students. Jatiya Party in a statement said its leaders reminded Modi that outstanding issues involving the common rivers must be resolved as "water, air and birds" are above political boundaries. "This was the comment made by Mr Narendra Modi himself during his 2019 Bangladesh tour," Bablu said. Indian foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla and other senior officials were present during the meeting. India and Bangladesh share 54 common streams with the Teesta being a major one. The Teesta river originates in Sikkim, flows through the northern parts of West Bengal, before entering Bangladesh and joining the Brahmaputra river. The flow of the river is crucial for Bangladesh from December to March during which the country requires 50 per cent of the river's water supply. The Teesta deal was set to be signed during then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s visit to Bangladesh in September, 2011 but was postponed at the last minute due to objections by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Banarjee had expressed strong reservations against giving Bangladesh a greater share of water. On Saturday, Prime Minister Modi will hold talks with his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina when all issues related to bilateral concerns are expected to be discussed, according to Bangladesh foreign ministry officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-assures-bangladesh-opposition-party-of-doing-best-on-water-sharing-deal-966923.html
26-03-2021||National||Sunanda's family says she was a strong woman, couldn't have died by suicide: Shashi Tharoor in Delhi court||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor claimed before a Delhi court on Friday that the family and friends of his wife Sunanda Puskar have maintained that she couldn't have died by suicide. Tharoor, represented by senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, said there cannot be abetment when she didn't die of suicide and sought discharge in the case. The submissions were made before Special Judge Geetanjli Goel during arguments on framing of charges in the case. "Her relatives and son say she was a strong woman and couldn't have died by suicide. How can there be a question of abetment when she didn't die by suicide," Pahwa said. He further said the prosecution have failed to prove suicide. The court put up the matter for further hearing on April 9. He had earlier said post mortem and other medical reports have allegedly established that it was neither a suicide nor homicide. The senior lawyer had further said not even a single witness has made any allegations of dowry, harassment or cruelty against him. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying in the hotel, as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time. Pahwa had said there was no evidence against Tharoor to prove the offence punishable under either section 498A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) or 306 (abetment of suicide) of Indian Penal Code. Pahwa had said her death should be treated as accidental. He had also said that during the course of the investigation there have been a plethora of reports by experts before the investigating officer (IO) but there was 'no definite opinion on the cause of death'. He had added that even after years of investigation by the police, the prosecution has failed to conclusively identify the cause of death. Pahwa had further submitted before the court that Pushkar was grappling with various medical ailments at the time of her death. "The Investigating Officer erroneously formed an opinion vis-a-vis the commission of an offence. However, reports and other material relied upon in fact exonerates Tharoor from all charges," he said. "The opinion of the Autopsy Board took into consideration circumstantial evidence beyond the four corners of the autopsy room which is not permissible. "The Board has failed to substantiate their opinion during the course of the investigation due to which the IO decided to move onto seeking opinion from another Medical Board," Pahwa told the court. Tharoor has been charged under sections 498A and 306 of the IPC, but was not arrested in the case. He was granted bail on July 5, 2018.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sunandas-family-says-she-was-a-strong-woman-couldnt-have-died-by-suicide-shashi-tharoor-in-delhi-court-966926.html
26-03-2021||National||More priority groups may get Covid-19 vaccine; pace of inoculation remains sluggish||India’s pace of vaccinating 30 crore people with two doses of Covid-19 vaccine remains sluggish even after two months as the second wave of the epidemic picks up speed in most of the populated states. For the past three days, the number of doses administered is stuck at 23 lakh. Barring once, the number of vaccinations administered never breached 30 lakh in the past week though the number of daily fresh cases rose from 40K to nearly 60K in the same period. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the government might create more priority groups for vaccination in the line of healthcare workers and frontline workers. Public health researchers pointed out it was time for the government to involve the private sector and undertake micro-planning to step up the pace of vaccination. "The current pace is barely sufficient to prevent the onslaught of the rising cases. We need to have strong micro plans and energetic mobilisation campaigns to step up the vaccination pace,” Giridhar Babu, an epidemiologist at the Public Health Foundation of India told DH. “Also there is no element of outreach and engagement for the poor and vulnerable in the current programme,” noted T Sundararaman, former executive director at the National Health Systems Resource Centre. Experts said the current average pace of vaccinating 20 lakh plus population per day had to be enhanced with far greater involvement of the private sector. The public health system has about 3 lakh trained vaccinators whereas the private health system has 5 lakh more health workers encompassing doctors, nurses and other health staff. “If all of these are used, and they are all trained and able to give vaccines, then we can reach 7-10 million doses per day very quickly,” Babu said. Even after two months, just about half of the targeted one crore healthcare workers, the first priority group identified by the government, received two doses of the vaccine. While more than 80 lakh got the first dose, nearly 52 lakh healthcare workers received both. The progress among the frontline workers is even less. Nevertheless, Vardhan said the government planned to create more such groups. “A few days ago, the government announced that from April 1 all citizens aged 45 years and above, whether having any comorbidity or not, will be eligible to get vaccinated. The government is already planning to widen the umbrella of Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries soon to cover other sections of the population," he said here. Meanwhile, the Union Health Ministry dispatched high level teams to Chhattisgarh and Chandigarh on Friday to aid the local administrations in their battle against the rising wave. In the last 24 hours more than 59,000 new cases were reported, of which close to 36,000 are from Maharashtra. As many as 257 people died from Covid-19 and three other states, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh reported more than 2,000 new cases in the same period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-priority-groups-may-get-covid-19-vaccine-pace-of-inoculation-remains-sluggish-966931.html
26-03-2021||National||PM Modi invites 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs to visit India, announces scholarships||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday invited 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs to visit India to connect with the country's start-up and innovation eco-system and meet its venture capitalists and announced 'Swarna Jayanti' scholarships to mark 50 years of Indo-Bangla ties. Addressing Bangladesh's 50th Independence Day anniversary at the National Parade Square, Modi said: "It is a happy coincidence that the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh’s liberation and the milestone of the 75th year of India’s independence have arrived together. "For both of our countries, in the 21st Century, our journey over the next 25 years, will be very important. We have a common heritage, we have common development also. We have common goals, and we have common challenges too," he said. Modi said the 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs could learn from their Indian counterparts and Indian businessmen could also learn from their Bangladeshi counterparts. Modi, who arrived in Dhaka this morning on a two-day visit, said both the countries have the power of democracy and a clear vision for moving forward. "To strengthen India-Bangladesh relations, there is an equal need to better connect the youth of the two countries. On the occasion of 50 years of India-Bangladesh relations, I would like to invite 50 entrepreneurs from Bangladesh to India," Modi said. "Come to India, meet venture capitalists, connect with our start-up and innovation ecosystem. We will also learn from them, they will also get an opportunity to learn," he said. "Along with this, I am also announcing Subarno Jayanti scholarships for the youth of Bangladesh," he said. Modi said the two nations share similar possibilities in the area of trade and development. "I am pleased that under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s able leadership, Bangladesh is showing its dynamism to the world," Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-invites-50-bangladeshi-entrepreneurs-to-visit-india-announces-scholarships-966934.html
26-03-2021||National||India top recipient of Japanese financial aid since 2003, surpassing China||India has been the top recipient of the Japanese government's financial aid under the Official Development Assistance (ODA) since 2003, surpassing China, an industry body said on Friday. India has been the top recipient of yen loans from Japan since 2003 surpassing China, which had been holding that position for many years, the International Council for Research on International Economic Relations (ICRIER) said in a statement after a webinar on significance of Japan's ODA to India. Between 2010 and 2020, Japan has committed a total of JPY 3.1 trillion for a wide variety of infrastructure projects in India, including connectivity projects in India's northeastern region, ICRIER said. The Japan programme at ICRIER was established in 2007 and has actively undertaken in-depth research studies and fostered regular dialogue initiatives on harnessing the opportunities and resolving the challenges to deepen India-Japan economic and strategic engagement. Japan is supporting India's Dhubri-Phulbhari Bridge, connecting Dhubri, Assam, and Phulbhari, Meghalaya, over the Brahmaputra River, through ODA, the foundation laying ceremony of which took place in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month. ICRIER Chairman Pramod Bhasin said that going forward, the endeavour is to set up a Japan centre at ICRIER to facilitate collaborative research and dialogue between Indian and Japanese experts. It will help in developing deeper ties between the two nations and to improve investment infrastructure, he said. Indian Ambassador to Japan Sanjay Kumar Verma said that as the largest recipient of Japan's ODA, India has become an important strategic international partner to Japan. "India's continued rise in the global stage is supported by Japan and Japan's continued rise as a global leader is supported with its ODA initiatives in India. "Japan's ODA can be used to promote sectors such as infrastructure, outer space, climate change issues, maritime (connectivity, security, freedom of navigation)," Verma said. JICA Director General (South Asia Department) Sakamoto Takema emphasised on working together to address concerns of India's private sector in areas such as infrastructure, regulations, human resource, creating a balanced society for sustainability by focusing on environment, gender and vulnerability. "The same can be achieved through innovation of technology in the social and technology sector. JICA is committed to quality growth for prosperity with more jobs, more investment. "Japanese FDI has a sizeable presence in India and JICA has strengthened development in areas such as environment, climate change, biodiversity, poverty alleviation, women empowerment, disaster prevention as well as utilising Japan's knowhow in other areas of strategic importance," Sakamoto said. Japan is closely working with India in the northeastern region, with biodiversity conservation and forest management in Sikkim, support to the water supply and sewage projects in Guwahati. JICA is also involved in the north east road network connectivity across Assam and Meghalaya, among other important initiatives at Tripura, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-top-recipient-of-japanese-financial-aid-since-2003-surpassing-china-966938.html
26-03-2021||National||APCC president Ripun Bora's assets rose by Rs 8.89 lakh since 2016||With a total worth of nearly Rs one crore, Assam Pradesh Congress Committee president Ripun Bora's asset value has risen by Rs 8.89 lakh compared to what it was when he had contested the Rajya Sabha elections in 2016. Bora, who is fighting the assembly elections from Gohpur seat, has in his affidavit declared assets worth Rs 98,22, 857, including land, residential accomodation, bank deposits and gold. The APCC president is one of the 264 candidates who will be contesting the first phase of assembly polls in Assam on Saturday. While the Rajya Sabha MP's movable assets are worth Rs 69,45,954, his immovable assets amount to Rs 28,76,903, the affidavit said. His immovable assets comprise agricultural and non-agricultural land, a residential building in Gohpur constituency, and a flat which he jointly owns with his wife in Delhi. The 65-year-old APCC chief's movable assets include PPF contributions and bank deposits. The Rajya Sabha member has shown his source of income as the salary which he receives as an MP. As per the affidavit, there is one criminal case pending against him though he has not been convicted in any. Bora holds MA(Economics) and LL.B degrees from Gauhati University. He owns a vehicle for which he had taken a car loan. Bora has Rs 10,298 cash in hand against Rs 2.5 lakh in 2016, besides gold worth Rs 50,000. In his affidavit for the 2016 Rajya Sabha polls from Assam, Bora's net worth was Rs 89,33,658.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apcc-president-ripun-boras-assets-rose-by-rs-889-lakh-since-2016-966950.html
26-03-2021||National||Delhi HC notice to IT Dept on Gandhis' pleas against assessment transfer||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought the Income Tax Department's response on pleas by Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra against the decision to transfer their IT assessments to another section on the ground of treating it along with arms dealer Sanjay Bhandari's group. The transfer of their cases to the Central Circle was opposed by the Gandhis on the ground that they have nothing to do with the Sanjay Bhandari group's cases. Senior advocate Arvind Datar, representing the Gandhis, said the Central Circle deals with search and raid cases, and none of the assessees had been searched. Therefore, relegating them to the Central Circle made no sense and no any reason had been given for doing so, Datar said. A bench of Justices Rajiv Shakdher and Talwant Singh issued a notice to the IT Department and asked it to file a counter affidavit in response to the three petitions. The court listed the matter for further hearing on April 6, when a batch of similar matters is already fixed. Bhandari wanted in India on money laundering charges, has been allegedly linked to Priyanka Gandhi's husband, Robert Vadra, over a London-based flat. Vadra has denied any business connections with the accused. The Gandhis have challenged the order issued by the Income Tax principal commissioner to transfer their cases for the assessment year 2018-19 to the Central Circle. Datar submitted that their cases could not have been transferred to Central Circle as there was no question of any search or seizure in their regard. He said when a case was transferred from an ordinary circle to the Central Circle, it was mandatory for the IT officer to mention the reason for the transfer and sought an interim order in favour of the Gandhis. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the IT Department, said he was opposing any interim relief as no assessment was pending right now and the case was different from the earlier cases filed by other entities, including the Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Trust, the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation and Young Indian. "Assessment under one circle or the other is neither fundamental nor statutory right of the assessee. Right to fair assessment is a statutory right. "Transfer from one circle to another due to administrative exigencies does not cause any prejudice to the assessee. He has the same rights, remedies, contentions and obligations," the law officer submitted. He added that since the transfer was within the city, no prejudice was caused to the assessee and the mandate demands that if transfer is from one city to another, the officer had to give a hearing to the assessee and not in case of transfer within the city. The Gandhis counsel also said the case of Priyanka Gandhi's husband Robert Vadra had been transferred to the central circle, but he had not challenged it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-notice-to-it-dept-on-gandhis-pleas-against-assessment-transfer-966959.html
26-03-2021||National||Delhi court issues summons to former TMC MP in money laundering case||A Delhi court on Friday issued summons to former TMC MP K D Singh in a money laundering case on taking cognisance of the charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against him. Special Judge Geetanjli Goel summoned the accused persons, including Singh and other firms, to appear before the court on April 6. The ED had earlier alleged before the court that from bank statements it can be seen that funds were diverted to own companies. Singh was arrested under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). The central probe agency had carried out searches at Singh's premises and those linked to him in September, 2019, in connection with two PMLA cases. Singh has been the chairman of the Alchemist group and while he resigned from the post in 2012, he is stated to be the chairman Emeritus and founder of the business group. The ED is probing him as part of the two money laundering cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-court-issues-summons-to-former-tmc-mp-in-money-laundering-case-966969.html
26-03-2021||National||India, US agree to strengthen trade, investment ties||India and the US have agreed to strengthen the bilateral trade and investment relationship and resolve pending legacy issues through mutual dialogue and discussion, the government said on Friday. Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal had a "very productive discussion" with the United States Trade Representative (USTR) Ambassador Katherine Tai, over a video call on March 25, 2021. Goyal congratulated Tai on her appointment as USTR. "They discussed a range of issues and agreed to strengthen the India-US trade and investment relationship. "The conversation included consolidating economic partnership between like-minded democracies upholding the principles of openness, transparency and fair trade," the commerce ministry said. The statement said both agreed to further India-US economic cooperation on the basis of shared objectives and resolve pending legacy issues through mutual dialogue and discussion. "They also agreed to strengthen the India-US Trade Policy Forum (TPF) and to convene the next ministerial-level meeting of the forum in 2021," the ministry stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-agree-to-strengthen-trade-investment-ties-966998.html
26-03-2021||National||India, Bangladesh must remain vigilant and united to counter threats like terrorism: PM Modi||India and Bangladesh must remain vigilant and united to counter threats like terrorism as well as ideas and powers behind such inhumane acts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday as he hailed 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's leadership and the contributions of the Indian Army in Bangladesh's 1971 Liberation War against Pakistan. Addressing the main golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's Independence and the birth centenary of its founder in the presence of his counterpart Sheikh Hasina and President Abdul Hamid, Prime Minister Modi said that both nations possess the power of democracy, with a clear vision to move forward. "That India and Bangladesh move forward together, is equally important for the development of this entire region," said Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the Covid-19 outbreak. "We must remember that we've similar opportunities in fields of trade and commerce, but at the same time, we've similar threats like terrorism. The ideas and powers behind such types of inhumane acts are still active. We must remain vigilant and united to counter them,” he added. Modi recalled the role played by the Indian Army in Bangladesh's freedom war and said the blood of those who fought for their liberation and the blood of Indian soldiers are flowing together and this blood will form such a relationship that will not break down under any type of pressure. "I salute the brave soldiers of the Indian Army who stood with the brothers and sisters of Bangladesh in Muktijuddo. Those who gave their blood in Muktijuddo, sacrificed themselves, and played a very big role in realising the dream of independent Bangladesh," said Modi, who was wearing a 'Mujib Jacket' as tribute to Bangladesh's Father of the Nation, said that Bangabandhu had a mesmerising personality and was blessed with an unwavering commitment to further human empowerment. No wonder all sections of society were inspired by him. His leadership and bravery had ensured that no power could enslave Bangladesh, Modi said, adding that Bangabandhu was a ray of hope for the people of this land and for Indians. Under his leadership, common people of Bangladesh across the social spectrum came together and became 'Muktibahini', Modi said, adding Bangladesh's Liberation War had support from all corners of India, from all parties, every section of the society. "This is one of the most memorable days of my life. I am grateful that Bangladesh has included me in this event. I am grateful that Bangladesh has invited India to take part in this function. It is a matter of our pride that we got the opportunity to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman with Gandhi Peace Prize," he said. The Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 was conferred on Bangabandhu this week. Recalling the 1971 war of independence, Modi said the pictures of atrocities that the Pakistan Army inflicted on the people in then East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) used to distract people in India. "I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did Satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom," he said. The war broke out after the sudden crackdown at midnight past on March 25, 1971 in the erstwhile East Pakistan by the Pakistani troops and ended on December 16. The same year Pakistan conceded defeat and unconditionally surrendered in Dhaka to the allied forces comprising the freedom fighters and the Indian soldiers. Modi said the efforts of the then prime minister Indira Gandhi and her important role in Bangladesh’s freedom war are well known. He also named several Indian Army officials such as Field Marshal S H F J Manekshaw, General Jagjit Singh Aurora, General J F R Jacob, Lance Nayak Albert Ekka, Group Captain Chandan Singh, Captain Mohan Narayan Rao Samant and others who were instrumental in Bangladesh’s freedom. Modi said the next 25 years are crucial for both India and Bangladesh. "For both our nations, the journey of the next 25 years in the 21st century is crucial. We have descended from a shared heritage, and we are advancing towards shared development. We have shared goals, and shared challenges," Modi said. He also invited 50 Bangladeshi entrepreneurs to India to get associated with innovation ecosystem and meet venture capitalists. Modi also invoked Bengali poets and writers Kazi Nazrul Islam and Rabindranath Tagore in his speech to highlight the common heritage of the two countries. Earlier, the programme began with the religious leaders from Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism and Christianity reciting prayers from their holy books, projecting a secular image of Muslim-majority Bangladesh. Bangladesh was founded as a secular state, but Islam was made the state religion in the 1980s. In 2010, the High Court held up the secular principles of the 1972 constitution. Modi was the guest of honour while President Hamid was the chief guest at the function chaired by Prime Minister Hasina. Meanwhile, at least four persons were killed and dozens injured when some Islamist organisations protesting Prime Minister Modi’s visit to Bangladesh clashed with police on Friday afternoon. In Chittagong’s Hathazari upazila, at least four persons, including two students, were killed and dozens injured when fired tear shells followed by rubber bullets and shotguns to disperse crowd, the Dhaka Tribune reported. In Dhaka, at least 50 people, including two journalists, were injured when clashes broke out between a group of protesters, mostly members of Islamist groups, and police in the Baitul Mukarram area on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-bangladesh-must-remain-vigilant-and-united-to-counter-threats-like-terrorism-pm-modi-966999.html
26-03-2021||National||Rajasthan phone tapping case: Delhi Police registers FIR on Shekhawat's complaint||The Delhi Police has registered an FIR in connection with the alleged phone tapping case in Rajasthan based on a complaint filed by Union minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, officials said on Friday. The complaint by Shekhawat, who is the Union Jal Shakti minister, was filed at the Tughlaq Road police station last week against Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's OSD Lokesh Sharma and others for alleged "commission of offences of criminal conspiracy and unlawfully intercepting telegraphic signals (telephonic conversation)", they said. The phone tapping controversy erupted in July last year in Rajasthan during a political crisis due to the rebellion of former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs against Gehlot's leadership following which audio clips purportedly having telephonic conversation between Shekhawat and Congress leaders had surfaced. Congress leaders of Gehlot's camp had then alleged that the BJP leaders were involved in horse trading to topple the state government. Shekhawat is a BJP MP from Rajasthan's Jodhpur. "We received a complaint at Tughlaq Road police station and it was transferred to the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police for further investigation," a senior police officer said. The officer said the FIR has been registered based on Shekhawat's complaint in which allegations have been levelled against Lokesh Sharma and others, adding that an an investigation is underway to ascertain their role in connection with the matter. A Delhi Police official said based on the Union minister's complaint, an FIR was registered on Thursday under relevant section of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, other relevant sections of Information Technology Act and section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. According to the FIR, Shekhawat has alleged in his complaint that on July 17, 2020, various prominent media houses and news channels had aired some telephonic conversations, allegedly between him, a man named Sanjay Jain and Bhanwar Lal Sharma, a member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly. In the complaint, Shekhawat alleged that the the telephonic conversations were allegedly leaked to the media houses and news channels by Lokesh Sharma, OSD to the Rajasthan chief minister. Last week, the Rajasthan government had informed the state assembly that it did not tap the phones of any legislator during last year's political crisis. Rejecting the BJP's allegations on phone tapping, state Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal had said the saffron party was making an issue in order to protect Shekhawat. Dhariwal had said the chief minister would offer his resignation if these allegations were proved right. "Not only the chief minister, all of us will resign," Dhariwal had said. PTI AMP BUN BUN TDS TDS||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-phone-tapping-case-delhi-police-registers-fir-on-shekhawats-complaint-967001.html
26-03-2021||National||Cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses given crosses 5.69 crore: Govt||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 5.69 crore, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. A total of 5,69,57,612 vaccine doses have been given, as per the provisional report till 7 pm. These include 80,66,471 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 51,27,234 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 86,79,307 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 34,96,356 FLWs who have received the second dose. Besides, 2,57,01,645 beneficiaries who are more than 60 years old and 58,86,599 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years with specific co-morbidities, have been also administered the first dose. "Total 14,53,172 vaccine doses were given till 7 pm on Friday, the seventieth day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive. Out of which 13,32,550 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 1,20,622 HCWs and FLWs received second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report," the ministry said. It said that final reports would be completed for the day by late night. The 13,32,550 include 9,34,473 beneficiaries aged above 60 years and 2,86,827  individuals aged 45-60 years with comorbidities.  The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with HCWs getting inoculated and vaccination of the FLWs started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those who are over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cumulative-number-of-covid-19-vaccine-doses-given-crosses-569-crore-govt-967003.html
26-03-2021||National||ISRO working towards using green propellant for future launches: K Sivan||India's human space mission Gaganyaan is likely to have a green propellant, ISRO chief K Sivan said on Friday, stressing that it is working towards using green fuel in all its future launches. He said India is in talks with Australia to have a ground station at the Coco Islands for the Gaganyaan mission. In addition, ISRO wants to build a NAVIC ground station in Australia, he said. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, Sivan said ISRO is not aspiring to be a world leader. He said ISRO's prime objective is to serve the nation and meet its space infrastructure, its needs in space transportation, space science as well as space applications for a wide range of socio-economic benefits as well as advancing the understanding of fundamental science. Replying to a question on using a green propellant for its launches, he said, "Green propulsion is essential. We are going to fly Gaganyaan with green propulsion. It is an essential requirement," he said. He said ISRO has already started development of green propulsion. "We are going to bring the green propulsion system in our launch vehicles because this is the need of the hour. We want to ensure that all the toxic and hazardous propellants are avoided. "(Its) development is going on fast track mode and very soon our rockets will replace with green propulsion. That is our aim," he said. On Gaganyaan, he said "each and every heart of the the ISRO family is beating" for the ambitious programme. The programme was hit due to coronavirus pandemic. ISRO was to initially send three Indians to space by 2022. "Hardware flow has already started from industry and tests and developmental activities are progressing very well," he said. Sivan added that it expects to carry out the crew test as well as the first unmanned mission by the end of this year.  This will be followed by one more unmanned mission flight. "If everything goes well, we will conduct human space flight," Sivan said. On the Small Satellites Launch Vehicle (SSLV), Sivan said it is a "game changer" in providing low cost on demand access to space for small satellites. The SSLV will be made by the industry on a much larger scale than PSLV, GSLV and GSLV Mark-III, he said.  "The first flight (of SSLV) is targeted for this year end," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/isro-working-towards-using-green-propellant-for-future-launches-k-sivan-967004.html
26-03-2021||National||Andhra Pradesh High Court to hear capital relocation case daily from May 3||The Andhra Pradesh High Court would hear the petitions opposing the three-capitals plan and the demotion of Amaravati from its sole mega capital status on a daily basis from May 3. A three-member bench headed by chief justice Arup Kumar Goswami has met on Friday in virtual mode to consider the opinions of the Andhra Pradesh government and farmers' side advocates in order to decide on the course to be adopted for the case. The Amaravati farmers, who parted with about 33,000 acres of land in 2015 for the grand, greenfield capital planned by the then Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu, are on continuous agitation since December 2019. Some of the farmers and public representatives have challenged the capital decentralisation and abrogation of the AP Capital Region Development Authority legislation brought in by the Jaganmohan Reddy government in January last year. The acts were notified in July. However, hearing dozens of the petitions, the High Court had in August barred the YSRCP government from making any move shifting the executive capital to Visakhapatnam. In January, Justice JK Maheshwari was replaced with Justice Goswami as the AP High Court chief justice, which is said to have caused an intermission in the case proceedings. The reconstituted bench is expected to hear the arguments from the beginning, advocates stated. “The court has decided to hear the case on a daily basis from May 3 and utilise the recess in June to review the merits of the both side arguments in detail,” VV Lakshminarayana, counsel for the Amaravati farmers told DH. YSRCP leaders are presenting the party's recent landslide victory in rural and municipal polls as the public endorsement of Jagan's three-capitals plan and are confident that the relocation would happen soon. CM Jagan's plan is to establish the executive capital at Visakhapatnam, the judiciary in Kurnool with Amaravati remaining only as the legislative capital. Jagan has been accusing Naidu of a massive land scam in Amaravati.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/andhra-pradesh-high-court-to-hear-capital-relocation-case-daily-from-may-3-967010.html
26-03-2021||National||Trivendra Singh Rawat compares himself with Abhimanyu of Mahabharata||Uttarkahnd’s former Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Friday gave voice to his apparent “hurt” over his sudden removal from the post, indirectly comparing himself with Abhimanyu, a Mahabharata character killed by treachery. Singh made the comparison while addressing a large number of his supporters during a Holi Milan programme. "Draupadi did not grieve over the death of Abhimanyu because the Kauravas had killed him by treachery. Instead of grieving, she exhorted the Pandavas to avenge the killing," Rawat said, addressing the programme at Balawala as the chief guest. One has to retaliate, not grieve, against those who commit treachery, he told the audience. Rawat, who was removed as the chief minister earlier this month nine days ahead of the completion of four years in the office, said as CM, he tried to focus on empowering women and the youth but that may not have gone down well with some people. "But I am happy that I have emerged untainted out of the dark tunnel of politics (four-year term as CM). I wouldn't ever do anything that makes me incapable of seeing straight into the eyes of my people," he said. The programme was held at Milan wedding point on Thursday where Rawat's supporters had gathered in large numbers to listen to him and celebrate the festivals of colours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trivendra-singh-rawat-compares-himself-with-abhimanyu-of-mahabharata-967018.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||DH Toon | Tamil Nadu Assembly polls candidate does people's laundry||It is election season when dirty linen is washed in public. In Tamil Nadu, an AIADMK candidate has done it literally. To catch the attention of voters and to “connect” with them, Thanga Kathiravan, AIADMK nominee from Nagapattinam in the Cauvery Delta region, washed clothes in public in full media glare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dh-toon-tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-candidate-does-peoples-laundry-966630.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||From economic policies to West Bengal polls: Who is BJP's Balurghat candidate Ashok Lahiri?||Ashok Lahiri, a former chief economic advisor (CEA) to the government, an ex-senior economist at the International Monetary Fund and an accomplished economist, has been in the news in the recent past over his candidature in the West Bengal Assembly election. The BJP has fielded the Bengali economist from the Balurghat constituency, ostensibly to capitalise on his well-educated personality to attract the middle-class voters who have kept the party at arm's length over dissonance with its ideology. The BJP on March 23 brought Ashok Lahiri back into the fray by fielding him from the Balurghat seat, even as it had announced a list of 13 candidates, including a former senior army officer, for the final four phases of West Bengal Assembly polls. With this, Lahiri would also become the first former CEA to contest an election. He was earlier pulled out from the Alipurduar seat in north Bengal after local party workers held protests against his candidature. The district’s BJP unit had protested against the decision of picking Lahiri for the seat and alleged that the party did not consult the district office on his candidature. Ganga Prasad Sharma, BJP Alipurduar district president quit the BJP a day after the incident in protest. The BJP had then replaced him with Suman Kanjilal, general secretary of its Alipurduar district committee. Lahiri, an alumnus of the famous Presidency University, was appointed as CEA by the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in 2002 and went on to serve under Prime Minister Manmohan Singh until 2007. He is known for his advocacy of three levels of government -- local, state and Centre -- working in tandem, emphasising the idea of cooperative federalism, which has been used several times by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his campaigns too. Lahiri is also of the opinion that encouraging entrepreneurship is vital to reviving business sentiment in West Bengal. In the past, Lahiri has been sympathetic to Mamata Banerjee government’s efforts to revive the business sentiment and spur entrepreneurial interest in the state, saying that she inherited a Bengal that was in distress. He has been critical of the communist governments of the past in the state. Now, Lahiri is touted to be a finance minister probable of the state should he win and the party come to power. Lahiri has said that he wants to focus on three major areas in Bengal - education, healthcare and infrastructure. “We need to raise the educational levels in the state, work in healthcare for schemes such as those seeking correct incidence of anaemia among expectant mothers," Lahiri said. He slammed the Trinamool Congress’s slogan 'Khela Hobe' (Game will happen) by saying, "I do not believe in playing games with people. I feel we need to work for the people here... These are dignified people who want to regain their place of honour." The academic-turned-politician, who hails from north Bengal and was a member of the 15th Finance Commission till recently, says he thought long and hard before taking the electoral plunge. "I had left West Bengal in 1971 (when the Naxal movement was at its peak in the state) as the situation here was not conducive for studies, but I was always mentally present in Bengal... I always had the feeling that I needed to get back to my roots and do some work here," the BJP nominee said in an interview with PTI. Lahiri’s election campaign leverages the regular Bengal citizen’s desire to be among the top in terms of social indicators, infrastructure and economy. Only time will tell if Bengalis will buy into his idea of Bengal. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/from-economic-policies-to-west-bengal-polls-who-is-bjps-balurghat-candidate-ashok-lahiri-966645.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Bharat Bandh: Four Shatabdi trains cancelled as protesters squat on tracks||Protesters squatted on railway tracks at 32 locations across Punjab and Haryana on Friday as part of the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions protesting against agri laws, leading to disruption of rail traffic. A railway spokesperson said four Shatabdi trains have been cancelled and 31 other trains detained due to the protests. The 32 locations where train movement has been disrputed fall under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the railways. "As of 9 am kisan agitators are sitting at 32 locations. Total 31 trains have been detained so far. Four Shatabdi trains have been cancelled," Northern Railways spokesperson Deepak Kumar said. The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) has called for the bandh from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the farmers' agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for minimum support price on their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bharat-bandh-four-shatabdi-trains-cancelled-as-protesters-squat-on-tracks-966701.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||'Satyagraha' ends atrocities, arrogance: Rahul Gandhi on Bharat Bandh||India's history shows that 'satyagraha' ends atrocities, injustice and arrogance, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday, extending support to the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions protesting the three agri laws. Farmer unions protesting the laws have called for a complete 'Bharat Bandh' from 6 am to 6 pm on Friday which marks four months of the farmer agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. In a tweet in Hindi, Gandhi said India's history shows that 'satyagraha' ends atrocities, injustice and arrogance.  The movement should be in national interest and peaceful, the former Congress chief added. भारत का इतिहास गवाह है कि सत्याग्रह से ही अत्याचार, अन्याय व अहंकार का अंत होता है। Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's border points at Ghazipur, Singhu and Tikri since November last year demanding that the Centre repeal the three contentious farm laws. Enacted in September last year, the three farm laws have been projected by the Centre as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce anywhere in the country. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that the new laws would pave the way for eliminating the safety cushion of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) and do away with the "mandi" (wholesale market) system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/satyagraha-ends-atrocities-arrogance-rahul-gandhi-on-bharat-bandh-966705.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Centre may have cut fuel prices with eye on state polls, says Shiv Sena||The Centre might have slashed the fuel rates so that the BJP does not suffer on the issue of price rise in the five poll-bound states, including West Bengal, the Shiv Sena alleged on Friday without naming the NDA constituent. The Sena, in an editorial in party mouthpiece 'Saamana', also said that instead of giving a "relief of few paise" to people, the central government should share with them some part of "additional income" it earned due to the "huge" rise in petrol and diesel prices in the past one year. The Centre on Thursday slashed the prices of petrol by 21 paise per litre and that of diesel by 20 paise. On Wednesday, the prices were reduced by 18 paise per litre for petrol and 17 paise for diesel, the first reduction in six months. "The fuel prices have been slashed in the country due to reduction in international oil prices. The prices may have been cut by the Centre, so that it (BJP) does not suffer on the issue of fuel price rise in the Assembly polls in five states including Assam and West Bengal," the Sena alleged. "So the thing is, the 'reason' (behind the price cut) is fall in international rates and the 'pretext' (timing) is of Assembly polls in five states of the country. Of course, one should not forget the common people will settle the score when time comes," it added. Apart from West Bengal and Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry are going to polls. The Shiv Sena also wondered for how long this "drop in prices" will continue. It said the fuel price was reduced due to the 15 per cent drop in oil prices internationally. "That means the relief given now will be temporary if the (oil) prices go up tomorrow," the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. The Shiv Sena also accused the Centre of "not showing" the willpower to reduce petrol and diesel rates despite the people and the opposition parties raising voices over price rise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/centre-may-have-cut-fuel-prices-with-eye-on-state-polls-says-shiv-sena-966745.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||SC reserves order on bail plea by Navlakha in Bhima Koregaon case||The Supreme Court on Friday reserved its order on a plea by activist Gautam Navlakha for statutory bail in the Bhima Koregaon case. He questioned the Bombay HC order of February 8 which said alleged illegal detention cannot be considered to compute the 90 days-time stipulated to file a chargesheet. A bench of U U Lalit and K M Joseph wrapped up the hearing on his petition as his counsel senior advocate Kapil Sibal contended Navlakha ought to be released on default bail, as the charge sheet was filed after 93 days of his custody. He also maintained two days period of transit from Delhi to Mumbai should also be counted in 90 days period. On March 16, 2020, the top court had declined anticipatory bail to Navlakha and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA.  On April 8, 2020, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit that allegedly emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/sc-reserves-order-on-bail-plea-by-navlakha-in-bhima-koregaon-case-966764.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul a 'fighter', only acceptable name in Congress for party chief, says Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Friday said that going forward, only Rahul Gandhi is acceptable as the Congress chief. Hailing Gandhi as a "fighter", Baghel said he is the only one strongly raising his voice against the BJP government at the Centre. Speaking at the India Economic Conclave, the Chhattisgarh chief minister also asserted that the Congress is fighting the assembly polls in Assam, Kerala, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry with full force and is confident of doing well. Asked about the Chhattisgarh Congress' resolution passed in February seeking Gandhi's return as party chief and why there was no alternative to his name being projected by the party, Baghel said there is a "solid reason" for such a demand as he is the one who is strongly raising his voice against the ruling dispensation in these times. "We fought a general election under his (Gandhi's) presidentship only once, and we were defeated in a big way. After a defeat, people put the blame on others, but Rahul Gandhi accepted responsibility and resigned," Baghel said. Gandhi asked the party to elect a president who is from outside the Gandhi family, he noted. "But what happened? The Congress Working Committee and all states asked him (Gandhi) to be president," Baghel said. Asked why leaders such as Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and himself cannot be party chief contenders, Baghel said every person has an acceptability and "in the Congress, only Rahul Gandhi is acceptable (as president) - be it north, south, east or west".  "My acceptability is not beyond Chhattisgarh, there are other senior leaders whose acceptability may be more, but Rahul Gandhi's acceptability is through the rank and file of the Congress and throughout the country," he asserted.  Last month also, Baghel, in an interview with PTI, had said Gandhi is the only leader who can take on the mantle of the Congress presidentship as he is the one who has been taking a strong stand on important issues without bowing to the government's pressure. Also, the Delhi Congress and the Chhattisgarh Pradesh Congress Committee (CPCC) had recently passed a resolution to re-appoint the Wayanad MP as the party president. After a three-and-a-half-hour meeting, the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party's highest policy making body, had in January authorised incumbent chief Sonia Gandhi to schedule the internal elections after the conclusion of assembly polls. Sonia Gandhi took over as interim Congress president after Rahul Gandhi resigned in the wake of the party's Lok Sabha debacle in May 2019. In his remarks on Friday, Baghel also slammed the perception of the BJP being dominant throughout the country, saying in many states it is dependent on strong regional outfits. "The BJP is losing in Bengal. We (Congress) are going to form a government in Assam. BJP has no presence in Kerala, and is going to lose in Tamil Nadu. It  may win something in Puducherry, but has nothing in the other four states," Baghel claimed.  Talking about the role of the rural sector in the country's economy, Baghel said that the road to economic revival runs through agriculture and strengthening the rural economy is the only way to ensure overall growth. The Chhattisgarh chief minister said the economy of India largely depends on agriculture, and with a focus on rural economy, Chhattisgarh has chalked out a detailed action plan and has initiated various schemes. Replying to a question on where Chhattisgarh stands in the next decade in terms of economy, Baghel said that Chhattisgarh will be a great contributor to the economy as it is a state which is generating employment in the rural sector, doing value addition, setting up new industries and exploring the non-core sectors.  "We have been continuously working on improving the state's economy by giving money in the pockets of the consumers. And this helped us in the tough times. We gave money to farmers through the NYAY scheme providing input support price, purchased their produce on MSP, gave maximum employment under MGNREGA -- all this resulted in giving a boost to the state economy,” Baghel said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-a-fighter-only-acceptable-name-in-congress-for-party-chief-says-bhupesh-baghel-966792.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Exodus over as is lockdown, but many migrants struggle to get life back in order||About this time last year, when people all over India locked down in their homes, they undertook epic journeys back to their villages – some clambering on trains and buses and others walking and cycling many hundred miles as they fled the big cities that could no longer promise two meals a day. One year later, the lockdown that had caught them by surprise is over and many migrants who had lost their jobs have made it back to towns and cities but life is akin to the proverbial square peg in a round hole. An uneasy fit. Avinash Yadav is among them, one of the millions of men, women and even children who traversed the country in a migrant exodus that is perhaps the largest movement of people since Partition. The 22-year-old from Raigarh in Chhattisgarh worked as a construction worker at a Delhi school when the lockdown was announced on the evening of March 24. The next morning, as much of the country was pushed inside their homes, Yadav found himself staring at both homelessness and unemployment. His wife was seven months pregnant at the time. After waiting for several weeks for trains to resume, the couple, along with few others, decided to walk home. The risk of contracting Covid-19 was ever present but there was little option.   It took them 10 days to complete the more than 1,000-km journey, but that he said was only the beginning of their struggle. With no source of income in the village, the couple and their baby survived five months by borrowing money from local lenders at an exorbitant interest rate of 5 per cent per month. “At this point, I have a loan of Rs 1 lakh,” he said. He returned to his job in Delhi but soon had to look out for alternatives due to non-payment of wages. Yadav is now in Chandigarh, working at another school. While there is a salary, he said it is barely enough to feed his family, let alone replay the loan. The nationwide lockdown that was first imposed on March 25 last year, was extended in five phases continuing for three months till June 30, after which different states continued or lifted the restrictions depending on the number of Covid-19 positive cases. The total number of migrant workers who returned to their home states was 1,04,66,152 (10.44 million, 1.04 crore), Santosh Kumar Gangwar, minister of state of labour and employment, said in a parliamentary response in September last year, One year later, the vaccine is here, and life is slowly resuming to its pre-corona form, but those who were part of the catastrophic human tragedy that was the migration crisis are still recovering from the scars. Follow DH's latest coverage on Covid-19 Many people lost their loved ones in the perilous journeys undertaken, some succumbing to heat and hunger and some caught in accidents. In May last year, 16 migrants sleeping on the tracks were run over by a train in Maharashtra. The tragedy took on myriad forms and still continues. An International Labour Organisation assessment predicted in April last year that 40 crore informal sector workers in India could be pushed deeper into poverty due to the lockdown.  It is true the lockdown was a necessary step taken to control the spread of the virus, said labour rights activist Nirmal Agni. However, it was the “insensitive” manner in which the measure was implemented that resulted in the human tragedy, he added. “The government did not even give these workers a full day worth of warning. The prime minister simply announced that a 21-day lockdown would begin in the next four hours… The decision was clearly made without taking this population who earn their living one day at a time into consideration.  “It is important to understand that for these workers, protection against Covid-19 wasn’t a priority. Their biggest worry was survival and managing two meals a day, the scope for which the lockdown completely took away, and without any warning,” Agni, who is the general secretary of the Bandhua Mukti Morcha, said. Biren, 26, who worked as a daily wage labourer in Delhi was one of those caught off guard. He was forced to take a trip back to his village Vilaspur in Chhattisgarh, where he spent nine months before returning to the city for work. “I waited for one month after the lockdown hoping that we would get our jobs back, but when nothing happened and getting the bare minimum to eat was becoming a struggle, my wife and I hopped on to a tractor that was going towards our state.  “In the village, we survived somehow. We grew some vegetables on our own, and just about managed,” he said. Biren is back in Delhi but hasn’t got his old job back. He has instead settled for a lower paying job to continue to survive. While the problem of irregular wages is not new in the informal sector, it magnified manifold during the lockdown with disappearing work avenues and pay cuts. To address wage-related grievances, the government set up 20 control rooms to address wage-related grievances. Gangwar, in another parliament response, had noted that during the lockdown over 15,000 complaints of workers were resolved through these control rooms. “Due to the intervention of the Ministry more than two lakh workers were paid their due wages amounting to about Rs 295 crore,” he said. However, Himanshu Upadhyay, assistant professor at Azim Premji University, is disappointed at how the authorities managed the crisis. “Even after this crisis, things have not changed in terms of labour welfare thinking.  “Some of us who are researching this were hoping that Covid-19 would provide a moment of soul searching for the bureaucracy, and the welfare boards, but I am sad to reflect that that has not happened,” Upadhyay, who writes on public finance, told PTI.  In his view, the government had not done much In terms of bringing a new policy or a new law that addresses the crisis of migrant labour, and added that implementation of the existing laws is the need of the hour. Among the first few steps to start providing relief to the migrant workers, he said, would be to recognise the workers of the informal sector under the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) welfare board. Educating the workers about their rights should be the next step forward. “Doing a bit more investment in terms of public education — what are the workers’ rights, what are the different welfare schemes that they can avail, what does the board offer in terms of educational assistance for their children…these are the first few steps that are the minimum where we should start from,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/exodus-over-as-is-lockdown-but-many-migrants-struggle-to-get-life-back-in-order-966793.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi speaks to Kovind's son to enquire about President's health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to President Ram Nath Kovind's son on Friday to enquire about his health.  Kovind is undergoing check-up at the Army's Research and Referral hospital here after complaining of chest discomfort, the hospital said. In a tweet the PMO said, "PM Narendra Modi spoke to Rashtrapati Ji's son. He enquired about the President's health and prayed for his well-being."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-speaks-to-kovinds-son-to-enquire-about-presidents-health-966836.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi becoming reason for Cong's downfall: Adityanath||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday took a swipe at Rahul Gandhi, saying the Congress leader does not speak on his own but depends on "borrowed wisdom" and he is becoming a reason for his party's downfall. "Rahul ji apni buddhi se toh kuch kahte nahin. Udhar ki buddhi vivek nahin deti hai. (Rahul ji does not say anything from his wisdom. Borrowed wisdom does not give sense of reasoning)," Adityanath said while responding to a question about Gandhi's criticism of the state of affairs in Uttar Pradesh under his government. Adityanath made the remarks at the India Economic Conclave which he attended via a video bridge. The chief minister said that since Gandhi hardly visits the state, he would have little information about the ground situation there. When India faces a crisis, Rahul Gandhi does not remember the people of the country but his maternal grandmother in Italy, Adityanath said. "He criticises north when he is in south, and south when he is in north (India)," the senior BJP leader said targeting Gandhi who is the MP from Wayanad in Kerala. The Congress leader had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha Elections from Wayanad and Amethi, but lost to BJP's Smriti Irani in the Uttar Pradesh seat. Gandhi also criticises India when he is abroad, Adityanath said, adding that when a person has such a nature, his reliability is under question. Adityanath claimed that Gandhi is becoming a reason for the Congress' downfall. To a question about opinion polls predicting another term for the Left Democratic Front in Kerala against the convention of the party in power being ousted in the next election in the state, he said Gandhi's arrival in the state has triggered a slide in Congress' fortunes there. Responding to a question on West Bengal Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress leader Mamata Banerjee, he said it is an "ideological victory" for the BJP that people who used to describe going to temple as "communal" are themselves visiting temples. "This may be due to elections, but we consider it as our ideological victory. Ideological victory leads to real victory," Adityanath said. He recalled that restrictions were placed on Durga Puja in West Bengal in 2018. Uttar Pradesh, Adityanath said, faced a similar situation as Durga Puja and Moharram fell at the same time. He said his government allowed both by fixing time for the two by talking to stakeholders. Later, the West Bengal government approached the Uttar Pradesh government to understand how it managed to allow both the religious events, he claimed. Predicting a win for the BJP in the West Bengal polls, Adityanath said every section of society wants change in the state. He said Uttar Pradesh has progressed in every field since the BJP came to power in the state in 2017. The size of its economy is now second in the country from six in 2015-16, Adityanath said. He said that his government identified various fields to boost people's income and improve the state's economy. The per capita income has gone up to Rs 96,000 from Rs 47,000 earlier, Adityanath said. The state has seen over Rs 3 lakh crore private investment in the last four years, he said, adding that law and order has considerably improved and road and air connectivity boosted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-becoming-reason-for-congs-downfall-adityanath-966856.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Indian economy has gone for a toss, there is no growth except for PM Modi's beard: Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Friday mocked Prime Minister Narendra Modi over his beard, saying its growth is inversely proportional to the state of economy. Banerjee, who was addressing poll rallies in Paschim Medinipur district, also called the BJP the "biggest fraud party". The TMC supremo, who is contesting assembly election from the high-profile Nandigram seat in Purba Medinipur district, said she will stay put there till the end of polling in the constituency on April 1 as the BJP may "loot votes by using goons from other states". She also warned TMC workers against complacency. "India's economy has gone for a toss. There is no industrial growth. There is no growth except for the beard of Narendra Modiji. At times he dresses like Rabindranath Tagore and at time likes Mahatma Gandhi," she said mocking the prime minister. Banerjee said, "The day is not far when the entire country will be sold and named after Narendra Modi ... BJP is trying to throttle democracy." "As we (opposition parties) are all busy with assembly elections in five states, the BJP government is passing laws to usurp the constitutional powers of the elected government in Delhi by giving more powers to the lieutenant governor. This is shameful," she said. Recounting the cancellation of the visa of Bangladeshi actor Firdaus after he campaigned for her party in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Banerjee said the US should scrap Modi's visa for "campaigning for former president Donald Trump". "Have you forgotten the slogan 'Abki Bar Trump Sarkar'?" she asked. Donald Trump's campaign, in a bid to woo the influential Indian-American voters in the US presidential election, had launched a video containing clips of Modi's speeches and former US president's address in Ahmedabad. The TMC supremo, who held three poll rallies in Paschim Medinipur district during the day, claimed that BJP has "hired goons to threaten people". "These goons might visit households and ask women with folded hands to vote for them or face the threat of being herded out," she said. "Don't be overconfident or complacent. BJP is the biggest fraud and janjal (deceitful) party. It can go to any extent to win the elections at any cost. Your duty is not over even after the voting gets over. You have to guard the EVMs," Banerjee told TMC workers at a rally in Daspur. She alleged that police personnel from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, where the BJP is in power, were being brought to West Bengal to rig the polls. "They (police personnel) will act in favour of BJP. If you sense anything amiss, rise in protest. Mothers and sisters should take the lead in such protests if you see any illegal activity," she said. "Be ready with utensils and broomsticks to chase away such elements if they issue a threat," Banerjee told women at the meeting. She said some such people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were arrested from Nandigram area on Thursday night. "They (BJP) think they can rig the polls. We will not allow that to happen. I will stay put in Nandigram from March 28 till the elections are over there. I will myself see how they loot votes," she asserted. The BJP has hired "borgis from outside to loot votes". Borgis were a category of Maratha empire's troops who indulged in large-scale plunder during expeditions in Bengal in the 18th century. Alleging that EVMs could be tampered with to help the BJP win the election, Banerjee asked TMC polling agents to check them twice on polling days and guard them till May 2 when the votes will be counted. "If members of the central forces ask you to leave, tell them that you respect them, but they should not work for Modiji," she said. The eight-phase election to the 294-member West Bengal Assembly begins on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/indian-economy-has-gone-for-a-toss-there-is-no-growth-except-for-pm-modis-beard-mamata-banerjee-966918.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||'Bharat Bandh' a big success, claims Samkyukta Kisan Morcha||The 12-hour 'Bharat bandh' called by farmers protesting the three agri laws was a "big success", the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha said on Friday, and claimed that shutdown was observed in many parts of the country, including Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar. However, there was a minimal impact in Delhi with no report of a disturbance in the metro and road transport services, and major markets of the city remaining open during the day. In a statement, the Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting the three farm laws, alleged that its several leaders and cadres were detained by the police in Karnataka and Gujarat during the 'bandh' that marked four months of the agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. On Friday, the nationwide shutdown started at 6 am and was in force up to 6 pm across the country. The statement claimed that in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the impact of the bandh was "impressive". "There are reports of successful 'Bharat Bandh' from almost every district in Haryana. Markets and other services in cities like Kurukshetra, Karnal, Sonipat, Yamunanagar, Ambala etc remained suspended. "In Punjab, 'Bharat Bandh' programs were held in more than 200 places, including Mansa, Amritsar, Moga, Ferozepur, Jalandhar," it claimed. The SKM said the 'bandh' was observed in more than 20 districts of Bihar and over 200 places in Punjab as well as in Haryana where people made it a "a big success" The 'bandh' was observed in Patna, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Buxar, Gaya, Nawada, Sheikhpura, Nalanda, Purnia, Begusarai, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Siwan, Vaishali Samastipur, Sitamadi, Jehanabad, Arwal, Aurangabad, Jamui, West Champaran and other places, the morcha claimed. "Sustaining such a long movement is not only a matter of patience and hard work of the farmers, it is also a shame for the government. Despite extreme weather conditions, farmers stayed resolute, and continue to be in high spirits," the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha said. According to their statement, in Uttar Pradesh, roads and markets were closed at many places, including Aligarh, Shamli, Moradabad, Etawah and Sambhal. Farmer organisations in Kurnool and Vijayawada made this bandh "a success", the statement claimed, adding that the impact was also seen at dozens of places, including Warangal, Hanmakonda and Mehboobabad in Telangana. In Rajasthan, farmers blocked roads in Bikaner, Sriganganagar, Kesari Singhpur, Anupgarh, Padampur, NH 62 and other places, the SKM statement claimed. Many political parties, bar associations, trade unions, student organisations, democratic organisations, small traders, organisations fighting for social justice, social and religious organizations and conscious citizens supported the nationwide shutdown and made every effort for it, the Morcha claimed. In the statement, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said it acknowledged this support and also the support extended by trade unions, women's organisations, transporters' associations and others. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) on their crops. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock continues as both sides have stuck to their stands. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bharat-bandh-a-big-success-claims-samkyukta-kisan-morcha-966943.html
26-03-2021||National Politics||Vote wisely, Manmohan Singh tells Assam voters||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Friday made an emotional appeal to the voters of Assam, his adopted state, to “vote wisely” to elect a government that would put the state back on the path of peace and development. Recalling his long association with the state, Singh said the people of Assam had allowed him to serve as Finance Minister for five years and Prime Minister for 10 years. Singh, 88, was a member of the Rajya Sabha for 28 years from 1991 to 2019 and a tenant of former chief minister Hiteshwar Saikia, who had let out his home to enable the former prime minister to become a registered voter in Assam. “I am deeply grateful for the trust and affection of the people of Assam, and for the friendship of the late Hiteswar Saikia, and the late Tarun Gogoi,” he said. He said Assam, which had endured terrible suffering due to insurgency and unrest, had made a new beginning under the leadership of Gogoi between 2001 and 2016. “However, it is now facing very serious setbacks,” Singh said. The former prime minister reminded the voters of five guarantees – work for repeal of Citizenship Amendment Act, 30 lakh new jobs, increase the wage of tea garden workers, free electricity and Rs 2,000 monthly allowance for housewives. “Once again, the time has come for you to cast your ballot in the Vidhan Sabha elections. You must vote wisely,” Singh said. Earlier, Singh had participated in a webinar organised by the Kerala Congress as part of the election campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/vote-wisely-manmohan-singh-tells-assam-voters-967006.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Man dies of burns as girlfriend throws acid on him in Agra||A man died of severe burns here on Thursday after a woman he was in a relationship with allegedly threw acid on him in a fit of rage as he was getting married to someone else, police said. Sonam, a nurse at a private hospital here, and Devendra, an assistant at a pathology lab, knew each other for a long time and were in a relationship, they said. But she was angry with Devendra as he was going to marry another person, the police added. On Thursday, the woman asked the man to come to her place on the pretext of fixing a fan, Agra Superintendent of Police (SP) Rohan Botre said. As Devendra arrived at her house, she attacked him with acid, he added. The man was admitted to a hospital in Sikandra with burn injuries where he died, the SP said, adding that the woman was arrested. He said the accused also suffered burns and was undergoing treatment at the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-dies-of-burns-as-girlfriend-throws-acid-on-him-in-agra-966587.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Farmers gather near national highways, key roads in Punjab, Haryana||Farmers gathered at several national highways, key roads and some railway tracks in Punjab and Haryana on Friday morning as part of their nationwide protest against the Centre's new agri laws. According to the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), the Bharat Bandh is being observed from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the farmers' agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Heavy police force has been deployed in the two states as part of security measures, an official said. The farmers have gathered at several highways and roads in the two states including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Bhiwani districts. A group of farmers who were holding a protest in Zirakpur and Kharar towns in Punjab, both on the outskirts of Chandigarh, said they were allowing ambulances and other emergency vehicles to pass. Some of the protesters blocked the Ambala-Delhi highway near Ambala Cantt, police said. While another group squatted on a railway track near Shahpur village, around five kilometers from Ambala Cantt, due to which all the trains running between Delhi and Saharanpur were stranded, railway officials said. The farmers also blocked the Ambala-Rajpura Highway on the Haryana-Punjab border near Shambhu barrier, and the Ambala-Hisar Highway near Ambala City. Blockades on various state highways were also reported in Naraingarh and Mullana in Haryana, police said. The SKM, an umbrella body of protesting unions, appealed to protesting farmers to be peaceful and not get involved in any kind of illegitimate debate and conflict during the 'bandh'. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," SKM had said in a statement. Farmer leaders have said road and rail transport will be blocked and claimed that markets will also remain closed.         They also claimed that trade unions from organised and unorganised sectors, and transport and other associations too have extended support to the call for Bharat Bandh. Meanwhile, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), apex religious body of the Sikhs, has also supported the nationwide protest. SGPC president Jagir Kaur had said on Thursday that its offices would be kept closed on Friday in support of the Bharat Bandh. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops. The statement issued by the SKM claimed that various farmers' organisations, trade unions, student organisations, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported its call for a nationwide protest. Apart from repealing of three farm laws, the demands of protesting unions include cancellation of all police cases against farmers, withdrawal of electricity and pollution bills, and reduction in prices of diesel, petrol and gas. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and government, but the deadlock has continued as both sides have stuck to their stand. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-farmers-gather-near-national-highways-key-roads-in-punjab-haryana-966690.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh increases fine for not wearing masks five-fold||The Chhattisgarh government has increased from Rs 100 to Rs 500 the amount of penalty for not wearing face mask, to ensure strict implementation of the coronavirus guidelines, an official said on Friday. The state health and family welfare department on Thursday issued an order to this effect under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 to contain the spread of the infection, a release by the public relations department said. "According to the order, now a penalty of Rs 500 will be imposed if anyone is found not wearing mask or face cover in public places. Earlier, the penalty was Rs 100 for the violation," it said. The state government has also appealed to people to strictly follow the preventive guidelines, including physical distancing and washing hands, apart from the use of masks, it said. In view of the sudden spike in coronavirus cases, the administrations have imposed section 144 of the CrPC, which bars assembly of four or more people, in several districts of Chhattisgarh, including Raipur, Durg, Bastar, Raigarh, and announced various restrictions, including banning all kinds of religious, festivals, cultural and political programmes and sports events, exhibitions and fairs till further orders. Chhattisgarh on Thursday recorded the highest single-day spike of 2,419 coronavirus cases in the last four months. The state's Covid-19 caseload stood at 3,32,113 till Thursday. Of these, 3,14,769 people have so far recovered, while 4,026 patients have died due to the infection so far, as per official figures. The state has reported 11,330 Covid-19 cases in the last week with most of the infections being reported from Raipur, Durg and Bilaspur districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-increases-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-five-fold-966708.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||2 OGWs involved in Srinagar militant attack held: Cops||Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday said that they have identified the militant involved in yesterday’s attack on the outskirts of Srinagar which left two CRPF men dead and two more injured, adding that two over ground workers (OGWs) involved in the incident have been arrested Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar, said the OGWs, identified as Muzaffar Mir and Javaid Sheikh, provided logistic support to one Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT) militant Nadeem Abrar Bhat alias Abu Brar in carrying out the deadly attack on the CRPF party in Lawaypora area on the city outskirts. “The trio had conducted a recce of the area on March 24 after which they chose the target on March 25 afternoon,” the IGP told reporters on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony of two slain CRPF men at RTC Humhama, here. He said the vehicle used in the attack has also been seized. “Acting on a lead, police arrested Javaid Sheikh first along with a Maruti car (HR 10 Q-6583) in which some empty cartridges were also recovered. After his questioning, we also arrested Muzaffar. Raids were conducted on two hideouts, but LeT militant Nadeem and two foreign militants had fled after coming to know about the arrest of Muzaffar and Javaid,” Kumar said. He claimed that both the arrested OGWs have confessed to the crime. Asked whether any weapon was missing from the incident spot, the IGP said, “Yes, one weapon is missing.” Talking about the spurt in militant attacks in Srinagar and its outskirts in recent months, the IGP said there is militant movement on the national highway on city outskirts as it connects Srinagar with the rest of Kashmir districts. “We will see if there is any loophole and ensure that the same is plugged,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/2-ogws-involved-in-srinagar-militant-attack-held-cops-966715.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||J&K contributes Rs 17 crore for Ram temple construction||As a part of the nationwide campaign, Jammu and Kashmir contributed over Rs 17 crore donation for Ayodhya’s Ram temple construction, Prant Sah Sanghchalak, Gautam Mengi said. “In around 44-day long campaign, 21,331 RSS volunteers reached out to nearly 6,37,098 houses in 4,693 villages and towns across the Union Territory and paved the way for a contribution towards Ram temple,” Mengi, who was flanked by other RSS leaders, told reporters in Jammu. “Shri Ram temple is not just a temple but an introduction to the culture of India’s character and as part of the campaign, volunteers reached 5,45,737 villages and towns and around 20 lakh workers were engaged in the Sampark Abhiyan,” he added. The Shri Ram Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan had begun across the nation on January 15 on the pious day of Makar Sankranti and concluded on February 27, on the occasion of Ravidas Jayanti. The drive was conducted by the Shri Ram Janmbhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which was set up as per the direction of the Supreme Court in its contentious judgment on 9 November 2019. Mengi added that during the Covid-19 pandemic, the RSS volunteers distributed 1,97,770 food packets, 4567 sanitisers, 1,36,562 masks, 58,716 ration kits and 510 medical PPE kits in 2,902 villages and towns across Jammu and Kashmir. He said the total number of RSS Shakha’s in the UT stand at 352. Weekly meetings are held at 160 places and monthly at 191 places. Last year in December, the Trust general secretary Champat Rai had said during the 44-day campaign the volunteers plan to reach at least 55 crore people, 11 crore families and five lakh villages in every corner of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-contributes-rs-17-crore-for-ram-temple-construction-966720.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Entry, exit gates of 3 Delhi metro stations reopened||The entry and exit gates of the Tikri border, Bahadurgarh city and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh metro stations, which were closed briefly as a precautionary measure in view of Bharat Bandh, have been opened, officials said on Friday. The 'Bharat Bandh' has been called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbreall body of farmer unions protesting the three contentious Central agri laws. The nationwide shutdown has been scheduled from 6 am to 6 to mark four months of the farmers' agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said, "Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh are now open." Public Service Announcement Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh are now open. Earlier, the DMRC informed about closure of entry and exit of four metro stations. "Entry/exit for Tikri Border, Pandit Shree Ram Sharma, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh are close," the DMRC had tweeted. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price on their crops.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-entry-exit-gates-of-3-delhi-metro-stations-reopened-966722.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh cabinet approves scheme offering affordable rental housing for urban migrants, poor||The Uttar Pradesh government will start a scheme offering affordable rental housing for poor people living in cities and a proposal to this effect was approved by the state cabinet presided over by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, an official release issued here on Friday said. Under the Affordable Rental Housing and Complexes (ARHC) scheme, urban migrants/poor labourers, those belonging to economically weaker sections, low income groups including factory workers, educational institutions, people associated with hospitality and students will be the beneficiaries. Preference will be given to people belonging to Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Other Backward Classes, widows, working women, divyang and minorities, which will be subject to the provisions made by the state government, the release said. The ARHC scheme has been launched by the government of India through the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs under 'self-reliant India' campaign, the statement said. It will be implemented under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban) to promote participation of private/public institutions for construction, operation and maintenance of rental housing complexes for urban migrants/poor, it said. The scheme will be implemented under two models in the state. Model one involves converting vacant houses funded by the central or state government into an ARHC through an agreement. Under the second model, ARHC will be built, operated and maintained by public/private entities on their available vacant land, it said. No proposal will be accepted without technical examination of the 'Avas Bandhu' under the scheme, it said. According to the statement, all projects under the scheme will be used for rental accommodation only for EWS/LIG category, urban migrants/poor for minimum 25 years. If ARHC is used for any purpose other than rent, action will be taken against the agency concerned by the competent authority according to rules, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cabinet-approves-scheme-offering-affordable-rental-housing-for-urban-migrants-poor-966736.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||No proof Covid-19 second wave due to virus variants, but it is possible: Virologist Shahid Jameel||There is so far no evidence that the second wave of Covid-19 in the country is due to variants of the virus, but it is possible, said noted virologist Shahid Jameel. He, however, stressed that the sharp rise in coronavirus infections seen recently is mainly because people have stopped following Covid-appropriate behaviour. In an interview with PTI, Jameel, who has won the coveted Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize, said the rollout of vaccines has caused a false sense of security among people. "But vaccines won't work unless we take them. As of March 25, only 8.1 million people have taken both doses, which is 0.6 per cent of India's population. Further, 46.4 million people or 3.3 per cent of India's population have taken only one dose, which gives weak or no protection," he said. Jameel further said there is so far no evidence that the second wave is due to variant viruses. "But this is possible". "The mortality rate in the second wave appears to be no different. In fact, it appears to be lower than what we saw in August and September 2020, during the first peak," said Jameel, who is presently the director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University. He said the second wave is mainly because there are enough susceptible people in the country and in the past four months most of the people have stopped following Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and avoiding crowded places. "Further, all commercial and recreation activities are back to normal even as the pandemic is still there," Jameel said. Registering a steep spike in Covid-19 cases for the 16th day in a row, India on Friday saw 59,118 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year. The active caseload has breached the 4-lakh mark again after around three-and-half months. Asked whether a double mutant variant of the coronavirus is causing this surge in the number of infections, Jameel said not necessarily, but it can, depending on the properties of the new mutant viruses. "As for the double mutant found in India, we don't yet know if it is responsible for the surge being observed in some states. Epidemiological correlation is required for that," he said. A double mutant variant is the coming together of two mutations in the same virus. In the Indian context, this refers to two mutations – L452R and E484Q – both within the receptor-binding domain of the spike protein, coming together, Jameel explained. Spike proteins play an important role in how these viruses infect their hosts. It is common for mutants to combine, he said. "The UK variant, for example, carries 23 mutations, of which eight are in the Spike protein. The South African variant has nine mutations of which six are in the Spike protein. The Brazil variant has 16 mutations of which 10 are in the spike protein," he said. Explaining the reason behind such mutations, Jameel said some of these mutations get 'selected' because they offer some advantage to the virus such as better infectivity, ease of transmission from one host to another, evasion of antiviral immunity. He said the effectiveness of current vaccines, Covaxin and Covishied, against the double mutant variant has not yet been tested. India has detected a new "double mutant" Covid-19 variant of SARS-CoV-2 in Delhi, Maharashtra and some other places in addition to the three "variants of concern" -- first noticed in the UK, South Africa and Brazil -- that have been found in at least 18 states and union territories. The ministry, however, said it could not be sufficiently established yet if these variants were behind the recent spike in Covid-19 cases in some states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-proof-covid-19-second-wave-due-to-virus-variants-but-it-is-possible-virologist-shahid-jameel-966741.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||'Bharat Bandh': Minimal impact in Delhi; metro, road transport, markets unaffected||A 12-hour "Bharat Bandh" called by farmer unions protesting against three agriculture laws had a minimal impact in Delhi on Friday with no report of disturbance in the metro and road transport services while the major markets of the city also remained open, even as police made adequate security arrangements to deal with any situation. The "Bharat Bandh" called by the farmer unions began at 6 am. The situation was normal at the New Delhi railway station. Markets at Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Kashmiri Gate, Chandni Chowk and Sadar remained open. Shops in Khan Market were also open. A senior Delhi Police officer said the situation is peaceful and remains under control, adding that no report of any untoward incident has so far been received. Farmers camping at the Ghazipur border blocked a carriageway of National Highway-9 from Delhi to Ghaziabad in the morning, but there was not much activity by the protesters in the city till afternoon. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had to briefly close the entry and exit gates of the Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh stations, but after a few minutes, the stations were opened for passengers. A farmer leader claimed that there were protests in Mayapuri and some other areas where people peacefully staged demonstrations. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of the protesting unions, claimed that various farmer organisations, trade unions, student bodies, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported the "Bharat Bandh" call. On Thursday, the SKM had said the "Bharat Bandh" would also be observed in the national capital. It had appealed to people to make its nationwide shutdown successful. "All shops, malls, markets and institutions will remain closed under the complete Bharat Bandh. All minor and big roads and trains will be blocked. "All services will remain suspended except for ambulance and other essential services. The effect of the Bharat Bandh will be observed inside Delhi as well," the SKM had said in a statement. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) on their crops. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock continues as both sides stick to their stands. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-minimal-impact-in-delhi-metro-road-transport-markets-unaffected-966746.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Govt extends validity of motor vehicle documents in wake of Covid-19||The Centre on Friday announced that all motor vehicle documents, including driving licence and fitness certificate, whose validity expired from February 1, will be treated as valid till June 30. Various documents related to Motor Vehicle Act 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989 whose validity expires from February 1, 2020, will be treated as valid till June 30, the government announced. "To reduce inconvenience due to the following of social distancing norms during Covid-19 outbreak, Ministry of Road Transport and Highways has issued an advisory to all state governments to further extend the validity of the documents related to Motor Vehicles Act 1988 and Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989," the Ministry said. This is the fifth such extension by the Ministry to bring relief to vehicle owners who could not go to the Regional Transport Offices due to Covid-19. However, there is no extension for the renewal of the Insurance certificate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govt-extends-validity-of-motor-vehicle-documents-in-wake-of-covid-19-966748.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Protesters block roads in UP's Muzaffarnagar||Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) blocked roads here on Friday as part of the 12-hour Bharat Bandh, called by farmer groups who have been protesting against the new agri laws. Roads in and around the district including the Delhi-Saharanpur National Highway and Muzaffarnagar-Deoband Road were blocked by the protesters. Farmer unions have called for a complete Bharat Bandh from 6 am to 6 pm on Friday to mark four months of the farmers' agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-protesters-block-roads-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-966761.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||SC orders transfer of gangster-turned-politician BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered the transfer of gangster-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Ropar jail in Punjab to a prison in Banda district in Uttar Pradesh within two weeks. A bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice R Subhash Reddy rejected the Punjab government's opposition to the transfer plea by the Uttar Pradesh government. The court also dismissed the plea of Ansari seeking transfer of cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi.  The bench said Ansari shall be lodged in Banda jail and the jail superintendent will extend necessary medical facilities. The Uttar Pradesh government had filed a writ petition in the court seeking transfer of custody of Mukhtar Ansar from Punjab to face trial in as many as 14 pending cases. It claimed more than 30 FIRs, including those related to heinous crimes of murder and the Gangster Act, were filed against Ansari. Ansari, for his part, alleged there is a threat to his life in Uttar Pradesh as one of the co-accused was "eliminated in an encounter" by the Uttar Pradesh Police. The Punjab government said Ansari, an MLA from Mau, could be tried through video conferencing, which was rejected by the UP government that said if video conferencing was the only mode of trial for an accused to appear from anywhere, then Vijay Mallya can face trial from the United Kingdom.  The UP government claimed the Punjab government was "shamelessly" protecting Ansari, lodged in a jail there since January 2019 in connection with an alleged extortion case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-orders-transfer-of-gangster-turned-politician-bsp-mla-mukhtar-ansari-from-punjab-to-uttar-pradesh-within-two-weeks-966783.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||ACB files charge sheet against three in J&K Bank loan fraud case||The Anti-Corruption Bureau on Friday filed a chargesheet against three people, including two officials of the Jammu and Kashmir Bank, in connection with Rs 270 crore loan fraud case. "ACB presented a chargesheet against Raj Singh Gehlot, Managing Director, Aman Hospitality Private Ltd, Rakesh Kumar Kharyal and Kuldeep Gupta, then Managers of J&K Bank, Ansal Plaza Branch, New Delhi and others in Rs 270 crore J&K Bank loan fraud case," a spokesperson of the ACB said in a statement.  He said a case was registered in July 2019 to probe allegations of financial irregularities in the loans availed by M/s Aman Hospitality Pvt Ltd, New Delhi from the of the J&K Bank's Ansal Plaza Branch in the national capital. "It was alleged that the officers of J&K Bank Ansal Plaza Branch had given loan worth crores of rupees to this firm and in connivance with the said firm, the loan amounts so sanctioned were declared as NPA to facilitate the firm to have a one-time settlement to its advantage," the spokesperson said. He said the firm had apparently availed loans for the construction of a five-star hotel in Delhi with a project cost estimated at Rs 866.89 crore but investigation revealed that the loans were diverted for various other purposes and misappropriated by the borrower Raj Singh Gehlot. "Investigation has established that out of the Rs 100 crore sanctioned as term loan in the first phase to M/s AHPL an amount of Rs 35 crore has been diverted by Raj Singh Gehlot," he added. Gehlot, in connivance with the bank officials and other co-accused, through fictitious firms and layering the funds through other banks in a complex maze of transactions had cheated the bank to the tune of Rs 35 crores, he said.  "Further investigation into the remaining diversions is in progress apart from the allegations of illegally entering into an OTS to the firm advantage by J&K Bank officials," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/acb-files-charge-sheet-against-three-in-jk-bank-loan-fraud-case-966809.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||SC reserves verdict on plea for immediate release of Rohingya refugees in Jammu||The Supreme Court Friday reserved verdict on a fresh plea seeking immediate release of detained Rohingya refugees in Jammu and restrain the Centre from implementing any order deporting them to Myanmar. A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian after hearing detailed arguments on the plea said, “We are closing it for order”. During the hearing, advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner, said Rohingya children were subjected to killing, maiming and sexual exploitation and Military in Myanmar has failed to respect international humanitarian law. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said he is showing the problems which persists in Myanmar. Bhushan referred to verdict of International Court of Justice and said that it has said that Myanmar has not presented any concrete measures aimed specifically at recognising the rights of the Rohingyas to exist as a protected group. He said that Jammu and Kashmir administration has detained Rohingyas in Jammu, who have refugee cards and they will soon be deported. “I am seeking directions to not detain and deport these Rohingyas to Myanmar under Article 21 of the Constitution,” Bhushan said. Mehta said they are not refugees at all and this is the second round of litigation as this court had earlier dismissed an application filed by the petitioner, who is also a Rohinga. “There was a similar application for Assam earlier. They (petitioners) wanted that no Rohingya to be deported, we had said that we will follow the law. They are illegal immigrants. We are always in touch with Myanmar and when they confirm that the individual is their citizen, and then only deportation can take place”, he said. The bench said that can it be said that you (Centre) will deport only when Myanmar accepts. Mehta said yes, the government cannot send an Afghan national to Myanmar. The bench said that it is closing the matter for orders. On March 11, an interim plea was filed in a pending PIL, seeking immediate release of detained Rohingya refugees in Jammu, and sought restrain orders from the court to the Centre from deporting them. The plea also sought direction to the Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards through the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) for Rohingyas in informal camps. The application filed by Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refugee through advocate Bhushan, said that it is filed in public interest in order to secure and protect the right against deportation of refugees in India. The plea said that it is filed to protect rights guaranteed under Article 14 and Article 21, read with Article 51(c) of the Constitution, against the deportation of Rohingya refugees who have taken refuge in India after escaping widespread violence and discrimination against their community in Myanmar. “Release the detained Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the Union Territory government and the Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant Refugee identification cards through the FRRO for Rohingyas in informal camps,” it said. It sought direction to the Union Government to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting Rohingya refugees, who have been detained in the sub jail in Jammu. Violent attacks allegedly by Myanmar army men have led to an exodus of Rohingya tribals from the western Rakhine state in that country to India and Bangladesh. Many of them, who had fled to India after the earlier spate of violence, have settled in Jammu, Hyderabad, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi-NCR and Rajasthan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-reserves-verdict-on-plea-for-immediate-release-of-rohingya-refugees-in-jammu-966811.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: Farmers block highways in Punjab, Haryana; rail services hit||Road and rail traffic was disrupted in several parts of Punjab and Haryana during the Bharat bandh called by farmers on Friday as part of their nationwide protest against the three agricultural laws though there was partial response to it in other parts of the country. Farmers blocked national highways and other key roads at many places in Punjab and Haryana, and squatted on railway tracks at several locations. The Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), which is spearheading the farmers' stir, called for the bandh from 6 am to 6 pm to mark four months of the agitation at Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri. A railway spokesperson said four Shatabdi trains were cancelled, 35 other passenger trains were detained and the movement of 40 goods trains was affected by the protests. Train movement was disrupted at 44 locations that fall under the Delhi, Ambala and Ferozepur divisions of the railways. In Uttar Pradesh's Ballia, as many as 20 activists of CPI (M-L), protesting in Sikandarpur township of the district, were taken into custody. The bandh had a minimal impact in Delhi. Markets at Connaught Place, Karol Bagh, Kashmiri Gate, Chandni Chowk and Sadar remained open. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had to briefly close the entry and exit gates of the Tikri Border, Bahadurgarh City and Brigadier Hoshiar Singh stations, but after a few minutes, the stations were opened for passengers. A farmer leader claimed that there were protests in Mayapuri and some other areas where people peacefully staged demonstrations. The SKM claimed that various farmer organisations, trade unions, student bodies, bar associations, political parties and representatives of state governments have supported the bandh call. In other parts of the country, there was partial response to the bandh. Shops remained closed at several places in Punjab. At a few places in Haryana too, shutters were down in support of the bandh. Public and private transport remained off the roads in Punjab. In neighbouring Haryana, State Transport Minister Moolchand Sharma told PTI that Haryana Roadways bus services will be suspended in those districts where it is felt that it is not conducive to operate them in view of the farmers' protest. "Bus services are otherwise functional in Haryana," he said. Since morning, farmers in the two states gathered at several highways and roads, including in Bathinda, Ludhiana, Amritsar, Patiala, Mohali, Rohtak, Ferozepur, Pathankot, Jhajjar, Jind, Panchkula, Kaithal, Yamunanagar, and Bhiwani districts. Farmer union leaders said they were allowing ambulances and other emergency vehicles as well as marriage processions to pass. In view of the 'Holla Mohalla' festival at Sri Anandpur Sahib, vehicles carrying devotees were being allowed to commute. The protesters have even arranged 'langar' for the devotees at the protest sites. Haryana BKU leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni, in a video message on Friday, appealed to the protesting farmers to ensure the smooth passage of essential supplies or even sick persons travelling in private vehicles or those travelling in neighbouring areas. "We have to protest peacefully," Chaduni said. Thousands of farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur demanding a complete repeal of the three farm laws and a legal guarantee to the minimum support price (MSP) on their crops. So far, there have been 11 rounds of talks between the protesting unions and the government, but the deadlock continues as both sides stick to their stands. In January, the government had offered to suspend the farm laws for 12-18 months, which was rejected by the farmer unions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-farmers-block-highways-in-punjab-haryana-rail-services-hit-966846.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Bharat Bandh: 20 CPI(ML) activists held in UP's Ballia||Twenty CPI(ML) activists, protesting in Sikandarpur township of the district on the 'Bharat Bandh' called by farmer unions, were taken into custody here on Friday. Those taken into custody included CPI-ML leader Shri Ram Chaudhary, said Sikandarpur police station in-charge, Amar Jeet Yadav. He said, however, there was no effect of the bandh in the area, where elaborate security arrangements had been made. The CPI (ML) activists, who had reached the township to stage a protest and make the 'Bharat Bandh' called by the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) successful, were taken into custody here in the forenoon, Yadav said. Recently, Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Singh Tikait had addressed Kisan Mahapanchayat in Sikandarpur, which was organised by Chaudhary. The 'Bharat Bandh' has been called by the SKM, an umbrella body of farmer unions protesting the three contentious central agri laws. The nationwide shutdown has been scheduled from 6 am to 6 to mark four months of the farmers' agitation on Delhi's three borders -- Singhu, Ghazipur and Tikri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bharat-bandh-20-cpiml-activists-held-in-ups-ballia-966865.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||India not capital of illegal immigrants: Centre to Supreme Court on Rohingya issue||The Centre on Friday opposed before the Supreme Court a plea against the detention of 150-170 Rohingyas at Jammu, saying that India is not the capital of illegal immigrants. Advocate Prashant Bhushan contended before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that Rohingyas may face atrocities if they were deported to Myanmar, as the current military government in Myanmar was unfavourable to them.  “We are not in any way called upon to condone or condemn genocide in Myanmar, though we believe genocide anywhere is condemnable,” the bench told Bhushan.  Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said Rohingyas, who had fled persecution in Myanmar to India, were deported only after confirmation of their nationality from the government of that country. “They are illegal immigrants…. once Myanmar confirms their nationality, then they will be deported,” Mehta clarified.   Bhushan asked the court not to deport Rohingyas back to Myanmar. To this, Mehta submitted, “India is not the capital of the immigrants of the world”. He pointed out that a strange pattern has been observed with the movement of Rohingya who illegally entered from border areas. “They entered from West Bengal and travelled all the way up to Jammu and Kashmir," he said. Bhushan, for his part, contended how could a confirmation from a military government, which seized power in Myanmar through a coup, can be trusted for deportation. The bench, however, said that the court cannot refuse to recognise the sovereignty of another nation. Bhushan asked the court to hear the submission of the United Nations Special Rapporteur represented by senior advocate C U Singh. However, both the Centre and the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, represented by senior advocate Harish Salve, vehemently objected. “We will not allow the United Nations Special Rapporteur to be heard today because there is serious objection,” said the bench.  Salve said treaties or conventions declined by the government cannot be elbowed through the courts and the UN is not subject to the jurisdiction of the municipal court.   Following a detailed hearing, the court reserved its order on the application filed by Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refugee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-not-capital-of-illegal-immigrants-centre-to-supreme-court-on-rohingya-issue-966867.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||BJP has edge in bypolls to three Rajasthan Assembly seats due to Centre's policies: Satish Poonia||The policies of the Centre and ideological issues such as the Ram temple and the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution will give the BJP an edge in the bypolls to three Assembly seats in Rajasthan, state unit chief of the party Satish Poonia said on Friday. He said a complete farm loan waiver, unemployment and law and order will be the key issues in the bypolls. The bypolls to the Sahara (Bhilwara), Sujangarh (Churu) and Rajsamand Assembly seats will be held next month. While Rajsamand was held by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the other two seats were represented in the Assembly by Congress legislators. "We will get the benefit of the Centre's policies. People will also vote on the basis of ideological issues. Those who have a connect with the issues of Kashmir and Ram temple will vote for the party," Poonia told reporters here. He said the atmosphere in the state is favourable for BJP and negative for the ruling Congress. "Anti-incumbency has grown against the Congress government in Rajasthan. The Congress had to face a defeat in the panchayati raj elections. It was partially successful in some local bodies, but it got the advantage of delimitation. We are hopeful that the BJP will win the bypolls," Poonia said. He said the saffron party has selected its candidates for the bypolls on the key factor of winnability. The BJP has fielded Deepti Maheshwari, daughter of former minister Kiran Maheshwari, from Rajsamand, former MLA Ratanlal Jat from Sahara and former minister Khemaram Meghwal from Sujangarh. The names of the candidates were announced on Thursday. The Rajsamand seat was represented in the Assembly by Kiran Maheshwari. The Sahara and Sujangarh (SC) seats were represented in the House by Congress MLAs Kailash Trivedi and Bhanwarlal Meghwal. While Meghwal, who was the social justice and empowerment minister in the Ashok Gehlot cabinet, died due to a brain stroke in November last year, Trivedi died of COVID-19 in October. The polling will be held from 7 am to 6 pm on April 17 and the counting of votes will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-has-edge-in-bypolls-to-three-rajasthan-assembly-seats-due-to-centres-policies-satish-poonia-966880.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi riots: Court issues non-bailable warrants against man out on bail in UAPA case||A Delhi court has issued non-bailable warrant (NBW) against a man who was out on bail in a case registered under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, after he failed to appear before it in a case of north-east Delhi riots in February last year. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat issued NBW against Faizan Khan in the case after he did not appear before the court despite repeated calls. "Since accused Faizan Khan is absent despite repeated calls, hence, issue NBW against him with notice to his surety for next date of hearing," the court said in its order passed on March 25. Khan's counsel said she will move an application for cancellation of NBW against him. The court also directed the police to supply hard copies of the charge sheets filed in the matter to all the 18 accused and put up the matter for further hearing on April 8. Khan, then salesperson of a telecom service provider who allegedly sold a SIM card on a fake ID to co-accused Asif Iqbal Tanha, was granted bail by the Delhi High Court in October last year. The police had alleged that the SIM card obtained on a fake ID was used to coordinate protests against the CAA. While granting him the relief, the high court had said "it is not the case of the investigating agency that the petitioner (Khan) was part of any such WhatsApp groups which were made to coordinate/ organize protests against the CAA. Moreover, there is no allegation against the petitioner that he engaged in any form of terror funding or such other ancillary activity". It had further said that the transaction relating to the SIM card had allegedly taken place in December 2019, whereas the violence erupted in northeast Delhi around February 23-25, 2020. The high court had said that Khan shall not directly or indirectly influence any witness or tamper with the evidence and added that the trial court shall not be influenced by the observations in the present matter. Communal violence had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-court-issues-non-bailable-warrants-against-man-out-on-bail-in-uapa-case-966888.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||MP: BJP's Lodhi, Cong's Tandon to face off in Damoh bypoll||Rahul Lodhi of the BJP and Ajay Tandon of the Congress will be the main contenders in the next month's Damoh assembly byelection in Madhya Pradesh. Lodhi, sitting MLA who quit the Congress last year — which necessitated the byelection — was declared as candidate of the ruling BJP on Thursday. While Tandon had already filed his papers for the April 17 election, Lodhi submitted his nomination papers on Thursday, party sources said. Lodhi quit the Congress in October last year, days before the November 3 byelections to 28 seats. But the byelection in Damoh was announced by the Election Commission later, on March 16. Counting of votes will take place on May 2 along with that for five states assembly elections. Tandon had earlier contested assembly elections twice unsuccessfully against senior BJP leader Jayant Mallaiya. Mallaiya had won from Damoh six times from 1990 to 2013. In 2018, Lodhi defeated Mallaiya by a narrow margin of 798 votes to clinch the seat for the Congress. After he switched sides, the BJP picked him over Mallaiya. The state witnessed by-polls for 28 assembly seats last year after 25 Congress MLAs resigned in support of Jyotiraditya Scindia and joined the BJP. The saffron party won 19 seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mp-bjps-lodhi-congs-tandon-to-face-off-in-damoh-bypoll-966897.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||UP: Woman kills mentally challenged 2-year-old son, blames father, elder sisters||In a shocking incident, a woman allegedly killed her mentally retarded two-year-old son by throwing him into a tank full of water in Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhpur district, about 300 kilometres from Lucknow. According to the police sources, the woman, a resident of Jagadishpur Bhaluan village in the district, has been arrested and has confessed to her crime. The woman told the police that she wanted to ''get rid of'' the child as he was mentally retarded and deaf. ''I was finding it very difficult to take care of him...I was unable to go anywhere...he had become a liability,'' she told the cops. The officials said that this was not her first attempt to kill the child. The woman, who was visiting her parents in Bhiti village in the district, found the opportunity on Thursday night. She took the child to the roof, when all other members of the family were asleep, and threw him into the water tank.  In a bid to deflect the investigation, the woman lodged a missing report with the police and accused her father and two other sisters of kidnapping her son. The cops recovered the body of the child on Friday. The investigation, however, pointed to her involvement in the crime and during questioning, she confessed to killing the child.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-woman-kills-mentally-challenged-2-year-old-son-blames-father-elder-sisters-966904.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Former SC judge Justice S S Nijjar passes away at 71||Former Supreme Court judge Justice Surinder Singh Nijjar passed away at the age of 71 here on Friday, with Chief Minister Amarinder Singh condoling his demise, an official statement said. According to a Punjab government statement, Justice Nijjar breathed his last here at PGIMER following a cardiac arrest. Notably, Justice Nijjar was a former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court besides Acting Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana High Court and Executive Chairman of Punjab State Legal Services Authority. Sharing his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved family, CM Singh said Justice Nijjar was an eminent legal luminary, an able administrator, a distinguished jurist and above all a fine human being with the qualities of head and heart. The Chief Minister further said that with the death of Justice Nijjar, a void has been created in the legal fraternity, which is difficult to be filled in near future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-sc-judge-justice-s-s-nijjar-passes-away-at-71-966960.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM sanctions Rs 1.25 crore to develop villages of five soldiers killed in Galwan Valley clash||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday sanctioned Rs 25 lakh each for the development of native villages of five soldiers from the state killed during the Galwan Valley clash last year. Reviewing the various welfare measures for ex-servicemen, he said it was a humble effort on the part of the state government to undertake the development of the villages of the soldiers killed in the Galwan Valley clash. According to an official statement, Amarinder sanctioned Rs 25 lakh each for the development of Seel village in Patiala district from where Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh of 3 Medium Regiment belonged, Bhojraj village in Gurdaspur of Naib Subedar Satnam Singh of 3 Medium Regiment, Birewal Dogra in Mansa of Sepoy Gurtej Singh, a Vir Chakra awardee of 3 Punjab, Tolewal village in Sangrur of Sepoy Gurbrinder Singh of 3 Punjab, and Mardanheri village in Patiala of Lance Naik Saleem Khan of 58 Engineer Regiment. Apart from the total Rs 1.25 crore sanctioned for the development of these five villages, the chief minister also approved Rs 18 crore for the Punjab State War Heroes Memorial and Museum at Amritsar, the statement said. The Indian Army has built a memorial for its 20 personnel who were killed while valiantly fighting Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 last year. In order to provide boarding and lodging facilities to ex-servicemen, war widows and their family members, Amarinder sanctioned Rs 4 crore for the construction of Sainik Rest Houses at Mansa and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar. He also approved Rs 39.50 lakh for the construction of the Victory Tower and renovation of the War Memorial at Asafwala in Fazilka district. This memorial was constructed to commemorate the gallantry deeds of the soldiers who laid down their lives during the 1971 Indo-Pak war in Fazilka sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-sanctions-rs-125-crore-to-develop-villages-of-five-soldiers-killed-in-galwan-valley-clash-966976.html
26-03-2021||North and Central||Sunday lockdown in MP extended to five more cities||Alarmed over rising cases of coronavirus, the Madhya Pradesh government on Friday decided to impose Sunday lockdown in the cities of Vidisha, Ujjain, Gwalior, Narsinghpur and Saunsar. The Sunday lockdown is already in force in Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Betul, Chhindwara, Ratlam and Khargone. Madhya Pradesh on Friday reported 2,091 new Covid-19 cases, taking its case tally to 2,84,265. Nine fatalities increased the death toll to 3,937. The decision to extend Sunday restrictions to five more cities was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said a public relations department official. The positivity rate for the last one week was 6.3 per cent, more than the national average of 4.6 per cent, the official said. The chief minister said at the meeting that the government has adopted a three-pronged strategy -- taking all possible measures to check the spread of infection, ensuring best treatment of infected patients and to aim for vaccination of the entire state as quickly as possible||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sunday-lockdown-in-mp-extended-to-five-more-cities-966993.html
26-03-2021||Oasis||Spiritual kinship for a better society||We all know of the fact that the whole societal structure stands on the foundation of “awareness". This awareness results in the feeling of kinship which serves as the uniting force. It is this awareness and the kinship which leads man to relate to others in various kinds of relationships. These relationships lead to intersections based on some mutually accepted and acceptable norms and mores. For example, one of these norms or mores is honesty. Everyone in a society expects reasonably honest dealings by others. At the same time, it is expected that everyone would lead a life of self-control and would adjust their self-interest and liberty to the interests and liberty of others. Further, the relationships, by their very nature, imply co-operation among individuals and groups. Now let us reflect on the above components. If the awareness of the presence of others is not on the spiritual level but is only on the physical level, then we have an only physical kinship and miss the important spiritual kinship. Not only does this weaken our total force of kinship but it also demolishes the spiritual foundation on which is built the belief and the awareness that the whole of humankind is a family. So, by neglecting the spiritual aspect in relationships, not only does the society lose its force of cohesion but it also loses the checks and balances provided by the spiritual relationship. This, in turn, leads to degeneration in relationships and self-control, for it makes a man selfish and materialistic. Thus, the mores and the relationships having deteriorated, the sense of family-type co-operation also is lost and the whole social structure shows cracks and divisionary trends. If, therefore, we now wish to build up a Better World or a Better Society, the first essential part of the Action Plan should be to have the awareness of the self as Soul and to have the awareness that others also are of our kind, i.e. they are souls. This will lead to spiritual kinship, besides the physical kinship and would bring in the element and spiritual love in our relationships which in turn, would lead to co-operation and life of true balance of liberty and self-control and of materialistic and spiritual values.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/spiritual-kinship-for-a-better-society-966619.html
26-03-2021||Panorama||Debunking myths about kidney diseases||The moment we hear the word Insulin, we associate it with a chronic problem that will involve needles, and a lot of pain. It has been more than 100 years since Insulin was first discovered. However, people still hesitate when we discuss it as part of their diabetes treatment. This is not the way to approach diabetes care; there is no reason to worry or be fearful. Insulin is a hormone that is made in the pancreas. It regulates the amount of glucose (sugar) in the blood, and when that malfunctions, insulin is given externally to manage and regulate glucose levels. Common misconceptions Many people believe that insulin is used as a last resort to treat diabetes. And that it causes other complications, and is very hard to manage. But that is not true; today’s Insulin Therapy is said to be the most effective treatment option as it regulates Hypoglycemia very well. It is more predictable, so patients can see healthier blood sugar levels and fewer side effects from high and low blood sugars. With the advancements in medical devices and innovations in therapy mechanisms, more convenient delivery methods such as portable Insulin pens and Insulin pumps are available today. With many types and potencies, Insulin is easier to personalize than oral medications. It is often used in combination with other non-Insulin therapies.  However, the other fear that people have about Insulin is it impacts kidney functioning. In fact, Diabetic Kidney Disease is a decrease in Kidney function that occurs in some people who have Diabetes. The causes of Diabetic Kidney Disease are complex and are driven by many factors not necessarily due to Insulin. Some experts feel that changes in the circulation of blood within the filtering apparatus of the Kidney (the Glomerulus) may play an important role. Oral medications as most people prefer, have a much greater impact than Insulin. For instance, oral medication is fine until your diabetes is in the early stage. With more sugar fluctuations such as Hypoglycemia or Hyperglycemia - oral medications do not give the desired outcome. Moreover, Insulin gives flexibility in dose management, whether a patient needs Insulin twice or thrice depending on the Insulin requirement of the day. So, the next thought that might come to mind is when do I know if my Kidney function is going for a toss? In the early stages, there may not be any symptoms. As Kidney function decreases further, toxic wastes build up, and patients often feel sick to their stomachs, lose their appetites, have hiccups, and gain weight due to fluid retention.  If you are a diabetic, it is important to talk with your doctor about when is the best time to introduce Insulin in your care regime. Having a Certified Diabetes Educator (CDE) as part of your Diabetes care team is also important, especially when starting or changing your Insulin regimen. Ask your doctor for more information. Ask questions about Kidney function and report any concerns. Managing Diabetes and Kidney Diseases go hand in hand. Talk your doctor today. (The writer is Senior Consultant, Nephrology for a network of hospitals, Mumbai)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/debunking-myths-about-kidney-diseases-966617.html
26-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Blunderlust||Some have wanderlust, with wheels under their feet or wings on the backs. Varyingly, some have blunder lust, those who specialise in making blunders, though without conscious volition. I need not go far and wide to search for illustrative examples, who taste the blunders. Here I am, near at hand, yours blunderingly. As a college fresher in the early '60s, I was told by a senior to check up with Mr Johnson of the English department. Someone in the staffroom convulsed with laughter and pointed out to a grumpy giant buried in a lexicon. "Excuse me, Mr Johnson, sir!" I began brightly. "What?" he growled like a lion. He pounced on me, using the choicest vituperative words at his command. Little did I know his nickname among students was ‘Johnson’ ( in lieu of Jagannathan ) because of his bombastic lingual blasts, and a reference to it touched a sensitive nerve. When two gentlemen came home to take forward the matrimonial proposal of my brother, I interrupted their eulogy of the girl to be married, to ask, tactlessly,  who between the two was the father of the girl. Little could I realize, the younger and smart-looking was the father and the elderly looking one was the brother of the girl.  The alliance did not click. But the crème la crème of the blunders. I was alighting from the Howrah Mail early one morning. On that trip, the passenger who shared my first class coupe was a  portly member of the clergy. Out of consideration for the holy fellow traveller, I had hidden the book I was planning to read under my air pillow. We had a hearty chat, he enquiring about my family and I, and I about the difference between an orphrey and chasuble. Soon, we retired for the night, the priest befitting his position of eminence, occupying the upper berth. He climbed on to it with commendable agility. Came the dawn. The Howrah-Madras mail reached Central in the wee hours. I woke up, realized the train had reached the platform,  and so woke up the holy father who was still enjoying ‘nature’s sweet restorer’ interlocking his fingers in a prayer-mode, placed on his chest. Hurriedly we threw our belongings into our bags and detrained. Later, when I  opened my airbag at home,  I had the shock of my life.  I found the paperback titled, The Playboy Adviser, lent by a friend, missing. Instead, there was a well-thumbed volume, containing the holy biblical text.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/blunderlust-966614.html
26-03-2021||Right in the Middle||We the regulars||One of the things I missed last year, during those quick, for-essentials-only outings, was being a regular. We’re all regulars somewhere. You probably have a jeweller that your family has been going to for generations or a saree shop where your arrival precipitates a hurried fetching of chairs and the “Coffee or cool drinks?” enquiry. If not, you must have at least the vegetable vendor who always keeps aside a half kilo of ooty beans just for you.  “Just for you” is a line none of us can resist. There’s something to be said for the gratification of finding that your preferences are not just acknowledged but remembered. But being a regular is not just about accepting homage and furtively checking if you’re attracting envy among the non-regulars. As we regulars know, sometimes it’s a lot of work to keep your status active. Take the bookstore, for example. When the familiar man who runs it holds out your favourite author’s new book wordlessly as soon as he sees you, you don’t just thank him and take it. It’s your cue to show why you’ve earned the honours. You cast about quickly and say something like “Ah, I notice you’ve moved Classics to this wall.” Satisfied, he withdraws, and you're left to browse all you want. Just as you round the corner and stop at the re-tolds, he appears by you to pull out a Riordan. “Your daughter was looking for this the last time.” Your turn now, again. You look around casually and ask, “Boy hasn’t come today?” Never mind that Boy is no longer the spry teenager he was when he was hired a couple of decades ago, and could barely get on the stepladder when you last saw him. You make your way past Tolkien, translations and travel, and end up at the counter. The owner bends down to get a shopping bag. “Oh, don’t bother, I have this,” you say, whipping out your preferred-customer cloth bag with the bookstore name printed on it. This kind of long-term fidelity to a shop is sure to become a thing of the past as urban commute becomes harder and shopping online becomes more attractive. And some might say that by sticking to the same haunts, you lose out on the excitement of discovering newer places. But there’s a comfort in going back to the familiar, where you’re also welcomed for being familiar, which makes the experience worthwhile. As you push the door on your way out of the bookstore, a balding man holds the door open from outside. Is that a glimmer of recognition in his eyes? It’s Boy, of course! He peers into your bag and asks, “Got those short stories you wanted?” You nod and sail out, happy as only a regular can be.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/we-the-regulars-966883.html
26-03-2021||Second Edit||Caught between Tamil Nadu polls and geopolitics||With the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) adopting a key resolution relating to war crimes committed during the final stages of the war on LTTE in Sri Lanka, the process of securing justice for the victims of war crimes has taken an important step forward. The vote went against the Sri Lankan government. Of the UNHRC’s 47 members, 22 voted for the resolution, 11 against, and 14 abstained. The resolution mandates the UN human rights chief to collect and preserve information and evidence of war crimes committed during the war. It gives the UNHRC more powers to monitor the human rights situation in Sri Lanka and has provided for a $2.8 million budget for the hiring of investigators for collection of evidence. The text of the resolution dealt the Sri Lankan government a hard rap on the knuckles. It drew attention to the "deepening and accelerating militarisation of civilian government functions", "the erosion of the independence of the judiciary", and "increased marginalisation" of Tamil and Muslim minorities. Sri Lanka has rejected the resolution and said it cannot be implemented without the country’s “consent and acceptance.” India was among the 14 countries that abstained, while China, Russia and Pakistan voted against the resolution. India’s decision to abstain was motivated by complex calculations. Although India is upset with the Lankan government for its failure to ensure that Tamil rights are protected and its continued reluctance to devolve power to the Tamils, geopolitical considerations prevent it from voting against the Lankan government. Voting against the Rajapaksa government would push Colombo into a tighter embrace of the Chinese, which New Delhi would like to avoid. There are also electoral considerations. Tamil Nadu is voting in Assembly elections on April 6 and the BJP would not like to alienate Tamil voters. Hence the Narendra Modi government’s decision to play it safe. By abstaining on the resolution, the Modi government has sought to avoid antagonising either Colombo or Tamil voters. How far it has succeeded is a question. By not voting against the Lankan government, India has preserved its diplomatic space in Colombo. But how much leverage does India really have over the Rajapaksa brothers who dominate the government as President and Prime Minister of the country. Their strong and ever-growing ties with China indicate that there is little Delhi can do to nudge the Rajapaksas, whether with regard to Tamil rights or on other issues of India’s economic and security concerns. The Lankan government thanked India for the abstention and China for its ‘solid support’ of its position.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/caught-between-tamil-nadu-polls-and-geopolitics-966602.html
26-03-2021||Second Edit||Israelis make it hard for Netanyahu||Israeli voters have failed to deliver a clear mandate yet again. No party or alliance has won enough seats to form the government. Political instability will therefore persist. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s alliance of right-wing and religious parties has secured the largest number of seats, but its tally of 30 is still only half the number required for simple majority, 61. Netanyahu will therefore need to get the support of other parties to form a government. Tuesday’s election was the fourth time in two years that Israelis voted in general elections without a clear winner. The result underscores how deeply divided Israeli politics and society are. The Knesset’s 120 seats are divided between 13 parties. The coming weeks will once again see Netanyahu and other leaders engage in discussions and much wheeling and dealing to form a government. The possibility of Israelis having to vote again, should a government not emerge out of the coalition talks, cannot be ruled out. The election has thrown up an unlikely kingmaker: an Israeli Arab party, the United Arab List, known by its Hebrew acronym, Ra’am. The coming weeks will see Netanyahu and Yair Lapid, the leader of the opposition, wooing Mansour Abbas, Ra’am’s leader. An Arab party has never been a part of a government in Israel, although independent Arab politicians did provide outside support to the Yitzhak Rabin government in the late 1990s. It remains to be seen whether Ra’am will create history now by extending support to the government. Neither the ruling alliance nor the opposition have adopted an inclusive approach toward Israeli Arabs in the past. So, there is little reason for Abbas to support either. Still, this is an opportunity for a marginalised people – although Arabs make up 20% of Israel’s population -- to set and influence the agenda of the government. Abbas, with four seats in hand, will be looking to secure guarantees from whichever coalition Ra’am supports on the treatment of Israeli Arabs as well as the Palestinian question. Netanyahu’s return to power will not be easy. Among his coalition partners are hardliners who will not agree to sit on the same side as Ra’am parliamentarians. Some of these, such as the Religious Zionist Party, are extremely racist and Islamophobic. The opposition coalition, meanwhile, is a disparate group, united by the constituents’ determination to remove Netanyahu from power. While a Netanyahu-led coalition with Ra’am in it and minus Religious Zionists is one possibility, the opposition coalition could also seek Ra’am’s support to keep Netanyahu out of power.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/israelis-make-it-hard-for-netanyahu-967014.html
26-03-2021||South||Ex-IPS officer Annamalai sweats it out in Aravakurichi||He enjoyed the reputation of being a no-nonsense IPS officer for a decade in Karnataka, and now K Annamalai is trying to prove his mettle in the rough and tumble of Tamil Nadu politics. The Karnataka-cadre former IPS officer, who earned the sobriquet Singham for his flamboyant style of functioning, faces a tough challenge as he aspires to be the representative of his native Aravakurichi constituency in the Tamil Nadu Assembly. After resigning from service, Annamalai settled in his native district of Karur in western Tamil Nadu and launched a foundation to help students in rural areas before joining the BJP in August 2020. The battle is tough for Annamalai as the BJP does not have any base in the constituency and he is entirely dependent on the AIADMK, the senior alliance partner, to romp home from here. Other alliance parties like the PMK, and the TMMK are also influential in some pockets in the constituency, which has a sizeable Muslim population. Besides his own reputation as “honest and no nonsense” police officer during his decade-long career in the force and his “modest” beginnings, Annamalai, who belongs to the dominant Gounder community, is also banking on the caste votes. In his campaign, Annamalai also says it would be easy for him to develop the constituency since the BJP is ruling at the Centre. Not just local party workers, but “volunteers” from Karnataka have flocked to the constituency to work for Annamalai. They are split in groups, and canvass for votes by distributing pamphlets and narrating incidents linked to the former police officer to the electorate. “I came here to campaign for Annamalai. I feel he is a good soul, and he should win. I meet people and tell them to vote for Annamalai in my broken Tamil,” Puneeth, who came from Bengaluru, told DH. The Opposition is quite strong in this backward constituency – drinking water and water for irrigation are the two major issues – and the DMK has fielded R Elango, also a Gounder. Other candidates in the fray are Thangavel P S N (Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam), Mohammed Haneef Shahil K S (Makkal Needhi Maiam), and Anitha Parveen M (Naam Tamizhar Katchi). A dry and arid constituency, Aravakurichi is beset with water woes and unemployment that forces hundreds to migrate to nearby towns and cities. "All that we need is water. If we have clean drinking water and water for irrigation all through the year, we will flourish. Once our fields get irrigated, we do not have to depend on anyone. Water is the most important need of this constituency," Govindasamy, a farmer, told DH. Besides its traditional party votes, the DMK alliance is hoping that the Muslims consolidate behind the party to win the seat yet again, especially when the BJP is contesting as part of the ruling combine. Political observers say it is the 35,000-odd Muslim votes in Pallapatti area in Aravakurichi that usually decides the victory of a candidate. Though the BJP has also reached out to the minority community, it is also attempting at Hindu consolidation in the garb of seeking votes for "our man" Annamalai. The local jamaat had also opposed Annamalai's visit to the Muslim-dominated areas. “I don't want to play communal politics, and I have reached out to my the people in Pallapatti and have plans to develop their areas too. Employment and water are the two major issues and I have devised a plan to address the problems,” Annamalai told DH. Aravakurichi has had a chequered poll history as it was the first constituency in the state where elections were rescinded in 2016 on allegations of rampant use of money power. V Senthil Balaji, then AIADMK candidate who won the polls held months later, is now the sitting MLA after he got his mandate renewed in 2019 by-polls on DMK ticket. The 'cash for votes' also figures prominently in Annamalai's campaign as he vows to “reclaim the good name” of the constituency if he is elected as its legislators. Both Senthil Balaji and his predecessor K C Palanishamy, also from DMK, do not belong to Aravakurichi and Annamalai is harping on to this to project him as the “son of the soil” and drive home his point that they should elect someone who will stay with them and not “run away” after results are declared. Arivazhagan, who runs a tea stall on the Karur-Madurai Highway, spoke highly of Annamalai saying such people should hold positions like MLA. However, he was not sure of Annamalai's chances this time, because of his party which is not popular in the area. “He is very simple, and he is a good-hearted man, for what we see and hear. But I would have said he will win if he had contested either as a AIADMK or a DMK candidate. He would have won for sure. Now, we will have to wait for May 2,” he told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ex-ips-officer-annamalai-sweats-it-out-in-aravakurichi-966622.html
26-03-2021||South||We can be better leaders, says Kerala's lone transgender candidate Anannyah Kumari Alex||Anannyah Kumari Alex is bold to speak loud about her gender identity. So, she is confident in declaring that transgenders can be "much better" leaders than men and women and the society is incomplete without them. This blend of boldness and confidence have made this 28-year old transwoman a candidate in the April 6 Assembly polls in Kerala, the first-ever transgender person to contest assembly elections in the southern state. A celebrity make-up artist, radio jockey, TV newsreader and an established stage show anchor, Anannyah Kumari Alex is contesting in the Vengara constituency in Malappuram district as the candidate of the Democratic Social Justice Party (DSJP). Her main opponents in the poll fray are IUML heavyweight and UDF nominee P K Kunhalikutty and LDF's P Jiji. Whether she wins or loses this election, Anannyah is already part of the state's poll history as the first third gender person to contest the Assembly elections. In an interview to PTI, Anannyah said she is happy and proud to represent her marginalised community in this election and her candidature was not intended to create any history. "But, it is part of my fight to ensure gender equality in all areas. Good leaders are inevitable to create a good society. I am sure transgenders can be much better leaders than men and women," she said. Hailing from Perumon in Kollam district, the transwoman also said she was keen to try her hand in all possible areas and wants to prove the society that a transgender is not behind anyone and equally capable as men and women. When asked why she chose a constituency like Vengara, where a veteran leader like Kunhalikutty is contesting, she said it would give her fight more visibility among the public. If wins, she wants to work for the safety and welfare of women and to ensure equal space for third gender people in society. She criticised mainstream political parties for neglecting the transgender community without giving them enough representation in seat sharing. Anannyah was also not hesitant to say that no mainstream party or political front would give a chance to a transgender in the next 10 or 15 years. "All the mainstream parties are a failure in ensuring gender equality and justice especially when it comes to elections. Women are not getting the deserved number of seats as men. If this is the situation, can we expect they will show equal treatment to transgenders?" she asked. Detailing the reasons for joining DSJP, a newly formed party, the transwoman said it stands for gender equality and was ready to give a representation to her community and so she "grabbed the opportunity". "We, transgenders, do not want anyone's sympathy. As we are comparatively less in number and marginalised for years, we may need the support of the society and the government...not sympathy," she said. A member of an ordinary family and a plus-two dropout, Anannyah said she had to leave home and family as they could not understand her worries over gender. She said she lived in many places including Bengaluru and did many jobs right from a make-up artist to anchor for survival.  She had undergone a sex reassignment surgery (SRS) some time back but was now planning to file a case against the hospital, where the procedure was done, because of some physical difficulties, she said. Even after making her own mark in a plethora of fields, her mother and brother were still not ready to accept her new gender identity. "Only my father is understanding and accepting me as what I am now. I have faced so much discrimination and stigma throughout my life. Whatever I have achieved so far is the result of my handwork and hardship," the transwoman added. As per the latest Election Commission figures, as many as 290 transgenders are eligible to cast their votes in the April 6 Assembly polls. The capital city Thiruvananthapuram has the highest number of TG voters-61, followed by Kozhikode-51 and Thrissur-46.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/we-can-be-better-leaders-says-keralas-lone-transgender-candidate-anannyah-kumari-alex-966758.html
26-03-2021||South||Sons, sons-in-law, relatives of politicians throw their hat in poll ring in Kerala||A plethora of politicians' relatives — including sons, daughters and sons-in-law, are in the fray for the April 6 Assembly polls in Kerala, hoping to cash in on their legacy to woo voters. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's son-in-law P A Mohammed Riyas, the national president of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI), is making his debut in the Assembly polls from Beypore, while Congress leader K Muraleedharan, MP and Padmaja Venugopal, children of former Chief Minister late K Karunakaran have been fielded from Nemom and Thrissur respectively. Vijayan is seeking re-election from Dharmadam in Kannur.  In over 20 of the 140 seats, children of former ministers and MLAs from the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF and Opposition Congress-led UDF are testing the electoral waters this time even as several aspirants were allegedly cold-shouldered. According to J Prabhash, political analyst, when there is no politics in politics, kith and kin, businessmen and independents matter. Political parties claim public acceptability of these candidates when they field such candidates. This means their partymen are not acceptable. "Look at the contradiction. They say that they want a publicly accepted person and reversely accept that their party workers are not publicly accepted. What kind of argument are they putting forward," he asked. "This means their politics is at a discount. When politics comes at a discount, the publicly acceptable people become candidates, the kith and kins and businessmen become candidates....it's the policies which clothe a political party. When the ideology and policies are removed, politics become naked," he said. It's a reflection of this kind of politics that is found in political parties irrespective of ideology going after relatives, Prabhash, former political science professor with the University of Kerala, told PTI. Lathika Subhash, Congress' ex-Mahila Morcha president, had quit the party after a "mundan protest" on being denied a ticket by the UDF and is contesting as an independent from Ettumanoor. Veteran Congress leader, K C Rosakutty too quit the party and warmed up to the rival front, miffed at being overlooked for the Kalpetta seat, while the Left Front also had its share of disgruntled candidates. Three sons making their electoral debut are P E Abdul Gafoor (Kalamassery), the son of former minister Ibrahim Kunju, who was denied a seat by the IUML, an ally of the Congress-led UDF,Sumesh K Achuthan, son of former Congress MLA, K Achuthan (UDF), and LDF-Independent candidate Dr V Sujith (Chavara), son of former MLA late N Vijayan Pillai. NCP's Thomas K Thomas (Kuttanad), brother of former minister Thomas Chandy, and R Bindu (Irinjalakuda), a college professor, wife of CPI(M) secretary in charge, A Vijayaraghavan and P V Sreenijin (Kunnathunad), son-in-law of former Supreme Court Chief Justice K G Balakrishnan have been fielded by the LDF. While Jose K Mani, who joined the Left Front recently and is contesting from Pala, the pocket borough of his late father K M Mani, founder-leader of Kerala Congress (M), his brother-in-law M P Joseph, former IAS officer, is trying his luck from Trikaripur as UDF candidate. He has been fielded by Kerala Congress leader, P J Joseph, whose son-in-law Dr Jose Joseph, is contesting from Kothamangalam on the ticket of Twenty-20 Kizhakkambalam, corporate social responsibility arm of of Kitex, which has fielded some candidates in this election. From the UDF camp, ex-ministers — M K Muneer (Koduvally), Shibu Baby John (Chavara) and Anoop Jacob (Piravom), whose fathers were also ministers, and K S Sabarinathan (Aruvikkara), son of late Speaker G Karthikeyan, are among the "star kids" in the fray. Advocate and political critic A Jayashankar said the trend of fielding kith and kin seems to be on the rise in Kerala also. It was more prevalent in UDF. In the previous UDF ministry, six ministers were sons of prominentyesteryear politicians. "We have all seen how the Congress party desperately wanted either G Karthikeyan's wife or son to contest when a by-election was necessitated due to his sudden demise. His son and present MLA, K S Sabarinathan was not keen to enter politics then, but the party forced him to enter the poll fray. "Now, the Marxist party is also no exception. PinarayI Vijayan's son in law was given Beypore, one of the most sure seats of the CPI(M) in Kozhikode and V K C Mammed Koya, the incumbent MLA, was ignored, he said. Riyas had unsuccessfully contested in the 2009 general election from Kozhikode. Among others, theLDF has fielded former minister K B Ganesh Kumar (Pathanapuram), who followed his father Kerala Congress (B) founder leader R Balakrishna Pillai into politics and K V Mohanan (Kuthuparamba) of LJD. He is the son of late socialist leader P R Kurup. The Left Front's Shelna Nishad, who has been fielded from Aluva, is the daughter of former Congress MLA K Mohamad kutty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sons-sons-in-law-relatives-of-politicians-throw-their-hat-in-poll-ring-in-kerala-966780.html
26-03-2021||South||Kerala Polls: Rahul Gandhi attacks Centre, LDF govt||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who began his second leg of campaigning for the April 6 assembly polls, attacked the Central and the LDF governments over the "weak" economic condition. "The economic condition of the country and the state are weak and have become worse due to demonetisation and flawed GST. Both the governments have failed to revive the economy,"Gandhi said at an election meeting here in the sweltering heat. The Congress leader arrived by helicopter from Coimbatore on a two-day visit and will be addressing meetings in Palakkad and Malappuram districts. Taking a swipe at the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF, he said its attempt to revive the economy was like trying to start a car without filling petrol. "We need to inject money into the economy. When we tried to introduce a job guarantee scheme, many said it was a waste of money. But later they had to accept that it boosted the economy," he said. He claimed the NYAY (minimum income guarantee) scheme will inject money into the economy, enhancing the purchasing power of the common people, thus boosting the production sector. "This will create new jobs," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-rahul-gandhi-attacks-centre-ldf-govt-966823.html
26-03-2021||South||Kerala HC seeks EC reply on Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala's plea on bogus voters||The Kerala High Court on Friday sought an explanation from the Election Commission on a plea filed by Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala seeking to restrain fake and multiple entry voters from participating in the April 6 polls to the State assembly. Considering the request made by counsel for Chennithala to hear the plea urgently, the court took up the matter at noon and sought the Election Commission's views. The case has been posted for Monday.' In his plea, Chennithala sought criminal action against those responsible for fake and multiple entry of voters' names in 131 Assembly constituencies in the state. He alleged that a scrutiny of the electoral roll would prove that there were more than 4,34,042 fake and multiple entry voters in these Assembly segments. The Congress leader, who is also the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly, submitted he was "highly aggrieved by the gross lethargy and inaction" of the poll panel in not taking action in pursuance of letters sent to them in rectifying the mistakes in the electoral roll. He appealed to the court to issue an interim order directing the Election Commission to ensure that fake and multiple entry voters in the electoral roll are not permitted to vote in the assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-seeks-ec-reply-on-congress-leader-ramesh-chennithalas-plea-on-bogus-voters-966848.html
26-03-2021||South||Kanimozhi feels Tamil Nadu polls are about DMK, AIADMK, others are not significant: Report||DMK leader and Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi said that the Tamil Nadu Assembly elections are about the DMK and the AIADMK, and no other party is a significant player. She also claimed that the BJP was not a "big player" but was "calling the shots" in the "proxy" AIADMK government. Kanimozhi added that the current government was at the "mercy" of the BJP government in the Centre. On being asked if parties like Kamal Haasan's MNM, T T V Dhinakaran's ADMK, and a handful of other parties could play spoilsport to DMK's hopes, the 53-year-old disagreed. She alleged that they "might be in the field to help the ruling AIADMK" but also said that she had no proof to back this allegation. "But more than that, this election is about the DMK and the AIADMK. I don’t think that in this election anybody else is a significant player," she told the publication.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kanimozhi-feels-tamil-nadu-polls-are-about-dmk-aiadmk-others-are-not-significant-report-966864.html
26-03-2021||South||Sri Lanka releases 40 Indian fishermen, TN officials say||Sri Lankan authorities on Friday released 40 of the 54 Indian fishermen arrested by that country's navy earlier, officials here said. Five of the four boats detained by the Lankan navy have also been released, Fisheries department officials here said. The remaining 14 fishermen, hailing from Karaikal, an enclave of Puducherry, continue to remain in Sri Lankan custody and are likely to be released later, they added. A boat is also in Lankan custody. The Lankan Navy had arrested 54 Indian fishermen and detained five of their boats for allegedly fishing in that country's waters on Wednesday night. The arrested fishermen belonged to Rameswaram and Nagapattinam in Tamil Nadu and Karaikal. Fishermen association representatives had expressed concern over such repeated instances of Indian fishermen from Tamil Nadu being arrested by the Lankan navy and urged the Centre and state government to ensure their early release. They had also threatened to shun fishing operations indefinitely if the fishermen were not released at the earliest and warned of boycotting the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sri-lanka-releases-40-indian-fishermen-tn-officials-say-966870.html
26-03-2021||South||Can polls in Puducherry be deferred? Madras HC asks EC over allegations that state BJP had access to voters' Aadhaar details||The Madras High Court on Friday said a serious investigation was required into the allegations that the Puducherry unit of the BJP had access to voters' Aadhaar details and asked the Election Commission if the April 6 polls in the Union Territory could be deferred till completion of the probe. The commission submitted that polls cannot be deferred on mere allegations but informed the court that a show-cause notice has been issued to the BJP. The first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy raised the query when a public interest litigation from A Anand, president of the Puducherry unit of the Democratic Youth Foundation of India (DYFI), came up for further hearing on Friday. The bench asked the EC if it would be possible to defer the polls in the Union Territory beyond April 6, till the completion of the probe on the allegation that the BJP was illegally using the Aadhaar data for canvassing. The petitioner had alleged that the Puducherry unit of the BJP had illegal access to the Aadhaar data of the voters and had formed several hundred WhatsApp groups for campaigning in their respective constituencies. EC senior counsel G Rajagopalan said a show-cause notice had been issued to the BJP calling for an explanation on the matter. In the meantime, the police were at liberty to probe the source from which the BJP had obtained the cell phone numbers of the voters, he added. Polls cannot be deferred merely on allegations, he submitted. The petitioner's counsel told the judges that her client was being harassed by the Puducherry police in the guise of inquiry. The bench later directed the EC to continue the inquiry and file a status report on March 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/can-polls-in-puducherry-be-deferred-madras-hc-asks-ec-over-allegations-that-state-bjp-had-access-to-voters-aadhaar-details-966871.html
26-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: Karthikeya Sivasenapathy takes on AIADMK's Coimbatore strongman S P Velumani||Karthikeya Sivasenapathy caught the imagination of youngsters in Tamil Nadu when lakhs of women and men converged on the sands of Marina Beach in Chennai demanding conduct of bull-taming sport, Jallikattu. Sivasenapathy was one of the organisers of the “faceless” movement that resulted in a law being passed in the Tamil Nadu Assembly allowing Jallikattu in the state. His speeches on Tamil culture and tradition then and later were lapped up by people as he heads the Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation which works on the conservation of native breeds of cattle. And, this election, Sivasenapathy shoulders a very big responsibility given by his party, DMK, which he joined last year. He is pitted against AIADMK Coimbatore strongman and Municipal Administration Minister S P Velumani, one of the two lieutenants of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Velumani wields enormous power in the city and its suburbs. The contest in Thondamuthur on the outskirts of Coimbatore is nothing short of a political pot-boiler with Velumani and Sivasenapathy locking the horns. Velumani is popular not just in his constituency of Thondamuthur, but in other parts of Coimbatore as well. “I don’t think S P Velumani is high and mighty and all. He is simply a politician who has enough money and too much money. Money gives him brutality of power and he thinks he is a great man. He is in a falling sphere and I will be victorious,” Sivasenapathy told DH in the midst of his campaign. Sivasenapathy was hand-picked by DMK President M K Stalin to take on Velumani after the Opposition party decided to take the battle straight into AIADMK bastions. Western Tamil Nadu is a traditional stronghold of AIADMK and the party hopes to repeat its past performance in the April 6 polls as well. A proponent of social justice and providing educational opportunities for all sections of the society, Sivasenapathy harps onto corruption charges against his challenger, Velumani, and dares him to come for a debate on several issues. The chief of DMK's environmental wing also talks about issues that concern the people and dubs the AIADMK Government as having “subjected itself” to the BJP. Asked about his chances given Velumani's rapport with the public in his constituency, Sivasenapathy said the minister did nothing but give “cash” to people while taking away the “rights of their children” by keeping mum on issues like NEET, and New Education Policy (NEP). “I ask people whether they are just content with money, or they need to educate their children. They say they want to give a quality education to children. Velumani does not care about anything. He wants power and votes,” Sivasenapathy said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-assembly-polls-karthikeya-sivasenapathy-takes-on-aiadmks-coimbatore-strongman-s-p-velumani-966877.html
26-03-2021||South||BJP's brand of politics irritates Tamils, what they stand for is offensive to Tamil Nadu: Karti||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is not yet liked by people in Tamil Nadu, and whatever the party stands for, actually irritates or irks the average Tamil, says Congress MP from Sivaganga, Karti P Chidambaram. In an interview to DH's ETB Sivapriyan, he spoke on the DMK-Congress alliance's prospects in this election, and the BJP. Excerpts: Q: Congress in Tamil Nadu demanded a huge number of seats from the DMK but was allotted only 25. How has your cadre taken this? A: See, we are past that point. Candidates have filed their nominations and their papers have been accepted. The Congress is contesting 25 seats, and that is a fact now. Our goal now is to maximise our efforts to ensure that we win all the 25 seats we are contesting and ensure that the alliance wins handsomely to form the next government. This is not the time to be agitating on the number of seats. Q: And there were also a lot of problems within the Congress on demand for tickets? Has everything been solved? A: Actually, I welcome debate and competition for seats within the party. That actually is a great sign of vitality in the party. If nobody seeks tickets, or if there is no competition for a particular ticket, that is not a very healthy sign. We are a large party, having a presence from Kanyakumari to Kashmir. Of course, there will be multiple claimants and that is natural. We should have the internal competition before somebody is selected. And please let us get this very, very clear. Once the candidate is selected, he becomes the Indian National Congress candidate and the entire party supports that candidate and ensures he wins elections. Q: What are the chances for the DMK-Congress alliance, according to you? A: I think this is going to be a repeat of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, where the Congress and DMK alliance had a handsome victory. For ten years, the AIADMK has been in power. Everybody knows the AIADMK is no more an independent party. They are completely a vassal and a subsidiary of the BJP. And the people do not want a government with any taint of the BJP. They don't want a government that has a shadow or taint of the BJP upon them. And I think they will vote decisively and they will vote this government out. Q: If you see the campaign of the DMK-Congress, maximum importance is given to BJP. Is BJP the weapon for DMK and Congress to get votes? A: It is not a weapon, it is an issue. Because the BJP has no MPs and no MLAs in Tamil Nadu and it has been trying to dominate governments without having any direct elected representatives by misusing agencies. So, this is a party which is employing very underhanded methods to come to power and influence the government. So, it is essential for us to highlight that and also the policies of the BJP, which is a very Hindi-Hindutva agenda-driven politics and that Tamil Nadu doesn't like. Even when they announce candidates for Tamil Nadu it comes out in Hindi and when we are in Parliament and raise questions in English, the answers come in Hindi. So, their overt Hindi imposition and also their brand of Hindutva is not liked by the people of Tamil Nadu. There is a great resistance against their brand of politics and their anti-minorities stance also irks people. Whatever the BJP stands for, actually irritates or irks the average Tamil. Q: Is Hindi imposition an issue this election? A: It is. It is not just the imposition of the language. It is actually the imposition or decimation of the cultural identity of a state. You know, there have been many instances, where students from Tamil Nadu are not given an option to write Central government exams in Tamil. BJP's overt imposition irritates a lot of people. Q: What according to you are BJP's chances in this election? A: I am reasonably confident that we will maintain this unique position of 00 MLAs and 00 MPs. It is a detested party. Whatever the BJP stands for, their brand of politics, their communication, and their language, everything is offensive to the Tamil identity and to the Tamil persona. Q: Coming back to your party, Congress has been trying to grow in Tamil Nadu, and what are the chances for the party post-elections? A: I have definitive plans but this is not the time and forum for me to comment. I personally have plans and I hope to play some role in implementing those ideas. But now is not the time. The focus now is to win the elections. And I am absolutely confident that there will be a clear mandate in favour of the DMK led Alliance and the DMK will lead the government post-May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjps-brand-of-politics-irritates-tamils-what-they-stand-for-is-offensive-to-tamil-nadu-karti-966879.html
26-03-2021||South||Telangana will not impose lockdown, will ramp up testing: KCR on rising Covid-19 cases||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has stated that a Covid-19 lockdown would not be reimposed in the state in haste. The state has reported 518 new Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, the highest figure this year. 157 of these fresh infections are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. Speaking in the state assembly on Friday, CM Rao sought to allay the fears of the industry especially film-entertainment and said that the shutdown of schools and colleges now is also temporary. “I would like to state it clearly to the public that we would not go for a lockdown again. Industries would not be closed,” Rao assured while adding that his government is taking all measures like increasing the testing to avoid an eruption in cases. Following the passage of the appropriation bill, the Telangana legislative assembly was adjourned sine die. With the Covid-19 cases shooting up again after a three-month letup, especially in schools and hostels, Rao's government closed all the educational institutions from Wednesday. Osmania etc universities have suspended their examination schedule, while the University of Hyderabad has paused “until further notice” the return of students, research scholars to the campus. A fortnight ago, the central university administration decided to allow the return of about 2000 terminal semester students “if they wished to do so.” Meanwhile, in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, where the daily new cases fell below the 100-mark for several days recently, has on Friday reported 958 cases. AP had recorded such intensity in the virus spread last time in November.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-will-not-impose-lockdown-will-ramp-up-testing-kcr-on-rising-covid-19-cases-966891.html
26-03-2021||South||Decision to hold RS polls in Kerala will be taken strictly within legislative framework: EC||A day after Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan questioned the "political intervention" behind the EC's decision to put in abeyance the schedule for the Rajya Sabha election to three seats from the state, the poll panel on Friday said a call on holding the election will shortly be taken by it strictly within the existing legislative framework. The Election Commission (EC) also said the Union law ministry has "no remit" to make recommendations on the schedule of Rajya Sabha elections. The EC issued a statement on Wednesday, saying, "The commission...had announced schedule for biennial election for three seats to Council of States (Rajya Sabha) from Kerala.... In the meanwhile, a reference has been received from the Ministry of Law and Justice. Pending examination of the reference, the commission has decided to keep the aforementioned proposed notification and schedule in abeyance till further orders." In a tweet on Thursday, Vijayan said the election to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala was put in abeyance. "ECI says Law Ministry recommended so. Art. 324 (of the Constitution) vests the power to conduct the election only in the ECI. Why the political intervention? Why has ECI succumbed to it? Indian Constitution has been violated, yet again!" A spokesperson of the poll watchdog responded to Vijayan's charge on Twitter on Friday, saying the "decision of conducting elections to the 3 Rajya Sabha seats in Kerala will be shortly taken by ECI strictly within the existing legislative framework including provisions of RP (Representation of the People) Act, 1951. "M/o Law & Justice has no remit to make recommendation on schedule of RS elections." Sources aware of the issue had said on Wednesday that the law ministry had pointed out that the polls to elect a new legislative Assembly in Kerala would be held on April 6. Is it legally tenable to hold an exercise, where the members of an outgoing Assembly vote on April 12 to elect Rajya Sabha members, whereas the polls to elect a new Assembly would have already taken place on April 6, the law ministry had asked. The election to the three Rajya Sabha seats from Kerala falling vacant next month was to be held on April 12. Abdul Wahab of the IUML, K K Ragesh of the CPI(M) and Vayalar Ravi of the Congress are retiring on April 21. The notification for the biennial elections was to be issued on Wednesday. The members of the legislative assembly elect the Rajya Sabha members. The MLAs of the outgoing Assembly, in which the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) has a majority, were to elect the three new members of the Upper House of Parliament. The Kerala Assembly polls will be held on April 6 and the counting of votes will be taken up on May 2. Rajya Sabha elections are usually held before the expiry of the terms of the retiring members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/decision-to-hold-rs-polls-in-kerala-will-be-taken-strictly-within-legislative-framework-ec-966908.html
26-03-2021||South||Popularity alone won't get votes for Kamal Haasan: BJP's Vanathi ahead of Tamil Nadu polls||BJP Mahila Morcha (Women's Wing) National President, Vanathi Srinivasan, is taking on Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief Kamal Haasan in Coimbatore (South) assembly constituency, from where she lost in the 2016 Tamil Nadu Assembly elections. She spoke to DH's E.T.B. Sivapriyan on her challenger and BJP's chances in Tamil Nadu. Excerpts: Q: You are taking on a very formidable candidate in Coimbatore (South) constituency who is also a popular actor, Kamal Haasan. How do you see the contest here? A: Fielding me in Coimbatore (South) is a natural choice of the BJP. My candidature was not a surprise at all. The BJP fielded me in this constituency in 2016 and I was the only party candidate who could reclaim the election deposit amount. In a democracy, anyone can come and fight elections anywhere. Kamal Haasan might have his own reasons to contest from here. His party scored more than 1.4 lakh votes in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in Coimbatore. The only advantage I see for Kamal Haasan is the media attention and his status as a film star. I consider Kamal Haasan as any other contender in this constituency. Q: Won't Kamal Haasan's popularity get him votes? A: I am not totally ignoring the media publicity and Kamal Haasan's popularity as a film star. But electoral politics has more dynamics than personal popularity. One should understand that a party or an outfit needs an organisational structure to bring votes. Chemistry and popularity will work but only when it is backed by a grass root level structure. To get the popularity to convert into votes, the organisational structure is imperative. My advantage, according to me, is the grass root level organisation strength of AIADMK and BJP. My assessment is that the vote conversion (to Kamal Haasan) will not happen. Q: How do you think the BJP will perform in the April 6 assembly polls? BJP says it has improved its reach in Tamil Nadu and do you think it will reflect in numbers? A: Of course, it will reflect in numbers. We may not have got the constituencies that we asked for. Not all the 20 constituencies where we are contesting are the seats of our choice. In fact, in the entire region, we got only Coimbatore (South) and it is a disappointment for us. But we want to prove our strength in the seats that have been allotted to us. No one would have ever thought that BJP would ask for Aravakurichi in an alliance a few years back. Today, because of (K) Annamalai, and his leadership, we have got the constituency. We are now able to contest in constituencies where we do not have any base. After the elections, BJP's visibility in Tamil Nadu will increase. Q: Many say BJP is a liability for the AIADMK this election because of its divisive politics. Your comments? A: If you ask me whether one party is a liability for the other. It is both ways. These problems are not in our alliance alone but in the Opposition alliance also. The DMK and Congress have serious contradictions on several issues. There will be a divergence of views among parties, but we agree on common issues and form an alliance. But the alliance between AIADMK, and BJP has brought so much good to Tamil Nadu only because the two governments have a better understanding and converge on several issues. What will happen to Tamil Nadu if the Opposition keeps shouting GoBackModi all the time? The BJP government brought the Defence Corridor to Tamil Nadu and that has resulted in several orders for MSMEs. No one talks about all these good things that we have done. Q: Political parties do not give adequate representation to women while distributing tickets. As the head of BJP's women's wing, how do you look at this trend not just in your party but other outfits too? A: My view is that we should go beyond the 33 per cent reservation for women in legislature and Parliament. To get the 33 per cent reservation implemented, I will do my bit as Mahila Morcha chief. As far as the BJP is concerned, we have fared better than any other party when it comes to women empowerment. Prime Minister Narendra Modi handed over plum portfolios like Defence, and Finance to a woman (Nirmala Sitharaman) and gave HRD to a young woman face (Smriti Irani). Our party has always given importance to women leaders. But when it comes to electoral politics, winnability takes the front seat. As far as our party is concerned, we feel providing 33 per cent reservation to women in posts is the training ground. It is true that a woman has to put enormous efforts to get a seat. First, they should be at the party, get accepted and finally get the ticket. Having said that, things are changing fast. Today, BJP has fielded three women candidates in Tamil Nadu and even a newcomer like Khushbu who worked vigorously on the field has been rewarded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/popularity-alone-wont-get-votes-for-kamal-haasan-bjps-vanathi-ahead-of-tamil-nadu-polls-966912.html
26-03-2021||South||Sabarimala women entry to actor's popularity among deciding factors in Thiruvananthapuram||From the Sabarimala issue to the popularity of an actor-turned-politician, many factors are favouring the BJP in at least three constituencies in Kerala's capital Thiruvananthapuram, even as the Congress cast a shadow over BJP's prospects at its lone sitting seat by fielding a popular leader. In the 2016 Assembly elections, Thiruvananthapuram witnessed not only BJP opening its account in Kerala Assembly with veteran leader O Rajagopal winning from the Nemom constituency in the city, but the saffron party also came second at Vattiyoorkavu and Kazhakkoottam constituencies. However, Rajagopal only won with a margin of 8,600 votes last time, so he has to sweat it out to retain the party's lone sitting seat. Positive trends for BJP In the subsequent Lok Sabha polls and local body polls, BJP managed to maintain a favourable trend in these regions, except for the party coming third in the Vattiyoorkavu bypolls in 2019, which was mainly reportedly due to a low profile of the party candidate. This time, BJP fielded former state president and Mizoram former governor Kummanam Rajasekharan as party candidate at Nemom. In a surprise move, Congress fielded sitting Lok Sabha MP of Vadakara in North Kerala K Muraleedharan against Rajasekharan with the aim of defeating BJP in its lone sitting seat. This move seems to be working in favour of the Congress as the party cadres were enthused over having Muraleedharan in the fray. Muraleedharan is the son of former Chief Minister K Karunakaran, who was an MLA of Nemom. Muraleedharan also won from the adjacent Vattiyoorkavu twice, in 2011 and 2016 Assembly polls, and in 2016, the runner-up was Kummanam Rajasekharan. The CPM is also making an all-out bid by fielding former MLA V Sivankutty. A general feeling among the voters is that entry of Muraleedharan had changed the pro-BJP wave prevailing in the constituency as the leader is equally capable as Rajasekharan in wooing the Hindu vote banks of the constituency. He is also a more popular figure than Rajasekharan. The CPM camps are hoping that the tight contest between Congress and BJP may help the CPM by way of split votes. In the adjacent Vattiyoorkavu, CPM's sitting MLA and former Mayor V K Prasanth is seeing a trend in his favour as he is better connected with the constituency than his opponent Veena S Nair of Congress and V V Rajesh of the BJP. However, BJP has high hopes at Kazhakkootam where Union Minister of State for External Affair V Muraleedharan lost by just 7,300 votes in 2016 to CPM's Kadakampally Surendran. The Sabarimala women entry issue is a key issue in the constituency. BJP's Shobha Surendran came second in the Palakkad constituency in 2016 and this also raises her confidence levels. Thiruvananathapuram constituency is witnessing some twists this time as BJP fielded a new entrant to the party, actor Krishnakumar. Though he was generally considered to be weak candidate against two-time sitting MLA V S Sivakumar of the Congress and former MLA Antony Raju of the Left Front, some recent poll surveys indicated that Krishnakumar was posing a tough fight. The reason is said to be his influence among the middle-class women voters as he is doing a positive character in an ongoing mega television serial. Cricketer S Sreesanth was BJP's candidate in the constituency in 2016. Though he could finish only in third place, he was less than 1,000 votes behind Left Front's Antony Raju. This time, the row over a deep-sea fishing trolled project of the Kerala government may affect Antony Raju's prospects as the fishing community of the coastal areas is a key vote bank of the constituency that generally favours Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-women-entry-to-actors-popularity-among-deciding-factors-in-thiruvananthapuram-966925.html
26-03-2021||South||Kerala government decides to conduct judicial probe against central agencies ahead of Assembly polls||In an unusual move, the Left Front government in Kerala has decided to conduct a judicial probe against central government agencies, with just ten days left for the state Assembly elections The fresh move, which is pending Election Commission's ratification, comes close on the heels of a police case being registered against the Enforcement Directorate officials for allegedly pressuring the accused in the gold smuggling case to give statement against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and a couple of ministers. The Kerala government's moves are part of the political strategy of the CPM-led Left Democratic Front to resist the serious allegations it is facing regarding the gold smuggling case. Apart from the probe by ED and Customs against Kerala government agencies, the Income Tax also initiated raids at the office of the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board on Thursday. The Chief Minister had strongly flayed the IT raids. Government sources said that name of retired judge justice V K Mohankumar has been proposed for the judicial commission. The general matters to come under probe would be the allegation that the central agencies are trying to tarnish the Kerala government's image by misusing the probe against the gold smuggling accused. Detailed terms of reference would be issued soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-government-decides-to-conduct-judicial-probe-against-central-agencies-ahead-of-assembly-polls-966930.html
26-03-2021||South||I will be chief minister if NDA forms government in Puducherry: N Rangasamy||AINRC founder N Rangasamy said on Friday there need to be no doubts as to who will be the next chief minister in the event of NDA forming the next government in Puducherry after the April 6 polls. "I will definitely be the Chief Minister of the next dispensation," he said at an election meeting in the Thattanchavady assembly segment from where he is contesting. Rangasamy is also contesting from Yanam, an enclave of Puducherry in Andhra Pradesh. AINRC is heading the NDA in Puducherry, other constituents being the BJP and AIADMK. Rangasamy, who was the Leader of the opposition in the outgoing Assembly, urged voters in Thattanchavady to ensure that he is elected with a massive margin.  CPI affiliated to the Congress-led secular democratic alliance is locking horns with Rangasamy in Thattanchavady. Rangasamy said there had been talks as to who would be the Chief Minister in the event of NDA forming the government here. "You need have no doubt on this. I will be chief minister," he told the gathering amid thunderous applause. AINRC is contesting in 16 out of the total 30 assembly seats, while the BJP has been earmarked nine seats and AIADMK five. Rangasamy was Congress Chief Minister in 2001 and 2006. He broke away from the Congress in 2011 and floated the AINRC which emerged victorious in the polls that year and formed the government with the support of an Independent, achieving the magic figure of 16 in the House of 30-members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-will-be-chief-minister-if-nda-forms-government-in-puducherry-n-rangasamy-966949.html
26-03-2021||South||Rahul Gandhi embarks on second leg of campaign in Kerala, woos||Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi launched the second leg of his campaign for the Kerala assembly polls on Friday, reaching out to youngsters and urging people to be cautious about those spreading hatred and engaging in violence. He also attacked the Central and the LDF governments over the "weak" economic condition. Gandhi, who reached the state by helicopter from Coimbatore on a two-day visit, addressed a series of meetings in Palakkad and Malappuram districts, despite the sweltering heat. The Wayanad MP held roadshows in the Palakkad Assembly constituency, where two time MLA and Youth Congress president, Shafi Prambil, has beenpitted against 88-year-old 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, making hispoll debut on a BJP ticket and at Thrithalawhere sitting MLA V T Balaram, is locking horns with former Palakaad MP, M B Rajesh of the LDF. "I congratulate theUDF for having many young candidates in theelection.The energy of the youth will drive our country in the right direction," the congress leader said in a Facebook Post. The congress leader also held roadshows at Malampuzha and Chittur where S K Ananthakrishnan and Sumesh Achutan are the candidates. Addressing a meeting at Ponnani, Gandhi asked the people to think about those who are spreading hatred and violence, before going to vote on April6. "Think about those who spread hatred and violence. Think about whether it will be useful for Kerala and India to be divided, to be angry. You have a history here." "You have a particular traditionand understanding and use your wisdom to decide on who should win this election," Gandhi said at Ponnani in neighbouring Malappuram district, where youth leader A M Rohit has been fielded. The Congress leader referred to the economic situation and unemployment prevailing in the country and asked "what's the point of having a government" which cannot provide jobs to its youngsters. "Everybody understands about the unemployment situation of our country.Our economy, which was our strength, has been destroyed. What is the point of having a government which cannot give jobs to its youngsters? What's the point of having a government that loots the people? The duty of the government is to give a vision to the people." "What sort of vision is being given to the youngsterswho are without jobs.What are you expecting them to do? You want them to sit at home?" Gandhi asked. He claimed the government was looting the people through farm bills, GST, petrol prices, among others, and asked the people what they were getting back in return? "You are not getting a job, what areyou getting? Nothing. Just excuses," Gandhi said. The Wayanad MP said 55 per cent of candidates fielded by his party this time are youngsters. Earlier, addressing an election meeting at Palakkad, he said the economic condition of the country and the state was weak, and had worsened due to demonetisation and flawed GST. "Both the governments have failed to revive the economy," Gandhi said. Taking a swipe at the ruling CPI(M)-led LDF, he said its attempt to revive the economy was like trying to start a car without filling petrol. "We need to inject money into the economy.When we tried to introduce a job guarantee scheme, many said it was a waste of money.But later they had to accept that it boosted the economy," the congress leader said. He claimed the NYAY scheme will inject money into the economy, enhancing the purchasing power of the common people, thus boosting the production sector. "This will create new jobs," Gandhi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/rahul-gandhi-embarks-on-second-leg-of-campaign-in-kerala-woos-966953.html
26-03-2021||South||Reject 'corrupt', 'dynastic' DMK, Congress combine, Nadda urges Tamil Nadu people||BJP chief J P Nadda on Friday rooted for Tamil language and culture by touching on issues, including the emotive 'Jallikattu, the bull-taming sport, guarding fishermen and protecting Sri Lankan Tamils' interests. In his rallies in the run-up to the April 6 Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, he aligned his campaign line with that of the ruling AIADMK, which has been relentlessly targeting the DMK for its 'dynastic' politics, besides corruption. Nadda picked DMK and its partner Congress over charges of corruption and family politics and urged the electorate to reject them and also targeted them on Jallikattu. Also, he harped on a 'long leap' forward for the state in development, which would be propelled by his party-led government at the Centre and ally, the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu. Supported by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the AIADMK government worked for Tamil Nadu's growth and the goal is that the state should take a 'long leap' in development, he said. Asking people to remember the 'corruption' of DMK and Congress while in power and the days of 'policy paralysis' at the Centre when the latter steered the union government, Nadda alleged that the "DMK-Congress alliance is 2G, 3G, and 4G." He alleged that 2G denoted corruption of the Maran family (DMK) for two generations, 3G stood for graft of DMK chief M K Stalin's family for three generations and 4G for four generations of Congress-Gandhi family's corruption. "Right from top to bottom, all are involved in scams and corruption," he alleged. The three letters, DMK meant "Dynasty, Money and Kattapanchayat (a Tamil word used to mean holding of kangaroo courts)," and the Congress is a party that had always ignored local issues and sentiments of people, he alleged. He targeted DMK for "land grabbing, Goonda Raj and corruption" and appealed to people to vote for the AIADMK-BJP alliance to end such things and for Tamil Nadu to take a big leap in development. The 'dynastic' politics of the DMK and Congress parties should be rejected, he said. "We have to reject dynastic parties and see that real democracy flourishes in Tamil Nadu also." He said it was during Congress's stint at the Centre that the then Union Minister Jairam Ramesh came up with a notification against 'Jallikattu' in Tamil Nadu. The DMK, a constituent of the United Progressive Alliance, was all along a 'mute spectator' when this happened and today these two parties were seeking votes in Tamil Nadu. Only after Modi took a clear stand favouring the sport and due to his intervention was Jallikattu allowed, he claimed, recalling an ordinance of the Tamil Nadu government in this regard. Days ago, AIADMK top leader and Deputy Chief Minister O Panneerselvam had hailed the PM as the "real jallikattu hero," for facilitating permission to hold the sport that was stalled. Ever since Modi became Prime Minister, incidents of firing on Tamil Nadu fishermen stopped on the international border with Sri Lanka, he claimed. Modi was also the first PM to visit Jaffna in the neighbouring country that witnessed bombardment during the 2009 civil war and he facilitated reconstruction of houses for the Tamil people there, Pannerselvam said. Also, he deputed External Affairs Minister Jaishankar to Sri Lanka to ensure that the rights of Tamil minorities are protected, he said. In sync with BJP's 'Vel' (a spear like weapon of Lord Muruga) campaign to condemn fringe elements that denigrated 'Kanda Sasthi Kavacham,' Nadda said he prayed to Lord Muruga and wished people on the coming 'Panguni Uthiram' festival. Kavacham is a collection of hymns in praise of Lord Muruga. Raking up the 'Karuppar Kootam' episode in which Kavacham was berated last year, he said DMK chief Stalin had not condemned it then and alleged the Dravidian party president spoke against the 'Vel.' It was, however, the agitations of his party,led by state unit chief L Murugan that ensured that the 'Vel' was respected and even prompted Stalin, an atheist, to pose with it,he said. This showed that the BJP "stood for the culture of Tamil Nadu." He recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi quoted Tamil poet Kaniyan Poonkundranar in the United Nations and Nadda praised Tamil as the world's oldest language. Seeking to blunt the Tamil 'ignored' and Hindi 'imposed' refrain of DMK, he said as per the Centre's new National Education Policy, Tamil would be the medium of instruction till class eight in the state. Citing allocations for Tamil Nadu from the Centre like Rs seven lakh crore for the defence corridor, he said such initiatives would bring fresh jobs to youngsters. Nadda also underscored several measures like setting up of 11 new medical colleges and AIIMS at Madurai in Tamil Nadu, besides allocations for the Chennai Metro Rail. Be it the Centre's Garib Kalyan package or Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, these have been implemented in 'letter and spirit' by the AIADMK government, which also evinced a keen interest in vaccinating the people against Covid-19, he said. He urged the people to support the AIADMK-BJP alliance to take forward the development work initiated by Modi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/reject-corrupt-dynastic-dmk-congress-combine-nadda-urges-tamil-nadu-people-966980.html
26-03-2021||State||Sex scandal: SIT sends unedited video to FSL||The Special Investigation Team (SIT) has reportedly found an unedited video clipping of the CD which was released and uploaded on social media. The video recording, said to be more than a one-and-half-hour-long, has been retrieved from one of the devices they have seized in the past.  The video recording is also being analysed by the cybercrime and forensic science laboratory (FSL) officials. The officials have also taken the mobile phone of former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi on Wednesday and have sent it to FSL.  According to SIT sources, the video recording, which is allegedly made in one of the buildings in Yeshwanthpur, has been found. "We are going to seize all the devices that are required for the investigation of the case. It may be the mobile phone of the complainant or others. We are following the standard procedures according to the law. Our team is investigating the case without any pressure or any kind of influence," a senior officer said. The officials have learnt that a hidden camera was fixed in the vanity bag of the woman and the private moments have been captured in it. With this, the SIT team has found major evidence in the case. The SIT officials have also found that the woman has spoken to one of the kingpins, a media person expert in digital and cyber skills and informed him that the work is done. The officials are now suspecting that the video clip may be an organised honey trap.  Soon after activist Dinesh Kallahalli filed a complaint with an edited video clip, the same became viral on social media. Ramesh Jarkiholi was questioned two times by the SIT and he told the officials it was a fake clipping.   The officials had conducted a search in a private advertisement agency in Sheshadripuram, they also conducted searches on the suspect kingpin residences, a granite businessman's house and they had seized some devices from these places.  The SIT officials are now probing who is re-recording the video of the woman and releasing it to media persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sex-scandal-sit-sends-unedited-video-to-fsl-966547.html
26-03-2021||State||CD scandal: Woman ready to appear before SIT 'if parents given security'||A woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal that has caused a political storm released another video on Thursday, stating that she was ready to appear before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) if her parents were given full security.  In the viral video clip, the woman referred to a previous clip in which she had sought personal protection. She said she had sent the video statement to the SIT and the Bengaluru commissioner of police on March 12, but it was released on the next day soon after former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi filed a complaint.  SIT chief Soumendu Mukherjee, additional commissioner of police (West), said no such video was sent by the woman to the team. "We have served five notices to her till now, but there is no response from her," he said, adding, "We have requested her to appear before the SIT, or to identify the place, day and time, where we will go and provide her security and record her statement." The woman is untraceable for the last 23 days. The second video released on Thursday is 1 minute 13 seconds long. The clip released to media persons was played from a laptop and recorded from an unknown device. The officials suspect that the woman, with the help of kingpins, was releasing the video to a person who is re-recording it from another device to ensure that the officials don't get clues about their location.  What she said in the CD "I am 100% sure that my parents have not filed a complaint on their own... because they know that their daughter has not made any mistake. There is no need for them to be in fear. For me, my parents' safety is important. When I get to know they are safe, I will appear before the SIT and provide the statement and follow the procedure. Before that, I request Siddaramaiah (former chief minister), D K Shivakumar (KPCC president), Ramesh Kumar (former speaker) and women's organisations to ensure safety of my father and mother. On March 12, I made a video and sent it to the commissioner of police office and the SIT. On March 13, after the former minister filed a complaint in a hurry, my video was released. I don't understand whose side the SIT team is on, whom they are trying to safeguard."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-scandal-woman-ready-to-appear-before-sit-if-parents-given-security-966568.html
26-03-2021||State||Jarkiholi sex scandal: Woman's advocate meets Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, files complaint on her behalf||A few hours after the woman allegedly involved in the Ramesh Jarkiholi sex CD scandal released a third video clip statement on Friday morning about her advocate filing a complaint to the Commissioner of Police, the advocate Jagadesh Kumar met Kamal Pant at around 2.30 pm in his office and handed over the complaint copy allegedly handwritten by the woman. After having a brief discussion with the advocates and verifying the complaint details, he directed them to go to Cubbon Park police station and give the complaint to the officers. Speaking to media persons, Jagadesh said that he is going to Cubbon Park police station. He said that the woman contacted them only after they made a video and uploaded the same on Facebook in which they assured her legal assistance for fighting the case. Jagadesh said that around five days ago a group of advocates had approached Pant requesting him to take a suo motu case based on the video clipping released by the woman. Pant had told them if the video clipping is fake it would lead to more problems. So they have come along with the complaint copy of the woman today.   When Jagadesh met Pant, the SIT team senior officials were also present. Jagadesh said he can't reveal much details about how the woman approached them because of her safety concern. But, the woman herself has named us as her advocate. By evening the police are going to decide the charges they are going to impose in the FIR based on the complaint given by the woman. We don't have any demands for the charges to be imposed. Pant also asked me to meet a DIG rank officer and Cubbon Park police about providing safety for the woman. Based on their assurance we will communicate to the woman and will bring her to SIT in a day or two, Jagadesh said. He added that it is up to the officials to decide if the complaint of the woman attracts the Nirbhaya Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-sex-scandal-womans-advocate-meets-police-commissioner-kamal-pant-files-complaint-on-her-behalf-966784.html
26-03-2021||State||Closed since June, KIA’s upgraded North Runway reopens||Upgraded with a brand new asphalted surface and two new taxiways, the North Runway of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) commenced operations on Thursday. With this, the KIA has become South India’s first airport to have operational parallel runways.  The enhancements will now give airport the flexibility to operate both runways in low visibility and adverse weather conditions, a Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL) spokesperson said.  The operations began after the formal approval of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA).  Closed for operations since June 2020, the North Runway has been refurbished, including the strengthening of the surface with fresh layers of asphalt and the addition of two new taxiways to enable efficient runway operations.  The runway will continue to be categorised as CAT-I Instrument Landing System (ILS). However, it now has new installations such as LED Runway Centreline Lighting, Inset Runway Edge Lights and Taxiway Centreline Lighting and two new mid-point Transmissometers. All these installations will be commissioned later this year.  With the CAT IIIB-equipped South Runway becoming operational since December 6, 2019, the KIA’s operational flexibility has increased.  “The enhanced equipment enable aircraft to take off from the North Runway with a Runway Visual Range (RVR) of 125 metres and land at 550 metres RVR. The South Runway is designated as RWY 09R/27L, while the North Runway is RWY 09L/27R,” BIAL said.  The airport had initially proposed an upgrade of the North Runway to CAT IIIB. However, based on the outcome of stakeholder consultations and considering the drop in traffic due to the pandemic, the runway will remain CAT I-compliant, the spokesperson said.  Besides, “given that low visibility weather conditions at the KIA usually occur during limited periods each year, one CAT IIIB compliant South Runway should suffice for seamless operations, in the near term.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/closed-since-june-kia-s-upgraded-north-runway-reopens-966961.html
26-03-2021||State||Karnataka HC for measures to restore 2 lakes in Mysuru||The High Court on Friday directed the state government to appoint CSIR – National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (NEERI) to study and report whether two lakes in Mysuru can be rejuvenated.   A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing a PIL filed regarding encroachments on the lands at Keragalli (9.9 acres) and Ajjayanahundi (10.32 acre) lakes in Mysuru  The bench directed the state government to submit a compliance report by April 22. The court has said that the NEERI report shall indicate necessary steps to be taken with regards to the rejuvenation of both lakes. The petition, filed by M Shivakumar and M Sathish, contended that the deputy commissioner, Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) and the Mysuru City Corporation are trying to divert the lake land by allotting sites under the Ashraya scheme. The court perused the survey report which indicated that there are no encroachments, except for the formation of two roads. The bench disposed of the interlocutory application filed by the allottees of the sites under the Ashraya Scheme. The applicants said they belong to the weaker sections of the society and possess letters of allotments. The sites were allotted under the Rajiv Gandhi Rural Housing Yojane. The court said neither the state government nor its agency of instrumentality can allot any part of the lake area for the housing scheme. The bench held that Article 21 of the Constitution also accords the right to live in a pollution-free environment besides the right to have a dignified life. The court said the allottees can avail of appropriate remedy by making substantive proceedings for establishing their right of allotment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-for-measures-to-restore-2-lakes-in-mysuru-966963.html
26-03-2021||State||Will revive police school: Basavaraj Bommai||The state government is ready to offer funds for the revival of N A Muthanna Memorial Police Residential School at Dharwad, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Friday. A special meeting was chaired by Legislative Council chairman Basavaraj Horatti and Bommai regarding the school during the day. Bommai directed officials from the Home department to submit a proposal to the Finance department seeking funds required to run the school for the next two years. The Revenue department has released Rs 1.45 crore for administrative and other expenses of 55 new taluks in Karnataka. According to a government order, 54 taluks formed since 2017-18 will receive a grant of Rs 2.5 lakh each, while Kushalnagar taluk in Kodagu district will receive a special grant of Rs 10 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/will-revive-police-school-basavaraj-bommai-966965.html
26-03-2021||State||Pass orders on IAS officer Sharat’s plea, Karnataka HC asks CAT||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) to pass orders, reserved by it, on the petition filed by IAS officer and former Mysuru Deputy Commissioner B Sharat. In his Original Application (OA) before the CAT bench, Sharat had challenged the order dated September 28, 2020, transferring him from the post of Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru district. The state government had replaced him by posting IAS officer Rohini Sindhuri in his place. The CAT bench heard the matter finally and reserved it for orders on December 22, 2020. Sharat contended that as per Rule 105 of the Central Administrative Tribunal Rules of Practice, 1993, in matters posted for orders, date of pronouncement shall be fixed within three weeks. A division bench headed by Justice Satish Chandra Sharma disposed of the petition and requested the CAT to take a decision, at the earliest, within two weeks of receipt of copy of high court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/pass-orders-on-ias-officer-sharat-s-plea-karnataka-hc-asks-cat-966966.html
26-03-2021||State||Kalasa-Banduri: Joint team inspects area for second time||Joint Monitoring Team of Karnataka, Goa and Maharashtra visited Mahadayi project site at Kanakumbi in Khanapur taluk for the second time on Friday after Goa alleged in the Supreme Court that Karnataka has diverted waters of River Mahadayi and inspected the Kalasa canal works undertaken by the state. The team prepared a report on the Kalasa canal works and it could not come to a unanimous decision. Water Resources Department officials of the state prepared the factual report. But the Goa officials refused to sign the report and returned, while Maharashtra officials informed of preparing their own report, sources said. The apex court, after hearing Goa's allegations that Karnataka has diverted Mahadayi river water, had directed the formation of the Joint Monitoring Team comprising superintending engineers of the three states to inspect the works and submit a report within four weeks. Karnataka nominated Malaprabha Left Bank Canal Circle, Naviluthirtha superintending engineer Krishnoji Rao, Maharashtra nominated South Konkan Irrigation Project Circle Sindhudurganagri superintending engineer Vijaykumar Thorat and Goa nominated Water Resources Department Karaswada superintending engineer circle office-II M K Prasad as its member for the Joint Monitoring Team. The team could not prepare its report during their previous visit as the Goan delegation members had reportedly entered into altercations with Water Resources Department and police officials. The team had asked for preventing the entry of other officials, the public and media during the visit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalasa-banduri-joint-team-inspects-area-for-second-time-966967.html
26-03-2021||State||Karnataka HC orders survey of Raja’s tomb area in Madikeri||The High Court on Friday directed the jurisdictional tahsildar in Madikeri in Kodagu district to undertake a survey of 19.86 acres of the area where Raja’s Tomb (Gadduge) is situated. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, was hearing the PIL filed by J S Virupakshaiah, a former state information commissioner. The petitioner has alleged that several encroachments in the area which he claimed is an ancient monument. The court directed the tahsildar to visit the site with a view to ascertain the present condition of the tomb. The bench said the tahsildar will ascertain in the report whether there are any encroachments on the area of 19.86 acres. The court has also directed the tahsildar to prepare a sketch of the entire land and point out encroachments, if any. The tahsildar has been directed to submit the survey report within six weeks. The court directed the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the Union government to file affidavits stating whether the Raja’s tomb is an ancient monument and is of national importance. It asked the state government to consider whether powers, under Section 19 of the Karnataka Ancient and Historical Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act 1961, should be exercised for the declaration of the protected area. The court, in August last year, had directed the ASI to take up permanent restoration work of the ancient fort, palace premises and tombs of lings of Kodagu (Gadduge) in Madikeri. The petitioner contended that the state government has been running its offices on the palace premises instead of preserving the protected monuments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-hc-orders-survey-of-raja-s-tomb-area-in-madikeri-966968.html
26-03-2021||State||Karnataka Govt has 140 PD accounts with Rs 3,200 crore balance||The number of Personal Deposit (PD) accounts in which the government keeps money meant for public use has gone up to 140 this financial year with an unspent balance of Rs 3,204 crore.  The number of these accounts has gone up from 91 in the 2018-19 fiscal, despite flags being raised repeatedly on this practice.  The government has come under fire after the Comptroller & Auditor General (CAG) found that 76 PD accounts with an unspent balance of more than Rs 4,400 crore at the end of the March 2020 fiscal were not closed in violation of the Karnataka Financial Code (KFC).  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has already directed the finance department, which he controls, to streamline this. There were 11 inoperative PD accounts that were closed after obtaining a report from the Treasury. “Going forward, action will be taken to identify and close many more such inoperative PD accounts,” Yediyurappa said during his reply on the Budget discussion in the Legislative Assembly this week. According to the CM, PD accounts are mainly operated by deputy commissioners to meet expenditure on elections, Local Area Development, land acquisition and drinking water at the district-level. “The current balance of Rs 3,200 crore includes Rs 1,100 crore for legislators’ local area development funds and Rs 1,000 crore for disaster management,” Yediyurappa stated.  The government was slammed for not closing PD accounts at the end of the financial year as required by the KFC. Several MLAs raised the non-closure of PD accounts during the Budget session.  In response, Yediyurappa said the KFC itself will be amended to allow some PD accounts to remain operational. “Every year, the Finance department allows deputy commissioners to continue the accounts with the unspent balance in order to provide compensation for natural calamities, riots and other such emergency expenditure,” Yediyurappa said, adding that doing so was “inevitable.”  According to Madhusudhan B V Rao from the Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, the increasing PD accounts’ balance is an issue.  “Authorities are required to undertake periodical reconciliation of the PD accounts with the treasury accounts. Despite requests from CAG for reconciliation of PD accounts with the books of CAG and to close the accounts that have outlived their utility, the problem is still persisting,” Rao said.  Rao cited a recent CAG report that though the government undertook the task of closing 283 inoperative PD accounts, it could not be done because of non-reconciliation. “This needs to be addressed immediately,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-has-140-pd-accounts-with-rs-3200-crore-balance-966972.html
26-03-2021||State||Karnataka reports over 2,500 fresh Covid-19 cases for 2nd day in a row||Karnataka on Friday reported over 2,500 cases for the second consecutive day. While 2,523 cases were reported on Thursday, 2,566 were recorded on Friday. With this, the total number of cases rose to 9,81,044. With 13 deaths, the Covid toll rose to 12,484. As many as 1,207 persons were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 9,48,988. Of the remaining 19,553 active patients, 174 are in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.28 per cent, the case fatality rate touched 0.5 per cent. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,490 fresh Covid cases. As many as 1,12,271 tests were conducted on Friday alone. With this, the total number of tests done so far is 2,08,94,800. 16 lakh senior citizens vaccinated As many as 16,02,942 senior citizens have been vaccinated in the state since March 1. That apart, 4,64,753 persons above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated so far. On Friday, as many as 90,809 senior citizens and 31,868 above 45 years with comorbidities took the jab till 7.30 pm. So far, a total of 5,44,766 healthcare workers and 2,20,341 frontline workers have taken the first dose of vaccination. As many as 3,33,392 healthcare workers have taken the second dose. The state is expecting nine lakh doses of vaccine on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-reports-over-2500-fresh-covid-19-cases-for-2nd-day-in-a-row-966983.html
26-03-2021||State||More than 700 students test positive at Manipal college||With 704 students testing positive for Covid-19 at Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), the Udupi district administration has sealed the campus. The MIT cluster is the single driving factor of Covid cases in the district, said the district officials. The institute was first declared a containment zone on March 17. Udupi, Bidar, Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi, Dakshina Kannada and Tumakuru are the worst-hit districts in the state. The said districts have weekly positivity rate higher than the state average of 1.9% last week, according to the State Covid-19 War Room report on Thursday (March 25). Udupi’s positivity rate is more than 4%, and 85% of the district’s active cases are from the MIT campus while the rest of the 15% cases are spread all over the district, the district administration said. On Friday, Udupi (210), Tumakuru (126) and Kalaburagi (109), were the only three districts, apart from Bengaluru Urban, to report fresh infections in three digits. The state capital recorded 1,490 new Covid-19 cases in the day. Dr Prashant Bhat, District Surveillance Officer, Udupi, said, “The positivity rate of the district for March, by and large, is 4%. The positivity rate at MIT campus alone is 14%. There are no other containment zones in the district. Excluding MIT, the district has a positivity of 1.35%, which is less than the state’s average.” On Thursday, out of 145 cases in Udupi district, 111 cases were from MIT campus alone. On Friday as well, with 184 more people in the campus testing positive for the infection, MIT accounted for over 87% of the total cases reported from Udupi district. “We have travellers from Kerala and Maharashtra, who are contributing to cases. In March, the students didn’t observe social distancing. Parties will obviously spread the disease. We have traced roughly 1,500 contacts who have to be tested on day 7. There’s a high chance they may test positive because they may be in incubation period,” Dr Bhat said. Tumakuru District Health Officer Dr M B Nagendrappa told DH, “Daily, 50,000-60,000 people travel to Bengaluru. The cases are rising in Tumakuru city while it’s less in rural areas. We are ramping up testing and contact tracing accordingly in urban areas.” Kalaburagi District Surveillance Officer Dr Shivakumar Deshmukh said factors driving up cases in the district include interstate travellers and marriages. “We have staggered cases and more so in urban areas. It is not in any particular location. One factor is our proximity to the Maharashtra border with buses and trains plying there. Kalaburagi and Bidar are close to the Telangana border also. We are taking 4,000 to 5,000 samples everyday,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/more-than-700-students-test-positive-at-manipal-college-966984.html
26-03-2021||State||Sahitya Parishat polls: Voters' list published||The final list of voters for the election to the Kannada Sahitya Parishat has been published. The elections for the posts of the Parishat's state president, district presidents and "Gadinadu" (border areas) units are scheduled for May 9. The final list of voters has been published in taluk offices across the state. The details are also available on www.kasapa.in, according to a press release. The Parishat has developed an exclusive app "Election kasapa" for the benefit of voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/sahitya-parishat-polls-voters-list-published-966989.html
26-03-2021||State||Karnataka Health department releases Covid norms for bypolls||The Health department has released guidelines to be followed during the byelections to Belgaum, Maski and Basavakalyana constituencies. An health officer will be appointed as a nodal officer for guiding the election personnel. According to the guideline, proper wearing of mask is mandatory during the election process. Thermal screening of voters should be carried out at polling booths. Sanitisers, liquid soap and drinking water should be made available. Spacious rooms should be selected for conducting election-related activities to ensure social distancing. A kit containing mask, saniisers, hand gloves and face shield should be provided to the officials on election duty, the guidelines said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-health-department-releases-covid-norms-for-bypolls-967005.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP reconstitutes Karnataka's core committee||The BJP Central leadership has reconstituted  the party's state core committee, highest decision making body of the party in state level.  State Unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Union Ministers Prahlad Joshi, D V Sadananda Gowda, Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Heavy Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, Deputy Chief Ministers Govind Karjol, Aswathnarayan, Laxman Savadi, Revenue Minister R Ashok, Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu, State unit Vice President Nirmal Kumar Surana and state general secretary B P Arun Kumar are members. National General Secretary incharge party affairs in Karnataka Arun Singh, Co-incharge and National Vice President D K Aruna and National General Secretary C T Ravi will be special invitees. The party has dropped Forest Minister Arvind Limbavali and Former Minister C M Udasi and included Ashwathnarayan, Sriramulu and Nirmal Kumar Surana in the new committee.  The committee should meet at least once in a month and if required, it should hold meetings more than once in a month, said an released issued by the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-reconstitutes-karnatakas-core-committee-966624.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD row: Will file complaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi, says woman in video statement||As the scandal around the sex CD involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi gets murkier, the woman, allegedly the one in the video, released another video on Friday morning saying that she was going to file a complaint against Jarkiholi through her advocate Jagadesh Kumar. In her third video, she thanked the people of Karnataka, the political party leaders and organizations for their support. Through the 29-second-long clip, she said that for the last 24 hours, she feared for her life but today, she has mustered up the courage and has decided to file the complaint. Her advocate is expected to meet the SIT officials and Commissioner of Police Kamal Pant at the commissioner's office at around 2.30 pm. SIT sources said that they are ready to accept the woman's complaint through the advocate and will get the legal experts' opinions before taking necessary action. If the woman lodges a complaint, the police will have to register an FIR against Jarkiholi and the charges will be decided by the police team based on the allegations she makes in the complaint.  On Thursday, the woman had released the second video asking for security for her parents. She had requested the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, KPCC President DK Shivakumar, former Speaker Ramesh Kumar and women organizations to provide security to her family. Once she is convinced that they are safe, she would appear before the SIT and give her statement, she added. She had released her first video on March 13.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-row-will-file-complaint-against-ramesh-jarkiholi-says-woman-in-video-statement-966729.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: I saw woman’s complaint coming, my game will start now, says Ramesh Jarkiholi||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi maintained that he was unfazed after the woman, the one believed to have been involved in the sex scandal with him, filed a formal complaint through her lawyer on Friday.  “I dislodged one government and installed another one. What’s this? I will face more such complaints,” Ramesh told reporters.  Ramesh is widely believed to have been the leader of the rebellion against the Congress-JD(S) coalition, paving the way for the BJP to come to power.  The former minister said he saw the woman’s complaint coming. “I knew this would happen. This was her final move. My game will start tomorrow (Saturday),” he said. “I also have lawyers with me,” he added.  Ramesh insisted that his FIR should be investigated first. “I filed a complaint first, so my FIR should be looked into first,” he said. “I’ll be right here (in my house). If I have committed any mistake, I will go to the police station myself.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-i-saw-woman-s-complaint-coming-my-game-will-start-now-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-966803.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: FIR registered against Ramesh Jarkiholi||The Cubbon Park police in Bengaluru have registered FIR against former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi based on a handwritten complaint sent by the woman who's allegedly involved in the sex CD scandal and delivered through her advocate Jagadesh Kumar.  Speaking to media persons, Jagadesh said that the police have registered the FIR. "Now I am approaching the DG and IGP with respect to providing security to the woman and her family members who are in Kalaburagi," he added. "I cannot reveal the details of the FIR or the sections imposed because the case is about the sexual offence," he said.  According to Cubbon Park police sources few sections mentioned in the FIR are IPC sections 376c - Sexual intercourse by a person in authority, 354a - Sexual harassment, 504 - Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace, 506 - Criminal intimidation, 417 - Cheating, and IT Act 67a - Publishing or transmitting of material containing the sexually explicit act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-fir-registered-against-ramesh-jarkiholi-966851.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No question of hiding Karnataka's Covid-19 numbers: K Sudhakar||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar said on Friday all factual data on Covid-19 is being made public. There was no question of hiding numbers and the government has no such intention nor is it possible to hide any details, he said. "We are not hiding any statistics regarding Covid-19. All opposition leaders are welcome to give their valuable suggestions for controlling Covid. They can also figure out any flaws in the system," Sudhakar said. He said the Chief Minister may call an all-party meeting to discuss the issue. "We are free to discuss anything in this regard," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. He said the Manipal institute alone had 704 cases and it has been sealed. Stringent measures were being taken to curb spreading. Maharashtra reported 35,000 cases yesterday while over 2,000 were recorded here. People should follow guidelines and youngsters should voluntarily take the elderly at home for vaccination, the minister said. Stating that the technical advisory committee on Covid-19 has suggested several precautionary measures, Sudhakar said the Chief Minister will take a decision in this regard. "It is difficult to restrict any activity, but keeping in view the spread of infection, adequate measures will be initiated," he said. The Health Department has submitted a representation to the Election Commission on the safe conduct of by-elections amidst the second wave, the minister added. Bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha seat, and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly segments will be held on April 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-question-of-hiding-karnatakas-covid-19-numbers-k-sudhakar-966861.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Vaccine supply issues could hit Covid inoculations for people over 45 in Karnataka||Vaccine supply problems and large crowds. These are some of the issues that officials may confront as the state inches closer to its April 1 schedule to start vaccinating people over the age of 45 years. Minister for Health Dr K Sudhakar acknowledged that the Centre had sent four lakh doses of vaccines on Wednesday night, to be bolstered by the arrival of a further 12,50,000 doses over the course of the next six days. But the target size required to be vaccinated is large: Over 167.1 lakh people aged 45 and above in the state, as per 2021 population projections by the directorate of economics and statistics. A senior official said that the 3,900 operational centres (statewide, out of which about 600 belong to the private sector), can already carry out between five lakh and seven lakh vaccinations per day. “This rate, however, can only be sustained if the supply of vaccines is constant,” the official said. The official said while some centres have adequate doses to complete their quota for the day, other centres have had less than required. Already, the private sector said it expects the expanded vaccination programme to be problematic. “Hospitals are supplied only daily supply and that too, only 10 vials (or 100 doses). This is causing problems,” said Dr Prasanna H M, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA). “Every day, senior administrators from hospitals have to go to the BBMP office to collect the 10 vials. What should be a quick exercise takes nearly half the day. If larger crowds turn up after April 1, and if the supply of vaccines is delayed, it will have implications,” he said. Dr Arundathi Chandreshekar, mission director, National Health Mission, said the supply itself is not a problem but distribution is. She said the weekly supplies to hospitals had been discontinued because the full consignment of vials were not being used. “However, after April 1, we will monitor the demand for 3 to 4 days and take a decision,” she said. Vaccine hesitancy a challenge The senior official said another challenge would be addressing vaccine hesitancy. He expressed confidence that substantial number of people would turn up for vaccinations after April 1. “Already, among the senior citizens and +45 group with comorbidities, we have done 14.7 lakh inoculations out of a target of 54.8 lakh, comprising 26.7%,” the official said. Dr Arundathi said more session sites would be set up at centres, if more people turn up for vaccinations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/vaccine-supply-issues-could-hit-covid-inoculations-for-people-over-45-in-karnataka-966958.html
26-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||17 rivers in Karnataka highly polluted: Jal Shakti Ministry||A total of 17 river stretches in Karnataka are polluted mainly due to discharge of untreated or partially treated sewage and industrial effluents in their catchments, Jal Shakti Ministry said on Friday. According to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), stretches of Krishna, Tungabhadra, Bhadra, Tunga, Malaprabha, Kali, Kagina, Bhima, Asangi Nalla, Cauvery, Kabini, Shimsha, Arkavathi, Lakshmantirtha, Yagachi, Kumardhara, and Netravathi rivers are polluted, the Ministry informed Parliament. A total of 351 stretches on 323 rivers have been identified as polluted in the country in terms of bio-chemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels, an indicator of organic pollution, said the Ministry. The non-point sources of pollution like agricultural run-off, open defecation, run-off from solid waste dump sites also contribute to pollution of rivers, the Ministry added. The CPCB, in collaboration with the State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs), is regularly monitoring the water quality of rivers and other water bodies in the country through a network of monitoring stations, Minister of State for Jal Shakti Rattan Lal Kataria in his written reply informed Lok Sabha. Sewage generation in urban areas in the country is estimated at 61,948 million litres per day (mld), while the sewage treatment capacity was 23,277 mld, said the minister. Karnataka has four grossly polluting industries and all of them are complying with environmental and pollution control board norms, Kataria said. The CPCB has directed all 17 categories of highly polluting industries; including sugar industries, to install Continuous Effluent/ Emission Monitoring Systems (OCEMS) to monitor the pollution levels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/17-rivers-in-karnataka-highly-polluted-jal-shakti-ministry-966975.html
26-03-2021||West||Rs 3,000 crore plus drugs seized by Coast Guard off Minicoy Island||In a major intelligence-based operation, the Indian Coast Guard (ICG) has seized narcotics to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore off the Minicoy Island in Lakshadweep in the Arabian Sea. On 15 March, the ICG received intelligence input regarding a suspicious boat of foreign origin likely to be engaged in drug trafficking in Arabian Sea. On receipt and corroboration of input, a swift air-sea coordinated operation by Coast Guard was launched immediately to detect the suspicious boats.   The Coast Guard ships and aircraft conducted extensive search in the area off the Lakshadweep area. On 18 March, patrolling units detected three suspicious boats off Minicoy Islands and intercepted them. Post boarding, interrogation of the crew revealed inconsistent statements. “On rummaging of boats, high grade 300 kgs Heroin and 5 AK-47 rifles with 1,000 live rounds were recovered from Sri Lankan fishing boat Ravihansi. The estimated value of narcotics in the international market is approx Rs 3000 crore,” according to a statement issued here by Mumbai-headquartered Coast Guard Western Region. All the three boats along with 19 crew escorted to Vizhinjam, Kerala for further joint investigation.  This is the second major anti-drug trafficking operation undertaken by ICG on the west coast of India within a fortnight. On 5 March, ICG ships and aircraft, in a coordinated operation in Lakshadweep seas, had successfully apprehended Sri Lankan boat Akarsha Duwa with 6-member crew off Minicoy Island. The crew had admitted to carrying 200 kg high grade Heroin and 60 kg Hashish which was jettisoned at sea on sighting of ICG ships on patrol. In a similar operation in Nov 2020, ICG had apprehended Sri Lankan boat Shenaya Duwa off Kanyakumari, carrying 120 kg narcotics worth approx Rs. 1000 cr and five weapons.         “The past one year has proved to be a big setback for drug traffickers at sea as ICG has successfully seized about 1.6 tons of narcotics worth approx Rs. 4900 crore. The total drug haul done by ICG since inception amounts to Rs. 10,952 crore,” the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rs-3000-crore-plus-drugs-seized-by-coast-guard-off-minicoy-island-966618.html
26-03-2021||West||To counter Karnataka beef ban, Goa to outsource state's only abattoir  ||To counter the impact of the newly introduced anti-cattle law in Karnataka, the Goa government is scouting for private parties to take over operations of the state's only legal abattoir, in order to ensure facilitate smooth supply of fresh beef to consumers in Goa, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Thursday. In his reply to a question by Congress MLA Reginaldo Lourenco during the ongoing budget session of the Goa legislative assembly, Sawant also said that currently there was no shortage of beef in the coastal state, where minority communities, Catholics and Muslims, account for more than a third of the population. "The Government of Goa is studying the possibility of outsourcing the modern abattoir of Goa Meat Complex to private companies for the period of ten years," Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and Animal Husbandry Minister Mauvin Godinho said in a written reply to a question from the Congress MLA. The passage of the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill (2020) by the Karnataka assembly had triggered fears of a beef shortage in Goa. After a similar law was passed in Maharashtra earlier, Karnataka was the sole major supplier of fresh beef and livestock to Goa, which consumes nearly 25 ton of beef every day. To a question by Lourenco, as to whether the state was experiencing beef shortage, Sawant said: "No shortage of Beef in the State is reported". The Goa Meat Complex, the state's only legal abattoir, has been non functional due to non availability of livestock for slaughter. Sawant said that due to the ban on slaughter and transport of animals in the "neighbouring states", he could not provide an exact time as to when the abattoir would be operational. "As there is a ban on slaughter and transport of animals in both the neighbouring states, we are not able to give a definite time frame for the meat complex to become operational," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/to-counter-karnataka-beef-ban-goa-to-outsource-states-only-abattoir-966623.html
26-03-2021||West||10 dead after major fire breaks out at Mumbai mall housing Covid-19 hospital||In a shocking incident, at least 10 persons were killed in a fire that broke out at Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall Complex at Bhandup in the suburbs of Mumbai on Friday. The fire started at 11:59 pm on Thursday. Fire-fighting and cooling operations are still underway. The incident site is located off the Lal Bahadur Shastri Marg in Bhandup West. More than 75 persons including patients, hospital staff and the mall night duty staff were rescued by teams of Mumbai Fire Brigade and Disaster Management Unit of the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has expressed shock and concern over the incident. He is expected to visit the fire site and review the progress of the operations. Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar rushed to the hospital to oversee the fire-fighting operation. “The fire has taken place in the mall…it also has a hospital…I have heard such a thing for the first time,” she said, however, added that last year when the Covid-19 pandemic broke out the hospital started under exceptional circumstances. Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale assured strong action against people responsible for the fire. “Prime facie it appears that the hospital administration is responsible for the fire…investigations are underway and we will take strict action against those responsible,” he said. The Sunrise Hospital management, however, claimed that two dead bodies – Covid-19 casualties - of the hospital were evacuated. They also claimed that the fire started in the mall and reached the top floor.  The rescued patients have been shifted to the Jumbo field Covid hospital at Mulund and Fortis Hospital. Additional Municipal Commissioner Suresh Kakani, Deputy Municipal Commissioner Prabhat Rahangdale and Deputy Commissioner of Police Prashant Kadam are camping at the site. The Dreams Mall is a ground-plus-three-storey structure and the hospital is on the top floor. Official sources said that there were 76 patients in the hospital – 73 Covid and 3 non-Covid patients. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/10-dead-after-major-fire-breaks-out-at-mumbai-mall-housing-covid-19-hospital-966647.html
26-03-2021||West||Melghat Tiger Reserve’s female 'Singham' RFO ends life||In a shocking incident, a lady Range Forest Officer posted in Melghat Tiger Reserve in Amravati died by suicide on Thursday alleging harrassment by superiors. RFO Dipali Chavan (33), popularly known as ‘Lady Singham’ and 'Melghat’s Singham’, shot herself with a service revolver. Dipali, a daredevil officer, who was posted in Harisal in Gugamal division, left a suicide note in which she named Divisional Fire Officer Vinod Shivkumar for high-handedness and constant harrassment.  The note was addressed to MS Reddy, Field Director of Melghat Tiger Reserve and Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest. Amravati Superintendent of Police Hari Balaji is personally overseeing the investigations. She was living with her mother Shakuntala Chavan, who had left for Satara, while her husband Rajesh Mohite works as Treasury Officer at Chikhaldara. Shivkumar has been detained from Nagpur police station, from where he was planning to go to Karnataka by train. Dipali's family has so far not claimed the body. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government has taken serious note of the incident. Incidentally, after the resignation of Sanjay Rathod, the Forest portfolio lies with Thackeray. “A detailed investigation would be done..whether there is any kind of harassment, blackmail, torture…the guilty will not be spared,” Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar told reporters in Pune. Dipali had highlighted Shivkumar’s alcoholism, using abusive or foul language at her in public and private, making advances and dropping hints to get physical. Meanwhile, the Nagpur-based Maharashtra Forest Guard-Forester’s Union has sent a letter to Thackeray, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and Amravati’s Guardian Minister Yashomati Thakur demanding strict action against Shivkumar. The letter addressed by its General Secretary Indrajit Baraskar pointed out that that from the suicide note it was clear that she was being harassed. “In 2020, when she was pregnant, in early-February, Shivkumar compelled Dipali to accompany him on a grueling 3-day forest patrol, walking or driving hundreds of kms ignoring her condition and her complaints to Reddy was not addressed,” he said. Consequently, upon return she suffered a miscarriage and was in deep depression. A tough officer, she had chased forest mafia several times in her career and was feared. She had also intercepted gang members. BJP’s women wing leader Chitra Wagh said that Dipali was being constantly harassed. “Her complaints to Reddy went unanswered and he needed to face probe...both Shivkumar and Reddy must be booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder,” she said, adding that the issue was serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/melghat-tiger-reserve-s-female-singham-rfo-ends-life-966702.html
26-03-2021||West||Will file complaint against BMC: BJP leader on hospital fire||BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Friday said he would file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC in connection with the fire at a hospital in a city mall, in which two Covid-19 patients died and 70 others were evacuated. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also sought to know how a Covid-19 centre was given permission to operate in a mall. The blaze erupted at the Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after Thursday midnight. The hospital is situated on the top floor of the four-storeyed mall building and 76 patients, most of them being treated for Covid-19, were there when the fire broke out, police said. Somaiya said the mall is an "epitome of corruption". "I am going to file a complaint of criminal negligence against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). There have been several complaints against this mall, but no action was taken against its owners," he alleged. MNS general secretary Sandeep Deshpande claimed that the mall has not obtained occupancy certificate (OC) so far and its fire audit has not been completed so far. "The mall was operational without the OC by the BMC. The fire audit could not be completed as the fire system in place there was unsatisfactory. That is why, the fire brigade did not issue its a clearance certificate to it," he told reporters. "I still wonder why this mall was used in setting up a Covid-19 centre. The local ward officer should be questioned and probed for allowing treatment of coronavirus patients at the mall," he said. The Shiv Sena rules the Mumbai civic body.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/will-file-complaint-against-bmc-bjp-leader-on-hospital-fire-966737.html
26-03-2021||West||Veteran journalist Anil Dharker passes away in Mumbai||Veteran journalist, columnist and writer Anil Dharker passed away in Mumbai on Thursday. He was the founder of Mumbai’s Tata Literature Live Festival. Dharker has been the Editor of a variety of publications, starting with Debonair, Mid-Day and Sunday Mid-day. His columns appeared in The Times of India, The Hindu, The Economic Times, Khaleej Times, Gulf News, The Scotsman, The Sunday Observer, Mid-Day among other publications. "RIP Anil Dharker, kind and generous man and director of a great Lit Fest," tweeted historian and author William Dalrymple. "Goodbye dearest Anil. An elegant mind, a stylish writer, and a loyal friend. You will be missed by all those whose lives you touched. RIP," wrote writer Shobhaa De. "Sad news coming in of Anil Dharker passing away. Was my editor at Mid-Day and The Independent. Man of delectable prose and varied interests. Sports buff. Compassionate and caring. Freethinker and fiercely democratic. RIP," recalled well-known sports commentator and journalist Ayaz Memon. "I am extremely saddened to hear about the passing away of a lovely human being, always in his immaculate bespoke churidaar-Kurta: Anil Dharker. The ultimate intellectual liberal who made Tata Literature Live event a global brand and loved books. He loved life. We will miss him," wrote former Congress leader Sanjay Jha. Dharker has been a versatile sportsman. He captained the Table Tennis teams of London University and Glasgow University and played for the Combined British University Table Tennis team. He played cricket, squash and badminton, representing his university in all sports. He was the recipient of the YMCA London's Sportsman of the Year award. He has represented Bombay Gymkhana in tennis. Anil Dharker is the Founder and Chairman of the Single Malt Club of Bombay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/veteran-journalist-anil-dharker-passes-away-in-mumbai-966756.html
26-03-2021||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thakeray apologises to kin of hospital fire victims, announces Rs 5 lakh compensation||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday said strict action will be taken against those found responsible for the fire at a hospital in a Mumbai mall, which resulted in the death of 10 patients. Speaking to reporters after visiting the mall, Thackeray apologised to the families of the victims and announced Rs 5 lakh compensation to the kin of each deceased. Thackeray said the fire did not break out in the hospital, but at some office or shop situated below it. According to officials, the incident occurred in Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in Bhandup area shortly after Thursday midnight. The hospital is located on the top floor of the four-storeyed mall building and there were 76 patients, most of them being treated for Covid-19, when the fire broke out. The chief minister said the state government had last year allowed some hospitals to treat Covid-19 patients given the spread of the disease and then said that the facility in the Bhandup mall was one of them. "The permission was to end on March 31. Unfortunately, the fire broke on the first floor of the mall and spread upwards," he said. The chief minister said that efforts were made to rescue all the patients admitted at the hospital. However, it took some time to evacuate those who were on ventilators. "Unfortunately, they died," he said. "We wake up after such incidents take place and then a probe is carried out. This incident, too, will be investigated. Action will be taken as per law probe against whoever is at fault," Thackeray added. He said that in the recent past he had issued instructions to carry out structural and fire audits of Covid-19 care centres and field hospitals across the state. "I had asked (the authorities) to ensure such incidents do not occur. Still, unfortunately, this has taken place. "...I express regret to those who have lost their kin in the incident," he said in Marathi. Speaking in Hindi, Thackeray later said, "I apologise to the kin of those who died in the incident." The chief minister said that compensation of Rs 5 lakh will be given to the next kin of each deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thakeray-apologises-to-kin-of-hospital-fire-victims-announces-rs-5-lakh-compensation-966778.html
26-03-2021||West||Phone-tapping fact-finding report full of fallacies, says Fadnavis||BJP leader Devendra Fandavis on Friday alleged that the fact-finding report submitted to the Maharashtra government by the state chief secretary Sitaram Kunte over the phone-tapping allegations is full of fallacies. Kunte had been asked to submit the report into the alleged police transfer racket by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in the wake of Fadnavis's allegations that the state government suppressed IPS officer Rashmi Shukla's letter or report, based on phone intercepts, on a "transfer scam". Kunte's report said, "Despite stamping the letter as TOP SECRET, Rashmi Shukla seems to have leaked the letter, which is very serious matter. If it is proved, she will be liable for strictest action against her." Talking about it, Fadnavis said on Friday, "The Indian Telegraph Act quoted in the report is presented to public in a manner convenient to the government. The report in itself is full of fallacies. Although there are sufficient provisions to tap the phone calls, the government is not ready to accept it." "The then DGP Subodh Jaiswal had recommended a CID probe (into the alleged transfer scam) based on the conversations among police officials and other persons involved in it. Then why no action was taken on his recommendations?" he asked. The Act empowers the official to intercept calls to avoid any possible offence that could happen, he said, adding that the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) of the Maharashtra police has all the rights to carry out phone-tapping. When asked about the leaking of 'top secret' report, the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said, "I had only shared a two-page letter (related to Shukla's letter), whereas it was state minister Nawab Malik who leaked some of its pages. I was even contacted by some journalists after they received the report from Malik." If any action has to be taken, it should be against Malik, he added. "I think state ministers Malik or Jitendra Awhad had prepared the report and chief secretary Kunte must have signed it. I have enough proof with me. If there is a legal action, then I will produce it before the court," he claimed. Out of all the names mentioned by Malik citing the list, 12 officials have received the postings as per their request, he claimed. Awhad had on Wednesday alleged that Shukla, then Commissioner of Intelligence, sought permission for intercepting the calls of certain persons, but actually the calls of some other persons were tapped.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fact-finding-report-on-phone-tapping-full-of-fallacies-says-fadnavis-966795.html
26-03-2021||West||Over 52 lakh people vaccinated against Covid-19 so far in Maharashtra||The Covid-19 vaccination tally in Maharashtra reached 52,65,462 with 2,14,123 people getting the vaccine doses in a single day, officials said on Friday. Of the 2,14,123 who were vaccinated on Thursday, 10,397 were healthcare workers, 29,160 frontline workers, 34,197 people in the age group of 40 to 60 suffering from co- morbidities, while 1,24,632 were senior citizens who received the first dose, they said. A total of 5,040 healthcare workers were administered the second dose of the vaccine during the day. The state has so far given the first dose of vaccine to 9,51,219 healthcare workers. Of them, 4,57,621 have received the second dose as well, they said. Similarly, 7,43,238 frontline workers have received their first Covid-19 vaccine dose, of whom 2,25,489 also got the second dose. As many as 5,34,227 people in the age group of 40 to 60, who are suffering from co-morbidities, and 23,53,668 senior citizens have received their first dose till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-52-lakh-people-vaccinated-against-covid-19-so-far-in-maharashtra-966797.html
26-03-2021||West||Holi, Shab-e-Barat celebrations banned in Maharashtra's Nagpur||The civic body in Maharashtra's Nagpur city on Friday issued a notification banning Holi celebrations and Shab-e-Barat processions in public and private places amid the rise in Covid-19 cases. The state government has already imposed strict restrictions in Nagpur till March 31. According to an order issued by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, not more than five people will be permitted to gather at public places during the festivals on March 28 and 29. Holi celebrations and Shab-e-Barat processions will not be permitted in private and public spaces, the notification stated. The NMC has further stated that all private establishments, offices, shops, markets and libraries will remain shut on March 29. Apart from this, all stand-alone grocery, vegetable, and meat shops will have to down their shutters after 1 pm on March 29, it was stated. Nagpur district recorded a single-day spike of 3,579 Covid-19 cases and 47 deaths on Thursday, an official said. The tally of infections in the district has now reached 2,07,067, while the toll has risen to 4,784, the official said. As many as 1,67,464 patients have recovered from the infection so far, he said, adding that the district is now left with 34,819 active cases. With the addition of 16,064 swab samples tested on Thursday, the total number of tests conducted in the district has reached 15,41,183.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/holi-shab-e-barat-celebrations-banned-in-maharashtras-nagpur-966800.html
26-03-2021||West||BJP blames corruption in BMC for fire at Mumbai mall hospital||BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Friday alleged that corruption in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) was responsible for the fire at a hospital in a Mumbai mall, which killed 10 patients. The incident of fire occurred in Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in the Bhandup area shortly after Thursday midnight. The hospital is located on the top floor of the four-storey mall building and there were 76 patients, most of them being treated for Covid-19 when the fire broke out, officials said. "It is the corrupt practices in the BMC that could have led to the fire incident in Bhandup mall. Why no fire audit was performed before a Covid-19 Care Centre was set up there?" Fadnavis asked. "I would say that the Bombay High Court should take suo moto cognisance of the incident and probe the matter. Those from the BMC, who are responsible for the incident, should face action," the Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly said while talking to reporters here. The state government had given assurance of carrying out safety audit of all the hospitals in the state, he said. "Yet this incident occurred today. It means the government is not serious about public health and safety," he said. The Shiv Sena currently rules the Mumbai civic body and also heads the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state by sharing power with the NCP and the Congress. Another BJP leader Kirit Somaiya said he would file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC in connection with the fire, while the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) also sought to know how a Covid Care centre was given permission to operate in a mall. Somaiya said the mall is an "epitome of corruption". "I am going to file a complaint of criminal negligence against the BMC. There have been several complaints against this mall, but no action was taken against its owners," he alleged. MNS general secretary Sandeep Deshpande claimed that the mall has not received the occupancy certificate (OC) so far and its fire audit is still incomplete. "The mall was operational without the OC by the BMC. The fire audit could not be completed as the fire system in place there was not satisfactory. That is why, the fire brigade did not issue a clearance certificate," he told reporters. "I still wonder why a Covid Care Centre was set up in this mall. The local ward officer should be questioned and probed for allowing treatment of coronavirus patients at the mall," he said. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, who visited the spot in the afternoon, said there was approval for starting a temporary coronavirus treatment facility there. He also announced a financial aid of Rs 5 lakh to the next kin of each deceased.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-blames-corruption-in-bmc-for-fire-at-mumbai-mall-hospital-966813.html
26-03-2021||West||Gujarat Police barge into farmer leaders' press conference, detain 8||A team of Gujarat police on Friday barged into a live press conference and detained eight farmer leaders including Yudhvir Singh, one of the prominent leaders of "Samyukt Kisan Morcha", an umbrella body of over 40 farmer unions protesting against controversial farm bills for over four months. Police said that the organisers didn't have permission to hold the press conference.  The conference had been organised by the Morcha at Radhe Restaurant and Banquet, Tapovan Circle, Motera in Ahmedabad at 12 PM. Five minutes after the leaders started addressing the media, police officials barged into the hall and forcefully took them away. The police team had already arrived and was waiting for the conference to begin. "The organisers had not taken permission for the press conference," a local policeman told reporters at the spot. When contacted, Joint Commissioner of Police, sector-1, R V Asari told DH, "The organisers had no permission for such a gathering in Covid-19 times. There were lots of people at the spot."  The leaders were brought to police headquarters at Shahibaug. "We were just eight people. The police also manhandled several journalists. This is the first time that I have faced such a situation for simply holding a press conference. This is unbelievable. I have been part of many movements, have gone to places in India and abroad but never ever dragged out of a conference like this. We are not criminals. This is nothing but the arrogance of power," Yudhvir Singh, general secretary of Bharatiya Kisan Union, said on the phone after his detention. During the live press conference when the police were trying to take him away, he said, "This is wrong...this is a dictatorship. It's not a crime to talk to the press." Among the detained were J K Patel, from Jagathat Foundation, Gajendra Singh, Dharpututra Trust, Subhash Chaudhary and Gajendrasinh Jhala, among others. The farmers' organisations have decided to organize events on April 4 and 5 "to strengthen the farmers' movement in Gujarat". A press release claimed that Rakesh Tikait, of Bharatiya Kisan Union, Yudhveer Singh and other leaders of the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha will participate in the event.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-police-barge-into-farmer-leaders-press-conference-detain-8-966835.html
26-03-2021||West||FIR filed to probe Rashmi Shukla's phone-tapping report leak||In a fresh development into the issue involving a top-secret intelligence report leak, the Mumbai Police lodged an FIR on Friday. The Cyber Crime Cell of Crime-Branch-CID lodged the FIR against “unknown persons” under sections of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Official Secrets Act, 1923 and Information Technology Act, 2008. The Mumbai Police would now launch investigations into the leak of the report prepared by Rashmi Shukla, the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department. Earlier this week, Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis pointed out the intelligence report on the issue of cash for transfers and promotions in the Maharashtra police and said that brokers and people with political links are part of the racket. On August 25, Shukla, the then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department, had submitted a report to the then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal, who had forwarded it to Kunte, then Additional Chief Secretary (Home), to be brought to the eyes of Thackeray. However, he said that the Chief Minister passed on the report to Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and no action was taken. After the leak, Thackeray asked Kunte, now the Chief Secretary, to give a status report. “She (Shukla) had met the Chief Minister, Home Minister (Anil Deshmukh) and myself and expressed regrets for the matter… She also sought permission to withdraw her report… Since she was a woman officer with recent traumatic problems and had admitted her fault, a sympathetic view was taken and the matter was not pursued further… Meanwhile, she was transferred to a Central posting,” Kunte said in the report. Reacting to the FIR, Fadnavis said: “It seems that Chief Secretary’s report is not drafted by him, but some minister. Intentionally, the phrase ‘for preventing incitement to the commission of an offence’  is missing in his report. Minister Nawab Malik himself did and even the leaked pages clearly show that 12 transfers actually happened as we see in the transcripts!..what I gave to the media was two pages of covering letters, they leaked out the names.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fir-filed-to-probe-rashmi-shuklas-phone-tapping-report-leak-966876.html
26-03-2021||West||New Covid-19 SOPs in Goa by Saturday, says CM Sawant||Goa will draft new standard operating procedures (SOPs) by Saturday to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the state, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said in the Assembly on Friday. He was responding to a calling attention motion by Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte on the rise in number of cases over the past few days. Khaunte said 32 staff of an offshore casino had been detected with the infection, and while they were shifted to a building, the casino was allowed to continue operations. Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the staff would be moved out of the building and it will be denotified as a micro containment zone, while periodic testing of staff at the casino will be made mandatory. The minister also ruled out making Covid-19 negative certificates mandatory for those flying into the state from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala etc as "there is no guarantee that the certificate which they bring along is genuine".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/new-covid-19-sops-in-goa-by-saturday-says-cm-sawant-966894.html
26-03-2021||West||Night curfew in Maharashtra from March 28 to curb Covid-19 spread||Amidst rising Covid-19 cases and the increasing crowd in public places, the Maharashtra government has decided to clamp “night curfew” in the state starting Sunday (March 28). The Chief Minister’s Office said that from starting Sunday during the nights “prohibitory orders” would be in place till further orders. Besides, a possible lockdown in selected areas has not been ruled out. “The increasing number of cases is a cause of concern,” Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said. “I do not want to impose lockdown,” he said, however, cautioned that in the wake of rising cases the health infrastructure may fall short. “All districts must beef up their health infrastructure and bed strength,” he directed. A detailed notification is expected shortly by the Maharashtra Disaster Management Authority. The decision was taken at a meeting in which all Divisional Commissioners, District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners, Police Commissioners, Superintendents of Police, District Civil Surgeons and members of the Covid-19 Task Force were present. Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh and top bureaucrats were also present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/night-curfew-in-maharashtra-from-march-28-to-curb-covid-19-spread-966895.html
26-03-2021||West||No need for President's rule in Maharashtra: Ajit Pawar||The situation in Maharashtra does not warrant President's rule, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Friday. The report submitted by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on the phone tapping by IPS officer Rashmi Shukla as part of a probe into alleged corruption in police transfers was very clear and presents all the facts, he told reporters here. "(BJP leader) Sudhir Mungantiwar and the opposition have been insisting on President's rule in the state. But there is no such situation in the state," Pawar said. The ruling MVA coalition has the support of 165 MLAs and thus enjoys majority in the Assembly, he said. BJP leaders have demanded President's rule in the aftermath of the arrest of police officer Sachin Waze in connection with the recovery of explosives-laden vehicle near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house and IPS officer Param Bir Singh's corruption allegations against state home minister Anil Deshmukh. On Kunte's report on phone tapping, Pawar said he is an upright and meritorious officer. "He has submitted a report which is very clear and by reading it one can understand the facts," Pawar said. The transfers (allegedly facilitated through bribery) referred to in Shukla's letter to the then state DGP never took place, the deputy CM pointed out. On the death of ten patients at a Covid-19 hospital in Bhandup, Mumbai, Pawar said he had instructed officials to ensure such incidents do not take place again. "We have already allocated funds to carry out fire safety audits of government hospitals," he said. On Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut's statement that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should lead the UPA alliance, Ajit said he does not speak on national issues. "I can only speak on the issues which are state-related. I came back from the Centre in 1991 (when he was MP for a brief period) so my connections there are limited," Pawar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-need-for-presidents-rule-in-maharashtra-ajit-pawar-966910.html
26-03-2021||West||Maharashtra reports nearly 37,000 new Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases continued to surge in the financial capital as the city reported over 5,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third day in a row.  Mumbai on Friday reported 5,513 new Covid-19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 3,85,628. It also reported nine deaths.   Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 36,902 new Covid-19 positive cases, taking the active cases tally to 2,82,451.  The state saw 17,019 persons recover from the virus, while 112 died due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-nearly-37000-new-covid-19-cases-966924.html
26-03-2021||West||Bill against 'Love Jihad' to be tabled in Gujarat Assembly||A bill penalising forcible or fraudulent religious conversion by marriage with three to ten years in jail and a fine of upto Rs five lakh is likely to be tabled in the Gujarat Assembly next week. The bill, which amends a 2003 Act, seeks to curb the "emerging trend in which women are lured to marriage for the purpose of religious conversion" as per its "statement of object". The copy of the Gujarat Freedom of Religion (Amendment) Bill was made available in the Assembly on Friday. Similar laws have been enacted in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The bill says it is necessary to prohibit "forcible conversion by marriage or by getting a person married or by aiding a person to get married," and hence the amendment is being carried out. The Gujarat Freedom of Religion Act, 2003 deals with religious conversion "through allurement, force or by misrepresentation or by any other fraudulent means". "However, there are episodes of religious conversion promising better lifestyle, divine blessings and impersonation. There is an emerging trend in which women are lured to marriage for the purpose of religious conversion," the bill says. The amendment also defines "allurement" as promising "better lifestyle, divine blessings, or otherwise". "Forcible conversion by marriage, or by getting a person married" shall invite imprisonment of 3-5 years and up to Rs 2 lakh fine. If the victim is a minor, a woman, a Dalit or tribal, then the offenders may be punished with a jail term of 4-7 years and a fine of not less than Rs 3 lakh. If any organisation is found violating the law, the person in-charge can be sentenced to between three years to ten years in jail and a fine of upto Rs 5 lakh can be imposed. Marriages solemnized for the purpose of such conversion will be declared void. Also, the burden of proof shall lie on the accused. Parents, siblings or any other person related by blood, marriage or adoption to the victim can lodge complaint. Offences will be non-bailable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bill-against-love-jihad-to-be-tabled-in-gujarat-assembly-966927.html
26-03-2021||West||Actor gets anticipatory bail in sexual harassment case||A Mumbai court on Friday allowed the anticipatory bail plea of 'Slumdog Millionaire' actor Madhur Mittalin a sexual harassment case filed by his ex-girlfriend. Based on the woman's complaint, Khar police had booked Mittal under IPC sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 354A (sexual harassment), 354B (use of criminal force to disrobe a woman), 354(D) (stalking) and 509 (words or gestures intending to insult the modesty of any woman) on February 23. She has alleged that Mittal sexually harassed and battered her after they broke up. Fearing arrest, Mittal had approached the court for anticipatory bail through his lawyer, advocate Saveena Bedi. Bedi denied the allegations and claimed Mittal loved the complainant and always had the intention to marry her. She had argued that there was delay in filing the FIR and it was done to to "defame" the actor. Mittal, in his plea, had claimed, even after break up, the complainant wanted to stay in the same house to share the rent but he refused, which made her angry. The prosecution objected to the plea claiming the actor was constantly harassing the complainant. After hearing submission by both the sides, additional sessions judge SP Agarwal allowed the anticipatory bail of the actor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/actor-gets-anticipatory-bail-in-sexual-harassment-case-966948.html
