27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 57.14L seized at MIA||The Customs officers of Mangalore International Airport registered a case against a youth for smuggling gold worth Rs 57.14 lakh.  According to officials, Ismail Ahamad Kallar from Kasargod arrived at the Mangalore International Airport (MIA) from Dubai by Spicejet flight No SG146 on Friday. The gold was smuggled in powder form mixed with solid gum concealed in his undergarments and also in the form of crude chains. The seized gold weighed 1.23 kgs worth Rs 57,14,940. The team, led by Dr Kapil Gade, Deputy Commissioner, succeeded in nabbing the smuggler. The surveillance and interception was executed by Shrikanth K, Nagesh Kumar, Naveen, all Superintendent rank officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-5714l-seized-at-mia-967032.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fine those who violate Covid-19 guidelines, warns DC||Dakshina Kannada Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V directed officials to slap fines on those who fail to adhere to Covid-19 guidelines. The chances of spreading Covid-19 is high when an individual fails to wear mask and maintain social distance.  Presiding over a meeting, the DC said that there is surge in Covid-19 cases in DK district. All precautionary measures should be initiated to check the spread. All those who are above 60 years and who suffer from co-morbidities in the age group of 45 to 59 should avail vaccines. Lodges should maintain a register of guests. Hotels, bars and restaurant cashiers should compulsorily wear masks, hand gloves, while collecting money from customers. Sanitisers and thermal screening should be implemented. As infection spreads in air-conditioned places, more people should not gather in social gatherings. The organisers should avail permission letters from officials concerned while organising programmes. The staff in marriage halls, pharmacy associations, petrol bunk owners’ association, toll, should ensure that they wear mask compulsorily. If they fail to adhere to the guidelines, then fine will be imposed on the owners, the DC warned. Professionals from Kerala, working in hotels, business establishments should compulsorily produce Covid-19 negative report, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fine-those-who-violate-covid-19-guidelines-warns-dc-967035.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Home-made chocolate delicacies tickle taste buds||Dark brown home-made confectioneries prepared by Bindu Sathish at Konchadi have been tickling the taste buds of her customers in and around Mangaluru for the past few months. Bindu’s aromatic, tantalising and melt-in-the-mouth chocolates with different shapes, including that of heart, rectangle, circle, shells and star, have been brightening up birthday parties. Its unique shapes also make it easy to carry them in bags while attending short picnics. “I began preparing home-made chocolates during the lockdown in April last year. I could not venture out and engage in stitching. The children were at home due to the closure of schools. My passion for cooking had led me to attend a few classes on preparing chocolates. These few classes motivated me to venture into making home-made chocolates,” Bindu Sathish said. And just like branded chocolates, home-made varieties too have plain and flavoured chocolates like vanilla, pineapple, strawberry, butterscotch, peanut butter, chocolate truffle with crushed cashew nuts and badam, she explained. “The reason why people buy home-made chocolates is due to its unique and distinct taste. As it is home-made in hygienic conditions, the quality is also assured. My neighbours frequently order for chocolates. I also get orders for birthday parties and family get-togethers,” Bindu told DH with a smile on her face. Most of the home-made chocolates come packed in tiny pouches, decorative wrappers. Bindhu’s daughter Sanvi also helps her in packing the chocolates at home. Her clientele is widespread and cuts across ages. “If all ingredients are at hand, it takes 45 minutes to prepare chocolates and 10 minutes for refrigeration. After packing, the chocolates can be kept at room temperature without refrigeration for nearly a month,” she said. Bindu can be contacted at 9448724757||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/home-made-chocolate-delicacies-tickle-taste-buds-967153.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||This museum in Puttur gives complete information on cashew||The only cashew museum in the state, also the biggest in country, set up at the National Cashew Research Centre in Puttur, is all set to be dedicated to the world. The museum, set up with the support of Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana at a total cost of Rs 60 lakh, is yet to be inaugurated. To create awareness on cashew cultivation, new technologies, varieties of cashew species, a modern plant health clinic museum on cashew was developed by incorporating modern information and communication technologies (ICTs) at the Directorate of Cashew Research (DCR) in Puttur. The museum is developed as an interactive tool of learning, informs Dr M G Nayak, In-charge Director of DCR. The museum is developed to create awareness and disseminate information on cashew cultivation in India. The mural paintings on the history of cashew, commercial aspects of cashew with processing, marketing, export, import and others adorn the walls of the museum, Nayak told DH. The museum provides information on the facilities available at the DCR, cashew varieties developed at the DCR and achievements of the Directorate in the past 30 years. Since 2019, the DCR has released two varieties of cashew — Hybrid 130 and a dwarf variety called “Netra Vaman.” Dr Nayak says the museum is a one-stop-centre providing visitors all relevant information about cashew cultivation and processing. Custom-made software The plant health can be compared with images and videos available in the kiosk through different custom-made software for pest attack, diseases affecting cashew crop and trees and nutrient deficiency symptoms in trees. In addition, there is information on crop management and crop protection. All scientists in the DCR had contributed to make the museum a reality, he added. A model of a cottage industry provides information on modern cashewnut processing, grading of nuts and other details. There is also information about making juice from cashew apple, jam, jelly, chyavanprash, availability of vitamins and nutrients in cashew. A model on fenny production also finds a place in the museum. The glass enclosures in the museum showcases varieties of cashew nuts. Further, the museum has a press button information board. With the touch of a button, information is available for visitors especially on the popular varieties of cashew, qualities of each variety and so on. The storytelling board engages visitors by presenting information in an audiovisual format. All publications of DCR in the past 30 years had been displayed in the museum. At the museum’s entrance, emphasis is given to Tulu Nadu’s iconic symbols like Yakshagana, Kambala, Bhootakola and Puttur temple fair art works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/this-museum-in-puttur-gives-complete-information-on-cashew-967241.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Superfast train between Hubballi and Bengaluru soon: Pralhad Joshi||Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has in-principle approved for a superfast train between Hubballi and Bengaluru, once the Covid-19 pandemic subsides. Speaking to media persons here on Saturday, Joshi said South Western Railway officials have been asked to send a proposal in this regard to the railway ministry and central railway board. “Goyal and board members have agreed to run the superfast express between Hubballi and Bengaluru as soon as the Covid-19 situation comes under control in state. Within the next six months, this superfast train is expected to ply between the two cities. Currently, the trains take eight hours to cover the distance (of near 410 km). However, the superfast express will cover this distance in 6 hours,” he said. “Doubling and railway line electrification between Hubballi and Bengaluru is taking place in full swing and expected to be completed in six months,” he said and added that efforts are being made to fulfil late Suresh Angadi’s (former minister of state for railways) dream of direct train between Belagavi and Dharwad via Kittur. With this, the travel time between Belagavi and Bengaluru (which is currently, 10 hours), is expected to come down to six-and-half hours. Joshi also instructed the SWR officials to send a proposal to start a demo train between Hubballi and Davangere. Political compulsion The Union Minister said BJP central committee took the decision of fielding Mangala Angadi, wife of late Suresh Angadi, due to political compulsions and demand from the local leaders. “Political compulsion after the death of Anant Kumar was completely different from Belagavi issue, which is why Tejaswini Anant Kumar could not get a ticket. Based on the winnability factor the party has selected Mangala. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s charisma and late Suresh Angadi’s work for Belagavi will help BJP win the seat,” he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/superfast-train-between-hubballi-and-bengaluru-soon-pralhad-joshi-967325.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Madhuswamy critical of Union govt’s ‘dictatorial’ approach||Minister for Minor Irrigation J C Madhuswamy on Saturday expressed displeasure against the central government and said that the Union government is interfering in the affairs of the state which would affect the federal system. However, BJP National youth wing president, also MP, Tejasvi Surya took exception over Madhuswamy’s opinion. The minister was addressing a gathering for the symposium on ‘National Integration and Regional Freedom’, organised by Akhila Bharatha Sarana Sahitya Parishat, here. The Union government is playing dictatorial attitude and also centralising powers by interfering in state affairs. “It will be difficult if we do not suppress the dictatorial attitude,” he said. Earlier, there were only 16 states in the country, but now, it has increased to 29. In Karnataka, the people of Kodagu, North Karnataka and Dakshina Kannada are demanding separate states. “We have failed to sort out the issues related to revenue documentation in Kodagu and we have filed to get Kodavas into confidence. The people demand separate state when we fail to ensure facilities,” he said. Madhuswamy also questioned the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, an all India pre-medical entrance test for students who wish to pursue undergraduate medical courses. “North Indians will get admission in our medical colleges through NEET. We welcome them with red carpet. Multi-speciality hospitals are facing staff crunch from last four years,” he said.  However, BJP National youth wing president, also MP, Tejasvi Surya, who was present at the event, took exception over Madhuswamy’s comment and said, “New states are being created for administrative purposes and not for political reasons.” He asked, what would be the problem if more states were created for effective governance? When it comes to the matter of the state, the government is giving more priority to Bengaluru and old Mysuru region. The government need to give more attention to Kalyana Karnataka Region, he opined. "Kannadigas have option to pursue higher education in other states," he said. “Socialism is the root cause of the country’s poverty and religious issues have disrupted the unity of the country.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/madhuswamy-critical-of-union-govt-s-dictatorial-approach-967343.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||SIT will reveal Mahanayaka’s name: Somashekar||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that the Special Investigation Team (SIT) will bring out the name of the ‘Mahanayaka’, who is behind the obscene CD, in which former Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly involved. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar said, “The victim herself has told the name of the ‘Mahanayaka’. The name is not a surprise and it was doing the rounds on social media. Even I was curious about the ‘Mahanayaka’, but the victim has named him.” “The SIT is conducting an investigation and the team will investigate who is the script writer, producer, director and location. Politicians are targeted and the people must know the fact behind the CD. A thorough investigation will be conducted in this regard,” Somashekar said. He said, “Ramesh Jarkiholi and the woman have said that the CD is fake. The fact will come to light after investigation. Karnataka Police are efficient and they will bring out the truth.” When asked if Chief Minsiter B S Yediyurappa has directed the six ministers, including Somashekar, who obtained injunction against broadcast of objectionable CDs against them, not to canvass in the upcoming election, Somashekar said, “I am given the responsibility of Maski Assembly segment. I will visit Maski after campaigning in Ooty of Tamil Nadu.” After the CD was released, six ministers, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar, Agriculture Minister B C Patil, Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar, Health and Family Welfare, and Medical Education minister K Sudhakar, Municipal Administration Minister K C Narayan Gowda and Urban Development Minister Bhyrati Basavaraj had approached the court, seeking an injunction.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sit-will-reveal-mahanayaka-s-name-somashekar-967344.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Objective of Consumer Act is speedy justice, says commision chief||The objective of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, and also earlier Act, were speedy justice. Thus, the trial and procedures are not like in Civil Courts, said president of Mysuru District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission B Narayanappa. Narayanappa, who recently completed one year in office, admitted that awareness programmes are not frequently conducted due to various reasons, and said that consumer activism has slowed down, compared with activism related to Right to Information Act. A native of Bengaluru, who did MA and LLB from Bangalore University, Narayanappa was selected as Civil Judge on July 26, 1999. He was promoted as Senior Civil Judge in 2009 and as District Judge in 2015. He served various courts across the state and retired as District Judge in Bengaluru on June 30, 2019. He was appointed as the president of the Commission on March 5, 2020. In an interview with DH, he expressed his desire to make the commission more consumer-friendly and to reach to all consumers, to create awareness on their rights. Who can complain to the Commission? As per the Consumer Protection Act, a ‘consumer’ is a person who buys any goods or services for a consideration, which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment also includes the user with approval of such goods or beneficiary of services. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, the expression ‘buys any goods’ and ‘hires or avails any services’ includes offline or online transactions through electronic means or by teleshopping or direct selling or multi-level marketing. Thus, any consumer, either of products or services, can approach the Commission, for unfair trade practises, defects, harm, negligence, over-price or misleading advertisement. How different is the functioning of the Commission, compared to courts of law? Consumers can file their complaint on a plain paper, with copies of supporting documents. They need not depend on an advocate and present their case personally. It is ‘summary trial’ in the Commission, where parts of Indian Evidence Act and CrPC are not strictly followed. Besides, there is a time frame. A complaint with the Commission should be disposed of in 90 days. There may be exceptions, due to appeals. Besides, only 45 days are given to the defendant, to file an objection. What rights do consumers have? Consumers have Right to Safety; Right to be Informed; Right to Choose; Right to be heard; Right to seek Redressal; and Right to Consumer Awareness. What percentage of consumers approach the Commission directly, with their complaints? A: Not many consumers directly approach the Commission. Even now, 75% of the consumers approach the Commission through advocates. To ease the process and also procedure, the Consumer Protection Act has provisions. They can approach the Commission personally and also file their complaints on a plain paper, supported by documentary evidence. They need not follow the procedures of a Civil Court, like filing a complaint only on green sheets. The Commission staff will also assist the aggrieved, to get justice. Why is awareness on consumer rights lacking? Awarenesss events are held by various agencies to mark National Consumer Day on December 24. Similarly, World Consumer Rights Day is observed on March 15. Besides, the District Consumer Committee, headed by the Deputy Commissioner, can plan events to create awareness on consumer rights and related issues. What is the composition of the Commission? The Commission in the district-level is headed by a president, who is usually a retired judge. Besides, there are two members, with one of them a woman. As per the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, the State Consumer Commission nominated the president and members of a district-level Commission. As per the new Act, the respective High Court should appoint the president and members.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/objective-of-consumer-act-is-speedy-justice-says-commision-chief-967345.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||29 couples withdraw divorce cases in Lok Adalat||Twenty-nine couples, including an elderly couple around 60 years of age, withdrew their divorce cases in the Lok Adalat held here on Saturday. Some of the divorce cases were more than five years old. Making use of the opportunity for meditation, during Lok Adalat, the couples reconciled and pledged to continue their wedded life. One of the reconciled couple had applied for divorce just two months after their marriage. The reconciliation was achieved by the counselling offered in three Family Courts for the couples, who had applied for divorce. Their cases were in various stages of trial. Once the couples agreed to reconcile, flower bouquets and sweets were presented by the court staff, said member secretary of the District Legal Services Authority Devaraja Bhoote. Besides divorce cases, a 38-year-old property sharing case and 80 cheque bounce cases were solved on compromise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/29-couples-withdraw-divorce-cases-in-lok-adalat-967346.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Accident victims get compensated at Lok Adalat||The road accident victims of two families were give compensation of Rs 17 lakh and Rs 18 lakh respectively in mega Lok Adalat held in district court here on Saturday. Manjunath, who lost the vision of both the eyes due to accident that took place on Ayanur-Hanagerekatte road in Shivamogga taluk on December 14 in 2018 was given cheque of Rs 17 lakh. A speeding bus rammed into the bike when he was heading towards home from behind. He sustained severe injuries in the incident and he was taken to the hospital. But the doctor who treated him issued 100% disability certificate. He had filed petition under Motor Vehicles Act in the court seeking compensation on October 21, 2019. The issue was settled and he was given cheque of Rs 17 lakh as compensation.  In another accident case, family members of Anand Babu were given cheque of Rs 18 lakh. The incident took place when a lorry rammed into the bike in which he was heading towards home near Sangolli Rayanna circle on Shankar Mutt road on February 2, 2018. He succumbed to injuries in a private hospital in the city. Anand Babu was survived by wife, two children, mother and unmarried sister. So, they filed petition in the court seeking compensation on October 10, 2018. Principal District & Sessions Judge Mustafa Hussain presented cheque to the kin of the accident victims. As many as 13,214 cases were settled in various courts across the district in mega lok adalat held on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/accident-victims-get-compensated-at-lok-adalat-967378.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||131 fresh Covid-19 cases, but no deaths in Mysuru||Mysuru district reported 131 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday. However, no deaths have been reported. While 102 of them are the contacts of infected persons, 24 are Influenza-like illness (ILI) and the remaining five are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases. With this, the total cases increased to 55,333. A total of 1,047 deaths have been reported in the district till date.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/131-fresh-covid-19-cases-but-no-deaths-in-mysuru-967383.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar is the worst politician, says Ramesh Jarkiholi||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi on Saturday sought to turn the tables of the sex scandal against his bete noire, Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar, in what was an all-out explosion of their political rivalry that seems to have gotten personal.  “Now, everybody knows who the Mahan Nayaka (great leader) is and what he’s done,” Ramesh told reporters, referring to the statement made by the family of a woman believed to be the victim of the sex scandal naming Shivakumar.  “There isn't any politician who is worse than DK Shivakumar. He’s criminal-minded,” Ramesh said. “I have 11 pieces of evidence that I will hand over to the Special Investigation Team (SIT),” he said, adding that he would file a formal complaint against Shivakumar.   Ramesh used a Kannada expletive against Shivakumar multiple times, referring to him in the singular. “(Shivakumar) is unfit for politics. No one should indulge in such conspiracy politics. There’s no forgiving him for this. It’s best if (Shivakumar) retires,” he said.  The BJP leader pointed out that Shivakumar had already admitted his links with Naresh Gowda, who is reportedly one of the accused in the scandal. “He has also admitted that the woman tried to meet him,” he said.  The bad blood between Ramesh and Shivakumar became public in 2018. Ramesh took exception to Shivakumar’s alleged interference with the affairs of Belagavi, Karnataka’s largest district where the Jarkiholis hold clout. Ramesh’s anger ultimately led to the fall of the Congress-JD(S) coalition. Also, when Ramesh was inducted into the BJP government, he insisted on the water resources portfolio that Shivakumar held as if to prove a point.  The sex scandal, which cost Ramesh his ministerial position, has taken the rivalry to another level.  “I will fight him next in Kanakapura,” Ramesh said, vowing to defeat Shivakumar in his turf. “I don’t fear him. I’m ready to join hands with anyone to defeat him in Kanakapura.”  Ramesh again asserted that he had not cheated the woman. “My family has never cheated any woman. We’d rather hang ourselves,” he said.  In all this, Ramesh pointed out that the woman belonged to an ST caste. Ramesh, too, belongs to the Valmiki ST community. “I thank the parents. If I’m wrong, let (police) kick me into jail, or the woman, or that Mahan Nayaka. It’s up to the authorities now,” Ramesh said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-is-the-worst-politician-says-ramesh-jarkiholi-967291.html
27-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||With key roles in poll-bound states, our young turks look to unlock potential for parties||From BJP’s C T Ravi speaking tongue-twisting Tamil to Congress’ Dinesh Gundu Rao shaking a leg, Karnataka’s politicians are having a ball as both national parties have roped them into action in key poll-bound states. While national parties have often reposed faith on leaders from Karnataka, what is different this election season is the sheer number who find themselves in the spotlight. Following his elevation as the BJP’s national general secretary, Ravi was deputed as the party’s incharge of Tamil Nadu along with Goa and Maharashtra. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi and Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan will oversee the BJP’s poll effort in Kerala, whereas Forest Minister Aravind Limbavali is part of the BJP’s localised team in West Bengal. It is said that Ravi got the job given his organisational background and pro-Hindutva credentials. Limbavali is seen to be an election strategist and his Mahadevapura constituency is home to many Bengalis. The Congress also made some interesting picks for national roles: Rao as in-charge of Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry, senior leader H K Patil as incharge of Maharashtra and Kerala screening committee chairman, former minister Krishna Byre Gowda as a member of the party’s Central Election Authority. Rao is seen as Gandhi family loyalist and effective organiser for the party. Deputing younger leaders for key elections is a new phenomenon, political scientist Muzaffar Assadi says. “Senior leaders were offered such roles in elections before. Today, national parties prefer youngsters as it will be a training exercise for them to strategize for elections in the future,” he says. Ashwath Narayan, who is actively involved in the BJP’s poll efforts in Kerala, tells DH: “This offers us an excellent opportunity to learn as politicians as we get exposed to various conditions. Moreover, we shouldn’t restrict ourselves to a particular geographical area.” Congress’ Patil believes the trend is good for Karnataka, politically. “Currently, both national parties are backing leaders from Karnataka and are elevating them,” he says, adding that sincere efforts by the chosen representatives would yield considerable political mileage for Karnataka in the coming years. The trend commenced with a Kannadiga, B L Santhosh, being appointed as the number-two in the BJP in 2018 as its national general secretary (organization). Also, the chiefs of the youth wings of both parties are from Karnataka - Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya became BJP Yuva Morcha president in 2020 and B V Srinivas the Youth Congress president in 2019. Though it is an encouraging sign, the gamble will take time to yield dividends. “The success of these leaders will be measured with how the party fares in the polls,” Assadi says. “Rather than sending them during elections alone, parties should consider deputing them for a few years to set up an organic link with local leaders. This will help them grow beyond the role of mere observers implementing the diktats of the high command,” he feels. Karnataka has always occupied an important place in national politics: From S Nijalingappa becoming the first and only Kannadiga to become the AICC president, Indira Gandhi and her daughter-in-law Sonia Gandhi contesting elections from the state, BJP’s H N Ananth Kumar rising to become the BJP’s South India face... the list goes on, and there’s promise for more in the future.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/with-key-roles-in-poll-bound-states-our-young-turks-look-to-unlock-potential-for-parties-967323.html
27-03-2021||Mysuru||67 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1 death in Mysuru||Sixty-seven persons tested positive for Covid-19, in Mysuru district, on Friday. One died of the disease. While 49 of those who tested positive are contacts of infected persons, 13 are Influenza-like illness (ILI) and the remaining five are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases. With this, the total cases increased to 55,202 in the district. Meanwhile, the death toll currently stands at 1,047.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/67-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-in-mysuru-967213.html
27-03-2021||National||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Goa scraps Holi, Navratri, Shigmo celebration||Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Goa government, on Friday, scrapped the official celebration of Shigmo, a local Hindu spring festival. The government has also banned public gatherings and celebration of other religious events including Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Navratri. "The government is cancelling shigmo due to the rise in Covid-19 cases in Goa... Health comes first, festivals can be held every year," Sawant told the state legislative Assembly, after a question was raised by an Opposition MLA during Zero Hour. Traditionally, Shigmo has been marked by festive parades in major cities, which are witnessed by crowds. However, with the number of daily cases reaching 189 on Thursday, the Goa government has advised caution vis-a-vis holding large public gatherings. "Hotels should enforce restrictions during the Holi festival. No large scale programmes should be announced. SOPs should be strictly followed in functions and weddings," Sawant also said. An order issued by the Health Ministry late on Friday has also banned public gatherings and celebration of other religious events including Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Navratri, in wake of "a fresh surge in Covid cases" which is being witnessed. "All authorities shall ensure that public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during these upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Baratm Navaratri, etc shall not be allowed in public places, parks, markets in the state of Goa," the order issued by under secretary (Health) Gautam Parmekar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-goa-scraps-holi-navratri-shigmo-celebration-967021.html
27-03-2021||National||BJP complains to EC over TMC candidate 'distributing cash' among voters||The BJP on Friday drew the attention of the Election Commission to a video in which a Trinamool Congress candidate is seen allegedly distributing cash among the electorate. The BJP also made complaints about TMC workers "unleashing terror" in poll-bound districts in collusion with a section of the state police. In a letter to the poll panel, the saffron party attached links of the video, released on Friday, which showed an ex-minister and a TMC candidate from Purulia purportedly distributing cash among the voters. "It is a blatant violation of the model code of conduct that says all parties and candidates shall avoid scrupulously all activities which are corrupt practices and offences under the election law," the letter signed by senior state BJP leaders said. The TMC denied the charge, alleging that the video was doctored and said it was the saffron party leaders "bringing in outsiders with bagfuls of cash to bribe the electorate". The BJP also urged the EC to suspend four police officers. "They should be suspended forthwith for not executing their official work with due diligence, and helping the Trinamool Congress and its members in carrying out malpractice, irregularities," it said. In another complaint to the EC, the BJP demanded immediate and necessary action against the "continuous targeted political killings of its workers to create fear psychosis and get electoral gains".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-complains-to-ec-over-tmc-candidate-distributing-cash-among-voters-967099.html
27-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Second Covid-19 wave to hit India harder than first, warns expert||A prominent epidemiologist warned that the reproduction rate of Covid-19 has crossed the safe threshold in 19 states and that a second surge could be worse than the first. Speaking on Friday, Dr Giridhar Babu said that R0 (which is the reproduction number), had crossed one in 19 states. Nationwide, it is 1.65. In Karnataka, the R0 is 1.66. This indicates that for one person infected with the virus in the state, that person is transmitting the virus to 1.66 others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-second-covid-19-wave-to-hit-india-harder-than-first-warns-expert-967103.html
27-03-2021||National||Assam Polls Phase 1: Polling begins; CM Sonowal, top opposition leaders, many ministers in fray||Voting began at 7 am on Saturday for 47 seats in the first phase of the assembly elections in Assam to decide the fate of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, and a host of ministers and opposition leaders, officials said. Altogether 264 candidates, including 23 women, are in the fray in the first phase, they said. A total of 300 companies of security forces have been deployed in the first phase, in which people are voting at 11,537 polling stations across 12 districts of Upper Assam and the Northern Bank of Brahmaputra. Patrolling has been intensified and strict vigil is being kept in all the vulnerable areas, officials said. Most of these 47 seats are witnessing a triangular contest between the ruling BJP-AGP alliance, the Congress-led opposition grand alliance and the newly-formed Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP). Altogether, 81,09,815 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise in the first phase. Of them, 40,77,210 are male and 40,32,481 female, while 124 are third gender voters, besides nine overseas voters. Women polling officials are exclusively conducting the exercise in 479 polling stations. The polling would continue till 6 pm. A significant turnout was seen at several booths as the poll began with many choosing to vote early.  Special measures were taken for People with Disabilities (PwD), including the provision of wheelchairs at every polling station and e-rickshaws for their commute. The ruling BJP is contesting 39 seats and its partner AGP 10. The two allies are engaged in "friendly contests" in Lakhimpur and Naharkatiya constituencies. The opposition grand alliance is contesting all the seats, with the Congress putting up candidates in 43, and the AIUDF, CPI(ML-L), RJD and Anchalik Gana Morcha (contesting as Independent) in one each. The newly-formed AJP is in the fray in 41 seats, while there are 78 Independents, including 19 candidates of the newly-formed Raijor Dal. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal is trying his luck from Majuli (ST), Speaker of the outgoing assembly Hitendranath Goswami is fighting the elections from Jorhat. Ministers Ranjit Dutta (Behali), Naba Kumar Doley (Dhakuakha), Jogen Mohan (Mahmora), Terash Gowala (Duliajan) and Sanjoy Kishan (Tinsukia) are all locked in triangular contests with Congress or its alliance partners, and the AJP. Titabor, another high-profile seat that was held by former chief minister Tarun Gogoi of the Congress for four successive terms, is witnessing a direct contest between Bhaskar Jyoti Barua of the Congress and former MLA Hemanta Kalita. Congress Legislature Party leader Debabrata Saikia and state Congress president Ripun Borah are in the fray from Nazira and Gohpur, respectively. Activist and Raijor Dal leader Akhil Gogoi, in jail for his alleged role in the violent anti-CAA protests, is contesting as an Independent from Sivasagar. AJP president Lurinjyoti Gogoi is contesting from Duliajan and Naharkatiya. Most voters were seen wearing masks amid a resurgent coronavirus, while those arriving without one are being provided at the booths. Assam is voting in three phases for the 126-member assembly. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-polls-phase-1-polling-begins-cm-sonowal-top-opposition-leaders-many-ministers-in-fray-967134.html
27-03-2021||National||With over 62,000 new Covid-19 cases, India sees highest jump in 5 months||India saw 62,258 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,19,08,910, according to Union health ministry data updated on Saturday. Registering a steady increase for the 17th day in row, the active cases have increased to 4,52,647 comprising 3.80 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.85 per cent, the data stated. The 62,258 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,240 with 291 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,12,95,023, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.35 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 23,97,69,553 samples have been tested up to March 26 with 11,64,915 samples being tested on Friday. The 291 new fatalities include 112 from Maharashtra, 59 Punjab, 22 from  Chhattisgarh, 14 from Kerala and 13 from Karnataka. A total of 1,61,240  deaths have been reported so far in the country including 53,907 from Maharashtra, 12,650 from Tamil Nadu, 12,484 from Karnataka, 10,987 from Delhi, 10,320 from West Bengal, 8,779 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,203 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,576 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-over-62000-new-covid-19-cases-india-sees-highest-jump-in-5-months-967139.html
27-03-2021||National||Supplied more vaccines globally than having vaccinated our own people, India tells UN||India has supplied more Covid-19 vaccines globally than vaccinated its own people, the country has told the UN General Assembly and cautioned that vaccine inequity will defeat the collective global resolve to contain the coronavirus as the disparity in the accessibility of vaccines will affect the poorest nations the most. India was one of the initiators of the ‘Political Declaration on Equitable Global Access to Covid-19 Vaccines’ that garnered the support of more than 180 UN member states. India’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador K. Nagaraj Naidu said at the General Assembly informal meeting on Friday that while the Covid-19 pandemic continues to persist, the year 2021 began on a positive note with the global scientific community coming up with multiple vaccines to contain the pandemic. “While the vaccine challenge has been resolved, we are now confronted with ensuring the availability, accessibility, affordability, and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines. Lack of global cooperation and disparity in the accessibility of vaccines will affect the poorest nations the most,” Naidu said. India has been at the forefront of the global fight against Covid-19. Naidu told the General Assembly that India will not only be vaccinating 300 million of its own frontline workers over the next six months but in the process has also supplied vaccines to over 70 nations. "In fact, as of today we have supplied more vaccines globally than have vaccinated our own people,” Naidu said. Two of India’s vaccines, including the indigenously developed Covaxin, have already been granted emergency authorization, Naidu said, adding that 30 more vaccine candidates are at various phases of clinical trials. The vaccine Covishield is the version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India. Covaxin is the indigenously developed vaccine by pharma company Bharat Biotech. The Political Declaration states that equitable and affordable access to safe and effective Covid-19 vaccines must be ensured to have a speedy recovery and contribute to putting an end to the pandemic. The declaration also expresses deep concern that despite international agreements and initiatives, the distribution of Covid-19 vaccines is still uneven worldwide, both among and within countries. “Therefore, we express our deep concern that a considerable number of countries have not yet had access to Covid-19 vaccines, and stress the need for global solidarity and multilateral cooperation to increase vaccine production and distribution, on regional and global levels.” Naidu said that as highlighted by the declaration equity in access to the vaccine is important for mitigating the impact of the pandemic. “Vaccine inequity will defeat our collective resolve to contain the virus. The current disparity calls for solidarity and cooperation within the international frameworks such as Covax,” he said. India, a significant source of supply to Gavi’s Covax facility, has contributed 20 million doses to the facility last month. India had also announced a gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers. The shipment of vaccines for peacekeepers left Mumbai in the early hours of Saturday and will land in Denmark soon, Naidu said. India also underlined the need to collaborate on genomic surveillance to track virus mutations and variants and exchange information in a timely fashion. “Vaccine hesitancy should also be countered with science and public health infrastructure and capacities of health workers in vaccine delivery needs to be strengthened globally,” he said. Naidu highlighted the need for the international community to collectively work towards supporting initiatives that ensure speedy and equitable distribution of vaccines and therapeutics to the most disadvantaged populations. “Affordability, access, and logistical issues should in no way become a hindrance in our fight against one of the biggest challenges facing humanity,” he said. Naidu added that India is working actively with GAVI, the World Health Organisation and ACT Accelerator. “India and South-Africa have also called for WTO (World Trade Organisation) to suspend intellectual property rights related to Covid-19 for a limited period of time, to ensure rapid scaling-up of manufacturing of vaccines and ensuring accessibility and affordability of vaccines for all,” he said. He also stressed the importance of ensuring that ongoing global immunisation programmes pertaining to polio, diphtheria and other diseases do not get impacted as that will lead to the resurgence of other deadly diseases. World Health Organisation chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has called for countries to work together so that all States could begin vaccinating within the first 100 days of 2021. He said 177 countries and economies have started vaccination and added that with just 15 days left before the 100 days are up, 36 countries are still waiting for vaccines so they can start inoculating health workers and older people. President of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly Volkan Bozkir said at the meeting that the world, which went into the Covid-19 pandemic together, can emerge from it together as well. “But that depends on fair and equitable access to vaccines. From the health worker in a small island developing state, to a teacher in a refugee camp, to the elderly in care facilities across our countries, we must all be covered,” Bozkir said. He stressed that the most vulnerable groups – people on the move, in conflict zones, and those already marginalised – must be prioritised||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supplied-more-vaccines-globally-than-having-vaccinated-our-own-people-india-tells-un-967142.html
27-03-2021||National||Top UN officials express gratitude to India for gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses||Top United Nations officials, including the UN peacekeeping chief, have expressed gratitude to India for its gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for peacekeepers, saying the donation will enable the Blue Helmets to continue their life-saving work in a safe manner. The 200,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines, announced as a gift by India for UN peacekeepers, left Mumbai in the early hours of Saturday and will arrive at Copenhagen, Denmark. They will then be distributed to all UN peacekeeping missions. Under-Secretary-General for Peace Operations Jean-Pierre Lacroix and Under-Secretary-General for Operational Support Atul Khare on Friday hailed India’s contribution of the vaccine doses for the UN peacekeepers. “An effective roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine to all peacekeepers is a key priority for the United Nations in order to protect our personnel and their capacity to continue their crucial work, help protect vulnerable communities and deliver on their mandates,” Lacroix said. “India is a longstanding and steadfast supporter of Peacekeeping and I want to thank the Government and people of India, who have generously donated Covid-19 vaccines to benefit our peacekeeping personnel and enable them to continue their life-saving work in a safe manner.” Khare thanked India for donating the 200,000 vaccines to UN peacekeeping missions. "This important donation will allow us to ensure that UN peacekeepers are able to remain healthy and deliver in some of the most difficult environments in the world without relying on already stretched national health systems or ongoing COVAX efforts.” He added that “we also remain engaged with our troop and police-contributing countries to ensure that wherever possible, uniformed personnel are vaccinated through their national systems prior to deployment. At the same time, my Department is leading UN system-wide arrangements to support national efforts in vaccinating UN civilian personnel and family members.” External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar had announced in February that India will gift 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers. “Keeping in mind the UN Peacekeepers who operate in such difficult circumstances, we would like to announce today a gift of 200,000 doses for them,” Jaishankar had said while addressing the UN Security Council open debate on the implementation of resolution 2532 (2020) on the cessation of hostilities in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic. Quoting the Bhagavad Gita, Jaishankar had said “Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind.” The 200,000 doses essentially mean that it will be possible to administer the required double doses of Covid vaccines to all UN peacekeepers across missions. According to UN Peacekeeping, as of January 31, 2021 a total of 85,782 personnel are serving in 12 peacekeeping operations across the world led by the Department of Peace Operations. A total of 121 nations are contributing uniformed personnel to the UN peacekeeping missions. India is one of the largest contributors of troops and police to UN peacekeeping missions, with more than 5,000 men and women deployed in nine missions, including in The Democratic Republic of the Congo, South Sudan and Lebanon. The 200,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine left Mumbai via Qatar Airways on March 27 at 04:10 am. The shipment will go to Copenhagen, where it will be safely stored in a facility, re-packaged and quickly distributed to peacekeeping missions for the peacekeepers. The vaccine Covishield is the version of the AstraZeneca/Oxford vaccine produced by the Serum Institute of India. Covaxin is the indigenously developed vaccine by pharma company Bharat Biotech. The Department of Peace Operations said that over the past year, UN peacekeepers around the world have undertaken “remarkable efforts” as they adjusted and responded to the unprecedented global health crisis. Nearly 100,000 peacekeepers, already operating within complex and challenging environments, managed to keep themselves and others safe while supporting national and local authorities in their response to the pandemic. It added that despite the unexpected challenges posed by Covid-19, peacekeepers demonstrated adaptability and flexibility to continue implementing their core mandates, which is to protect people and build sustainable peace. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres had said that he is “extremely grateful” for the gift of 200,000 Covid-19 vaccine doses for UN peacekeepers announced by India. Under India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative, which translates into Vaccine Friendship, the country has been providing vaccines to nations across the world - from India’s immediate neighbours to countries in Latin America and Africa - and is a significant source of supply to the COVAX facility. More than 58 million Made in India coronavirus vaccine doses have reached about 70 countries in recent weeks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/top-un-officials-express-gratitude-to-india-for-gift-of-200000-covid-19-vaccine-doses-967145.html
27-03-2021||National||Sachin Tendulkar tests positive for Covid-19||Legendary Sachin Tendulkar has tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently in home isolation. The former India captain confirmed the news on his social media handle. One of the biggest names to have tested positive for the virus in recent times, Tendulkar, however, informed that all his other family members have tested negative. "I have been testing myself and taking all the recommended precautions to ensure COVID is kept at bay. However, I have tested positive today following mild symptoms," the 47-year-old wrote on his twitter handle. "All others at home have tested negative. I have quarantined myself at home and I am following all the necessary protocols as advised by my doctors. I want to thank all the healthcare professionals who are supporting me and many others across the country. Take care all of you," he further wrote in his official statement. The Covid-19 cases have been on a surge in Maharashtra and Mumbai with over 36,000 positive cases recorded on Friday. Tendulkar recently took part in the Road Safety World Series Challenge veteran's tournament in Raipur. He led the Indian team to victory in the tournament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sachin-tendulkar-tests-positive-for-covid-19-967148.html
27-03-2021||National||Narendra Modi offers prayer at Matua temple in Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday offered prayers at a Matua temple in Bangladesh's Orakandi, the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and Matua community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur. Modi, who was wearing a mask, offered prayers at the Harichand-Guruchand Temple, where he was welcomed with 'Dhaak, Shankh, Ulu' in line with local rituals. Orakandi is the abode of hundreds of Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are residents of West Bengal. Ahead of his visit, Modi had said he is looking forward to his interaction with representatives of the Matua community at Orakandi, from where Sri Sri Harichand Thakur disseminated his pious message. Analysts said Modi's planned temple visit carry a political significance at the time of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. In 2016, the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) said their latest vital sample statistics report found the country’s total population to be 15.89 crore by the end of 2015 with the number of Hindus at 1.70 crore in the Muslim-majority nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-offers-prayer-at-matua-temple-in-bangladesh-967152.html
27-03-2021||National||Assam elections: 9.47% turnout in first two hours of polling||An estimated 9.47 per cent of the total 81.09 lakh electors exercised their franchise till 9 am in 47 constituencies of Assam where polling is underway with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocols in the first phase of elections on Saturday. While the polling so far has been peaceful, some complaints of EVM glitches were lodged, an Election Commission official said. Long queues were seen outside polling booths with voters and election officials adhering to Covid-19 protocols. First voters in many polling stations were greeted with saplings.  Voting began at 7 am in the northeastern state to decide the fate of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, and a host of ministers and opposition leaders, the official said. Altogether 264 candidates, including 23 women, are in the fray, he said. A total of 300 companies of security forces have been deployed in the first phase, in which people are voting at 11,537 polling stations across 12 districts of upper Assam and the northern bank of Brahmaputra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/assam-elections-947-turnout-in-first-two-hours-of-polling-967158.html
27-03-2021||National||6 booked for Mumbai mall hospital fire that killed 9 patients||A day after the fire in Sunrise Hospital and Dreams Mall at Bhandup claimed 10 lives; the Mumbai Police registered an FIR even as the civic body ordered a probe within a fortnight’s time. The Bhandup police station registered an FIR into the case.  Those listed as accused include Dreams Mall directors Rakesh Wadhwan, Sarang Wadhwan, Nikita Trehan, Deepak Shirke and other people from the administration as accused in the case. Sunrise Hospital Director Amit Singh Trehan, Sweety Jain and other administrators, too, have been named in the FIR. The Dreams Mall was developed by HDIL in 2009. During the outbreak of the pandemic, the Covid-19 hospital was set up on the top floor of the mall and permission was granted till March 31, but with riders. No arrests have been made so far. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation has also started a probe into the incident to get to the cause of the fire. Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal has sought a report within 15 days from Deputy Municipal Commissioner Prabhat Rahangdale, who heads the Disaster Management Unit and is a former Chief Fire Officer. The brief is to find out the cause of the fire to determine that all required licences and other formalities had been undertaken. The report will also look for any lacuna in fire compliances and the fire extinguishing efforts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-booked-for-mumbai-mall-hospital-fire-that-killed-9-patients-967179.html
27-03-2021||National||President Kovind's condition stable, being shifted to AIIMS: Army Hospital||The condition of President Ram Nath Kovind is stable and he is being referred to the AIIMS for further investigation, the Army's Research and Referral hospital said on Saturday. The Rashtrapati Bhavan in a statement said Kovind has been under observation after a routine medical check-up and has thanked all who enquired about his health and wished him well. "The President has been under observation after a routine medical checkup. He thanks all who enquired about his health and wished him well," the Rashtrapati Bhavan tweeted. The president, aged 75, had undergone a health check-up at the military hospital following a chest discomfort on Friday morning. "The condition of President Shri Ram Nath Kovind is stable. He is being referred to AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Sciences), Delhi for further investigation," the hospital said in a medical bulletin on Saturday. The hospital had said on Friday, "President of India visited Army Hospital (R&R) following chest discomfort this morning. He is undergoing routine check-up and is under observation". Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited Kovind at the Army hospital on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovinds-condition-stable-being-shifted-to-aiims-army-hospital-967182.html
27-03-2021||National||Narendra Modi offers prayer at centuries-old Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday offered prayers at the centuries-old Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Ishwaripur village in Bangladesh's southwestern Shatkhira district, bordering India. Modi, who is on a two-day visit to Bangladesh, was welcomed in a traditional way upon his arrival at the temple. Inside the temple, Modi, who was wearing a mask, offered prayers and sat on the floor while the priest was reciting the religious texts. According to Hindu mythology, the Jeshoreshwari Kali temple is one of the 51 Shakti Peeths, scattered across India and neighbouring countries. Records suggest a Hindu king set up the temple in the 16th century. Ahead of his visit to Bangladesh, Modi said on Thursday that he looks forward to offering prayers to Goddess Kali at the Jashoreshwari Kali temple located in Ishwaripur village in Shyamnagar upazila of Satkhira, which borders West Bengal. The Hindu community and temple authorities with the government support redecorated the temple ahead of Modi’s visit. Last time when Prime Minister Modi visited Bangladesh in 2015, he offered puja at Dhakeshwari temple in the national capital. Bangladesh has taken extra security measures for the Indian premier's visit in the wake of protests by few leftist and Islamist groups. In 2016, the Bangladesh Bureau of Statistics (BBS) said their latest vital sample statistics report found the country’s total population to be 15.89 crore by the end of 2015 with the number of Hindus at 1.70 crore in the Muslim-majority nation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narendra-modi-offers-prayer-at-centuries-old-jeshoreshwari-kali-temple-in-bangladesh-967186.html
27-03-2021||National||NIA suppressing evidence in Waze case, alleges Congress||The Congress on Saturday accused the National Investigation Agency (NIA) of suppressing evidence in the ongoing probe in the Sachin Vaze case. Talking to reporters, state Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, "API Sachin Vaze's office was 200 feet away from the office of the then Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. He had direct access to Singh. However, the NIA is not probing Singh in the bomb scare case." "NIA not carrying out inquiry against Vaze's seniors and Param Bir Singh gives rise to suspicion. The agency is deliberately suppressing some evidence," he said. Vaze (49) was arrested on March 13 by the NIA in connection with the probe into the explosives-laden SUV found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's house on February 25. Vaze is also being probed for his alleged role in the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was found dead in a creek in Thane on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-suppressing-evidence-in-waze-case-alleges-congress-967197.html
27-03-2021||National||Covovax trials begin in India, Poonawalla hopes to launch vaccine by September 2021||Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla on Saturday said clinical trials of Covid-19 vaccine Covovax have begun in India and the company hopes to launch it by September this year. In August 2020, American vaccine company Novavax, Inc had announced a licence agreement with SII for the development and commercialisation of NVX-CoV2373, its Covid-19 vaccine candidate, in low and middle-income countries and India. "Covovax trials finally begin in India; the vaccine is made through a partnership with @Novavax and @SerumInstIndia. It has been tested against African and UK variants of #Covid19 and has an overall efficacy of 89%. Hope to launch by September 2021!,"  Poonawalla said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covovax-trials-begin-in-india-poonawalla-hopes-to-launch-vaccine-by-september-2021-967205.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi visits mausoleum of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, pays floral tributes||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday visited the mausoleum of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and paid floral tributes to him, becoming the first-ever foreign Head of State or Head of Government to pay homage at the grave of 'Bangabandhu' at Tungipara in southwestern Bangladesh. Prime Minister Modi was received at the mausoleum by his Bangladesh counterpart Sheikh Hasina, who is the daughter of Rahman. Sheikh Rehana, the youngest daughter of Rahman was also present. Modi, who was covering his face with a mask, paid floral tributes to 'Bangabandhu' and stood in silence for a few minutes while Hasina and her Cabinet colleagues offered 'Fatiha'. Prime Minister Modi is the first-ever foreign Head of State or Head of Government to pay homage at Bangabandhu Mausoleum Complex, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a press release. "The life of Bangabandhu epitomized the freedom struggle of the people of Bangladesh for their rights, for the preservation of their inclusive culture and their identity,” Modi wrote in the visitor book at the Mausoleum complex. Prime Minister Modi also planted a Bakul tree sapling at the Mausoleum complex to commemorate this historic event. India's prestigious Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 was conferred on Bangabandhu this week. It was for the first time that the award was given away posthumously. On Friday, Prime Minister Modi presented the award to Hasina and her younger sister Rehana. Modi earlier said Bangabandhu was a champion of human rights and freedom, and a hero to Indians as well. Rahman was imprisoned in Pakistan, which was forced to set him free on January 8, 1972. He returned to Dhaka on January 10, 1972. He later took over as Prime Minister of Bangladesh but was assassinated by some military officers during a coup d'etat on August 15, 1975. His wife, brother, sons and daughters-in-law were also assassinated along with him. Hasina and her sister Sheikh Rehana survived as they were in Europe. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, on Friday attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-visits-mausoleum-of-bangabandhu-sheikh-mujibur-rahman-pays-floral-tributes-967212.html
27-03-2021||National||CAG points out problems in implementing schemes in J&K||Stating that its audit has pointed out several deficiencies in the implementation of various programmes and internal-control measures in selected departments in Jammu and Kashmir, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has asked the Union Territory administration to look into the matter and revamp the system to ensure a proper response to the audit observations in a time-bound manner. In its report on the social, general, economic (non-public sector undertakings) sectors for the year ending March 31, 2019, the CAG said that the pendency of a large number of paragraphs indicates a lack of adequate response from the government departments to the audit. The report, recently submitted in Parliament, said that in the last few years, the audit has pointed out several significant deficiencies in the implementation of various programmes or activities as well as on the quality of internal-control measures in certain departments, which have a negative impact on the success of the programmes and the functioning of the departments. "The government may look into this matter and revamp the system to ensure a proper response to the audit observations from the departments in a time-bound manner," it said. During 2018-19, the CAG said that a compliance audit of 727 drawing and disbursing officers and 74 units of 25 autonomous bodies were conducted by the office of the Principal Accountant General (Audit), Jammu and Kashmir. "The focus was on auditing specific programmes/schemes in order to offer suitable recommendations to the executive for taking corrective action and improving service delivery to the citizens. "Twenty-three paragraphs were sent to the Principal Secretaries/Secretaries of the respective departments. Replies in respect of nine paragraphs included in this report were not received (September 2020)," it said. The report said the handbook of instructions for a speedy settlement of audit observations or inspection reports (IRs) issued by the government (finance department) provides for a prompt response by the executive to the IRs issued by the Principal Accountant General (Audit) to ensure remedial or rectification action in compliance with the prescribed rules and procedures. The heads of offices and the next higher authorities are required to comply with the observations contained in the IRs, rectify the defects and report their compliance to the Principal Accountant General (Audit), it said, adding that based on the results of the test audit, 49,523 audit observations contained in 11,531 IRs were outstanding as on March 31, 2019. "The pendency of a large number of paragraphs indicates a lack of adequate response of the government departments to the audit," the CAG observed. Further, only two Audit Committee meetings were held during 2018-19, in which 28 audit paragraphs were settled, which account for 0.06 per cent of the pending objections as of March 2019, the report said, urging the respective departments to constitute audit committees and monitor the progress of the settlement of paragraphs. To ensure accountability of the executive to issues dealt with in various audit reports, the government (finance department) issued instructions in June 1997 to the administrative departments to furnish suo-motu action-taken notes (ATNs) to the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) or the Committee on Public Undertakings (COPU) on all the audit paragraphs featuring in the audit reports, irrespective of whether those are taken up for discussion by these panels or not. "These ATNs are to be submitted to these committees, duly vetted by the Principal Accountant General (Audit) within a period of three months from the date of presentation of audit reports in the state legislature. It was, however, noticed that out of the 495 audit paragraphs featuring in the civil chapters of the audit reports from 2000-01 to 2015-16, the suo-motu ATNs in respect of 146 audit paragraphs had not been received up to September 30, 2020," it said. The report said that the ATNs, duly vetted by the Principal Accountant General (Audit) on the observations or recommendations made by the PAC or the COPU in respect of the audit paragraphs discussed by them are to be furnished to these committees within six months from the date of such observations or recommendations. "Out of 495 audit paragraphs featuring in the civil chapters of audit reports for the years from 2000-01 to 2015-16, only 245 audit paragraphs have been discussed by the PAC up to March 31, 2020. Recommendations in respect of 223 audit paragraphs have been made by the PAC. However, ATNs on the recommendations of the committees are pending from the government of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in respect of 165 paragraphs," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cag-points-out-problems-in-implementing-schemes-in-jk-967225.html
27-03-2021||National||6 states reporting surge in daily Covid-19 cases account for 79.57% of new infections: Govt||Six states - Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh - continue to report a high surge in daily Covid-19 cases and account for 79.57 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, the Health Ministry said on Saturday. India's total active cases have reached 4,52,647 and currently comprise 3.8 per cent of the country's total infections, it said. The country saw 62,258 new cases being registered in the last 24 hours, the highest single day rise so far this year, according to the ministry. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 36,902 followed by Punjab (3,122) and Chhattisgarh (2,665), the ministry said. Ten states are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, it said. A net incline of 31,581 cases was recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 73 per cent of the total active cases in the country. The total vaccination coverage in the country has crossed 5.8 crore, the ministry said. More than 5.81 crore (5,81,09,773) vaccine doses have been administered through 9,45,168 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. These include 80,96,687 healthcare workers (first dose), 51,44,011 healthcare workers (second dose), 87,52,566 frontline workers (first dose) and 35,39,144 frontline workers (second Dose), 61,72,032 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities (first dose) and 2,64,05,333 beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. "India stands second in the world in terms of the number of vaccine doses administered (as on March 25, 2021)," the ministry said. Eight states account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses given so far in the country, it said. Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat have crossed the benchmark of 5 million vaccinations, the ministry said. The average daily doses being administered show a steady increase, it highlighted. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,12,95,023 as on date with 30,386 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours, it said. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 17,019 newly recovered cases, while 291 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours. Five states account for 75.6 per cent of the new deaths with Maharashtra recording the maximum casualties at 112 followed by Punjab (59). Fourteen states and union territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. These are Assam, Odisha, Puducherry, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Tripura,Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-states-reporting-surge-in-daily-covid-19-cases-account-for-7957-of-new-infections-govt-967226.html
27-03-2021||National||No rigid standard for acceptance or rejection of dying declaration: SC||The Supreme Court has said that there can be “no rigid standard or yardstick” for acceptance or rejection of dying declaration, which alone can form the basis for conviction if it has been made voluntarily and inspires confidence. The apex court observed that if there are contradictions that create doubts about the truthfulness and credibility of the dying declaration then the benefit of the doubt shall have to be given to the accused. A bench comprising justices Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari stated this in its judgement while dismissing an appeal challenging the August 2011 verdict of the Delhi High Court which upheld a trial court order acquitting two persons accused of subjecting a woman to cruelty and murdering her. “A dying declaration is admissible in evidence under section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. It alone can also form the basis for conviction if it has been made voluntarily and inspires confidence,” the top court said in its March 25 verdict. “If there are contradictions, variations, creating doubts about its truthfulness, affecting its veracity and credibility, or if the dying declaration is suspect, or the accused is able to create a doubt not only with regard to the dying declaration but also with regard to the nature and manner of death, the benefit of the doubt shall have to be given to the accused,” it said. The bench further said, “Therefore, much shall depend on the facts of a case. There can be no rigid standard or yardstick for acceptance or rejection of a dying declaration.” The plea in the apex court was filed by a man who had challenged the acquittal of his deceased sister's husband and sister-in-law in a case lodged in 1991. The woman had suffered 95 per cent burn injuries in her matrimonial home on September 17, 1991, and succumbed in a hospital the next day. The petitioner’s lawyer had argued that the accused were wrongly given the benefit of doubt by the high court that the deceased had committed suicide. The apex court noted that the accused had taken the defence that the deceased suspected a promiscuous relationship between them and was also frustrated by her inability to conceive and, therefore, committed suicide by setting herself afire. “In the facts and circumstances of the present case, considering that the statements of the deceased have vacillated, there is no evidence about the fitness of mind of the deceased to make the dying declaration including the presence of the doctor, the veracity and truthfulness of the dying declaration remains suspect,” the bench said. “It would not be safe to simply reject the probable defence of suicide, to reverse the acquittal and convict the respondents,” it said, adding, “The appeal is, therefore, dismissed”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-rigid-standard-for-acceptance-or-rejection-of-dying-declaration-sc-967228.html
27-03-2021||National||Biden invites PM Modi and top world leaders to US-hosted virtual summit on climate||President Joe Biden has invited 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to a US-hosted virtual summit on climate next month to underscore the urgency and the economic benefits of stronger climate action, the White House said. Biden will host a two-day climate summit of world leaders starting on Earth Day, April 22, in which he will outline the US goal for reductions of carbon emissions by 2030 -- known as the nationally determined contribution under the historic Paris accord. The White House on Friday said that a total of 40 world leaders, including Prime Minister Modi, Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin, were invited to the conference, which will be live-streamed to the public. “It will be a key milestone on the road to the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP26) this November in Glasgow,” it said. Other leaders invited for the summit include Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, Saudi Arabia King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Bangladeshi Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Bhutanese Prime Minister Lotay Tshering are the other two leaders from South Asia to be invited to the mega-conference. The White House said a key objective of both the Leaders’ Summit and the COP26 will be to catalyse efforts to keep the limiting warming 1.5 degree Celsius’ goal within reach. The summit will also highlight examples of how enhanced climate ambition will create good-paying jobs, advance innovative technologies and help vulnerable countries adapt to climate impacts, it added. By the time of the summit, the United States will announce an ambitious 2030 emissions target as its new Nationally Determined Contribution under the Paris Agreement, the White House said. In his invitation, Biden urged leaders to use the summit as an opportunity to outline how their countries also will contribute to stronger climate ambition, it said. The summit will reconvene the US-led Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate, which brings together 17 countries responsible for approximately 80 per cent of global emissions and global GDP. Biden also invited the heads of other countries that are demonstrating strong climate leadership, are especially vulnerable to climate impacts, or are charting innovative pathways to a net-zero economy. A small number of businesses and civil society leaders will also participate in the summit, the White House said. On the campaign trail, Biden made climate change a central issue, setting a goal of ensuring that the US achieves net-zero emissions by 2050. He has signed several executive actions his first week in office related to the climate crisis, including one directing the secretary of the Interior to pause on entering into new oil and natural gas leases on public lands or offshore waters. Key themes of the summit will include galvanising efforts by the world’s major economies to reduce emissions during this critical decade to keep a limit to warming of 1.5 degree Celsius within reach and mobilising public and private sector finance to drive the net-zero transition and to help vulnerable countries cope with climate impacts, it said. The summit will also look into the economic benefits of climate action, with a strong emphasis on job creation, and the importance of ensuring all communities and workers benefit from the transition to a new clean energy economy. It will also look for ways to spurring transformational technologies that can help reduce emissions and adapt to climate change, while also creating enormous new economic opportunities and building the industries of the future, the White House said. Among other key issues include showcasing sub-national and non-state actors that are committed to green recovery and an equitable vision for limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius, and are working closely with national governments to advance ambition and resilience, it said. The summit will also discuss opportunities to strengthen capacity to protect lives and livelihoods from the impacts of climate change, address the global security challenges posed by climate change and the impact on readiness, and address the role of nature-based solutions in achieving net-zero by 2050 goals, the White House said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biden-invites-pm-modi-and-top-world-leaders-to-us-hosted-virtual-summit-on-climate-967232.html
27-03-2021||National||SC to examine if consensual physical relationship between minors punishable under POCSO Act||The Supreme Court has decided to examine whether minors indulging in consensual relationship can be tried under the stringent POCSO Act. A bench presided over by Justice Indira Banerjee issued notice to the Tamil Nadu government on a petition seeking clarity on the law for punishing minors under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012 Act for consensual sex. The court also granted interim protection to the petitioner, represented by advocate Rahul Shyam Bhandari, in a rape complaint filed in 2015. "Issue notice. In the meanwhile, no coercive steps to be taken against the petitioner," the order of the apex court stated. The petitioner contended that punishing teenagers for consensual sex was not the objective of POCSO Act. The plea by him also said the larger issue was whether teenagers who are in live-in relationship or having consensual sex should be punished under the POCSO Act. The case arose from a criminal complaint filed in 2015 by a 17-year-old girl against the petitioner, who was then 18-year-old, alleging rape, cheating and offences under the POCSO Act. As per the complainant, the alleged offences took place in 2014 when both of them were minors. The complainant alleged that the boy developed physical relationship with her on the pretext of marrying. Later when she insisted him to get married, the petitioner allegedly refused saying his parents were contemplating his marriage with another girl who may give a huge dowry. The boy, on the other hand, contended that he and the girl had developed a liking for each other while studying in school. He denied the charges, on the ground that the sexual relationship between them was consensual. During the trial, however, the girl changed her stance and stated that she was in a consensual physical relationship with the man. The trial court, however, refused to accept her version and in 2019 convicted the boy under the POCSO Act. The boy was sentenced to ten years in jail. He then approached the Madras High Court which on March 16 refused to accept an affidavit filed by the girl stating the physical relationship was consensual.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-examine-if-consensual-physical-relationship-between-minors-punishable-under-pocso-act-967233.html
27-03-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee asks Bengal women voters to confront BJP-hired goons with 'ladle, spatula'||Alleging that the BJP was bringing in goons from outside to stop people from exercising their franchise in Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday urged women to "confront the hoodlums with a ladle, spatula" and other cooking utensils. Addressing two public rallies at Narayangarh and Pingla in West Midnapore district, the TMC boss dubbed Suvendu Adhikari and his family as "traitors", and claimed that one member of the household was seen distributing money among people on Friday night, hours before 30 assembly constituencies of the state went to polls. "Yesterday, one of the Adhikari brothers was seen distributing money... Women in the area caught him red-handed and asked the police to arrest him. They also handed over 30 goons, all hired from outside, to the police," she said. Banerjee asserted that the saffron party's fate will be sealed after the first phase of polls. "The BJP is bringing in goons from outside Bengal to places where the party has some foothold. I will urge the women of the state to come out with 'hata and khunti' (ladle and spatula) and confront the hoodlums." She further requested the Election Commission to ensure that the assembly polls are conducted in a fair manner. "Delhi's Amit Shah wants to conduct the polls in Bengal. With due respect to the Election Commission, I urge the poll body to see to it that the elections are held in a free, fair and impartial manner," the CM underlined, taking a swipe at the home minister. The TMC chief also said that she will be putting up in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram constituency, where polls are scheduled on April 1, to keep an eye on the activities of 'Mir jafars' (traitors). Three members of the Adhikari family -- which wields considerable influence in Purba Medinipur -- have quit the TMC and joined the saffron camp over the past few months. Banerjee is locked in a fierce battle against her former lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram. "I was responsible for giving them plump positions in public offices. They, however, betrayed the TMC and crossed over to the BJP... they were lured with money," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-asks-bengal-women-voters-to-confront-bjp-hired-goons-with-ladle-spatula-967238.html
27-03-2021||National||Mamata's purported audio clip seeking help from BJP leader to win Nandigram stirs row in Bengal||Controversy erupted on Saturday over an audio clip of a phone call where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is purportedly heard urging a BJP leader from Nandigram to rejoin the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and help her win the Assembly seat. The development comes on a day when polling in the first phase of the West Bengal Assembly elections was held in 30 seats in five districts. The Chief Minister in the audio clip is purportedly heard telling Pralay Pal, BJP vice president of the Tamluk organisational district to help her and it would be ensured that he faces no problems. DH  could not independently verify the authenticity of the clip. “You are a young man. I know you are very hard working. Help us a bit this time in Nandigram. You will not face any problem,” Mamata is purportedly heard telling Pal. However, Pal declined the offer saying that he had left the TMC and will not betray the party-BJP- which he currently belongs to. “’Didi, regardless of what you think, I have left the party (TMC). I will not betray the party I am currently working for. When I work for a party I do it with complete loyalty. So does my family. No one can question the integrity of me and my family,” Pal was purportedly heard saying in the audio clip. The TMC supremo was purportedly heard telling Pal in an apparent reference to BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family that “ is the person contesting there (for BJP in Nandigram) means everything to you?” She also said in an apparent reference to the Adhikari that earlier they did not allow her to visit Nandigram and she did not have details of their activities. The audio clip ended with Pal purportedly thanking Mamata for calling a party worker like him but declining her offer to rejoin the TMC. He later told reporters that Mamata called her but he declined her offer. Questioning the authenticity of the audio clip TMC spokesperson Kuna Ghosh said “ since the clip is not verified we don’t know whether it's genuine or not. But there is nothing wrong with a politician calling her former party leaders.” Reacting to the development BJP national general secretary and co-observer in West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya said “ only a candidate who has accepted defeat can speak in the manner Mamata didi has spoken in the clip.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamatas-purported-audio-clip-seeking-help-from-bjp-leader-to-win-nandigram-stirs-row-in-bengal-967254.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi hails 'productive' meeting with Sheikh Hasina||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday that he had a "productive meeting" with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina during which they reviewed the full range of bilateral ties and discussed ways to deepen the economic and cultural linkages in the times to come. Modi, who is visiting Bangladesh on his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus, held one-on-one talks with Hasina which was followed by delegation-level meeting which continued for over an hour. "Had a productive meeting with PM Sheikh Hasina. We reviewed the full range of India-Bangladesh relations and discussed ways to deepen economic and cultural linkages in the times to come,” Modi tweeted. The two sides signed five MoUs covering areas such as connectivity, commerce, information technology and sports. "India and Bangladesh signed MoUs in key sectors such as disaster management, sports and youth affairs, trade, technology and more. These will add strength to our development partnership and benefit the people of our nations, especially the youth," Modi said. Ministry of External Affairs Spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said that Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Hasina discussed the progress achieved in areas of health, trade, connectivity, energy, developmental cooperation and many more. In a humanitarian gesture, Prime Minister Modi handed over a representational key of 109 life-saving ambulances to his counterpart Hasina. He also handed over a representational box as a symbol of India's gift of 1.2 million Covid vaccine doses to Bangladesh. Hasina presented a gold and a silver coin released on the occasion of the birth centenary of her father and Father of Nation Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman to Modi. She also handed over a silver coin released on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Bangladesh's Independence. The two leaders also jointly inaugurated several projects virtually, including opening three new border haats on India-Bangladesh borders and inaugurating a new passenger train 'Mitali Express' connecting Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri on the Indian side. This is the third passenger train after Maitree Express (Dhaka-Kolkata) and Bandhan Express (Khulna-Kolkata) running between the two neighbouring countries. The other projects included: foundation stone laying of a monument at Bangladesh's Ashuganj in memory of 1971 martyred Indian soldiers; extended development work at Rabindra Bhawan Kuthibari in Shilaidaha of Bangladesh's Kushtia and ground breaking for Infrastructure Development for Power Evacuation Facilities of Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant. The MoUs signed were on Disaster Management, Resilience and Mitigation; cooperation between Bangladesh National Cadet Corps (BNCC) and National Cadet Corps (NCC) and establishment of a Framework of Cooperation in the Area of Trade Remedial Measures. The supply of ICT equipment, courseware and reference books and training for Bangladesh-Bharot Digital Service & Employment and Training (BDSET) Center, and Establishment of Sports facilities at Rajshahi College field and surrounding areas were other MoUs. Prime Minister Modi also reiterated India's "sincere and continued efforts" to conclude the Teesta water-sharing agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders during his talks with Hasina. "The Indian side also requested for early finalisation of a draft for sharing of water of Feni River pending with the Bangladeshi side," Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters. The two prime ministers also released India-Bangladesh Friendship stamps to commemorate the 50th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic relations. Modi's visit is taking place at a time Bangladesh is commemorating Mujib Borsho, the birth centenary of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and 50 years of the country's war of liberation. The two countries are also celebrating 50 years of the establishment of diplomatic ties. On Friday, Modi attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence, the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ in Dhaka. Earlier in the morning, Prime Minister Modi offered prayers at the centuries-old Jeshoreshwari Kali temple in Ishwaripur village in southwestern Bangladesh and announced that India would construct a community hall-cum cyclone shelter attached to the temple, which is one of the 51 Shaktipeeths in the Puranic tradition. He also visited the mausoleum of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman and paid floral tributes to him, becoming the first-ever foreign Head of State or Head of Government to pay homage at the grave of 'Bangabandhu' at Tungipara in southwestern Bangladesh. Modi also offered prayers at a Matua temple in Bangladesh's Orakandi, the birthplace of Hindu mystic figure and Matua community's spiritual guru Harichand Thakur. Orakandi is the abode of hundreds of Hindu Matua community, a large number of whom are residents of West Bengal. Speaking to the Matua community members after offering prayers, Modi said both India and Bangladesh want stability, love and peace instead of instability, terror and unrest in the world.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-productive-meeting-with-sheikh-hasina-967258.html
27-03-2021||National||Rajasthan assembly bypolls: Congress releases candidates' list||The Congress has fielded former minister Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal's son from the Sujangarh assembly seat which fell vacant after his death last year and is among the three constituencies going to bypolls next month in Rajasthan. Manoj Meghwal will be contesting the by-election from Sujangarh against BJP leader and former minister Khemaram Meghwal. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, who was the state social justice and empowerment minister, died of a brain stroke in November. For the Sahara assembly constituency, Congress, the ruling party in Rajasthan, has fielded Gayatri Devi against BJP candidate and former MLA Ratanlal Jat. This seat fell vacant after her husband Kailash Trivedi died in October after being infected by Covid-19. Tansukh Bohara will be contesting the bypolls as the Congress' candidate from the Rajsamand assembly constituency, which fell vacant after Kiran Maheshwari died due to the coronavirus infection in November last year. Bohara, a social worker, has been fielded against Maheshwari's daughter and BJP candidate Deepti Maheshwari. The list of candidates was issued by All India Congress Committee general secretary Mukul Wasnik on Saturday. Polling in these three constituencies will be held on April 17 from 7 am to 6 pm, and counting will take place on May 2. The nomination process is underway and the last date of filing nomination papers is March 30. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on March 31 and nominations can be withdrawn by April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-assembly-bypolls-congress-releases-candidates-list-967268.html
27-03-2021||National||Competing claim between development, environment will find answer from SC: Prasad||Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Saturday said the competing claim between development and conservation of the environment will find a robust answer from the Supreme Court. Prasad was speaking at the inauguration of a new building for the Goa bench of the Bombay High Court at Porvorim in the presence of Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant among others. "The whole competing claim between sustainable development, job opportunity and business return is a little complicated and the final solution for this problem is yet to come about," the minister said. There is a need to conserve the environment, have development and maintain a happy balance of both, he said. When India became free, all challenges that arose anywhere in the world cropped up in India as well, he said. "The competing claim between development and environment will find a robust answer from the Supreme Court, which will lead to a healthy blend between both," Prasad said. Speaking about the country's judicial infrastructure, the minister said the Centre, state governments and judiciary led by the Chief Justice of India have to play a role of great fraternity, mutuality and cooperation in rendering support for judicial infrastructure. The construction of many judicial buildings has been possible because of cooperation, which the Centre has ensured, he said. Prasad, who also handles the Electronics and Information Technology portfolio, said his department kept the country going through internet, phone and IT operations during the COVID-19 pandemic when all transport systems had been suspended. "I remember India's IT companies were shellshocked. I liberalised the regime of work from home," he claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/competing-claim-between-development-environment-will-find-answer-from-sc-prasad-967272.html
27-03-2021||National||Activists of BJP, TMC clash in Nandigram, three injured||A clash broke out on Saturday between activists of the BJP and the TMC in Purba Medinipur's Nandigram constituency -- which is set to go to polls on April 1 -- leaving at least three persons seriously injured, a senior police officer here said. Seikh Sufiyan, the election agent of TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, however, claimed that goons hired by the BJP carried out an attack on the workers of the state's ruling party, a charge denied by the saffron camp. "All three, who sustained injuries during the attack, are activists of the TMC. They were rushed to SSKM hospital in Kolkata. The condition of one of them has been stated to be serious," Sufiyan said. BJP goons have "let loose a reign of terror" in Nandigram over the past 15 days, he alleged. "These goons have been visiting homes of TMC activists to attack them, twisting their hands and even snatching gold chains. The police, however, are not doing anything about it," he said. Denying Sufiyan's allegation, the senior police officer said that the action was immediately taken to bring the situation under control and restore peace in the region. Local BJP leaders, on their part, contended that the TMC men are trying to disrupt peace in the constituency -- where Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is locked in a fierce battle with protege-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari. "None of our workers was involved in any attack on TMC activists. On the contrary, the ruling camp members assaulted our karyakartas during Suvendu Adhikari's rallies. The three TMC men, undergoing treatment, must be victims of infighting," a saffron party leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/activists-of-bjp-tmc-clash-in-nandigram-three-injured-967278.html
27-03-2021||National||Need to create National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation: Justice Ramana||Supreme Court judge Justice N V Ramana on Saturday said that the Centre and state governments should come together to form the `National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation' to tackle the judiciary's needs. Justice Ramana, who is set to become the next Chief Justice of India (CJI), was speaking at the inauguration of a new building for the Goa Bench of the Bombay High Court at Porvorim near here. CJI Bobde and Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad were also present at the function, among others. "Talking of impediments in the way of modernisation, the financial constraints must never come in the path of progress," Justice Ramana said. The Centre and states should cooperate and create a "National Judicial Infrastructure Corporation" to cater to the need for judicial infrastructure in the country, he said. "Such a corporation will bring uniformity and standardisation required to revolutionise judicial infrastructure," he said. For ensuring better access to justice sufficient infrastructure is essential, the judge said. Integrating technology with the judiciary has been an uphill task, Justice Ramana noted. "We have all witnessed courts operating from dilapidated structures without proper record rooms. There are premises without washrooms, waiting rooms," he said. The coronavirus pandemic posed immense challenges but with the help of the Union government, CJI Bobde took steps to facilitate virtual hearings, he said. "This exercise addressed issues of geographical limitation and brought (courts) to people's doorstep," Ramana added. Providing independent video conferencing facilities to all the courts and facilitating e-filing of documents were part of the same effort, he said. The judge described Goa as a melting pot of different cultures. The coastal state also has a rich legal tradition dating back to 1544 when the Portuguese established the first high court in Asia here, he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/need-to-create-national-judicial-infrastructure-corporation-justice-ramana-967284.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi, Hasina discuss Teesta deal; 5 MoUs signed||India and Bangladesh on Saturday agreed to go global to celebrate the 50th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic relations, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi refrained from making any new or specific commitment to his counterpart in the neighbouring country, Sheikh Hasina, for the early signing of the much-awaited deal on river Teesta. The two Prime Ministers witnessed the signing of five pacts, including one for expanding cooperation in disaster management, resilience and mitigation and another for setting up a framework for trade remedial measures between Bangladesh and India. They also remotely participated in the ground-breaking ceremony for the development of infrastructure for energy evacuation facility from the Rooppur Nuclear Power Plant in Bangladesh. Modi had a formal meeting with Hasina before concluding his two-day visit to Bangladesh. “We reviewed the full range of India-Bangladesh relations and discussed ways to deepen economic and cultural linkages in the times to come,” he later posted on Twitter. He added that the pacts signed by the two nations for cooperation in key sectors such as disaster management, sports and youth affairs, trade, technology and others would add strength to development partnership and benefit the people, especially the youths. The two Prime Ministers released commemorative stamps on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of the diplomatic relations between India and Bangladesh. They also agreed to hold events on the occasion in 19 countries around the world. India gifted 109 ambulances to Bangladesh. The Prime Minister also gifted 1.2 million Made-in-India Covishield vaccine to his counterpart in Dhaka to help Bangladesh deal with the Covid-19 pandemic. Hasina, however, raised the issue of the agreement on sharing of water of common river Teesta. Modi reiterated India's “sincere and continued efforts” to conclude the agreement with Bangladesh “in consultation with relevant stakeholders”, Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla later told journalists. Teesta is a river that originates in Sikkim and flows through West Bengal in India before entering Bangladesh. Though New Delhi and Dhaka had in 2011 made a move to clinch a water-sharing deal, it was stalled as West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee refrained from giving her consent, stating that such a pact would result in water scarcity in the northern region of the state and hit hard the farmers. Though Hasina on Saturday pressed for early signing of the agreement, Modi refrained from committing a time-line to sign the agreement, ostensibly because any public pledge by him could have been used by Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress against the Bharatiya Janata Party in the ongoing elections in West Bengal. Shringla, however, highlighted India-Bangladesh cooperation on other common rivers. He said that the Modi-Hasina meeting saw India asking Bangladesh for the early finalisation of a draft for sharing of water of the river Feni. Modi and Hasina on Saturday inaugurated three new border ‘haats’ (markets) along the boundary between India and Bangladesh. They also inaugurated the Mitali Express, the passenger train service between New Jalpaiguri in India to the capital of Bangladesh. They also discussed the proposed Swadhinata Sadak (Freedom Road), which would link Kolkata and Dhaka through Nadia in West Bengal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-hasina-discuss-teesta-deal-5-mous-signed-967289.html
27-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre, states on PIL to deport illegal immigrants||The Supreme Court has issued a notice to the Union government on a PIL for direction to the Centre and all states to detect, detain and deport all illegal immigrants, including Rohingya and Bangladeshi infiltrators, within one year.  A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian sought a reply from the Union government on a petition filed by advocate Ashwini Kumar Upadhyay On Friday, the bench, which reserved its order on a plea against the detention of Rohingyas at Jammu, also decided to examine the plea pending since 2017.  The petitioner claimed large-scale illegal immigrants, particularly from Myanmar and Bangladesh, have not only threatened the demographic structure of bordering districts but have seriously impaired the security and national integration. He said that the Law Commission in its 175th report on September 21, 2000, on the Foreigners (Amendment) Bill, 2000 has also noted that entry of illegal immigrants and other undesirable aliens into India posing a grave threat to democracy and the security of India, especially for the eastern part of the country and Jammu and Kashmir. "Demographic composition in the country, particularly the bordering districts has altered with illegal immigration from Myanmar and Bangladesh. The bordering districts of Assam, West Bengal Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura have recorded growth of population higher than the national average. Illegal immigrants have been using West Bengal as a corridor to migrate to other parts," the plea said. He also asked the court to direct the central and state governments to declare the making of forged or fabricated PAN, Aadhaar cards, Passport, Ration and Voter Cards and such other documents, a non-bailable, non-compoundable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-states-on-pil-to-deport-illegal-immigrants-967292.html
27-03-2021||National||VP Naidu concerned over frequent disruptions in Parliament, Legislatures||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday expressed concern over frequent disruption in Legislatures and Parliament as also decline in standards of debates. Observing that "disruption means derailing debate and derailing democracy and the nation", he cautioned that people will get disillusioned if the same trend continues. Naidu, who was speaking at the centenary celebrations of former parliamentarian and educationist Nookala Narotham Reddy here, said recent incidents in certain state legislatures were disheartening. He stressed that conduct in parliament and legislatures should be in pursuit of the 3 D's- Discuss, Debate, and Decide. The House should, at no point, become a platform for disruption. Obstructing the House only hurts the cause of public interest, he said. Reflecting on the exemplary quality of debates in Parliament during Narotham Reddy's time, Naidu suggested that representatives' actions in the legislatures should reflect people's aspirations and sought a more constructive and meaningful use of time in legislatures. The Vice President also expressed concern over the declining attendance of parliamentarians and legislators in respective Houses. He stressed the need for them to be regular and contribute meaningfully in the discussion. He appealed to the people to elect representatives who possess the 4Cs Calibre, Conduct, Capacity, and Character. Emphasizing the role of education in inculcating moral values, patriotism and probity in public life, Naidu said education should produce "well-rounded holistic individuals." Pointing to India's demographic dividend, he said no other country has this kind of advantage and stressed the need to fully leverage it for the nation's progress. In this context, he called for upskilling the younger generation in tune with the 21st century needs. Naidu also suggested that in the spirit of New Education Policy, institutes should restructure themselves and bring in a holistic and multidisciplinary approach to education. The policy also targets at reducing the burden of curriculum and attempts to bring about a comprehensive development in the young student, matching international standards, he observed. Speaking about the importance of mother tongue, the Vice President underscored the need for connecting with one's constituents through his/her own mother tongue. "People who elected us should know what we are talking about. That is why members should try to speak in their mother tongue as much as possible," an official release quoted him as saying. He noted that with mother tongue as a priority, the Rajya Sabha has now given an opportunity to speak in 22 languages with adequate facilities having been provided for the purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-naidu-concerned-over-frequent-disruptions-in-parliament-legislatures-967294.html
27-03-2021||National||Centre unveils 5-fold strategy to curb Covid-19 spike in 12 states, UTs||The Union Health Ministry on Saturday informed 12 states that the Covid-19 second wave has impacted their 46 districts – including Bengaluru Urban – the maximum and the states may consider imposing heavy fines on those who don’t wear masks and violate preventive norms as 70% of cases could be curtailed by following Covid-appropriate behaviour. At a high-level review meeting with top officials from these states as well as district collectors and municipal commissioners of 46 districts, the central officials advised enforcement of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour through penal measures like heavy fines which would send a strong exemplary message among the people. As 70% of the cases can be controlled by adherence to appropriate behaviour, the states have been asked to ensure Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Easter festivities would remain a muted one with an emphasis on keeping the celebrations inside the confines of homes. The review takes place on a day when the Union Health Ministry reported more than 62,000 new cases and 291 Covid deaths in the last 24 hours as the epidemic gallops in Maharashtra and picks up pace in Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka and Gujarat among others. This is the sharpest rise in weekly Covid-19 cases and fatalities since May 2020 (7.7% and 5.1% respectively). An analysis by the health ministry shows that 46 districts have contributed 71% of the cases and 69% of the deaths this month. Of 36 districts in Maharashtra, 25 are most affected and they account for 60% of the cases reported in the country in the past week. Sharing a five-point containment strategy, the ministry officials said that effective containment and contact tracing for at least 14 successive days in 46 districts was needed to break the chain of transmission and not fritter away the gains of last year. At least 30 contacts of each infected person need to be traced within the first 72 hours. The states have also been strongly advised for a significant increase of testing in all districts in line with their positivity rate, with an increased share of RT PCR tests, to a ratio of more than 70% of the total. The Rapid Antigen Tests are to be mostly deployed as a screening tool in flushing out cluster cases from densely populated areas. On vaccination, the advice was to optimally use all capacities in the public and private sectors and make full use of the available vaccine stocks without keeping a buffer stock anticipating shortage as the central depots at Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and Karnal have the requisite buffer stocks. The second wave, officials said, reflected a lax attitude in following the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour and the containment and management strategy at the ground level. For instance, while 90% of people are aware of the need to wear face masks, only 44% actually wear them. There are studies to show one infected person can spread the virus to 406 other individuals over 30 days without restrictions, but the spread can be brought down to 15 individuals if the infected person cuts his/her physical exposure to the outside world by 50% and only 2.5 persons if the exposure is reduced by 75%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-unveils-5-fold-strategy-to-curb-covid-19-spike-in-12-states-uts-967303.html
27-03-2021||National||Rabi procurement to begin from April 1 in Haryana; payments directly in farmers' bank account||The procurement process of rabi crops will start from April 1 in Haryana with Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday directing authorities to ensure transfer of a full payment directly into farmers' bank account. Presiding over a review meeting regarding the procurement process of rabi crops here, the Chief Minister directed the concerned officials to make all necessary arrangements, an official statement said here. Besides, the Chief Minister also released a booklet containing information about the entire arrangement for the procurement process. For the stakeholders, 12 essential information points related to the procurement process are enclosed in the booklet. The functions and rights of stakeholders including farmer, secretary market committee, inspector, ahartiyas (commission agents),  warehouse keeper, payment, purchaser and marketing board administrator are described in the booklet, the statement said. Khattar said that in every situation, the state government has been making efforts in the interest of farmers. He said that every necessary arrangement should be made to help the farmers. He said that support of Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) should also be sought to ensure that farmers do not face any inconvenience in the market. It was apprised in the meeting that there are a number of FPOs in the state and a list of 380 organisations have been sent to the respective Deputy Commissioners who will assist the administration in the procurement process. The Chief Minister also directed to ensure proper arrangements for arthiyas so that they can get their commission during the procurement. Besides, the police department has been directed to make arrangements to stop unregistered farmers from entering the border of the state. Only the farmers who have registered at the 'Meri Fasal Mera Byora' portal will be allowed to bring their crops for procurement.            The chief minister also directed the concerned officials to ensure the lifting of crops within 48 hours. The concerned Officials have been directed to make prior arrangements to increase the procurement centres if required at the time of emergency situations, the statement said. The main Rabi crops in Haryana are wheat, gram and mustard.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rabi-procurement-to-begin-from-april-1-in-haryana-payments-directly-in-farmers-bank-account-967304.html
27-03-2021||National||President Kovind shifted to AIIMS for planned bypass procedure: Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind was on Saturday shifted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here for a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on Tuesday, a statement issued by Rashtrapati Bhavan said. The president’s health condition is stable and he is under the care of experts, it said. Kovind, 75, had undergone a health check-up at the Army Hospital (R&R) here following chest discomfort on Friday morning. “The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind has been shifted to the AIIMS, Delhi, in the afternoon today (March 27, 2021). Post investigations, doctors have advised him to undergo a planned bypass procedure which is expected to be performed on the morning of March 30, Tuesday. "The President’s health is stable and he is under the care of the experts at the AIIMS,” the statement said. Earlier on Saturday, the Army hospital said in a medical bulletin that the president is being referred to AIIMS, Delhi for further investigation. The hospital had on Friday said, "President of India visited Army Hospital (R&R) following chest discomfort this morning. He is undergoing routine check-up and is under observation".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-kovind-shifted-to-aiims-for-planned-bypass-procedure-rashtrapati-bhavan-967308.html
27-03-2021||National||Kanhaiya calls Modi 'biggest liar', compares Himanta to Kansa of Mahabharata||CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar hit out at BJP on Saturday calling Prime Minister Narendra Modi "the biggest liar" and comparing the saffron party's top Assam leader Himanta Biswa Sarma with King Kansa, the tyrant ruler of Mathura in the Mahabharata. The former JNU students union president termed Modi's statement in Bangladesh, where he is on a visit, about going to jail for that country's freedom as a "big lie". He urged the people of Assam, where the three-phase poll for the state assembly began on Saturday, not to support those who are selling the resources of the country in the name of nationalism. Launching a scathing attack on Modi, the Left youth leader questioned whether annually two crore jobs have been created or black money has returned to the country as was promised by him in 2014. "What has happened in five years? How are the same people seeking votes again? When I came here someone said that I can be a challenge to Modi. I said that to challenge Modi one has to be the biggest liar of the world". Referring to Modi's comment in Dhaka, Kumar said, "Have you heard what has he (Modi) said in Bangladesh? He said he had also contributed in Bangladesh's freedom struggle, that he had participated in satyagraha and went to jail... Only BJP leaders can create such level of lies," Kumar said. In the Bangladesh war, India supported the freedom movement in that country and Pakistan opposed it. "So a question arises that where was Modi on his satyagraha ? "Was he put behind the bars by the Pakistan government or the Indian government? It is nothing but a big lie," Kumar said while campaigning for CPI candidate Munin Mahanta. Modi had said in Dhaka on Friday that he was part of a satyagraha held to back the liberation of Bangladesh. It had led to political slugfest back home. He was speaking at the national parade square in the Bangladesh capital to mark the celebrations of the golden jubilee of its Independence and the birth centenary of the father of the nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Training his guns at Sarma, he said "There is one leader who calls himself Mama (maternal uncle). Kansa was also a mama (of Lord Krishna). You can see the political truth. I just want to know how many promises which were made five years ago have been fulfilled (in the state)". Sarma, who is also the Assam health minister, is fondly called 'Mama' mostly by youths for his handling of the Covid-19 situation in the state in 2020. During the campaign phase, he is widely being addressed as 'Mama'. "The man who could not be Mama of Congress party, how can he be a Mama of Assam? There is not a bigger traitor than the one who cheats people for his own interests," Kumar said. Sarma was a minister in the Congress government of Tarun Gogoi in the state till he quit the party and joined BJP. Criticising BJP, the CPI leader said "Traitors have occupied Delhi. We have to defeat them and make our farmers who are protesting on the borders of Delhi (against farm laws) for months victorious," Kumar said. The ongoing state election is not being held to chose any leader but the government which will work for the people, he said. "Gandhi took bullets in his chest for the ballot. This is the power of ballot - don't misuse it. You have to decide whether you are with the force which is selling the resources of the country in the name of nationalism. "Let love win this election, not hatred. Gandhi was a man of love," he said. Alleging that the BJP government is deeply involved in syndicates of coal, fish and other items, the former student leader said the saffron party only makes false promises every five years. "This party cannot do good for Assam. Modi is selling the country to his Gujarati friends. You have to understand the conspiracy of these people. They want to build a syndicate by creating fights among the people in Assam. "They are enacting dramas in Assam. They say that if the Mahajot (Congress-AIUDF alliance) wins, then the social fabric of Assam will change. They don't know the history of Assam. They should know that this land belongs to Srimanta Sankardeva and Aajaan Fakir," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kanhaiya-calls-modi-biggest-liar-compares-himanta-to-kansa-of-mahabharata-967312.html
27-03-2021||National||Hope Holi will strengthen strengthen the spirit of nationalism: President Kovind||President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday greeted citizens on the eve of Holi and said may the festival further strengthen the spirit of nationalism which is integral to India's cultural diversity. "Holi, the festival of colours, is also a major festival of the spring season. It is a festival of social harmony which celebrates joy, delight and hope in the lives of people. It gives us message of social integration and fraternity," he said in a message on the eve of Holi. At the same time, it also inspires people to come together in making a new India which is built on the foundation of amity, unity and harmony, Kovind was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan. "May this festival of great zeal and fervour further strengthen the spirit of nationalism which is integral to our cultural diversity," the president said. "On the auspicious occasion of Holi, I extend my greetings to all the fellow citizens in India and abroad," Kovind said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hope-holi-will-strengthen-strengthen-the-spirit-of-nationalism-president-kovind-967314.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi, Hasina jointly launch new passenger train between India and Bangladesh||A new passenger train connecting Dhaka and New Jalpaiguri on the Indian side was inaugurated jointly by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina via a video conference on Saturday. This is the third passenger train after Maitree Express (Dhaka-Kolkata) and Bandhan Express (Khulna-Kolkata) running between the two neighbouring countries. The new passenger train, 'Mitali Express', was jointly inaugurated by Modi and Hasina at 6:38 pm on Saturday from the Prime Minister's Office in Tejgaon here via a video conference, local vernacular news website BanglaNews24.com reported. The new inter-country passenger train was launched on the occasion of 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's birth centenary and the golden jubilee of Bangladesh's Independence, it said. The train will run between Dhaka Cantonment and New Jalpaiguri in West Bengal via Chilahati, a border railway station in Bangladesh. The distance between Dhaka and Chilahati is 453 km and from Chilahati to New Jalpaiguri is 71 km. Railway Minister Nurul Islam Sujan, Director General of Railways Dhirendra Nath Majumder and other senior officials were present at the Dhaka Cantonment Station during the inauguration. Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told reporters at a briefing that the service will start when normalcy is restored. Both countries had suspended railway services after the Covid-19 pandemic broke out. The bi-weekly train has 10 coaches -- four AC cabins, four AC chairs and two power car brake vans. It is expected to give a boost to tourism in both countries. The train will run from New Jalpaiguri to Dhaka Cantonment on Sunday and Wednesday and Dhaka Cantonment to New Jalpaiguri on Monday and Thursday. Last year, India and Bangladesh resumed operations on the Haldibari-Chilahati route for goods trains after a gap of over 55 years. The four other rail links that connect the two countries are Petrapole-Benapole, Gede-Darshana, Singhabad-Rohanpur and Radhikapur-Birol.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-hasina-jointly-launch-new-passenger-train-between-india-and-bangladesh-967315.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi's passport, visa must be cancelled for seeking vote in foreign country, demands Mamata Banerjee||Firing a fresh salvo at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday asked why should Modi’s visa and passport not be rejected for seeking the vote of a particular community while visiting Bangladesh? The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo also said that her party will lodge a complaint to the Election Commission (EC) against Modi over the issue. The Chief Minister was referring to Modi’s visit to a temple at Orakandi in Gopalganj in Bangladesh which is considered to be the holiest pilgrims of the Matua community, Dalit Hindus migrated to West Bengal in large numbers from then East Pakistan (modern-day Bangladesh) after Partisan. With a population of about 3 crore they are a formidable vote base for any party. “Why are you (Modi) in Bangladesh when Assembly elections are going on in West Bengal. If you go to Bangladesh to seek the votes of a particular community then why should not your visa and passport be cancelled? We will complain to the EC in this regard,” said Mamata. She also said that while the BJP accuses her of bringing in infiltrators into West Bengal from Bangladesh but now they are resorting to a “marketing drive” in Bangladesh. “We want to know who is right and who is wrong. Otherwise, we will see till the end of this,” said Mamata. She was speaking at a rally in Kharagpur in the West Medinipur district. Referring to the cancellation of Bangladeshi actor Ferdous Ahmed during the last Lok Sabha elections, the TMC supremo said, “a Bangladeshi film star Ferdous participated in one of our rallies. After coming to power BJP ensured that his visa got cancelled. But what will happen if the Prime Minister spoke about votes in a foreign country when the notification for the Assembly elections are already issued?” “Every rule is relaxed for you. But for others it's totally different,” said Mamata. She also questioned Modi’s presence in the ‘Howdy Modi’ event in 2019 in the US. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister dubbed her former lieutenant and BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari and his family as “traitors” and accused them of trying to influence voters by distributing money. She urged women voters to confront goons with ladle and spatula if they try to prevent them from voting. She further alleged that during the day at one polling booth votes were going to BJP even if people were voting for the TMC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modis-passport-visa-must-be-cancelled-for-seeking-vote-in-foreign-country-demands-mamata-banerjee-967319.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi reiterates India's commitment towards concluding Teesta deal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reiterated India's "sincere and continued efforts" to conclude the Teesta water-sharing agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders during his talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. Briefing reporters on Prime Minister Modi's two-day visit to Bangladesh, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla said the Teesta issue was discussed during the talks between the two leaders. "Prime Minister Modi reiterated India's sincere and continued efforts to conclude this agreement in consultation with relevant stakeholders," he said in response to a question. "The Indian side also requested for early finalisation of a draft for sharing of water of Feni River pending with the Bangladeshi side," he said. "River water cooperation is something that will continue...we have extensive cooperation," Shringla said. Two countries are currently cooperating on 56 rivers that flow between them. The cooperation in the area is very diverse as the use of water for drinking, irrigation and how we can work together to control flood and pollution, he said. "We just had a meeting of the water-resources secretaries of the two sides in New Delhi... It was an excellent meeting. We are meeting and are talking about all the important issues, including the Teesta issue," Shringla said. The Teesta river originates in Sikkim, flows through the northern parts of West Bengal, before entering Bangladesh and joining the Brahmaputra river. The flow of the river is crucial for Bangladesh from December to March during which the country requires 50 per cent of the river’s water supply. The Teesta deal was set to be signed during then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s visit to Bangladesh in September, 2011 but was postponed at the last minute due to objections raised by West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Banarjee had expressed strong reservations against giving Bangladesh a greater share of water from the Teesta river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-reiterates-indias-commitment-towards-concluding-teesta-deal-967326.html
27-03-2021||National||BJP did nothing for family of IB officer who lost his life in northeast Delhi riots: AAP||The BJP made tall promises to the family of Intelligence Bureau officer Ankit Sharma who lost his life during the riots here last year, but it did nothing, the AAP claimed on Saturday, a day after the Delhi government announced that a job will be provided to his brother. The Delhi Cabinet had on Friday passed a proposal in this regard. This will be sent to Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal for final approval. The riots had erupted in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. Sharma was found dead in a drain near his home in the riot-hit Chand Bagh area. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government has not only given a compensation of Rs 1 crore to Ankit Sharma's family but has also offered a job to his brother, party spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj told a press conference. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on March 2 last year had announced an honorarium of Rs 1 crore for Sharma's family. "Whenever there is a murder, the BJP gives it a communal colour and incites hatred among people, but does nothing to help anyone," he alleged. "The AAP wants to know what the BJP and the central government have done for late Ankit Sharma and his family in the last one year," Bhardwaj said. The BJP had made "tall promises" to the family of an Intelligence Bureau officer, who was killed during the riots, but it did nothing, he claimed. The AAP demands that the BJP immediately disclose what exactly it has done for the family, Bhardwaj said. He also said that "the Arvind Kejriwal government has given a sum of Rs 26 crores to compensate 2,221 citizens who suffered huge losses during the northeast Delhi riots".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-did-nothing-for-family-of-ib-officer-who-lost-his-life-in-northeast-delhi-riots-aap-967328.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi, B'desh President Hamid discuss Indo-Bangla cooperation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday called on Bangladesh President Abdul Hamid during which the two leaders discussed a wide range of issues pertaining to Indo-Bangla cooperation. Modi is on the concluding leg of his two-day visit to Bangladesh. It is his first trip to a foreign country since the outbreak of the coronavirus. "Had a wonderful meeting with President Abdul Hamid. We exchanged views on a wide range of subjects pertaining to India-Bangladesh cooperation," the prime minister tweeted. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in a tweet said Modi and Hamid had comprehensive discussions on all aspects of bilateral relations and exchanged views on regional and international issues. Before meeting the president, Modi held one-on-one and delegation-level talks with his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina. The two countries also inked five MoUs to further boost their bilateral cooperation. On Friday, the prime minister attended the celebrations of the golden jubilee of the country's independence and the birth centenary of ‘Bangabandhu’ Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in Dhaka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-bdesh-president-hamid-discuss-indo-bangla-cooperation-967330.html
27-03-2021||National||Inspired by Bollywood flick 'Special 26', five rob cash, jewellery from doctor's house; 3 held||Inspired by Bollywood flick 'Special 26', a gang of five posed as CBI officials and robbed Rs 36 lakh, jewellery and foreign currency from a doctor's house in northwest Delhi's Pitampura area, police said on Saturday. Three of them — Bittu (32), Surender (35) and Vibha (35) have been arrested while the other two managed to escape, they said. The police said Rs 36 lakh in cash, jewellery worth Rs 5 lakh, $3,852 and 400 GBP looted from the doctor's house have also been recovered from the possession of the accused. They said efforts are on to nab Amit and Pawan who are on the run. The movie 'Special 26' is based on the 1987 Opera House heist where a group posing as CBI officers executed an income tax raid on the jeweler in Mumbai. In his statement, complainant Priyank Aggarwal said on Friday evening after he reached home from his clinic along with his father and driver, five people, including a woman, entered his house forcefully. They posed as CBI officials, took their mobile phones and started searching their house for black money, the complainant alleged.  After collecting all the cash and jewellery, the accused asked Aggarwal's driver to take them along with complainant to his clinic at Maurya Enclave to "continue their search for black money", police said. However, when the vehicle reached near Maurya Enclave police station, Aggarwal's driver raised an alarm following which the accused tried to escape. However, three of them were nabbed by the police while the other two, who were following the victim's car in another vehicle, managed to escape, police said. The looted cash and jewellery were recovered and handed over to the complainant after due procedure, a senior police officer said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Northwest) Usha Rangnani said a case was registered in this connection. During investigation, it was revealed that Amit had approached Bittu and his brother-in-law Pawan to work with him. On Thursday, Amit, who was based in Haryana's Panipat, informed Bittu that they would have to leave for Delhi the next morning, the officer said.  On Friday, both Bittu and Amit left from Panipat in a car and on the way, they also picked up their associates, including a woman named Vibha from Narela. All of them gathered at a park near Pitampura metro station where they discussed their plan and reached the doctor's house to execute the dacoity, she said.  During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they were inspired from Bollywood movie 'Special 26'' and decided to execute the dacoity using the same modus operandi as shown in the movie, the officer, said. The police also recovered fake identity cards of CBI officials from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inspired-by-bollywood-flick-special-26-five-rob-cash-jewellery-from-doctors-house-3-held-967334.html
27-03-2021||National||PM Modi leaves no stones unturned to woo Matuas in Bangladesh||Even as he was on a visit to neighbouring Bangladesh, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday left no stone unturned to woo the Matuas – a community that could influence the outcome of the polls in several assembly constituencies in West Bengal. He not only visited and paid obeisance at a sacred shrine of the Matuas at Orakandi in Bangladesh but also pledged to upgrade a local middle school for girls and build a new primary school. He eulogized the Hindu Vaishnavite sect’s founder Harichand Thakur, who was born in a nearby village in 1812, but spent most of his life and died at Orakandi in 1878. He also recalled his meeting with the community’s late matriarch, ‘Boro Ma’ Bina Pani Devi, at Thakur Nagar in West Bengal ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 2019. “Today, I am having the same feeling which my Matua brothers and sisters living in India experience when they come to Orakandi (in Bangladesh). When I first visited Bangladesh in 2015, I hoped that someday I would be able to come here. My wish has been fulfilled today,” the Prime Minister said. Modi commenced his two-day visit to the neighbouring country on Friday and visited the shrine of the Matuas at Orakandi on Saturday, the day 30 of the 294 constituencies in West Bengal went to polls in the first of the eight phases of voting for the assembly elections. He visited the Thakur Bari in Orakandi and paid obeisance to Harichand Thakur, who founded the sect out of a reformist movement in the early 19th century. The sect comprised Namashudras, Chamars and Malis, who were then treated as untouchables by the upper caste Hindus of undivided Bengal. “My visit to the Orakandi Thakurbari is an experience I will remember for life. This is a very sacred place, which is closely associated with the Matua Community," the Prime Minister posted on Twitter. The Matuas grew in number in West Bengal as many of them migrated from erstwhile East Pakistan after the partition and continued to do so even after the creation of Bangladesh in 1971. They now account for nearly 17 per cent of the population of West Bengal and can influence the poll-results in 40-45 of the total 294 assembly constituencies in the state. The Matuas of West Bengal have been a trusted support base for the TMC in the past several elections in the state. Mamata Banerjee, the Chief Minister of the state since 2011, had a very close relationship with the matriarch of the community, Bina Pani Devi, till the centenarian died in 2019. The BJP, however, has been trying to make a dent in the TMC’s vote-bank. The saffron party now has an MP from the community – Shantanu Thakur, one of the grandsons of “Boro Ma”, who accompanied the Prime Minister to Orakandi on Saturday. On the second day of his visit to Bangladesh, the Prime Minister also visited Jashoreshwari Kali Mandir, one of the 51 Shakti Peethas spread across the subcontinent and much revered by the Hindus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-leaves-no-stones-unturned-to-woo-matuas-in-bangladesh-967357.html
27-03-2021||National||IAF participates in multilateral air exercise in UAE||In reflection of its gradual expansion of defence ties with the United Arab Emirates, India participated in a multilateral air exercise in the Gulf nation alongside several other key players, including the US and France, officials said on Saturday. The sixth edition of the exercise 'Desert Flag-VI' was conducted from March 4 to 27 at Al Dhafra airbase in the United Arab Emirates (UAE), they said. The exercise was also joined by Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, while Jordan, Greece, Qatar, Egypt and South Korea participated as observer forces, the officials said. "The Indian Air Force participated in the exercise for the first time, fielding Su-30MKI fighter aircraft," the Defence Ministry said. It said the objective of the exercise was to expose participating forces to large force deployment, sharpen tactical capabilities, and enhance interoperability along with fostering closer relations. "During the exercise, the IAF flew large force engagement (LFE) missions in a near realistic environment involving many aircraft of varied types. The IAF successfully undertook all the planned missions, both by day and night," the ministry said in a statement. It said the exercise in the UAE with friendly forces afforded a unique opportunity to gain valuable learning experience to all the participating forces. "The knowledge gained, lessons learnt and bonds made during the course of exercise Desert Flag-VI will go a long way in bolstering professional capabilities of the participating forces," the ministry said. The defence and security ties between India and the UAE are expanding steadily. In February, India sent a warship to Abu Dhabi to participate in two naval defence exhibitions. Chief of Army Staff Gen MM Naravane visited the UAE in December last in the first ever visit by a head of the 1.3 million strong Army to the strategically important Gulf nation. Gen Naravane held extensive talks with senior military officials of the UAE and discussed avenues for enhancing bilateral defence cooperation. The Indian Navy said it provided cover to the IAF fighters while they were flying over the Arabian Sea on their way back from the UAE. "Mission Deployed for #OpSankalp in North Arabian Sea #INSTalwar safeguarding Blue Seas & watching skies above welcomes #Airwarriors. #IndianNavy providing Search and Rescue cover to #IndianAirForce fighters flying over Arabian Sea on their way back from #ExDesertFlag," the Navy tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-participates-in-multilateral-air-exercise-in-uae-967360.html
27-03-2021||National||Hasina requests India to play 'strong role' in Rohingyas' early repatriation to Myanmar||Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina on Saturday requested India, as a member of the UN Security Council, to play a "strong role" in the early repatriation of the displaced Rohingyas back to Myanmar during her talks with her Indian counterpart Narendra Modi. According to a Joint Statement issued on the occasion of Prime Minister Modi’s visit, the issue of the 1.1 million forcibly-displaced persons from the Rakhine State of Myanmar featured during the talks between the two leaders. Both the prime ministers reiterated the importance of their safe, speedy and sustainable return to their homeland for the greater security of the region, it said. Prime Minister Hasina requested India, as a member of the United Nations Security Council, to play a strong role in the early repatriation of the displaced Rohingyas back to Myanmar, the statement said, adding that India assured its continued support on the issue. India is currently a non-permanent member of the UNSC. “Prime Minister Modi expressed appreciation at the generosity of Bangladesh in sheltering and providing humanitarian assistance to the 1.1 million forcibly displaced persons from the Rakhine State of Myanmar,” the Joint Statement said. According to Bangladesh Prime Minister’s Press Secretary Ihsanul Karim, Prime Minister Hasina said the return of these people in the quickest possible time was needed since the lingering of the crisis could create grounds for their involvement in terrorist activities and drug trading. “Sooner is the better,” Karim quoted her as saying. In response, Prime Minister Modi told Hasina that his country wants a sustainable return of the refugees in a sustainable manner. Nearly one million Rohingya Muslims fled a crackdown by the Myanmarese military in 2017 in Rakhine state and are living in camps in Cox's Bazar in Bangladesh. Myanmar has faced international pressure to allow Rohingyas to return to Rakhine and grant them citizenship rights.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hasina-requests-india-to-play-strong-role-in-rohingyas-early-repatriation-to-myanmar-967364.html
27-03-2021||National||Over 5.94 crore Covid-19 doses administered till now: Centre||Over 5.94 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till now in the country, out of which 13.83 lakh jabs have been given on Saturday, the Union Health Ministry said. The ministry said that of the total 5,94,92,824 doses, 81,26,776 healthcare workers were given the first dose and 51,62,679 HCWs were given the second dose. The ministry, in a statement, said 88,27,124 frontline workers received the first dose and 35,83,060 FLWs were given the second dose. Besides, 2,73,18,810 beneficiaries aged over 60 and 64,74,375 beneficiaries aged 45 and above with specific comorbidities also got vaccinated. A total of 13,83,051 vaccine doses were given till 8 pm on Saturday, the 71st day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination. "Out of which 13,20,467 beneficiaries were vaccinated for first dose and 62,584 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose of vaccine as per the provisional report. Final reports would be completed for the day by late tonight," the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-594-crore-covid-19-doses-administered-till-now-centre-967366.html
27-03-2021||National||Centre not taking away DMF, auctioning rights of states: Pralhad Joshi||Union Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Centre is not framing rules under District Mineral Foundation (DMF) to infringe on the powers of state governments but to provide clarity. Speaking to media persons on Saturday, the Centre is laying guidelines in utilising the DMF fund, whereas the states are free to frame rules and spend those funds as per the rules. He said, DMF came into existence six years ago and over the years it has accumulated more than Rs 45,000 crore. However, only Rs 20,000 crore has been utilised so far. The Centre has issued direction for spending funds directly in the affected areas as well as national programmes such as malnutrition eradication and other immunisation programmes. The money under the DMF would be strictly spent in the mining-affected districts and funds should be utilised for the welfare of the affected people. The Centre is not taking away any powers from the state in this regard, he said. With regard to auctioning of mines, the minister said that in the last six years the Union government has unlocked nearly 143 virgin mines in several states. However, so far only seven minefields are auctioned. Such a slow approach will neither benefit the state nor the Centre. We are only utilising 1% of the total natural minerals available in India and exporting huge quantity. This has to be prevented, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-not-taking-away-dmf-auctioning-rights-of-states-pralhad-joshi-967384.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Congress, BJP spar over PM Modi's 'I did Satyagraha' remark in Bangladesh||Prime Minister Narendra Modi's remarks of participating in the satyagraha in 1971 for Bangladesh's freedom sparked off a political slugfest with the Congress accusing him of lying and the BJP hitting back. “He cannot speak the truth even by mistake,” senior Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said referring to the Prime Minister’s remarks of taking part in the ‘satyagraha’ for the freedom of Bangladesh as a 20-year-old youth. Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that the Prime Minister was giving Bangladesh a “taste of Indian ‘fake news’”. “The absurdity is that everyone knows who liberated Bangladesh,” he said. BJP leader Amit Malviya hit back at the Congress with a citation awarded to former Prime Minister late Atal Bihari Vajpayee by the Bangladesh government that mentioned a ‘Gana Satyagraha’ organised by the Jana Sangh between August 1-11, 1971 to press for the Indian government’s expedited support to Bangladesh’s Liberation War. Addressing the golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh’s Independence in Dhaka on Friday, Modi had recalled his participation in the satyagraha for Bangladesh’s freedom. “I must have been 20-22 years old when I and my colleagues did satyagraha for Bangladesh's freedom,” he said. “Was Prime Minister Modi part of satyagraha organised by Jana Sangha for recognition of Bangladesh? Yes, he was,” Malviya said. He added that Modi, in a book he had authored in 1978, also wrote about going to Tihar jail during the Bangladesh Satyagraha. “The Bangladesh victory is the achievement of our brave jawans, people of Bangladesh and a courageous PM like Smt Indira Gandhi. Any attempt to appropriate this great win and change history is deplorable,” Chhattisgarh Health Minister T S Singhdeo said. Tharoor responded to the BJP’s remarks saying that the Jana Sangh agitation of 1971 was for the recognition of a provisional government of Bangladesh and not for the “freedom” of Bangladesh as claimed by Modi. “Freedom was won by war and the recognised government was given due official status once it controlled territory,” Tharoor said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-bjp-spar-over-pm-modis-i-did-satyagraha-remark-in-bangladesh-967048.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi asks people to cast votes against 'divisive forces' and strengthen democracy||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged voters on Saturday to cast their ballots against "divisive forces" to strengthen democracy as polling began for the first phase of the Assembly elections in West Bengal and Assam. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who has been campaigning for the Assam polls, urged people to vote for progress and the golden future of the state. In a Facebook post in Hindi, she urged the people of Assam, especially youngsters and women, to vote in large numbers. "Do cast your ballot against divisive forces to strengthen democracy," Rahul Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. The Congress is contesting the West Bengal polls in a coalition with the Left parties and the Indian Secular Front (ISF). Elections to the 294-member state Assembly are to be held in eight phases starting Saturday, with the final round of voting scheduled to take place on April 29. The Congress-led "Mahajot" alliance is seeking to wrest power from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in Assam, which is voting in three phases starting Saturday. The counting of votes for both states as well as for the Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Assembly polls will be taken up on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-asks-people-to-cast-votes-against-divisive-forces-and-strengthen-democracy-967167.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Courtrooms to shrink in future thanks to technology: CJI||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Saturday said that courtrooms and court complexes would become smaller in future due to technological interventions. He also said that although the coronavirus pandemic has posed challenges in access to justice, it has paved the way for modernising courtrooms. The CJI was addressing a gathering after inaugurating a new building for the Goa Bench of Bombay High Court at Porvorim near here. Union Law and Justice, Communications, Electronics and Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant and others were also present on the occasion. "I see a trend of having smaller courtrooms in the future because of Ravi Shankar Prasad's ministry. The e-filing and data which can be contained are going to take away the need for many storage rooms and many rooms which are necessary for storing papers. The SC has done its bit on issues of court infrastructure. It has devised benchmarks and frameworks for minimum standards," he said in his speech. The CJI said that the discussion on infrastructure has largely been on the quantitative part, that is on building more courtrooms. "Though building more courtrooms is necessary and important, there was very little emphasis on modernising the existing courtrooms. Though the pandemic has posed a lot of problems to access to justice, it has paved the way for modernising the courtroom," he said. The CJI also stressed the need to have a new building for the Bombay High Court in Mumbai. "Bombay (High Court) also needs a new building. The Bombay building was constructed for seven judges. It is now housing more than 40. It is impossible," he said. On the judiciary in Goa, an erstwhile Portuguese colony, the CJI said that the legacy of justice in Goa spans more than four-and-a-half centuries. "I am including the period before the liberation contrary to many other areas. Even though it was not part of the Indian union, there was a well-established system of administration of justice," the CJI said. The CJI had also presided over as a judge on the Goa bench of the high court before being promoted to the apex court. "I am the only judge or one of the few judges who sat so often at Goa. I heard remarks that Justice Bobde is a Goa judge. I am happy when I am described like this because that's when I admired Goa, its culture, natural habitat, its music and even football," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/courtrooms-to-shrink-in-future-thanks-to-technology-cji-967250.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Deadlock will end if farm bodies are willing: Narendra Singh Tomar||Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday said the deadlock over the ongoing farmers' agitation will end the day the leaders of farm unions decide to sort out this issue. "The government will also find a way out. The Centre is ready for talks and wants to resolve the issue," Tomar told reporters. He reached here after campaigning for the BJP for the Assembly polls in Assam, where voting for the first phase was held on Saturday. "The incumbent BJP government in Assam worked well. After a long period, the people of Assam witnessed peace, development and a sense of security under this government. The BJP will come to power again in that state," Tomar said. To a query, the Morena MP said the BJP is in a very strong position in TMC-ruled West Bengal, where polling was held for the first phase. Thousands of agriculturists, mainly from Haryana, Punjab and western Uttar Pradesh, have been protesting since past four months at Delhi's border points, demanding a rollback of three new farm laws, terming them "anti-farmers". The Centre in September last year enacted the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Multiple rounds of talks between the government and leaders of farmers have failed to break the impasse.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/deadlock-will-end-if-farm-bodies-are-willing-narendra-singh-tomar-967273.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Union minister Smriti Irani takes out two-wheeler procession in support of BJP candidate in TN's Coimbatore||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday drove a two-wheeler on the city main road as part of canvassing votes for Vanathi Srinivasan, the BJP candidate from the Coimbatore South Constituency. The BJP women's wing organised the two-wheeler procession in the Raja Street area. Vanathi Srinivasan, who is also the BJP mahila morcha president, accompanied Irani. The union minister wore an helmet and followed the Covid-19 protocol by wearing face mask. Irani and Vanathi Srinivasan along with another woman functionary later travelled in an autorickshaw, with the public raising slogans in support of the BJP and hailing both leaders. Irani, who addressed a North Indian community outreach programme joined the 'kolattam,' a dance with sticks, organised by Gujarati women to welcome her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/union-minister-smriti-irani-takes-out-two-wheeler-procession-in-support-of-bjp-candidate-in-tns-coimbatore-967306.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Kansa to ladle: Hyperboles rule the roost in election speeches||Addressing a rally in Assam, CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar compared BJP strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma with the mythological tyrant King Kansa of the Mahabharata, while from the BJP side Union Minister Jitendra Singh lambasted Congress for trying to "poison" the minds of people on issues like the CAA. Incumbent Chief Minister of Assam Sarbanand Sonowal called Congress AIUDF alliance as an "enemy of the nation". In West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asked women supporters of the TMC to confront "goons" allegedly brought in by BJP with 'hata and khunti' (ladle and spatula)." Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday rued that Congress-led UDF has taken up the job of 'hangman' by placing a noose around the neck of institutions like KIIFB, which are being targeted by BJP-led government at Centre. Combining his temple-hopping during the poll season with a plea to protect the 'pluralism' of the country, Rahul Gandhi on Saturday slammed RSS and BJP as he urged voters to cast their ballots against the saffron family that "has blocked all socio-economic progress". On the day of the first phase of voting in TMC-ruled West Bengal and BJP-ruled Assam, Gandhi cautioned people against "divisive forces". The BJP upped the ante on issues of CAA and infiltration in the states. "India’s inherent pluralism is under attack by the RSS-BJP which has blocked all socio-economic progress. We have to rid our country of this divisive hurdle," Gandhi tweeted with the hashtag #Elections2021. India’s inherent pluralism is under attack by the RSS-BJP which has blocked all socio-economic progress. In Left-ruled Kerala, too, Gandhi said, "do not support an ideology that divides the country, that spreads hatred, anger. support an ideology that’s affectionate, that believes in brotherhood and in bringing people together. That is why you should support the UDF and the Congress." Gandhi also visited Lord Ayyappan temple in Erumeli in Kerala, a state where the BJP is trying hard to expand, riding on Hindutva issues. Congress, desperate to reclaim the middle ground of ideological space between Left and BJP, has off late tried hard to project itself as a party that cares for the interest of all communities while making concerted and deliberate moves to be seen as a party that cares for Hindu symbols. Sharing glimpses of the roadshow at Chakkarakkal, Kerala, BJP chief JP Nadda took to Twitter claiming "people are fed up with the corruption of LDF Govt. My gratitude to the people of the state for showing their faith & support in huge numbers for BJP." Sharing glimpses of the roadshow at Chakkarakkal, Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kansa-to-ladle-hyperboles-rule-the-roost-in-election-speeches-967348.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Tejashwi dubs BJP 'Badka Jhoota Party', says works only for 'big people'||Terming BJP as "Badka Jhoota Party" (Biggest Lying Party), RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday said the problem of unemployment will end once the betrayers will be dethroned. Addressing two back-to-back rallies at Ratabari and Dholai in Barak valley of Assam, the Leader of Opposition in Bihar Assembly said the situation of inflation was not so severe during the tenure of the Congress. "BJP means Badka Jhoota Party. You need to be careful of them. The BJP does not talk about 'mudda' (issues) but talks about 'murda' (dead). And what are the main issues?... Our democracy and Constitution is at stake. We need to save that," he said. Alleging that the BJP works only for the "big people", Yadav claimed every big organisation like the railways having scope to generate jobs are being sold off. "Job is the biggest problem. Large number of youths are unemployed. Unemployment is the biggest enemy. How will it be cured then? It will be cured when we will remove the cheater and betrayer from the chair. "So, will there be 'khela hobe' or not? If there is 'khela hobe', then unemployment will end. Five lakh jobs will be given as guarantees. And for that, all of you should be united while voting," he added. The RJD leader asserted that inflation was not so high during the Congress regime and prices of petrol, diesel and cooking gas were not so high. "How will you run your house at such high inflation? I want to thank Rahul Gandhi and all the 'Mahajot' (Grand Alliance) partners because of the guarantee of giving Rs 2,000 per month to every housewife," he said. The Congress, which was in power for 15 years in Assam since 2001, has formed a 'Grand Alliance' with AIUDF, BPF, CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML), Anchalik Gana Morcha (AGM), RJD and Jimochayan (Deori) Peoples Party (JPP) to fight the Assembly election against the BJP-led NDA. Yadav was in Assam to campaign for Congress candidates Sambhu Singh Mallah (Ratabari), Kamakhya Prasad Mala (Dholai), Mukesh Pandey (Lakhipur) and Sashi Kanta Das (Raha).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tejashwi-dubs-bjp-badka-jhoota-party-says-works-only-for-big-people-967350.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Nearly 80% turnout in WB, over 72% in Assam till 5 pm: EC||A voter turnout of 79.79 percent was recorded in West Bengal and 72.14 percent in Assam till 5 PM on Saturday in the first phase of assembly elections in these states, the Election Commission said. Voting was held in 30 assembly constituencies in West Bengal and 47 seats in Assam in this phase with a total of 21,825 polling stations. During the polls, 10288 each of Ballot Units (BUs), Control Units (CUs) and VVPATs were used in West Bengal and 11,537 each of BUs, CUs and 37 VVPATs were used in Assam. One control unit, on VVPAT and at least one ballot unit make an EVM. "Non-functioning rate during the poll is lesser than experienced in last few polls," an EC statement said without elaborating. On Saturday,  a total of 167 cases of Model Code of Conduct violations were reported through the cVIGIL app from West Bengal out of which 111 were disposed of by 4.30 PM. Similarly, 582 cases were reported from Assam with 423 disposed of till 4.30 PM. From the date of notification of the election till the first phase of voting, a record seizure of Rs 281.28 crore has been made in these states. The seizure figure, which includes cash, liquor, narcotics and freebies, is more than four times higher than the total combined seizure of Rs 60.91 crore in assembly polls of 2016. Till date, Rs 97.31crore has been seized in Assam (as against a total seizure of Rs 16.58 crore in 2016 assembly polls) and a total of 183.97 crore for West Bengal (as against a total seizure of Rs 44.33crore in  2016 assembly polls). The poll panel said it had laid great emphasis on ensuring transparent and vigilant mechanisms for conducting elections that are free of inducement and intimidation. In West Bengal, nearly 74 lakh electorate across 10,288 polling stations had registered to exercise their franchise in this phase. Voting was held in 47 assembly constituencies of Assam with a total of 81 lakh electorate registered across 11,537 polling stations. The number of polling stations had increased as the number of voters per polling station was reduced from 1,500 to 1000 keeping social distancing norms in mind due to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a major push in conducting free and fair elections, live monitoring and webcasting mechanism for more than 50 percent of polling stations, including critical and vulnerable polling booths, were put in place to ensure safe and secure atmosphere in polling areas. The Commission, state chief electoral officers, district election officers and the observers could watch live streaming and keep a close watch on these polling booths in Assam and West Bengal. Webcasting arrangements were put in place for 5,392 polling stations in West Bengal and 5,039 polling stations in Assam, the EC said. All the polling stations were directed to follow Covid-19 safety protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/nearly-80-turnout-in-wb-over-72-in-assam-till-5-pm-ec-967359.html
27-03-2021||National Politics||Smriti Irani hits out at A Raja, says DMK doesn't respect women||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday lashed out at DMK MP A Raja for his alleged unsavoury personal remarks at Chief Minister K Palaniswami and accused the DMK of being a party that does not respect women. Without naming Raja and referring to his reported remarks against "a Chief Minister," (Palaniswami), she said "DMK is such a political party that does not respect women." The Union Minister for Women and Child Development and Textiles was campaigning for BJP's Thousand Lights candidate, actor-politician Khushbu Sundar, for the April 6 assembly polls. The BJP and AIADMK are facing the polls as allies. "Will they (DMK) give respect to average Tamil women. Do remember this when you go to polling station on April 6 to vote," Irani said and appealed to the people to vote for their own families and not for the DMK's 'dynasty.' After Raja's alleged remarks, the AIADMK has preferred a complaint with the state Chief Electoral Officer demanding that the former Union Minister be debarred from campaigning for undermining the reputation of the chief minister. DMK president M K Stalin has also urged his party cadres to refrain from using undignified language in their poll speeches. Pointing out that voting for the BJP amounted to a clear mandate for the Centre's development and transparency, Irani said "BJP stands for development, people's prosperity and respect for women." "Also, imagine what the Congress-led UPA would have done during the pandemic. Would they have released Rs 30,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of 22 crore poor women," she asked. The DMK, the minister said, represents "Dynasty, Money and Katta panchayat," repeating the statement made by her party chief JP Nadda during his election rally in Tamil Nadu on Friday. "They looted our democracy so that their family could make money and Katta panchayat to ensure the mafia raj of DMK and Congress persists in this country," Irani said addressing a huge gathering at a BJP roadshow here. "But today we are before you to plead that autocracy does not rise again and Katta panchayat (kangaroo court) does not rear its head. So when you go to polling booth, vote for your families, for democracy and BJP," she said while listing various pro-people initiatives of the Central BJP government. She also campaigned for the BJP Harbour constituency candidate Vinoj P Selvam. She later took to Twitter to share pictures of her election-related engagements in the city.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/smriti-irani-hits-out-at-a-raja-says-dmk-doesnt-respect-women-967380.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Chinmayanand acquitted of keeping woman law student in captivity||A special court for lawmakers on Friday acquitted former Union Minister and BJP leader Swami Chinmayanand of keeping a law student in his captivity at Shahjahanpur allegedly to rape her. The prosecution could not prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt, said special judge P K Rai, acquitting him of the charges. The victim student too had turned hostile during the course of the trial in the case against Chinmayanand, the court noted. For the want of evidence, the court also acquitted the law student and other co-accused Sanjay Singh, DPS Rathore, Vikram Singh, Sachin Singh and Ajeet Singh of the charges of trying to extort money from the BJP leader. At the time of the pronouncement of the verdict, Chinmayanand and other accused persons were present in the court. The court ordered acquittal as all witnesses had turned hostile in both cases. The case against Chinmayanand was lodged at Kotwali police station in Shahjahanpur on August 27, 2019, on a complaint of the victim student's father, who had said that her daughter was pursuing LLM in a college run by Chinmayanand's ashram and was living in a hostel there. He had said her mobile phone was switched off since August 23, he had said, adding he found through her Facebook account that she had been threatened by Chinmayanand and his accomplices of her physical harassment and rape, besides dire consequences. The student’s father had expressed apprehension that something untoward had happened to his daughter. He had said when he tried to contact Chinmayanad, he had switched off his mobile. Chinmayanad was arrested in the case on September 20, 2019, and sent to jail. Later, the investigation was completed in the case and a charge sheet against him was filed on November 4, 2019, under section 376-C of the IPC, an offence pertaining to the abuse of one's position by a person in authority to “induce or seduce” a woman under his charge to have “sexual intercourse, not amounting to rape” besides other sections. On the other hand, advocate Om Singh had lodged an FIR on August 25, 2019, at the same police station against the law student and her friends, allegedly for demanding Rs 5 crore as extortion from Chinmayanad. In the case filed by Chinmayanand against the law student and her friends, the charge sheet was filed on November 4, 2019, indicting them under section 385 of the IPC for putting a person in fear of injury for extortion and various other sections of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chinmayanand-acquitted-of-keeping-woman-law-student-in-captivity-967023.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Special teams to be deployed to prosecute traffic violators in Delhi on Holi||In view of Holi, the Delhi Traffic Police has made elaborate arrangements to ensure the safety of motorists and special checking teams will also be deployed at major intersections to detect and prosecute traffic violators, officials said on Saturday. The traffic police has appealed to all motorists to avoid traffic violations and urged people to follow government directives and not celebrate the upcoming festivals at public places. As the festival of Holi will be celebrated on Monday, elaborate traffic arrangements have been made to ensure the safety of motorists on roads and strict action will be taken against those found indulging in drunken driving, performing stunts on two-wheelers, riding without helmets, over-speeding, jumping the red light, dangerous driving or any other traffic violations, according to the traffic police. "Special checking teams will be deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points to detect and prosecute traffic violations. Special traffic police checking teams, along with PCR and local police teams, will be stationed on various roads and strategic locations all over Delhi to check drunken driving, red-light jumping and other violations. Radar guns will be deployed at various vulnerable roads to check incidents of over-speeding," Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Meenu Choudhary said. Citing the government directives in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic, the police said public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals such as Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri are not allowed at public places, parks, markets or religious places across Delhi and any person found violating the directives shall be prosecuted in accordance with law. "According to the directions of the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety, in cases of drunken driving, red-light jumping, using a mobile phone while driving, dangerous driving and over-speeding, the driving licence will also be seized and be liable for suspension for a period of minimum three months," Choudhary said. Action will also be initiated against the owners whose vehicles are found to be driven by minors and unauthorised persons performing stunts or driving without a licence, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/special-teams-to-be-deployed-to-prosecute-traffic-violators-in-delhi-on-holi-967180.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||No possibility of lockdown in Delhi: Satyendar Jain||Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday dismissed any possibility of imposing another lockdown in Delhi, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the coronavirus that is again surging rapidly. Jain said there was a logic behind the lockdown enforced earlier as nobody knew then how the virus propagates. "It follows a 14-day cycle -- between a person catching the infection and recovering from it. Experts said the virus will die if a lockdown is imposed for 21 days," Jain told reporters. "Authorities kept on extending the lockdown, but the virus did not die. I don't think lockdown is a solution," he said. There is "no possibility" of imposing another lockdown in the city, Jain said. Jain said action will be taken against those found violating the directions issued for Holi celebrations. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority had on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such Holi and Navaratri. The government has set up a number of teams to ensure that people adhere to its directions on Holi. District magistrates and police have created district-wise teams. Legal action would be taken against violators, he said. The minister added that there were enough hospital beds available for coronavirus patients and it could be increased if the need arises. "Only 20 per cent of the beds are occupied currently," he said. Around 90,000 tests are being conducted in Delhi every day, which is five times the national average, the minister said, adding that random testing is being done at railway stations and the airport to check people coming from outside. The minister said a direct correlation can be seen in the changing weather and the increase in the number of cases. "However, it cannot be concretely said that this is the sole reason for the surge in cases." Delhi reported over 1,500 coronavirus cases for the second day on the trot on Friday, while nine more people, highest in around two months, succumbed to the pathogen, the Health Department said. The 1,534 new infections pushed the tally to 6,54,276, while over 6.36 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. This is the highest number of cases since December 16 when 1,547 people tested positive, according to official data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-possibility-of-lockdown-in-delhi-satyendar-jain-967195.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Can't remain bystander to violation of law: Supreme Court on Mukhtar Ansari case||The Supreme Court on Friday ordered shifting of mafia don-turned-BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Roopnagar jail in Punjab to a prison in Banda district in Uttar Pradesh within two weeks, saying the top court cannot remain as a bystander if a convict or undertrial opposed his transfer. A bench of Justice Ashok Bhushan and Justice R Subhash Reddy also rejected the Punjab government's opposition to the transfer plea by the Uttar Pradesh government. "We are of the considered view that it is evidently a fit case to invoke our power under Article 142 (order to do complete justice) of the Constitution to order transfer the custody of the Ansari," the bench said. The court noted that the Uttar Pradesh Police were denied custody of Ansari 26 times between February 14, 2019, and February 14, 2020, on "trivial grounds under the guise of medical conditions by mentioning ordinary diseases like diabetes mellitus, skin allergy, hypertension, backache, throat infection, etc". Ansari, BSP MLA from Mau has been lodged in district jail Roopnagar since January 2019, in connection with an extortion case. The court noted the Punjab Police did not file a charge sheet in the matter and Ansari preferred not to seek default bail. It rejected a plea of Ansari seeking transfer of cases pending against him in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi. "In our opinion, a convict or an undertrial prisoner, who disobeys the law of the land, cannot oppose his transfer from one prison to another. Courts are not to be a helpless bystander when the rule of law is being challenged with impunity," the bench said.  The bench said Ansari shall be lodged in Banda jail and the jail Superintendent will extend necessary medical facilities. "The arms of law are long enough to remedy the situation. If there are any medical ailments to the petitioner, every care shall be taken by the Jail Authorities but at the same time, the spacious plea of ill health by referring to minor ailments, cannot be taken to oppose transfer," the bench said. The Uttar Pradesh government filed a writ petition in the court seeking transfer of custody of Mukhtar Ansari from Punjab to face trial in as many as 14 cases pending over there. It claimed more than 30 FIRs, including those related to heinous crimes of murder and the Gangster Act, have been filed against Ansari. Ansari, for his part, alleged there is a threat to his life in Uttar Pradesh as one of the co-accused was "eliminated in the encounter" by the Uttar Pradesh Police. The Punjab government said Ansari could be tried through video conferencing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cant-remain-bystander-to-violation-of-law-supreme-court-on-mukhtar-ansari-case-967196.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Omar Abdullah urges India, Pakistan to move beyond 'secret talks'||Regional National Conference (NC) leader and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir Omar Abdullah Saturday said that India and Pakistan must move beyond ‘secret talks’ and join the table for open dialogue to resolve all issues including Kashmir. “NC has always welcomed peace overtures between India and Pakistan. We have always been stating that war is no solution and all issues can be resolved through dialogue,” he told reporters on the sidelines of a party function in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district. “I don’t want to go into how these two countries are coming closer to each other. What I want to say is that India and Pakistani leadership must move beyond secret talks and join the table for an open dialogue,” Omar said. The NC leader added that dialogue was the only way to resolve issues including Kashmir. “There are a lot of issues between India and Pakistan.” On Enforcement Directorate (ED) questioning of PDP president, Mehbooba Mufti, he evaded direct answer saying she is not the only leader who was summoned by probe agencies. “From Tamil Nadu to J&K, we have observed in the past seven years that leaders opposing the Centre’s policies are being summoned by the agencies. We are ready to face this too,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/omar-abdullah-urges-india-pakistan-to-move-beyond-secret-talks-967204.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Mahakumbh footfall anticipation raises fears of fresh Covid-19 spike in Haridwar||As many major states in India grapple with the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the holy city of Haridwar is fighting its own fear of a spike in cases due to the ongoing Mahakumbh pilgrimage. Haridwar, where millions of pilgrims are gathering for the Mahakumbh, has seen a staggering 250% rise in Covid-19 cases in the last week as compared to the month's first week. Around  278 fresh cases were recorded in Haridwar over the last week while  78 were reported in the first week of March. The city generally hosts over 120 million pilgrims for the event that is spread over four months. However, the pandemic saw the event being shortened to one month while 30-40 million pilgrims are expected to arrive in April. The royal bath or 'shahi snan' event that started the Mahakumb festivities on March 11 already saw millions of people assembling in Haridwar. Surprisingly, testing has not been amped up significantly even with a massive influx of pilgrims. March 1 saw about 4,000 tests being done with 4,715 tests done on Friday. Out of the 1,162 currently active cases in Uttarakhand, Haridwar alone claims 385. A gathering of about 10 million people is expected to participate in the April 1 'shahi snan', as per Dr SK Jha, Chief Medical Officer, Haridwar. "Those with no negative Covid-19 reports would be returned. And those found positive through random testing would be isolated. We have the capacity to isolate over 10,000 people, with the help of private hospitals. The testing on normal days will be increased as per the pilgrim rush and on Shahi Snan days, it can go even beyond 50,000. For the last four days, we have been conducting tests of 3,000 to 5,000 people,” he reassured. Pilgrims returning from Mahakumbh now have to provide a negative report from an RT-PCR test taken not more than 72 hours earlier, a move that came after an Uttarakhand High Court directive on Wednesday following worries of cases rapidly rising due to the gathering.  “On Thursday, they tested over 3,900 people. With such low testing at present, what can be the situation when one crore people will turn up. It won’t serve the purpose because even if Covid-19 infection is brought by few people into Kumbh area, it has potential to spread in millions”, said Anoop Nautiyal, founder of Dehradun-based Social Development for Communities.  Nautiyal, who has been analysing Covid-data for a while now, said that there needed to be a ten-fold increase in testing considering the massive footfall in Haridwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mahakumbh-footfall-anticipation-raises-fears-of-fresh-covid-19-spike-in-haridwar-967214.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Celebrate Holi at home, avoid public gatherings, Delhi Police appeals||The Delhi Police on Saturday appealed to people to avoid public gatherings on Holi and celebrate the festival at home in compliance with coronavirus guidelines. It also warned of strict action against those found indulging in public celebrations during the festival. Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) had on Tuesday ordered that there would be no public celebrations in the national capital during the upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. Chief Secretary Vijay Dev had directed the authorities to ensure strict compliance of the order. Citing the DDMA order, Delhi Police PRO Chinmoy Biswal urged the people to follow Covid-19 protocol, adding that public celebrations and gatherings during Holi shall not be allowed in public places like grounds, parks, markets or religious places. "According to the DDMA order, people not allowed to go out and play Holi in large numbers. Delhi Police appeals to the public to celebrate Holi with their family members at home. Strict legal action will be taken against those found playing Holi outside in large gatherings," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/celebrate-holi-at-home-avoid-public-gatherings-delhi-police-appeals-967216.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan government to roll out health insurance coverage scheme on May 1, registration starts from April 1||Rajasthan will roll out its ambitious universal health insurance coverage scheme on May 1, the registration process for which will start from April 1, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday. Under the scheme, announced in the state budget for 2021-22 by Gehlot, every family will get an insurance cover of Rs five lakh by paying Rs 850 annually. "We are going to implement the universal health coverage scheme from May 1 and registration will start from April 1," the chief minister said at a virtual programme of the medical education department. He said the medical and health sector is the topmost priority for his government. "Development works, water, electricity, education, irrigation, social welfare and other sectors are also on the government's priority list, but health is the topmost priority area for us," Gehlot said. He said the state government had launched the "Nirogi Rajasthan" campaign and the preparations for it, which started in December 2019, proved to be crucial in March 2020 at the time of the coronavirus outbreak. "The corona management of the government was excellent, due to which the recovery rate was the highest and the mortality rate was the lowest in the state. We have strengthened our medical infrastructure and the per-day corona testing capacity is 70,000 now," the chief minister said. He said Rajasthan's "Bhilwara model" was praised worldwide and the "No Mask, No Entry" slogan was followed in the UK also. Highlighting the medical facilities in the state, Gehlot said his government is exploring the possibility of tie-ups with foreign universities for nursing-training courses. He said the numbers of medical colleges, seats in the MBBS and MD courses have increased in the state and the government is developing model community health centres (CHCs). Expressing concern on the second wave of coronavirus cases, Gehlot said the state government has imposed certain restrictions, which would be made stricter if the situation worsens. However, he ruled out the possibility of clamping a lockdown, saying it causes losses and is not a solution. The chief minister said if required, the state government would impose stricter restrictions without clamping a lockdown. Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal, Transport Minister Pratap Singh and senior officials attended the programme during which the foundations of various projects were laid and a few other projects were inaugurated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-government-to-roll-out-health-insurance-coverage-scheme-on-may-1-registration-starts-from-april-1-967218.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||GNCTD Bill murder of democracy, move to target AAP government: Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday urged opposition leaders to rise above party lines to oppose the “dictatorial decision” to “curtail” the powers of the Delhi government through an Act of Parliament. Gehlot said that the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi Act was passed by Parliament to curtail the powers of the Delhi government. The senior Congress leader described the Modi government action as “murder of democracy” and urged opposition leaders to rise above the party line against this decision. “If it goes on like this in the time to come, the Modi government can abolish the powers of the state government by bringing such laws if BJP loses the election in any state,” Gehlot said. “This dictatorial decision of the Modi government should be opposed at the national level by rising above the party line,” he said. Earlier this week, Parliament passed the GNCTD Act that delineates the role of the Lieutenant Governor and the elected government as interpreted by the Supreme Court in its rulings in July 2018 and February 2019. Gehlot claimed that the Bill passed by Parliament amounted to abolishing the power of an elected government. “Earlier the Supreme Court had clearly ruled that the elected government is the real head of Delhi,” he said. Gehlot accused the Modi government of wanting to run the country in a fascist manner. “Electoral malpractices, horse-trading of elected MLAs, and when failing in both, it resorts to passing such a dictatorial bill on the strength of its majority in Parliament. This is how the Modi government rules,” the Rajasthan chief minister said. Gehlot said while in opposition, BJP used to demand more rights by giving full statehood status to Delhi. “Prime Minister advocates cooperative federalism but in reality, the NDA government is imposing decisions on state governments by enacting such laws,” Gehlot said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gnctd-bill-murder-of-democracy-move-to-target-aap-government-rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-967230.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi issues SOP for protecting interfaith, inter-caste couples; launches 'special cell'||The Delhi government has issued a standard operating procedure (SoP) for the protection of inter-faith and inter-caste couples from harassment and threats and directed setting up of 'special cells', headed by deputy commissioners of police, to look into such matters. According to the SOP, the government will provide accommodation in its 'safe house' to those couples whose relationship is being opposed by their families or the local community or khaps. The government said the existing 181 toll-free women helpline of the Delhi Commission for Women will serve as a round-the-clock helpline to receive from inter-faith and inter-caste married couples complaints of threat and harassment and provide necessary assistance. "The telecallers trained to handle distress calls and already aware about available services can provide necessary assistance/advice to the couple in distress. If required, they can be further trained to handle such calls," stated the SOP issued by the social welfare department. It stated that after hearing the couple, the DCP of the area concerned, who will perform as head of the 'special cell', will bring the entire facts to the knowledge of the district magistrate and convey their requirement for stay in 'safe house'. Earlier this week, violence had erupted at southeast Delhi's Harijan Basti allegedly in connection with an inter-faith marriage. The Delhi Police has arrested several persons for their alleged involvement in the incident. "Adequate security shall be provided to the couple in form of PSO (protective service officer) and the 'safe house' will also be secured by the DCP of the area concerned. "The couple shall be briefed about the threat to them and in no case they be exposed till the issue is resolved," the department said in the SOP. In case the couple doesn't want to stay in the 'safe house', the special cell will provide protection to them in accordance with the threat perception at their place of stay. If preliminary enquiry ascertains the authenticity of threats, the DCP concerned will direct an ACP or sub-division police officer to register an FIR against those threatening the couple. According to the social welfare department, the government has established 'Safe House' at a state-run residential area in north Delhi's Kingsway Camp which can accommodate maximum of three couples. It said in March 2018, the Supreme Court had directed the state to create 'special cell' in every district comprising the superintendent of police, the district social welfare officers and others to receive petition or complaints of harassment and threats to inter-caste and inter-faith couples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-issues-sop-for-protecting-interfaith-inter-caste-couples-launches-special-cell-967267.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Trainer aircraft crashes near Bhopal; three including pilot injured||A trainer aircraft crashed near Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, leaving three persons, including the pilot, injured, police said. "The small-body aircraft was flying towards Guna from Bhopal when it crashed in an agricultural field near Badwai village in afternoon," Gandhi Nagar police station in-charge Arun Sharma told PTI. He said all the three persons on board sustained minor injuries. None of them was hospitalised, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/trainer-aircraft-crashes-near-bhopal-three-including-pilot-injured-967281.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Man cannot shirk responsibility as husband to maintain legally-wedded wife, Delhi court says||Dismissing a man's appeal against an order directing him to pay interim maintenance to his estranged wife, a Delhi court has said that it is the husband's social and lawful duty to maintain his legally wedded wife and he cannot run away from his responsibility. The court, however, said the wife should also try to find a job for herself and should not waste her talent sitting idle at home since she was qualified. Principal District and Sessions Judge Swarana Kanta Sharma said the magistrate court has rightly directed the man to pay Rs 20,000 per month as interim maintenance to his wife. "As per settled law, the appellant (husband) cannot shirk his responsibility as husband to maintain his legally wedded wife, which is his social and lawful duty towards his wife," the court said in its order passed on March 25. It noted that as per the law, the wife was also entitled to the same standard of living as enjoyed by her husband. During the hearing, the man's counsel had claimed that his wife had herself left the matrimonial home without any reason and refused to come back. His lawyer further argued that he was jobless from 2019 as he had left his job to pursue higher studies and thus, the trial court passed the interim orders without considering his current situation and liabilities. Advocate Amit Kumar, appearing for the wife, argued that she was allegedly tortured by her in-­laws at the matrimonial home which had compelled her to file a complaint under the Domestic Violence Act against them and reside with her brother. Kumar said the magistrate court had passed the order after considering the man's expenses and his last drawn salary, and that his wife was unemployed. The court said the man admitted that he had spent more than Rs 5 lakh on his fee for pursuing the course from his savings. "It is also, therefore, clear from the record and the own admission of the appellant (man) that he has a huge amount of money to pursue higher studies, however, he claims that he does not have the money to pay to his wife who is jobless,” the court said. "It was the duty of the appellant as a husband to have first ensured that he was able to fulfill his responsibility from his income and thereafter decide about spending money on any other pursuits," it added. The court observed that it is not wrong to pursue higher studies but as a husband he has social and moral responsibility towards his wife which he cannot shirk. "It was the own decision of the appellant (man) to have given up his job to pursue higher studies despite knowing about his responsibility,” it said. "Even if the respondent (wife) may have resided or is residing with her brother having no accommodation, after being driven out of the matrimonial home, it is understandable that after she is awarded some maintenance amount for accommodation that she may be able to obtain a house on rent or even make payment or contribute to the family where she is now residing after being driven out of the matrimonial home," the court said. It added that in the case the amount of maintenance was awarded keeping in mind the income of the man and his standard of living. A magistrate court had directed the man to pay a maintenance of Rs 20,000 per month to his wife till disposal of the case. It had said that the amount included accommodation expenses also.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-cannot-shirk-responsibility-as-husband-to-maintain-legally-wedded-wife-delhi-court-says-967285.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||BJP MLA 'thrashed by farmers' in Punjab's Muktsar||A BJP MLA in Punjab was allegedly thrashed and his shirt torn off by a group of farmers at Malout in Muktsar district on Saturday, police said. Abohar MLA Arun Narang had gone to Malout to address a press conference, which was strongly opposed by the farmers. The police officials deputed there escorted Narang to safety, Deputy Superintendent of Police (Malout) Jaspal Singh told PTI over the phone. Narang told PTI that he was punched by some people, who also threw a black-coloured liquid on him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-mla-thrashed-by-farmers-in-punjabs-muktsar-967299.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Amarnath Yatra 2021: Registration to begin from April 1||The process of registration for Amarnath yatra 2021 is going to commence from April 1, simultaneously for both the Baltal and Chandanwari routes, through 446 designated branches of Punjab National Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank and Yes Bank all over the country. The 56-day-long annual yatra to 3,888-metre-high Amarnathji cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas will begin on June 28 and would conclude on August 22, the day of Raksha Bandhan. “Pilgrims who wish to undertake this year’s pilgrimage can register themselves from registration counters located all across the country through 446 designated bank branches spread over all the country,” an official spokesman said. Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board, Nitishwar Kumar, informed that the step-by-step procedure, application form and state-wise list of bank branches with complete addresses are available at the Board’s website. He said that for ensuring against fraudulent health certificates, only such certificates which are issued by doctors/medical institutes authorised by the concerned governments shall be accepted at the registered bank branches. “For Yatra 2021, only those health certificates which have been issued after March 15, 2021, shall be valid. The steps which yatris need to follow in order to register for the Yatra have been put on the Board’s website www.shriamarnathjishrine.com. It also contains relevant information on how to reach the Base Camps, fee for yatra registration, the tariff for ponies, palanquin and porters,” the CEO said. Persons under the age of 13 years or above the age of 75 years and ladies who are more than six weeks pregnant cannot register for this year’s pilgrimage. Kumar stressed that, for ensuring effective security arrangements along the difficult tracks, only those pilgrims who are in possession of a Yatra Permit, which is valid for a specified date and route, will be allowed to proceed beyond the Base Camps, and cross the entry gates at Domel and Chandanwari. Pilgrims who propose to travel by helicopter do not require advance registration as their helicopter tickets shall suffice for this purpose. However, they shall be required to produce the Compulsory Health Certificate (CHC) in the prescribed format issued by an authorised doctor, before they are allowed to travel by helicopter. Yatris are usually asked to take precautions for high altitude sickness with symptoms like loss of appetite, nausea, fatigue, lightheadedness and difficulty in sleeping and tightness in the chest as the pilgrimage to the Holy Cave involves trekking at altitudes as high as 14,000 feet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amarnath-yatra-2021-registration-to-begin-from-april-1-967301.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Over 1,500 Covid-19 cases in Delhi for 3rd consecutive day; 10 deaths||Delhi reported over 1,500 coronavirus cases for the third day on the trot on Saturday, while 10 more people, highest in around two-and-a-half months, succumbed to the disease, the health department said. The national capital has registered 1,558 new infections which pushed the tally to 6,55,834, while over 6.38 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. This is the highest number of cases since December 15 last year when 1,617 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data. The city had recorded 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday -- the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark. The active cases rose to 6,625 from 6,051 on Friday. The positivity rate stood at 1.70 per cent, a health department bulletin said. The positivity rate was 1.80 per cent on Friday, 1.69 per cent on Thursday, 1.52 per cent on Wednesday, 1.31 per cent on Tuesday, 1.32 per cent on Monday and 1.03 per cent on Sunday. Ten more people died from the pathogen on Saturday, taking the number of fatalities to 10,987. It is the highest number of deaths since January 13 when 11 people succumbed to the disease. A total of 91,703 tests, including 59,648 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation rose to 3,708 from 3,312 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 1,506 from 1,307 on Friday, it said. The caseload in Delhi on January 1 had stood at over 6.25 lakh and the total fatalities were 10,557. The number of daily cases had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded. However, the daily cases begun to rise again in March and it has been steadily increasing over the past few days. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Saturday dismissed any possibility of imposing another lockdown in Delhi, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the coronavirus that is again surging rapidly. The minister said that there were enough hospital beds available for coronavirus patients and it could be increased if the need arises. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" in cases to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". The next two-three months could be challenging, they said, adding that the situation can be kept under control if vaccination is opened up for more people and Covid-19 protocols are strictly adhered to. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority had on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such Holi and Navaratri. Jain said action will be taken against those found violating the directions issued for Holi celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-1500-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-for-3rd-consecutive-day-10-deaths-967302.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi Metro services to be available from 2.30 pm on Holi||Metro services in Delhi will be available from 2.30 pm on Monday in view of Holi, the DMRC said on Saturday. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) informed passengers that during Holi on March 29, metro services will not be available till 2.30 pm on all lines of Delhi Metro, including Rapid Metro and Airport Express Line.  However, metro services will be available from all stations post 2.30 pm. "Metro train services will thus start at 14.30 Hrs (2:30 PM) from terminal stations on all lines on 29th March and will continue normally thereafter," the DMRC tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-metro-services-to-be-available-from-230-pm-on-holi-967309.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Expedite issuing death certificates for those missing in Feb flash floods: U'khand CM to officials||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Saturday asked officials to speed up the process of issuing death certificates for people who went missing in last month's flash floods in Chamoli district so that compensation could be distributed to their families without delay. A flash flood in Rishiganga and Dhauli Ganga rivers on February 7 killed 77 people and left more than 100 missing besides causing largescale damage to two hydel power projects at Raini and Tapovan. The chief minister also asked officials to make all preparations in view of the upcoming monsoon season during which the vulnerability of the state to natural disasters increases. Reviewing the works of the disaster management department through video conference, Rawat said workshops should be organised to create awareness among people about natural disasters. The district magistrates should have their contacts up to the village level in order to get alerts and updates in times of an emergency. Teams should be constituted up to the Nyay Panchayat-level and kits containing all necessary equipment required should be made available to them, Rawat said. On strengthening the early warning systems, Rawat asked officials to speed up operationalisation of the doppler radar at Surkanda and setting up another one in Lansdowne. Building construction workers will be trained in building earthquake-resistent houses in the hills. A proposal will soon be sent to the Centre for arranging air ambulances to deal with exigencies during a natural disaster, Rawat said and also announced that a research institute on disaster management will soon be opened in the state.  Minister of State for Disaster Management Dhan Singh Rawat said a seminar on disaster management will soon be held in Dehradun. Also, a chapter on disaster management is being introduced in all universities of the state, besides a six-month certificate course on the subject, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/expedite-issuing-death-certificates-for-those-missing-in-feb-flash-floods-ukhand-cm-to-officials-967318.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Army recruitment exam in Punjab postponed over rising Covid-19 cases||The Army on Saturday postponed to April 25 the common entrance examination for recruiting general duty personnel in view of the surge in coronavirus cases in Punjab. The examination to be held on March 28 has been postponed to April 25 on the advice of the district administration due to hike in coronavirus cases, officials said. The officials at Army recruiting office Ludhiana said the candidates, who have successfully completed the physical and medical examination, were to appear for the common entrance examination. These candidates are from Ludhiana, Moga, Rupnagar and SAS Nagar (Mohali). The Army recruiting office Ludhiana had conducted a recruitment rally from December 7 to 27, 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-recruitment-exam-in-punjab-postponed-over-rising-covid-19-cases-967332.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Congress appoints three new AICC secretaries for Uttar Pradesh||The Congress on Saturday appointed three All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretaries to assist party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in Uttar Pradesh. "Congress president has appointed Rajesh Tiwari, Tauqir Alam and Pradeep Narwal as AICC secretaries attached to the general secretary in-charge of Uttar Pradesh with immediate effect," an official statement said. Priyanka Gandhi is seeking to strengthen the party in Uttar Pradesh. She already has six AICC secretaries to assist her. These include Bajirao Khade, Dhiraj Gurjar, Rana Goswami, Rohit Chaudhary, Sachin Naik and Zubair Khan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-appoints-three-new-aicc-secretaries-for-uttar-pradesh-967342.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||DDMA caps number of guests for marriages, other events after Covid-19 surge in Delhi||In view of recent surge in coronavirus cases in the national capital, the Delhi government on Saturday put a cap of 200 guests in marriage and other events being organised at open-air venues and of 100 people for closed spaces in the city. In an order, Chief Secretary Vijay Dev said not more than 50 people will be allowed at funerals in the national capital. Dev, who is also chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority's (DDMA) state executive committee, said the order will be in force till April 30. He, however, said status quo will be maintained regarding permissible and prohibited activities in the city. Delhi reported 1,558 coronavirus cases for the third day on a row on Saturday, while 10 more people, the highest in around two-and-a-half months, succumbed to the disease. This is the highest number of cases since December 15 last year when 1,617 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data. The city had recorded 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 on Thursday, 1,254 on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday -- the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000-mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-caps-number-of-guests-for-marriages-other-events-after-covid-19-surge-in-delhi-967355.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||BJP holds Punjab govt responsible for attack on party MLA in Muktsar||The BJP on Saturday blamed the Chief Minister Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government for the "murderous" attack on its MLA Arun Narang in the state and demanded exemplary action against culprits. In a statement, BJP general secretary Arun Singh condemned the mistreatment meted out to the legislator as extremely barbaric and painful. "The BJP condemns this incident that happened under the Congress government's protection. The Amarinder Singh government of the Congress is directly responsible for it," the party said in the statement. Narang was allegedly thrashed and his clothes were torn by a group of farmers at Malout in Muktsar district on Saturday, police said. When the Abohar legislator reached Malout along with local leaders to address a press conference, they were surrounded by a group of protesting farmers and black ink was thrown at them and their vehicles, officials said. The Punjab chief minister strongly condemned the attack on Narang and also warned of strict action against anyone trying to disturb peace in the state. He urged the farmers not to indulge in such acts of violence and appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently resolve the crisis triggered by the passage of the farm laws in Parliament last year to prevent the situation from escalating. Hitting out at the state government, the BJP dubbed it a black spot on democracy and alleged that Congress workers were involved in the attack. The party accused the Punjab Police of being a "mute spectator" to the incident and said it showed deep involvement of the state government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-holds-punjab-govt-responsible-for-attack-on-party-mla-in-muktsar-967363.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Sunday lockdown in 12 cities in Madhya Pradesh||There will be a lockdown in 12 cities in Madhya Pradesh on Sundays in view of rising coronavirus cases, an official said on Saturday. Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora said lockdown will be in force from 10 pm on Saturday to 6 am on Monday in 12 cities across 11 districts till further orders. The cities where restrictions will be imposed are: Gwalior, Ujjain, Vidisha, Narsinghpur, Sausar (Chhindwara district), Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Betul, Ratlam, Chhindwara and Khargone. On Saturday, Madhya Pradesh reported 2,142 new coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 2,86,407, health department officials said. The fatality count rose to 3,947 with ten more deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sunday-lockdown-in-12-cities-in-madhya-pradesh-967370.html
27-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan CM’s aide Lokesh Sharma denies he was behind telephone tapping||An aide of Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot's office on Saturday refuted allegations of his being involved in phone tapping in the state amid the last year’s rebellion by the state’s former Chief Minister Sachin Pilot. “The allegation of my involvement in phone tapping is baseless,” said Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Lokesh Sharma, reacting to the allegations against him. “The audio clips were already there on social media. I received them on WhatsApp and forwarded them to expose the conspiracy to topple the democratically-elected state government,” he added. Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has lodged a complaint with Delhi police against Sharma and others for allegedly committing offences of criminal conspiracy and unlawfully intercepting telegraphic signals (telephonic conversation). Chief Whip Mahesh Joshi said Shekhawat does not trust the police of his state, so he did not give his voice sample to the state’s Special Operation Group and Anti-Corruption Bureau. Joshi tweeted that Shekhawat should now give his voice sample to the Crime Branch of Delhi Police to prove that his telephone was intercepted. Based on audio clips, Joshi had lodged FIRs last year with the SOG and ACB over the alleged attempts to topple the state government. As per the Congress leaders’ allegations, the audio clips purportedly had a telephonic conversation between Gajendra Singh and Congress leaders. At the same time, Rajasthan’s Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying 90,000 phones were tapped when Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat. He also questioned why Shekhawat was not giving his voice sample to the state’s agencies. “Why is he afraid of giving his voice sample? If he comes forward and gives his voice sample, things will become clear,” he told reporters. The phone-tapping controversy erupted in July last year in Rajasthan during a political crisis due to the rebellion of former Deputy Chief Minister Pilot and 18 other Congress MLAs against Gehlot's leadership. These audio clips purportedly having a telephonic conversation between Shekhawat and Congress leaders had surfaced amid the rebellion by the Congress MLAs. The Congress leaders of Gehlot's camp had then alleged that the BJP leaders were involved in horse-trading to topple the state government. Based on the complaint of Shekhawat, who is a BJP MP from Jodhpur, the Delhi police has registered an FIR against Sharma and others under various section of the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885, Information Technology Act and section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. According to the FIR, Shekhawat has alleged in his complaint that on July 17, 2020, various prominent media houses and news channels had aired some telephonic conversations, allegedly between him, a man named Sanjay Jain and Bhanwar Lal Sharma, a member of the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly. In the complaint, Shekhawat alleged that the telephonic conversations were allegedly leaked to the media houses and news channels by Lokesh Sharma, OSD to the Rajasthan chief minister. When the issue was raised in the recently concluded assembly session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Shanti Dhariwal had denied the charges that phones of any public representative were tapped. On BJP's allegations that the voice clips were circulated by Gehlot's OSD Lokesh Sharma, the minister had admitted that Sharma had received the audio clips on WhatsApp and had forwarded them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-cm-s-aide-lokesh-sharma-denies-he-was-behind-telephone-tapping-967376.html
27-03-2021||South||CPI(M), Congress 'ideologically confused', says Nadda||Raking up the Sabarimala issue in poll-bound Kerala, BJP national chief J P Nadda on Saturday attacked the ruling LDF, saying it had "crushed" the sentiments of devotees in the whole of south India, while Congress only paid "lip service" to their stir. He also assured that the saffron party would safeguard the traditions of the hilltop shrine and that the political involvement in temple administration would go forever. Nadda took out a roadshow atChakarakkalin Kannur's Dharmadam assembly constituency, where BJP has fielded K Padmanabhan to lock horns with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. He attacked the CPI(M)-led LDF and Congress-led UDF, saying they are "ideologically confused "as they were fighting each other in Kerala and were"bhai-bhai" (brothers) in West Bengal. Nadda harped on the same issue at a rally at Thodupuzha in the Idukki district, saying both the Left Democratic Front and United Democratic Front are corrupt and ideologically bankrupt. Taking on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is also in Kerala to campaign for the April 6 assembly polls, he demanded to know what he was doing in the southern state while Bengal was voting, with the commencement of the first phase of elections in the eastern state on Saturday. "The LDF has crushed the sentiments of people of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the whole of south India. About the Sabarimala temple, we have been very clear about (protecting) the traditions. All those were crushed by the CPI(M) government, which is now shedding crocodile tears. Throughout the Sabarimala agitation, Congress was doing lip service. They never came forward," he said. He assured that the BJP in the coming days would see to it that the traditions of the temple were kept intact and religious sentiments of devotees were not hurt. "...Not only that, we will ensure that the political involvement in the administration of the temple will go forever. That's what we would like to share with you. This is how we plan to move forward," Nadda said. Kerala had witnessed violent protests by a section of devotees and right-wing outfits after the Left government decided to implement September 28, 2018, Supreme Court verdict, allowing women of all ages to enter the Sabarimala temple. As per temple tradition, women in the 10-50 age group are barred from trekking to the shrine of Lord Ayyappa, a celibate. Attacking the LDF, Nadda said it is known for the gold smuggling case in which he alleged that even ministers were involved, and the UDF, for the solar scam. "Both the fronts are corrupt. In the gold scam, even the ministers are involved. "The chief minister's office is involved in the gold scam. The investigation is going on. He (Vijayan) asked for the probe by the central agencies. When the investigation reached his office, they are saying the Centre is attacking the state government," he said. "He (CM) claims to be so clean. He wears a dhoti and white veshti. It's very white. It's actually not white, but full of black spots," Nadda said. The Gold smuggling case relates to the seizure of about 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic suitcase at Thiruvananthapuram International airport in July 2020, The solar scam, which surfaced during the tenure of then Chief Minister Oommen Chandy in June 2013, pertains to involvement of some of his staff in allegedly cheating several people of crores of rupees by main accused Saritha Nair and her husband by offering solar panel solutions. Nadda, who is on his second visit to the state after the announcement of the Kerala Assembly election dates, also took out roadshows in Nemom and Vattiyoorkavu constituencies in Thiruvananthapuram district, where Kummanam Rajeshekharan and V V Rajesh are the party candidates||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cpim-congress-ideologically-confused-says-nadda-967236.html
27-03-2021||South||Dhoni told me to enjoy my cricket, says CSK's Ruturaj||Chennai Super Kings top-order batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad has said that skipper MS Dhoni's comforting words after he didn't do well in his first three games, helped him perform at the back end with a free mind. Gaikwad fell early in the first three outings before scoring 65 not out against Royal Challengers Bangalore, 72 against Kolkata Knight Riders and 62 not out against Kings XI Punjab (renamed Punjab Kings). He said that skipper Dhoni's words after the third game freed him up. "Dhoni told me to enjoy my cricket and not think about the result… just enjoy the atmosphere, be calm, and once I got my eye in he was confident that I'd be able to make an impact," the Maharashtra batsman was quoted as saying by the CSK website. "I think it was a good reminder for me because all I was looking for was the result and not thinking about the process. So it helped me a lot coming from him,” Gaikwad added. "No pressure at all," Gaikwad said, looking ahead to this season beginning on April 9. In CSK and Dhoni's world, "process" is a keyword. "That's because of the environment I'm in where the focus is on the process and not the result. I just want to enjoy the process and make sure I contribute in every opportunity I get for CSK," he added. The 24-year-old underlined his talent last IPL season by scoring three successive fifties as three-time champions CSK signed off the league phase with three wins on the trot. Gaikwad got to spend more time with Dhoni during this season’s pre-season camp in Chennai and said he got to learn important lessons from the legendary cricketer. "One of the important lessons I learnt from Dhoni is that there will be good and bad days in cricket, as in life, but what really matters is how honest you are to yourself, stay neutral in both situations and accept the fact that every day won’t be your day. But whenever it’s your day it’s important to try and make it count," he signed off. CSK will start their campaign against Delhi Capitals in Mumbai on April 10.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dhoni-told-me-to-enjoy-my-cricket-says-csks-ruturaj-967240.html
27-03-2021||South||BJP manifesto silent on statehood for Puducherry: Ex-CM||Senior Congress leader and former Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday questioned the silence of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in its poll manifesto on the issue of granting statehood to the Union Territory. Addressing reporters at the party office here, he said the Congress, DMK and even AINRC (now aligned with the BJP) had been demanding statehood. "At one stage, the AINRC leader N Rangasamy had made an appeal to all political parties to boycott the Assembly poll in case the Centre did not sanction statehood to Puducherry," Narayanasamy said. "Now that the manifesto of the BJP has not mentioned its stand on statehood, I want to know what is the policy of the AINRC," he asked. The BJP manifesto had also not made any promise to write off the loans totalling Rs 7,000-crore due from Puducherry to the Centre over the years, he said. The saffron party has thus exposed its anti-people policies by remaining quiet, the former Chief Minister said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had not made any firm reference to the plea for statehood during his campaign here on February 25, he said. Narayanasamy alleged the Centre was crushing the business sector through GST (goods and services tax). Also alleging that the BJP was indulging in money power and misuse of authority in view of April 6 Assembly polls here, the former Chief Minister said the election authorities should be vigilant and prevent questionable practices of the BJP during the poll. The present election is a fight between principles of democracy and misuse of power, he said. People are aware of the machinations of BJP and hence would ensure that the NDA bites the dust, he said. He said that the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) of Puducherry had moved the Madras High Court for relief on the alleged access of Aadhaar-linked mobile phone numbers of voters by the BJP for campaigning by misusing the personal phone numbers of the voters to send bulk messages to them. Narayanasamy said the Election Commission should intervene and disqualify the candidates of the BJP from contesting the polls. He said that Congress would write a letter to the election authorities soon to push the demand for disqualification of the BJP nominees in the backdrop of an allegation that the BJP had accessed the mobile numbers of the voters and stolen them for campaigning. He alleged that some functionaries of the BJP from Karnataka had been zooming through several villages in Puducherry. "I receive complaints that these BJP leaders from Karnatka were staying in the villages and were seeking copies of ration cards of the villagers. I see that as a threat to the peace and tranquillity from outside Puducherry," he said. Hence, he said, the election authorities should keep close vigil and ensure polls were held in a peaceful environment. The election manifesto of the Congress would be released on Sunday by a delegation of the AICC at the party office here, he said. The team would include former Central Minister Veerappa Moily, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-manifesto-silent-on-statehood-for-puducherry-ex-cm-967244.html
27-03-2021||South||Strange noise, tremor-like scenes trigger panic in Tamil Nadu districts||An eerie noise coupled with tremor-like scenes created a flutter in most parts of Mayiladuthurai, Tiruvarur, and Karaikal districts on Saturday. Panic-stricken people ran helter-skelter and the spotting of an Air-Force plane at low altitude in the area added to the fear and confusion. At around 8:15 AM, the loud noise was heard in Kuthalam, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Kollidam, Porayar, Tarangambadi, Sembanarkoil, Karaikal, and Tiruvarur. Following this, the people felt a kind of tremor in most places. Water in ponds and rivers reportedly rose a few metres high like a spring in many places. In many places, people ran out of their houses. At Kovangudi and Maraiyur villages near Mayiladuthurai, an Indian Air Force plane was spotted flying at low altitude when the noise was heard. People alerted the police, revenue, fire and rescue services and began sharing their experience about the noise in social media. The exact cause for all these is still not yet known. Revenue officials said the noise might have emanated from the plane and there were no records about seismic activities. However, there is no official confirmation yet about the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/strange-noise-tremor-like-scenes-trigger-panic-in-tamil-nadu-districts-967248.html
27-03-2021||South||Man dies after allegedly being beaten by power dept inspection team; 2 policemen among 8 booked||A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder was registered against eight people, including a junior engineer of the power department and two policemen, following the death of a person who was allegedly beaten up by them for refusing to pay Rs 20,000 during an inspection, police said on Saturday. Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said a complaint was filed by victim Ram Pravesh's father Mudrika Gond of Rigvan village under Maniyar police station area, following which the case was registered on Friday. Gond claimed that he had taken a legal electricity connection and was operating a wheat flour machine. On Friday afternoon, a team of the power department reached his shop and after an inspection, they demanded Rs 20,000. When he refused to give the money, the junior engineer and the policemen threatened to cut the power connection and frame him in false cases. They also hurled abuses at him, the complainant alleged. As an argument ensued, Gond's son Ram Pravesh (46) was badly beaten up after which he fell unconscious. He was rushed to a government hospital where doctors declared him dead, Gond said. The Additional SP said the body has been sent for a post-mortem and further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-dies-after-allegedly-being-beaten-by-power-dept-inspection-team-2-policemen-among-8-booked-967249.html
27-03-2021||South||Smriti Irani challenges Kamal Hassan for an open debate with BJP candidate||Union Minister Smriti Irani on Saturday challenged actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan to have an open debate with Vanathi Srinivasan, BJP's candidate for Coimbatore South constituency after he took on the Centre on issues of development in his campaigns. Haasan is also contesting from this Constituency. Addressing the 'North India Community Outreach Programme', organised at Gujarati Samaj here, the BJP leader recalled that she had participated in a debate with him a few years back. "I challenge Kamal Haasan to come for a debate with Vanathi Srinivasan, to prove to the people who is it that really knows the issues well, gives solutions and implements policies." Reeling out statistics on infrastructUre development, she said the Centre has built 10 crore toilets nationwide, of which 90 lakh was in Tamil Nadu. Similarly, the PM initiated the Jandhan scheme through which the government was able to directly transfer money to people's accounts, benefiting 40 crore people all over the country, of which 90 lakh were in Tamil Nadu The state received 1.25 crore drinking water taps of the five crore installed in India in the last two years, she said, speaking in Gujarati and Hindi. A central government scheme through which farmers get Rs 6,000 annually had benefited 10 crore of them and 50 lakh of them were in Tamil Nadu, the minister said. The Centre has also sanctioned 11 medical colleges and an AIIMS for Tamil Nadu, she said. "All this was possible because the people of India blessed and elected Narendra Modi as Prime Minister... who chose to be the first public servant of the nation," she said. Appealing to the people to cast their votes for the BJP on April 6, she said, "Lakshmi (goddess of wealth) is coming not with a torch, but on Kamal (Lotus)." Later, replying to a question from reporters on why she targetted only Kamal Hassan when other parties, including Congress, were in the fray, she quipped "Congress is not at all in the picture."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/smriti-irani-challenges-kamal-hassan-for-an-open-debate-with-bjp-candidate-967274.html
27-03-2021||South||Transshipment port will not come up in Kanyakumari, asserts CM||AIADMK top leader and Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday asserted that a container port would not come up in Kanyakumari and slammed the DMK and its ally Congress for spreading 'lies' that the project was in the works. The DMK 2006-11 regime symbolised darkness for the state due to severe power cuts and no one knew when electricity supply would be restored and at what time outage would occur, he said in his campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls. Development could be witnessed only with uninterrupted power supply and since the AIADMK government has ensured electricity distribution without any hassle for all, more and more industries were now setting up shop, he said. Canvassing votes for Pon Radhakrishnan, ally BJP's nominee for the by-election from the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha segment, the chief minister urged the people to vote for the 'lotus' symbol as the saffron party is in power at the Centre and it would help implement welfare measures for the region. The DMK and Congress parties were engaged in 'spreading lies' that efforts were on towards setting up a container terminal in Kanyakumari district, he claimed. "They are enacting a drama to get people's votes. Container port will not be set up in Kanyakumari district and the AIADMK government has made this clear. I repeat again and again, a container transshipment port will not come up here," he asserted. Campaigning from an open van, accompanied by Radhakrishnan, Palaniswami claimed Opposition's disinformation propaganda was aimed at creating a sense of fear among the fishermen community and to get their votes. "The fishermen and Kanyakumari people should hence think and vote.A special officer was appointed for the project. However, following representations that the project should be shelved, the initiative was dropped. DMK and Congress parties are adept in hoodwinking the people," the Chief Minister said. The Centre had given its in-principle nod on July 5, 2016 for setting up a major port at Enayam near Colachel in this district, but it was dropped due to opposition from fishermen and others. Another location, near Kovalam was later chosen, which is also seeing resistance from a section of the local people. Palaniswami sought votes for candidates of his party and allies as well including P Ramesh (Colachel-BJP), N Dhalavai Sundaram (Kanyakumari-AIADMK), T John Thangam (Padmanabhapuram-AIADMK) and R Jayaseelan (Vilvancode-BJP) in this district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/transshipment-port-will-not-come-up-in-kanyakumari-asserts-cm-967286.html
27-03-2021||South||Andhra Pradesh CM Jaganmohan Reddy's advisor Nilam Sawhney to be next State Election Commissioner||Former chief secretary Nilam Sawhney is all set to replace incumbent Ramesh Kumar as the next State Election Commissioner of Andhra Pradesh on March 31. The Andhra Pradesh government, on Saturday, accepted Sawhney's resignation from the post of principal advisor to Chief Minister Jaganmohan Reddy, paving way for her new assignment. Her name was approved for the SEC post earlier. Sawhney, a 1984 batch IAS officer, was appointed as the Chief Secretary in November 2019 and was given two extensions based on Reddy's request to the centre. She continued in the state's top bureaucrat seat till December 31, 2020, and was later appointed as the CM's principal advisor with cabinet minister rank. In April last year, the Reddy government had abruptly removed Kumar, a retired IAS officer, from the office that conducts the local body elections. The move was following Kumar's decision to postpone the panchayat and municipal polls scheduled in March second half by six weeks in the wake of the Covid-19 spread. CM Reddy had then even accused SEC Kumar of functioning unilaterally and in a partisan manner. Kumar was appointed during the tenure of previous CM Chandrababu Naidu. After a legal battle that even reached the Supreme Court, Kumar was reinstated in July on the directions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court. Kumar conducted the local polls in February and March, even as the YSRCP objected. The ruling party, however, swept both the elections. The mandal and zilla parishad polls are now pending in Andhra Pradesh. CM Reddy made Sawhney the Chief Secretary, in sudden replacement of L V Subramanyam, with whom he reportedly developed differences.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/andhra-pradesh-cm-jaganmohan-reddys-advisor-nilam-sawhney-to-be-next-state-election-commissioner-967297.html
27-03-2021||South||AIADMK asks EC to not allow DMK's Raja to campaign over remark on EPS||The ruling AIADMK on Saturday petitioned the Chief Electoral Officer, Tamil Nadu to not allow DMK leader A Raja to campaign for Assembly polls and direct police to file a case against him for his alleged offensive comments against Chief Minister K Palaniswami. In his campaign at Thousand Lights constituency, Raja, Lok Sabha MP of DMK made "vulgar, third rate comments," against Palaniswami on March 26, state joint secretary of AIADMK's advocate wing, C Thirumaran said in his plea addressed to CEO Satyabrata Sahoo. Being an offence under the Indian Penal Code besides an 'election offence' as well, the AIADMK urged the top official to direct registration of a case against Raja. Also he must not be allowed to campaign for the April 6 Assembly polls considering his continuous 'vulgar' and 'hate' speech, the petition said. A police complaint has already been lodged for a previous vulgar comment against Palaniswami and a case has been registered, it said. The ruling party attached a copy of a news report that appeared in a daily on the comment and a video clip of Raja's purported vulgar comments - which has gone viral on social media - in its petition to the CEO. DMK president M K Stalin, in a statement, without mentioning anyone's name, said during campaign, partymen must make dignified comments. Rivals distorted and edited speeches to give it an offensive connotation due to "fear of defeat" and to ensure that such designs did not succeed, party workers must be mindful of words they choose during electioneering, the DMK top leader urged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-asks-ec-to-not-allow-dmks-raja-to-campaign-over-remark-on-eps-967305.html
27-03-2021||South||CM Jagan takes ordinance route again to meet the state expenses||For the second consecutive year, the Jaganmohan Reddy government is taking the ordinance route for clearance of the state expenses in the initial three months of next fiscal. Last year, as the local body polls were postponed because of the pandemic and Covid-19 infections started spreading in the state, the YSRCP government promulgated an ordinance allowing a vote-on-account budget for all the necessary state disbursements including salaries till June 30. This year too, the government has taken the same route. The state cabinet has reportedly approved the ordinance allowing the vote on account and the document was sent for the Governor's assent. The ordinance route was criticized by the opposition as an unhealthy practice. Former finance minister and TDP leader in the legislative council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu accused CM Reddy of disregarding the legislative system. However, finance minister Buggana Rajendranth defended the decision saying the provision is made in the constitution. “As there is no clarity from the state election commissioner on when the pending mandal, zilla parishad polls would be held, we were compelled to go for the vote on account. We would introduce the full budget soon (convening the legislature),” Buggana said. A short-duration budget session was convened last year in June. BJP former MLA Vishnu Kumar Raju stated that “the government went the ordinance way as CM Jagan wants to avoid a discussion on the Vizag steel plant, state finances etc issues.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cm-jagan-takes-ordinance-route-again-to-meet-the-state-expenses-967338.html
27-03-2021||South||Kerala witnessing unusually aggressive BJP campaign||Kerala is witnessing an unusually aggressive election campaigning from the BJP with national leaders making a beeline and carrying out a series of road shows. In the case of the Congress, Rahul Gandhi, who is also an MP from Kerala, is the key star campaigner. According to political analysts, Kerala might not have witnessed this many national leaders coming down for campaigning had the BJP not made the state a focus in the upcoming polls. Moreover, since Rahul Gandhi is now an MP from Kerala, the BJP seems to be giving more focus on Kerala this time as a setback to Congress in Kerala will hurt it at the national level too. Veteran journalist and political analyst John Mary said that the BJP seems to be making an all-out bid to woo the Hindu Nair community as they seem to be campaigning more in constituencies where the community has a considerable presence. Since elections are taking place only in a few states now, the political parties can also easily ensure the presence of national leaders. BJP national leaders have been making a beeline to Kerala over the last couple of weeks and the party national president staged road shows across the state on Saturday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is coming down to the state in the coming week and is scheduled to address election meetings at Thiruvananthapuram, Konni in Pathanamthitta, and Palakkad. Home Minister Amit Shah, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, and Textiles Minister Smriti Irani are among the BJP's list of star campaigners in Kerala. Meanwhile, the Congress is mainly cashing in on Rahul Gandhi, while his sister and AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi is also expected to come down in the coming days. The Congress camps are hopeful that campaigns by Rahul and Priyanka across Kerala might help the party in creating a pro-Congress trend as witnessed in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-witnessing-unusually-aggressive-bjp-campaign-967340.html
27-03-2021||South||Telangana not to allow public celebrations during coming festivals; makes masks mandatory in public places||The Telangana government on Saturday decided not to allow public celebrations in the state during the coming religious events, till April 30, to prevent the spread of Covid-19, besides making it mandatory to wear face masks in public places. In an order, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar observed that the number of Covid-19 cases has been showing a rising trend since the last few weeks. He referred to a recent order of the Union Home Ministry providing for states to impose local restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus based on an assessment of the situation. Noting that congregations pose considerable threat of rapid transmission of Covid-19, the order said it is decided that public celebrations/observances should not be allowed in the state during upcoming religious events such as Shab-e-Barat, Holi, Ugadi (Telugu New Year), Rama Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, Good Friday, Ramzan and others till April 30. "During the above period, no rallies, processions, public celebrations, gatherings, congregations etc shall be allowed in connection with religious events in public places, grounds, parks and religious places in the state," it said. Any violation of the instructions should result in prosecution under the Disaster Management Act, the IPC and other applicable laws. The Chief Secretary directed the district Collectors and Commissioners/Superintendents of Police to strictly implement the instructions. In a separate order, the Chief Secretary said wearing of masks in public places, work spaces and public means of transport shall be mandatory across the state. "... Any deviation in this regard shall attract prosecution under sections 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act 2005 and section 188, IPC as well as other applicable laws," the order said. Wearing of face masks is one of the most important interventions to prevent Covid-19, it added||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-not-to-allow-public-celebrations-during-coming-festivals-makes-masks-mandatory-in-public-places-967351.html
27-03-2021||South||Concern over CAA-NRC prompts migrants to vote in Assembly polls; Covid-19 hits flow of NRIs for voting||Concerns over the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act and the National Register of Citizens has prompted migrant workers in Kerala to head to Assam and West Bengal to cast their votes in the Assembly elections. Assam native Roshid, who works in a vegetable shop in Kochi, even booked a flight in the last minute by spending around Rs 15,000 to travel to his native place as he desperately wanted to cast votes in this Assembly election. Unlike the previous elections, there is a considerable flow of migrant workers in Kerala from states like Assam and West Bengal to their native places to cast votes, which is believed to be due to concerns over issues like Citizenship Amendment Act and National Registry of Citizens. According to NGOs working among the migrant workers in Kerala, usually migrant workers go for civic body elections only. But this time large number of migrants from Assam and West Bengal went to their native places for casting votes in the Assembly election. Benoy Petre, executive director of the Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development, said that there were also instances of some migrants spending over Rs 15,000 for flight tickets to cast votes, like the case of Roshid from Assam. He said that there was a general apprehension among the migrant workers that their citizenship might be even affected if they did not vote this time. This seems to be the triggering factor for many to travel by even spending hefty amount for casting votes. A major chuck of the migrant workers in Kerala from states like Assam and West Bengal are from the Muslim community and are natives of border areas, he said. Even as there are no authentic data on the number of migrant workers in Kerala, it was estimated to be even up to around 30 lakh. A major chunk of the migrants in Kerala are from West Bengal, Assam and Tamil Nadu that are going to Assembly polls now. Tamil Nadu being a state close to Kerala, the migrants won't face much difficulty in traveling. However the migrants to Assam and West Bengal are hiring buses to travel to their native place owing to inadequate trains due to Covid. Covid hits NRIs' voting interest Kerala, which has a high NRI population, used to witness NRIs even chartering flights in groups to come down to cast their votes in the Assembly and Parliament elections. But this time no such trends are evident so far, which is believed to be due to financial concerns and travel restrictions due to Covid. Indian Overseas Congress convenor Mansoor Palloor said that this time there was not much enthusiasm among the NRI, especially in the Gulf countries, to come down and cast their votes. The key reason for this is the concerns among the NRIs over their job prospects as well as the travel restrictions owing to Covid. Already the NRIs had to tighten their belts owing to the economic crisis caused by Covid. Hence they would not be in a position to spend for coming down just for voting. At present there are 93,415 overseas voters in Kerala electoral rolls. In the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, out of the 99,807 overseas voters who registered for casting votes in the country, 87,651 were were from Kerala. Of the 25,606 overseas voters who exercised their franchise in the country, 25,534 were in Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/concern-over-caa-nrc-prompts-migrants-to-vote-in-assembly-polls-covid-19-hits-flow-of-nris-for-voting-967377.html
27-03-2021||State||Jarkiholi sex CD row: Want to kill myself over torture, says woman in new video statement||The sex CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi seems to be snowballing into a major controversy with the woman, allegedly the one in the CD, releasing another video, on Saturday, saying that she wanted to kill herself over the torture. The woman starts the video by saying that she doesn't know whether she should live or die. In the 4.27-minute-long unauthenticated video, the woman can be heard saying that Jarkiholi was ready to do anything and can even harm her parents or kill her. "Ramesh Jarkiholi is saying that he can make the government collapse in one day, he is ready to spend any amount to put everyone in jail. What is the meaning of 'ready to spend any amount'? People should understand it. They are ready to do anything, they can harm my parents or kill me. I want to write Ramesh Jarkiholi's name and kill myself over the torture," she said. The woman can also be seen expressing shock over the release of a phone conversation between her and her family members on March 2. "On March, 2, our CD was released, I didn't know what to do, where to go or who had done it. It was in the media and I knew only one media person (takes the name of a suspected kingpin)," she said "I called him and asked what was happening, why didn't he help me when I approached him. He replied by saying that he is a very small person in this," she added. She added that the person told her that they needed political support and must approach big leaders like Siddaramaiah and DK Shivakumar.  The woman said that the man met her and told her they were going to Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar's house. This was also when she was receiving multiple calls from her home, she added.  "I called my mother, she was so scared and was crying. I tried to convince her, but I got scared that she may harm herself. So I told her about going to DK Shivakumar's house. We went to his house, but he was not available," she said in the video. 'Bring my parents to Bengaluru and take my statement' She said that she couldn't understand how the audio clipping of her conversation with her family got leaked and asked where her parents were, claiming that they were not even 'one per cent' safe. "I am safe, no one has kidnapped me. The SIT is saying that they are going to give protection. I request the SIT to bring my family members to Bengaluru and provide security, not in the place where they are now," she said. "I request my mummy, daddy, two brothers, and my grandmother, wherever they are, to please come to Bengaluru...all that I have to say to the SIT officials is that if I have to give any statement to them (SIT team), my family members should be in front of my eyes," she added.  She also said that she has faced a lot of torture over the last 24 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/jarkiholi-sex-cd-row-want-to-kill-myself-over-torture-says-woman-in-new-video-statement-967150.html
27-03-2021||State||Four arrested for smuggling elephant tusks in Karnataka||Four persons were arrested for trying to sell elephant tusks at Annur Hosahalli in H D Kote taluk of Mysuru district, on Friday. The Forest Mobile Squad arrested accused, Ravikumar, 32, of Tumbasoge village in Sargur taluk, Shivakumar, 34, Kumaranayaka, 35, of H D Kote and another from Periyapatna. The accused were trying to sell two tusks, each measuring 1.5 foot, said Deputy Conservator of Forests A T Poovaiah.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-arrested-for-smuggling-elephant-tusks-in-karnataka-967160.html
27-03-2021||State||Conducting raid does not amount to probe: Karnataka HC||The high court has held that conducting a raid or search does not amount to an investigation. Dismissing a petition filed challenging a raid and subsequent investigation by Chikkamagaluru police, the court said that police are not expected to obtain the Magistrate’s permission when they have credible information about an incident, such as andar-bahar (illegal gambling). The petition was filed by nine accused persons, who were found indulging in illegal gambling at Senior Citizens Service Centre in Chikkamagaluru in February last year. The Basavanahalli police had seized Rs 12,550 in cash and registered an FIR after obtaining permission from the Magistrate. The petitioners claimed that the police ought to have secured permission from the Magistrate in terms of section 155 (2) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) before conducting the raid and investigation. Justice H P Sandesh said that a magistrate’s permission is required only for the registration of FIR. In the case on hand, the FIR was registered after obtaining permission from the Magistrate. “The very contention of the petitioners, that conducting the raid itself amounts to an investigation, cannot be accepted for the reason that when the credible information is received with regard to the persons who have indulged in andar-bahar, the police are not expected to wait till they obtain permission from the learned Magistrate, and the permission is required only for the registration of the case,” the court said. The court also pointed out that the raid was conducted after obtaining the search warrant from the Deputy Superintendent of Police (DySP) under section 81 of the Karnataka Police Act, which is permissible. “Section 81 (d) of Karnataka Police Act authorises to seize all instruments of gaming and all money and securities for money and articles of value, which are reasonably suspected to have been used as intended to be used for the purpose of gaming, which is found therein,” the court said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/conducting-raid-does-not-amount-to-probe-karnataka-hc-967353.html
27-03-2021||State||Panel to monitor activities at adopted government schools||The adviser to state government (education reforms) Prof M R Doreswamy has constituted a state-level advisory committee to monitor development activities in government schools adopted by elected representatives and various organisations, including higher education institutions. The committee includes former vice chancellor of Bangalore University Prof Siddappa, MLC H Vishwanath, vice chancellor of PES university J Surya Prasad, retired IAS officer Madangopal, academician Karan Kumar and Tejaswini Ananth Kumar, managing trustee of Adamya Chetana Foundation. The committee will visit the schools adopted by various people and organisations and inspect the facilities provided as also the maintenance of the same.  Addressing a press conference on Saturday, Prof Doreswamy said, "I want to thank all those who adopted government schools and request others to adopt schools as well. The number of people who adopt government schools should increase as there is a need to provide various basic infrastructure facilities to government schools." Prof Doreswamy said that since the announcement of government school adoption in the state budget last year, as many as 3,000 schools have been adopted by various people and organisations.  Among the elected representatives, Ramalinga Reddy, MLA and former minister, adopted the highest number of government schools in his constituency, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/panel-to-monitor-activities-at-adopted-government-schools-967354.html
27-03-2021||State||Find a way for a quick justice delivery system: Santosh Hegde||Former Lokayukta Justice N Santosh Hegde on Saturday said that speculative litigations are causing a burden on the justice delivery system. Inaugurating the Mega Lok Adalat, organised by the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), Justice Hegde said that there is a need for a dialogue to find a way to quick justice delivery system.  Justice Hegde said access to justice is just one of the methods available to the citizens and exit from the justice delivery system is also important. The justice delivery system suffers from one deficiency, which is the delay in the closure of cases, he remarked. “We have to address this problem of why so many cases are coming to this institution (judiciary) today. In my opinion, and I hope I am wrong, there is a lot of speculative litigation coming into the system. Just increasing the number of court and the number of judges does not solve this problem,” he said. He said litigations go on for 35-40 years, up till the Supreme Court and throughout this time one enjoys the benefit of interim orders. “This speculative litigation is the one which is causing a burden on the justice delivery system. We have to find a way out of it. You have found a way for access to justice. You must find a way for a quick justice delivery system,” he said. Justice Hegde said some of the developing countries have only one appellate court. Some specified jurisdictions on appellate authority may be one of the solutions, he suggested. “There is no need for a second appeal, no need for appeal before the High Court. Specify the jurisdiction of the special courts. Don’t convert the superior courts into just nodal appellate courts,” Justice Hegde said. Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, executive chairman of KSLSA Justice Aravind Kumar and judges of the High Court were present. Around 2.74 lakh cases were identified for settlement in the third Mega Lok Adalat amidst the pandemic in the last seven months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/find-a-way-for-a-quick-justice-delivery-system-santosh-hegde-967369.html
27-03-2021||State||DH Healing Hands fetes doctors for yeoman service during pandemic||The Deccan Herald Healing Hands initiative identified and felicitated as many as 44 doctors and hospitals at an award ceremony at Radisson Blu hotel here on Saturday evening, for their relentless and tireless efforts to help Covid patients during the pandemic. A three-member jury of eminent doctors - Dr Radha S Murthy, Dr N Gandhi and Dr N Prabhudev - selected these doctors and hospitals out of 55 nominations. But, in the words of The Printers Mysore Limited CEO Sitaraman Shankar, the newspaper wishes to express its gratitude even to those healthcare providers who could not be felicitated on Saturday. The CEO, in his opening remarks, said, "From across the country, we have heard stories of young doctors who walked away from family and friends to dedicate their hours to fighting Covid, some of whom tragically became victims of the infection themselves, of those handling the Covid dead to children who were shunned by friends for getting infected." "There were nurses who weren't in the limelight. Across the length and breadth of this country, the pandemic multiplied the challenges for specialists who tended to patients with great dedication. It is important to state that this recognition is a symbol of gratitude for a job done fantastically well. It doesn't necessarily imply that those who weren't recognised today are any less in any way," he added. Across five categories - Shining Star, Leading Light, Centre of Excellence, Covid Warriors, and Lifetime Achievement - 31 doctors and 13 hospitals were awarded plaques for their work during the pandemic. BBMP commissioner N Manjunath Prasad, one of the guests at the event who gave away the awards, said, "In Bengaluru, we have admitted 53,000 Covid patients in different hospitals. The amount of dedication and work doctors have shown has no parallel in history. They saw patients day and night and that is why Bengaluru's Covid fatality rate is one of the lowest in the world." BBMP east zone Covid nodal officer Dr Bhaskar Rajakumar, Covid nodal officer at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases senior consultant pulmonologist Dr Deepak U G, and Dr Pratesh Rohan Kiran from the Department of Community Health of St John's Medical College were the three Covid warriors awarded. Cardiologist and Padma Shri recipient Dr B Ramana Rao, who has been offering free consultations to people in rural areas for the past 36 years, and paediatric cardiac surgeon from Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research Dr P S Seetharama Bhat were given Lifetime Achievement awards. Winners speak Dr Pretesh Rohan Kiran, Department of Community Health, St John's Medical College (Covid Warriors award):  I was deputed to the war room by the government and helped in the bed management. I was also deputed to the directorate of medical education, where I served as a cluster head for the 17 medical college hospitals. We assessed infrastructure in terms of oxygen, beds, ICU facilities etc. Now that the Covid bed management system will be restarted, the already mapped out resources will help. Dr P S Seetharama Bhat, Paediatric Cardiac Surgeon, Jayadeva hospital (Lifetime Achievement):  "I operated on a two-to-three-month-old baby girl's heart whose body had turned blue in 1998. She was from a poor family in north Karnataka. Years later she came to meet me and said she had just finished her MBBS. I also did the first switch surgery that marks the arrival of cardiac surgeons in a way. Dr. Devananda N S, HOD & Consultant for Cardiothoracic Vascular surgery, Manipal Hospital (Leading Light award): "This recognition belongs to all 60 healthcare providers in my unit. Such recognition is a boost to the doctors. Be it open heart surgeries or heart lung surgeries during the pandemic, it wouldn't be possible without the post operative care provided by nurses who aren't in the limelight."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/dh-healing-hands-fetes-doctors-for-yeoman-service-during-pandemic-967373.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||It’s like a TV serial, says Bommai, on sex scandal||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday described the ongoing sex scandal as a “TV serial” with back-to-back audio and video conversations that are coming out.  “It’s as if audios and videos are coming out like a TV serial. There’s a (sex) CD, there’s audio and there are videos,” Bommai said.  “The Special Investigation Team (SIT) will examine everything scientifically. I’ve said already that the SIT will not come under any pressure or influence, and it won’t be misled. The inquiry is happening in an orderly, unbiased way as per law,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/it-s-like-a-tv-serial-says-bommai-on-sex-scandal-967169.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi CD row: Didn’t meet the woman, says Karnataka Congress President DK Shivakumar||With his name having suddenly figured in the sex scandal, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar on Saturday said he had nothing to do with the case.  “The (woman’s) parents are frustrated. They’ll speak. I can’t break my head over statements that are made. Authorities are investigating and there’s the law. I have nothing to do with this (case),” Shivakumar told reporters in Krishnagiri in Tamil Nadu where he was campaigning for the party.  “It’s their personal problem and they need to sort it out,” he added.  Earlier in the day, Shivakumar told reporters that he had not met the woman. “The woman tried to meet me. She might have come, but we didn’t meet,” he said. “We're in public life. As politicians, we try to help people who come to us. You can see there are tens of people who come home or to my office with their problems daily." Shivakumar had said this after a leaked audio conversation Friday had references to him with the woman claiming that she was going to meet the Congress leader. The Congress state president, however, said he knew Naresh Gowda, who is reportedly one of the accused in the sex scandal. “Definitely, I know Naresh. He’s close to me. I’ve visited his house many times,” he said. Shivakumar laughed off the BJP’s demand for his resignation. According to Shivakumar, all he did was to “keep track” of BJP leaders after they publicly claimed that a few Congress MLAs will be poached. “So, we did track their movements. But these are their personal matters that we don’t want,” he said. Asked about BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s charge against him, Shivakumar said: “He says different things each day. I don’t need to respond. I have my duty to do. There’s the law, it’s their government. Let them punish those who’ve wronged.”  'Explicit scenes, explicit words' The Congress on Saturday objected the use of an expletive by BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi against its president D K Shivakumar. "It's not just Ramesh Jarkiholi's scenes that are explicit, but his words, too," the party said in a tweet, adding that it reflected the BJP's culture. "Such words can be uttered only by BJP people." The Congress also asked Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai why Ramesh was not under arrest still. "Are you keeping him out so he can do this drama?"||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-cd-row-didn-t-meet-the-woman-says-karnataka-congress-president-dk-shivakumar-967172.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ramesh Jarkiholi CD case: Woman's parents appear before SIT||The family members of the woman, allegedly in the controversial video with former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, have appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) at the Interrogation Cell in Madiwala. The father, mother, and two brothers of the woman appeared before the officials around 11 am. The senior officials of SIT, including Joint Commissioner of Police (Crime), Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) MN Anucheth, DCP (Crime) Ravi Kumar and others, visited the Interrogation Cell. The officials had served the notice to the parents and accordingly, they appeared before the officials. The officials are going to question the parents about the kidnap case filed by them. They will also be questioned about the phone conversation between them and their daughter and other issues. Meanwhile, the woman's advocate Jagadesh KN Mahadev has demanded the SIT officials to arrest Ramesh Jarkiholi. He stated that Ramesh is threatening the victim and others through media statements. He may destroy the evidence, so they have to arrest him and probe the case further, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ramesh-jarkiholi-cd-case-womans-parents-appear-before-sit-967223.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi CD row: One of the 'Mahanayakas' will come out after SIT probe, says Minister S T Somashekar||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Saturday said that one of the 'Mahanayakas' will come out now that a Special Investigation Team (SIT) was investigating the CD scandal involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. Speaking to reporters here, Somashekar said, "The victim herself named KPCC President D K Shivakumar in connection with the issue." "The screenplay, director, producer and location of the video will come out," the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-cd-row-one-of-the-mahanayakas-will-come-out-after-sit-probe-says-minister-s-t-somashekar-967239.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case looks like conspiracy, honey-trap: JD(S)||The H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S) on Saturday said the sex scandal was turning out to be a case of “honey-trap” and urged the police to “find the truth without succumbing to political pressure”.  In a series of tweets, the JD(S) said the scandal was more than what meets the eye.  “What initially look(ed) like a sex scandal and sexual exploitation now seems like a conspiracy,” the party said. “The names of (Congress leaders) D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah have figured, making it look like a case of honey-trap. In all this, Karnataka is being put to shame before the nation,” it said.  Referring to back-and-forth audio and video releases, the JD(S) said “a big group” could be involved in the entire episode. “In the guise of providing justice to the victim, it’s becoming clearer that someone is using her to play a game,” it surmised.  The regional party asked the police to show efficiency by digging out the truth. “It’ll be a huge insult to the state and our police if the case is allowed to just be by itself, making it an entertainment for the country,” it said.  “Questions on whether this is sexual exploitation, a conspiracy or a honey-trap are troubling citizens. Without distinguishing between ruling and opposition parties, the police should find the truth. The state police are known for its sense of duty,” the JD(S) said, expressing concern over the effect this case would have on families and children.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-looks-like-conspiracy-honey-trap-jds-967245.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Siddaramaiah, Sudhakar spar over Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka||Health Minister K Sudhakar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah sparred on Saturday over the number of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka.  Siddaramaiah demanded a white paper on the Covid-19 situation in the state after he discovered a data mismatch on the deaths caused due to the virus, accusing the government of lying. “According to the Department of Health & Family Welfare, the number of Covid-19 deaths till December 2020 is 12,090. According to the Planning & Statistical department, it is 22,320 till December 2020,” Siddaramaiah said in a tweet, posting both data sets. “Which of the above data is true,” he asked Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Sudhakar.  The Congress leader did not stop there. “BJP’s inefficiency, corruption & lies are the reasons for the rise in Covid-19 cases in Karnataka. People of Karnataka are facing the crisis due to mistakes of the shameless BJP government,” he said.  Raking up allegations of misappropriation of funds in the procurement of Covid-19 equipment, Siddaramaiah said BJP leaders were lying. “BJP leaders have not just lied about the Covid-19 related deaths, they have also lied about medicines, masks, sanitizers, PPE kits and other procurements,” he said, chagrin that Sudhakar has been “consistently lying to hide corruption and inefficiency”.  Demanding a white paper on the pandemic, Siddaramaiah said Covid-19 can be “won through treatment and not through lies.”  Sudhakar shot back saying the figures were not final. “These figures are provisional entries in e-Janma software which are subject to reconciliation as per the guidelines issued by the Registrar General of India,” he said. “The verification process is near completion and the final figures are yet to be released.” Siddaramaiah’s accusation is an “insult” to Corona warriors working tirelessly over the past year, Sudhakar said. “Our government neither intends to hide any figures nor is it necessary. People in responsible positions should refrain from making false allegations for political gains,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/siddaramaiah-sudhakar-spar-over-covid-19-deaths-in-karnataka-967259.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka Health Minister cautions people as coronavirus cases rise||Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Saturday said that coronavirus cases are on the rise in all states and it was an indication of the beginning of the second wave, as he called on people to exercise caution. Noting that 8 to 10 states have more active cases and there are about 2.84 lakh cases in Maharashtra, 24,000 in Kerala, and about 19,000 in Karnataka, he said, "It is clear that the second wave has begun. So if we don't curb activities the danger is imminent." The minister urged the people to compulsorily wear masks and follow social distancing. The state's positivity rate of 1.6 per cent is more than the national average which is not a good sign, he said. "We should take this seriously. More than 1 lakh tests are being conducted every day," he was quoted as saying by his office in a release. The Minister said Covid-19 containment restrictions are already in place and the government will take more stringent actions in the coming days. "Have requested the Chief Minister to take necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection in educational institutions and CM himself will take action in this regard," he added. On vaccination coverage among health care workers and front line workers, Sudhakar said that Bidar has achieved 113 per cent, Dharwad 107 and Gadag has achieved 103. Whereas Bengaluru Urban, Bagalkot, Davangere and Koppal have achieved 61, 64, 65 and 65 per cent respectively. "So far, 2,22,377 frontline warriors have been vaccinated with the first dose. 3,34,110 healthcare workers have been given the 2nd dose," he added. So far 16.18 lakh senior citizens aged above 60 years have been inoculated, 4.70 lakh people aged above 45 years with comorbidities have been vaccinated. He further said in 2 to 3 days the state will receive 12 lakh more doses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-health-minister-cautions-people-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-967271.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar behind Jarkiholi sex CD scandal, alleges woman's kin||The father of the woman allegedly in the CD have blamed the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar for the sex CD scandal. Speaking to media persons after giving their statement before the Special Investigation Team (SIT) the father and brother of the woman said that it is a "handy work" of D K Shivakumar. "We have spoken to SIT officials and given our statement to them. We have an audio clipping of our sister and the same has been given to SIT officials. During the conversation, my sister had told us that she is at D K Shivakumar's house and he is sending her away from the state safely. Making such videos, keeping a woman to take their political revenge is not the right thing," the brother said. He added that On March 2, his sister's mobile phone was switched off. "We called on her male friend's phone and spoke to her. She told us that the videos are morphed and edited. D K Shivakumar is sending her to Goa safely," he said. Her father said, "I am an ex-serviceman, using a Schedule Tribe (ST) woman for their political gain is not a manhood, it's a dirty politics." "We don't want to make any more allegations, we just want our daughter back home. We need the support of policemen and media persons to bring her back home. She had come home last on February, 5, but after March 2, she spoke to us over the phone. The suspected kingpin media person's statement about the incident is false." The SIT had subjected parents to questioning in the Interrogation Cell in Adugodi based on their complaint of kidnap and the woman's video clip. The SIT questioned them for over six hours from 11 am to 5:30 pm.  Senior officials including Soumendu Mukherjee, additional commissioner of police (West) (head of SIT), Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (Crime), and others visited the Interrogation Cell and spoke to the parents of the woman. This is the second time the parents were questioned. The first time they were questioned in Kalaburagi a few days ago.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-behind-jarkiholi-sex-cd-scandal-alleges-womans-kin-967283.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Shouldn't have used that word: Ramesh Jarkiholi regrets using expletive against D K Shivakumar||BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi expressed regret Saturday for using an expletive against his bête noire, Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar. "I stand by everything else, but for that one word. I shouldn't have used that word. I regret it," Ramesh told reporters. "I've faced a lot over the last 24 days. So, I got emotional. I'm human. I regret using that word." Speaking to reporters earlier, Ramesh exhibited toxic masculinity when he said: "I'm a real man. Shivakumar is a g**." Congress workers staged a protest against Ramesh and the BJP over this.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shouldnt-have-used-that-word-ramesh-jarkiholi-regrets-using-expletive-against-d-k-shivakumar-967313.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jarkiholi Sex Scandal: My parents don't know the facts, says woman after kin's statement||A fifth unauthenticated video clipping surfaced Saturday evening, allegedly released by the woman in the CD along with former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The video clipping statement came right after the woman's father and brother gave their statements to the Special Investigation Team (SIT). In the clipping, which is around 1 minute and 46 seconds long, she is heard saying that after following the latest development, she feels scared and that her family are not aware of the details of the incident. She further said, "In this case, the injustice was done to me, by them. None of them have been called for interrogation. But, my family members were subjected to inquiry. They are turning the entire case, I am the one who needs justice." "I am scared to give my statement after this. They made my parents give out statements and are now changing the case. If I give a statement, I don't know what is going to happen. So, I request Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Siddaramaiah, D K Shivakumar, and Ramesh Kumar to please come forward and help me." "Whatever my statement is, I will explain in detail in front of everyone. I wish to give my statement in front of a judge," she said. She also requested political leaders to help her.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jarkiholi-sex-scandal-my-parents-dont-know-the-facts-says-woman-after-kins-statement-967335.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: 2,886 new cases, 8 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka has reported 2,886 new cases of Covid-19 and eight related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,83,930 and the death toll to 12,492, the Health Department said on Saturday. This is for the fifth consecutive day the state reported over 2,000 fresh cases. A total of 2,566 cases were reported on Friday. Out of the 2,886 fresh cases today, 1,820 cases were from Bengaluru Urban. The day also saw 1,179 patients getting discharged after recovery. As of March 27 evening, cumulatively 9,83,930 positive cases were witnessed. This included 12,492 deaths and 9,50,167 were discharged, the Health Department said. Out of the 21,252 active cases, 21,056 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 196 are in the ICU. Among eight deaths reported today, two each were from Bengaluru Urban and Kalaburagi, and one each from Bidar, Dharwad, Hassan and Tumakuru. In the districts where the new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 1,820, Udupi 156, Kalaburagi 147, Myauru 131, Bidar 82 and Tumakuru 80 followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 4,26,169, followed by Mysuru 55,333 and Ballari 39,629. Among those who got discharged, Bengaluru Urban again tops the list with 4,06,923 followed by Mysuru 53,759 and Ballari 38,833. A total of over 2,10,02,216 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,07,416 were tested on Saturday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-2886-new-cases-8-deaths-in-karnataka-967349.html
27-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||New exams authority for SSLC, II PU from next year||It is likely from the next academic year that the SSLC and II PU examinations will be conducted by an examinations authority. This will put an end to one of the long-pending demands of the department of primary and secondary education to merge the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) and department of pre-university education. According to the sources in the department, the authority will be formed on the lines of the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA), which conducts exams for professional courses.  The government has constituted a committee to give recommendations for the setting up of the authority. The committee is headed by Anbu Kumar, commissioner for the department of public instruction.  “As per earlier discussions, the March/April examinations in 2020 were supposed to be held under a single board. But due to various reasons, including the pandemic, the same was put off,” said a source in the department.  “Considering the fact that common examination boards exist in most states, a similar proposal was discussed. But looking at the administrative difficulties and considering the number of staff and children in schools, the government is thinking of setting up a separate examinations authority,” the official said. The department has set aside Rs 50 crore for the creation of a common examination board. “One of the main reasons for dropping the concept of merging the boards was opposition from the employees. The employees of both the departments objected to this,” officials said. Under the new plan, a senior IAS officer will be appointed to look into both SSLC and PU examinations. The commissioner for public instruction and director of the department of pre-university education will manage other administrative works in the respective departments.  “The government is waiting for a report from the committee to finalise constitution of the authority,” said an official source. Every year, over 8.5 lakh candidates appear for SSLC exams and over 6 lakh write II PU exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-exams-authority-for-sslc-ii-pu-from-next-year-967356.html
27-03-2021||West||Lockdown possible in Pune if situation persists, hints Ajit Pawar||"Stringent decisions" would be taken if the Covid-19 situation in Pune district did not improve in one week, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar warned on Friday, hinting that fresh lockdown can be imposed. Pawar, who is guardian minister for Pune, told reporters the situation was becoming serious. "If the situation (in terms of rise in cases) remains the same, we will have to take more stringent decisions in the district by the first week of April," he said. Asked why no fresh restrictions have been imposed yet though cases are increasing, Pawar said the previous experiences was that people complain about not getting enough notice before restrictions come into effect. "Suppose if we announce lockdown from today, many people would not be able to get food in the evening. By giving time, people will at least get some time to store groceries and vegetables. We want to make people mentally ready," he said. The government also has to think of the poor who live from hand to mouth, Pawar said. If Covid-19 rules are not followed by people, the administration will have to take some strict decision by April 2, he warned. "For example, we have not imposed any new restrictions on hotels and restaurants. They are allowed to operate till 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. But if the situation remains the same, we will have no option but to close hotels and only parcel service will be allowed," he said. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol who attended the review meeting held by Pawar, said some decision about lockdown can be taken if the things did not improve. Pawar also said that maximum 50 persons will be permitted at weddings and 20 persons at funerals. Social and political events have been banned. In view of the surge in infections, the state government has decided to take control of 50 per cent of beds in privatehospitals, he said. "We have already started a jumbo hospital in Pune and a jumbo facility in Pimpri Chinchwad will be operational fromApril," said the deputy chief minister. The number of beds at the Sassoon General Hospital has been increased to 500, he said, adding that an officer has been appointed to ensure that oxygen supply in hospitals remains uninterrupted. "We are in talks with an oxygen plant in Raigad district in case we need additional supply," he said. There are also plans to double the number of vaccination centres in the district, he said. "We had a discussion with Union Minister Prakash Javadekar and we have sought additional vaccine doses for thedistrict. He has agreed to look into the issue," Pawar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-possible-in-pune-if-situation-persists-hints-ajit-pawar-967020.html
27-03-2021||West||Massive fire engulfs Pune's Fashion Street||A major fire broke out at the Fashion Street in Pune Cantonment area engulfing several shops on Friday night. The firefighting and cooling operations were ongoing till wee hours of Saturday. However, no casualties were reported. "The situation is under control control now," Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said. The fire could be seen from several kilometres away, eyewitness said. Pune Municipal Corporation's Fire Brigade chief Prashant Ranpise is himself present at the spot. The Fashion Street in Camp is one of the most popular local markets for street shopping, with vendors for several categories of clothing, electronics, toys and accessories having shops here. Majority of these shops were gutted in the fire. Goods worth crores of rupees have perished in the devastating fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/massive-fire-engulfs-punes-fashion-street-967026.html
27-03-2021||West||Fire breaks out in five-storeyed Mumbai building||A fire broke out in a five- storeyed building in Mumbai's Prabhadevi area on Saturday morning, a fire brigade official said. The fire broke out in the basement of Gammon House, a commercial building on Veer Savarkar road around 6 am, the official said. Eight fire engines and seven water tankers were rushed to the spot, he said, adding there are no reports of any casualty. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-in-five-storeyed-mumbai-building-967149.html
27-03-2021||West||Goa's Liberation timeline inspires debate between CJI, Law Minister||Chief Justice of India S A Bobde on Saturday weighed in on the alleged delay in the Liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule in 1961 while responding to a comment by Union Minister for Law and Justice Ravi Shankar Prasad. Speaking at a function organised to inaugurate the new premises of the Bombay High Court bench in Goa, Bobde said that Goa may have been liberated after the Indian independence, but said that the event was significant because it was a virtually bloodless affair. Earlier during the event, Prasad in his speech had sought an "honest appraisal" of reasons why Goa's Liberation was delayed, a consistent theme adopted by BJP leaders, which includes Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant. "One question has baffled me always. India became free in 1947. Why Goa had to wait till 1961. When India's independence is close to 75 years and we are celebrating the 70th year of India's independence. It is time to have an honest appraisal, why Goa's liberation took so long," Prasad said in his speech. "We have the best relations with Portugal, we wish them well. Many of the Portuguese PMs are from Goa, it is a matter of great pride. That relationship is there, it should continue, but there has to be an honest appraisal. I thought today I must flag that concern..." the Union Minister also said. The 'delay' has been a pet theme of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant who has blamed then Prime Minister late Jawaharlal Nehru for the delay in Goa's integration with India. "I feel the then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru was responsible for Goa getting its freedom 14 years after India's Independence. Because of him, we got freedom 14 years later. If he had the political will, if he really cared about Goans, he would have wanted Goa to be free of Portuguese rule," Sawant on January 14 last year. "Despite 450 years of exploitative Portuguese rule, Goa managed to keep its culture intact. We had a period of 14-year vanvaas. India was already independent and for 14 years we had continued in exploitative Portuguese rule," Sawant also said on November 13, 2020. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan has also levelled the same accusation against Nehru during his Goa visit in 2019. CJI Bobde however in his speech sparred with Prasad's joust about Goa's history. "It may be later than the rest of the country, but the most significant thing I think about the liberation of Goa is that it was completely bloodless. No shots were fired, no corpses carried away, when the Liberation took place," the Chief Justice of India said. "A few incidents did take place, but basically it was not a conflict between the two armies, which is very different from the liberation in other places like Hyderabad," Bobde said.ends||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goas-liberation-timeline-inspires-debate-between-cji-law-minister-967262.html
27-03-2021||West||Fire breaks out at godown in Delhi's Mandoli area||A fire broke out at a godown in the Mandoli area in Delhi. At least 30 fire tenders are at the spot and the fire has been brought under control, according to ANI. Delhi: Fire breaks out at a godown in Mandoli area. 30 fire tenders are at the spot and the fire has been brought under control. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/fire-breaks-out-at-godown-in-delhis-mandoli-area-967265.html
27-03-2021||West||Over 38,000 posts vacant in Mumbai's BMC||While there are a large number of vacancies in the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation, it is being ignored by the municipal administration even as it fights the biggest problem – the Covid-19 pandemic. While there are 1,10,509 sanctioned posts under the direct and promotion category, 38,128 posts are vacant. This was revealed in answer to a query filed by RTI activist Anil Galgali. “The highest number of posts are in category C and D with 33,043 posts,” he said. Galgali had sought information from the BMC about sanctioned, working and vacant posts. The BMC is one of the biggest and richest civic bodies in India. The general administration of BMC informed him about the records available till September 2020. A total of 87,146 posts have been sanctioned in the direct service technical and non-technical categories in which 28,608 posts are vacant. There are 10,553 vacancies in the C category and 15,789 vacancies in the D category. A total of 23,363 posts have been sanctioned in the promotion technical and non-technical categories and 9,520 posts are vacant. There are 5,020 vacancies in the highest D category. There are 33,043 vacancies in both the C and D categories. Galgali has sent a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal and Mayor Kishori Pednekar and demanded that they fill up all vacant posts on top priority. "Vacancies affect work and citizens have to suffer," said Galgali.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-38000-posts-vacant-in-mumbais-bmc-967270.html
27-03-2021||West||Covid-19: Public places in Maharashtra to be shut from 8 pm to 7 am starting today, hefty fine for violators||With the Covid-19 pandemic situation compounding every day, the Maharashtra government on Saturday announced a slew of restrictions including an 8 pm to 7 am prohibitory order and enhanced the fine for not following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour. The decisions come a day after Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray undertook a comprehensive review of the situation. The 10-page notification – as part of the Mission Begin Again series - was signed by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte. It also details the action that can be taken if people violate the law. Gathering of five or more persons will not be allowed from 8 pm to 7 am from Saturday-Sunday midnight. All public places including beaches and park would be shut from 8 pm to 7 am. Cinema halls (single screens and multiplexes), auditorium, malls, restaurants and bars would be shut during this period.  However, the home delivery of food parcels will be allowed. A violation will attract a Rs 1,000 penalty. A person found without a mask would be fined Rs 500 and anyone found spitting would be fined Rs 1,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-public-places-in-maharashtra-to-be-shut-from-8-pm-to-7-am-starting-today-hefty-fine-for-violators-967293.html
27-03-2021||West||NIA must probe DVR disappearance: Congress||Adding a new dimension to the twin cases of the explosive-laden SUV planting and the Mansukh Hiren murder, Congress asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to look into the disappearance of Digital Video Recorder (DVR) of the Mumbai Police commissionerate on Saturday. “When Parambir Singh was the Commissioner of Police, the DVR of the Mumbai Police commissionerate disappeared from his office. Why is the NIA not investigating?  Surprisingly, the NIA has not taken the statement of any of Sachin Vaze's senior officials in the last 18 days,” Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee’s general secretary and spokesperson Sachin Sawant said. The NIA must probe this aspect, he demanded at a news conference in Mumbai. Sawant said that on March 10, the DVR was officially taken by the ATS for investigation, but within two hours, the CP office felt that it was a mistake to have handed it over. "The DVR was called back saying that it would be checked and returned later on the ground that visibility is poor.  Someone from Parambir Singh's office called ATS chief Jai Jeet Singh and said so. Inquiry of this will reveal the real name which is although quite clear,” Sawant said. He said DVR was taken into custody by an official who was sent from Singh's office.  “The DVR has since disappeared.  Why isn't the NIA investigating?  In this DVR, the Scorpio, Innova movement were clearly seen and also who Sachin Vaze and others were in contact with. Surprisingly, despite the disappearance of important evidence, the NIA has not summoned any senior official for the last 18 days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-must-probe-dvr-disappearance-congress-967296.html
27-03-2021||West||From now on, you'll need a negative Covid-19 report to enter Gujarat||The Gujarat government on Saturday announced that a negative COVID-19 RT-PCR test report will be mandatory for those arriving from other states. Earlier, the government had made negative test report must only for those coming from neighbouring Maharashtra which has been worst hit by the pandemic. "The coronavirus infection rate is increasing in many states of the country. It is also seen that prevalence of Covid-19 is high among those who have travel history," the state health department said in a notification. In view of this, those entering Gujarat from other states must have undergone RT-PCR test in the previous 72 hours and carry a negative report, it said. The order will come into force from April 1. In the last few days Gujarat has been witnessing a surge in cases of coronavirus with Ahmedabad and Surat being the worst affected. The state recorded 2,190 new cases on Friday, highest since the start of the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/from-now-on-youll-need-a-negative-covid-19-report-to-enter-gujarat-967307.html
27-03-2021||West||Coronavirus surge: 40 active cases at IIM-A, 25 at IIT- Gandhinagar||The new wave of coronavirus in Gujarat has hit two of the country's premier educational institutions with IIM Ahmedabad and IIT Gandhinagar reporting active cases in double digits. The Indian Institute of Management Ahmedabad currently has 40 active cases of coronavirus, while IIT-G has 25 active cases, official sources said. "The IIM-A campus was almost Covid-free with only isolated cases till March 12. Subsequently, there was a rise in infections, mostly among students. Many of these cases are asymptomatic," the institute said in a statement on Saturday. The first five cases were reported on March 12-13, it added. As many as 23 persons -- 22 students and a professor -- were found positive in tests conducted at the institute and they were isolated, said Mehul Acharya, deputy health officer, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation. Seventeen others tested positive later, he said. "All infected persons have been shifted to a quarantine hostel although they are asymptomatic. Staff, faculty and family members have been asked to quarantine themselves at home," the IIM-A statement said. As soon as a positive report comes, the infected student is asked to move into the quarantine hostel within an hour and treatment is started, it said. Students who had or have tested positive are not allowed to sit for exams. The IIM-A has been conducting RT-PCR tests for all students and community members free, and in view of new cases the frequency of testing has been increased, it added. The Gandhinagar campus of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) has also seen a rise in infections. "Over the last few days, 25 students have tested positive. They have been isolated and are being looked after by our medical teams. No faculty or staff member has tested positive so far," the spokesperson of the institute said. Gujarat recorded 2,190 coronavirus cases on Friday, the highest one-day rise since the start of the pandemic. The state currently has 10,134 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-surge-40-active-cases-at-iim-a-25-at-iit-gandhinagar-967311.html
27-03-2021||West||Mumbai reports over 6,000 new Covid-19 cases||Pressure seems to be building up on Maharashtra's public health infrastructure as the total Covid-19 active cases crossed the 3-lakh mark in the state on Saturday. During the day, while Mumbai crossed the 6,000 mark, the larger Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. On Saturday, the state recorded 35,726 cases and 166 deaths taking the progressive total to 26,73,461 and 54,073, respectively. The financial capital of Mumbai recorded 6,130 cases while the MMR 10,638. The total active cases stand at 3,03,475 of which 76,490 are in the MMR districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Thane, Palghar and Raigad.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-reports-over-6000-new-covid-19-cases-967316.html
27-03-2021||West||Militant killed in ongoing gunfight in Kashmir's Shopian||An unidentified militant was killed in an ongoing encounter with security forces in Dangam village of south Kashmir's Shopian district on Saturday. A police official said the gunfight erupted after a joint team of Army’s 34 Rashtriya Rifle and J&K police launched a cordon-and- search-operation (CASO) in Dangam, Shopian, 55 km from here, on specific information about the presence of militants in the area. He said that as the joint team of forces approached towards the suspected spot, the hiding militants fired upon them, which was retaliated, triggering an encounter in which one militant has been killed so far. The identity and group affiliation of the slain militant was not known immediately. The official said the operation is on in the area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/militant-killed-in-ongoing-gunfight-in-kashmirs-shopian-967339.html
27-03-2021||West||Section 144 imposed in North, South Goa ahead of festivals||The Goa administration on Saturday imposed section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in both its districts, to prohibit public gatherings ahead of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr festivals to control the spread of Covid-19. The district collectors of both North and South Goa issued the order banning gatherings under section 144 of the CrPC. A fresh surge in Covid-19 cases is being witnessed in parts of the country and the situation might further escalate during the festivals of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid- ul-Fitr with gatherings, congregations and public celebrations, the order states. The state health department has imposed local restrictions in observance of these festivals, as contained in the standard operating procedure of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. It is essential to enforce social distancing of people to prevent the spread of the disease. Hence, section 144 of CrPC has been imposed, the order states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/section-144-imposed-in-north-south-goa-ahead-of-festivals-967347.html
27-03-2021||West||All Goa lawmakers to under Covid-19 test, after one BJP MLA found positive||Legislators in the Goa Legislative Assembly and their personal staff have been directed to make themselves available for RT-PCR tests after a BJP MLA tested positive for Covid-19 during the ongoing Budget Session of the Goa Legislative Assembly. BJP MLA from Panaji Atanasio Monserrate had tested positive for the viral infection on Friday. "All honourable members should give their swab at the PHC/Hospitals of their jurisdiction, so also the primary contact, staff should also give their swab for testing at their PHC/Hospitals on March 27, 28, 2021,"  an advisory issued by Secretary of the Goa Legislature department Namrata Ulman said. "The Collectorate has issued orders to the Doctors to be available on the above mentioned dates at their respective PHC/Hospitals to carry out the needful for the honourable members and their staff," the advisory added. The Budget Session of the state Legislative Assembly is currently on and is scheduled to conclude on April 3. There are 40 MLAs in the state Assembly.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-goa-lawmakers-to-under-covid-19-test-after-one-bjp-mla-found-positive-967379.html
