28-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Tuluvere Paksha seeks separate statehood for Tulu Nadu, language||As Tulu language, one among the five Dravidian languages awaits inclusion in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, ‘Tuluvere Paksha’ succeeded in getting recognition from the Election Commission of India (ECI). The recognition, by the ECI under Section 29A of Representation of the People Act 1951, has given wings to the political aspirations of the Tulu-speaking people. The party’s immediate priorities are to push forward the demands of Tulu organisations aimed at the development of ‘Tulu Nadu’. Even before getting recognition, like-minded people under the aegis of Tulunada Okkuta had been initiating different activities aimed at the development of the Tulu language and Tuluvas for many years. They had even carried out a protest against the Yettinahole flood waters diversion project and had hoisted the flag of Tulu Nadu during the Kannada Rajyotsava celebrations. Like-minded people had long ago realised the need to launch Tuluvere Paksha (TP), after realising that political parties would never fulfil the aspirations of Tulu-speaking communities or secure identity for Tulu Nadu, language, culture and tradition. Official recognition After fulfilling all criteria, the TP received official recognition a year later from the ECI on February 5, 2021. TP Central Committee president Shailesh R J says: “The present-day Tulu linguistic majority area is confined to the region of Tulu Nadu comprising districts of DK and Udupi in Karnataka and the northern parts of Kasaragod district in Kerala, up to River Payaswani, or Chandragiri.” A few portions of Malnad too has a large number of Tulu-speaking people. “When the country was reorganised based on languages, Tulu Nadu was partly shared among Kerala and Karnataka. When there was a separate state for Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam and Kannada-speaking people, why there cannot be a separate state for Tulu Nadu?,” he asked. “The party will demand a separate statehood for Tulu Nadu by unifying Tulu-speaking areas in Kasargod, DK, Udupi and Malnad districts and demand the inclusion of Tulu language in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution.” As per the 2011 Census report, there are 18,46,427 Tulu-speaking people in India. Tulu-speaking people are larger in number than speakers of a few languages that were recognised in the Constitution. “Tulu language is eligible to be recognised under the Eighth Schedule and yet we have failed somewhere to get Tulu language its due prominence,” he felt. Enrolling members Having received recognition, the Tuluvere Paksha has begun enrolling members. Tuluvas from outside Karnataka, especially from Mumbai, New Delhi and even those working in foreign countries, had enrolled as life-time members of the party, he informs. With an eye on the Zilla and Taluk Panchayat elections, Tuluvere Paksha has been grooming candidates wherever the party has a strong base. Soon the party will field candidates in all the elections including Assembly and Parliament. “When we promote Tulu, it does not mean that we oppose other languages. We just want Tulu to be recognised,” he emphasises. The party flag will be readied after the ECI allocates a symbol. The party will be officially launched soon after constituting the office-bearers in various taluks of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. “There are ample opportunities for regional parties. People are already disappointed with the national parties and are in search of an alternative that will respond to their needs,” feels Shailesh. The TP also has been seeking feedback on issues like what should be the focus of the party, and so on, in social media. The Twitterati has extended its full support to the survey by insisting that the Tulu language should not be a mere language but as a medium of instruction in schools in Karnataka and Kerala. “Standardisation and Unicoding of Tulu script,” was another important demand of the Twitterati. “Some have even said that children should know the history of Tulunadu to make them proud of their culture and heritage,” informs Shailesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/tuluvere-paksha-seeks-separate-statehood-for-tulu-nadu-language-967521.html
28-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 39.48 lakh seized at Mangalore International Airport||The officers of Mangalore Air Customs arrested two persons for smuggling gold at Mangalore International Airport. According to officials, 851 grams of gold worth Rs 39.48 lakh was seized. The team arrested Fousiya Missiriya Moideen Kunhi, aged 33 years who was travelling along with her husband Moideen Kunhi Cheroor, aged 44 years and four children. Hailing from Cheroor in Kasargod, they arrived in Mangaluru airport from Dubai. The gold was smuggled by concealing in the specially designed inner garment of the lady passenger.  Further investigation is under progress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-3948-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-international-airport-967528.html
28-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Poachers hunt deer, flee after seeing forest personnel in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary||Poachers from Tamil Nadu have continued to enter forests illegally for poaching at Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits in Chamarajanagar district's Hanur. A gang of poachers who had killed a deer abandoned the meat and fled after spotting the patrolling team of the Forest department on Saturday. The poachers, who were said to have entered the Bheemanakallu forest area which comes under the Gopinatham wildlife range on Friday, are said to have stayed in the forest for two days and hunted the deer with a country rifle. They were drying the meat on a rock and escaped from the spot after spotting the patrolling team. Several such incidents have been reported from Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary limits. It may be mentioned that poachers were caught carrying deer meat on a coracle in the Gopinatham range around six months ago. There was also a case of poachers using dogs to hunt a monitor lizard entering the forest after crossing the lake.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/poachers-hunt-deer-flee-after-seeing-forest-personnel-in-cauvery-wildlife-sanctuary-967608.html
28-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Elephants spotted near Suntikoppa, residents in fear||Fear gripped Shantigeri and surrounding villages near Suntikoppa of Kodagu district after residents spotted a herd of elephants in daylight. Farmers in the region, who have already lost their crops, are now more worried due to the menace of wild elephants. The rise in temperature in the last few days has affected the coffee crop.  Labourers in the coffee plantations, who noticed the elephants rushed to safety. Forest officials visited the spot. People in the nearby regions are not sending their children to schools due to fear of wild elephants. A herd of wild elephants was seen near the backwaters of Harangi in Yadavare village. Anekadu Forest Officer Anil D’Souza said that the wild elephants sneaking into the residential areas were being driven back into the forest. He said people should not try to chase the elephants.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/elephants-spotted-near-suntikoppa-residents-in-fear-967660.html
28-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Sad day for democracy: Kejriwal on GNCTB Bill||Soon after the passage of GNCTD amendment bill in the Rajya Sabha, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said it was a "sad day" for democracy and stressed that his struggle to restore power back to the people would continue. The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday approved the bill giving primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government after high drama in the House that saw uproar by the opposition and a walkout by MPs of parties like the BJD, SP, Congress and the YSR-Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-sad-day-for-democracy-kejriwal-on-gnctb-bill-967435.html
28-03-2021||National||India sees over 62,000 Covid-19 cases for second straight day in the highest daily spike so far this year||India saw 62,714 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,19,71,624, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.   Registering a steady increase for the 18th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 4,86,310 comprising 4.06 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.58 per cent, the data stated. The 62,714 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,552 with 312 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily death toll of 312 is the highest since December 25, 2020, when 336 new deaths were reported. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,23,762, while the case fatality rate stood at  1.35 per cent, the data stated.     India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,09,50,842 samples have been tested up to March 27 with 11,81,289 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sees-over-62000-covid-19-cases-for-second-straight-day-in-the-highest-daily-spike-so-far-this-year-967476.html
28-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi's 75th edition of 'Mann Ki Baat'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressed the nation in the 75th edition 'Mann Ki Baat'. Here are some highlights: 1. PM mentions a unique lighthouse in Surendranagar in Gujarat: "While talking about lighthouses, I want appreciate the efforts of lighthouse keepers for doing their duties diligently. Sadly, we had lost many lighthouse keepers during the tragic 2004 Tsunami:" 2. PM congratulates Cricketer Mithali Raj: " In the month of March when we are celebrating Women's Day, many women players secured records and medals in their name. India bagged top position during the ISSF World Cup shooting organised at Delhi. India also topped the gold medals tally. Recently Mithali Raj has become the first Indian woman cricketer to have made ten thousand runs. Many congratulations on her achievement." 3. Modi lauds India's bee-keeping efforts: "Many farmers are now getting into bee farming. The people of Gurdum village,Darjeeling have taken up honey bee farming and today there is a significant demand for honey harvested by them. This is also increasing their income. They're helping in Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign, he said." 4. 'Dawai bhi, Kadai bhi' is the mantra even as India embraks on the world's biggest vaccination drive: "The world's biggest vaccination program is underway in India, today. In UP's Jaunpur, a 109-yr-old woman got herself vaccinated. Similarly, a 107-yr-old man in Delhi got himself vaccinated. We have to make people committed towards the mantra of 'Dawai bhi, Kadai bhi'" 5. " It was in March last year when we heard the term 'Janata Curfew'. It became an inspiration for the entire world as it was an extraordinary example of discipline: PM Modi during the 75th episode for Mann Ki Baat ," PM Modi said. 6. The Prime Minister also spoke of upcoming festivities. "New year will also be celebrated in different regions of the country soon. Be it Ugadi or Puthandu, Gudi Padwa or Bihu, Navreh or Poila, or Boishakh or Baisakhi - the whole country will be drenched in the color of zeal, enthusiasm and new expectations," he said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-75th-edition-of-mann-ki-baat-967490.html
28-03-2021||National||Here are states where 'Holi hai', but with restrictions||Holi is a much-cherished festival in India. Rather, any festival is cherished in India, but Holi holds a special place in the hearts of the common people. Maybe it is because of its literally colourful nature, or the opportunity it presents to gorge on a wide range of sweets and of course, to taste the Bhang. India is facing a rising number of coronavirus cases, with the country reporting over 62,000 new Covid-19 cases on two consecutive days (March 27 and 28). So, the various state government have decided to impose a curb on the Holi celebrations. Here are the states where 'Holi hai', but in a very subdued manner: Maharashtra: Amid a surge in coronavirus cases, the Maharashtra government has said that people should celebrate Holi in a simple manner and crowding should be avoided. "The festival should be celebrated in a simple manner, observing social distancing norms and without coming together in any way given the increasing spread of Covid-19. Rang Panchami too should be celebrated in a simple manner," the government said in a statement. The civic body in Maharashtra's Nagpur city has issued a notification banning Holi celebrations and Shab-e-Barat processions in public and private places. According to an order issued by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation, not more than five people will be permitted to gather at public places during the festivals on March 28 and 29. The district and civic authorities in Pune have also announced a ban on Holi celebrations in public and private places. Delhi: The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital for upcoming festivals such as Holi and Navaratri. Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev directed authorities to ensure strict compliance with the order. "All authorities concerned will ensure that public celebrations and gatherings, congregations during upcoming festivals like Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navaratri etc shall not be allowed in public places/public grounds/public parks/markets/religious places etc in NCT of Delhi," Dev said in his order. The Delhi Police has appealed to people to avoid public gatherings on Holi and celebrate the festival at home in compliance with coronavirus guidelines. Uttar Pradesh: Uttar Pradesh government issued directives for the Holi festival, which emphasises the strict implementation of the anti-Covid measures and also stipulates that no procession or public programmes would be allowed without prior administrative permission. The directive issued to all district and division-level officers said the Covid-19 testing of all those coming to UP during the Holi festival from the states reporting high numbers of infections will be necessary. The directive also stipulated that organisers will not allow people above 60 or below 10 years of age or those having serious ailments to participate in the celebration of Holi.   Gujarat: The Gujarat government has said that permission won't be granted for Holi celebrations due to the surge in Covid-19 cases in the state through the religious ritual of 'Holika Dahan' associated with the festival can take place with crowd restrictions. "No permission is granted for the celebration of Holi. Action will be taken against violators. However, I believe the people of Gujarat will follow rules and will not play Holi," Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel said. Bihar: The Bihar government has issued an order asking people not to congregate at public places on the day of the Holi festival. The order issued by the Home department also said that the "minimum number" of people will be allowed to gather at one place during Holika Dahan, the ritual performed on the eve of the Holi festival and Shab-e-Barat. The government order did not specify the minimum number of people allowed to gather. It said that people should maintain Covid-19 protocol such as wearing a face mask, maintaining social distancing, using hand sanitiser while participating during Holika Dahan and Shab-e-Barat. Telangana: The Telangana government has decided not to allow public celebrations in the state during the coming religious events, till April 30, to prevent the spread of Covid-19, besides making it mandatory to wear face masks in public places. In an order, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar observed that the number of Covid-19 cases has been showing a rising trend since the last few weeks. He referred to a recent order of the Union Home Ministry providing for states to impose local restrictions to prevent the spread of the virus based on an assessment of the situation. Noting that congregations pose a considerable threat of rapid transmission of Covid-19, the order said it is decided that public celebrations/observances should not be allowed in the state during upcoming religious events such as Shab-e-Barat, Holi, Ugadi (Telugu New Year), Rama Navami, Mahavir Jayanti, Good Friday, Ramzan and others till April 30. Rajasthan: Days after banning public functions on the occasion of Holi and Shab-e-Barat, the Rajasthan government has relaxed the ban and allowed holding them. The government, however, restricted the timing of holding public functions only between 4 pm and 10 pm on March 28 and 29. The state government’s Home Department relaxed the ban on public functions through a revised notification on Friday. The government earlier on March 24 had ordered that no public function would be held on the two festivals due to the rising coronavirus cases. In its new notification, the government, however, said no more than 50 people would be allowed to participate in these functions. The state government has also appealed to the people to follow all anti-Covid-19 guidelines and protocols like wearing face masks and maintaining social distance to stay safe from infection. Jharkhand: the Jharkhand government has issued guidelines and prohibits celebrations of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, Ramnavami, and Easter at public places to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the state. In a letter, the Chief Secretary of the state Sukhdev Singh on Friday said: "All celebrations and congregations at public places during festivals like Holi, Sarhul, Shab-e-Barat, Navratri, Ramnavami, Easter etc shall not be allowed in the state. People may celebrate Holi with family members in their respective houses only." Karnataka: The Karnataka government has issued an order not allowing public celebrations, gatherings or congregations during the coming festivals like Ugadi, Holi, Shab-e-Barat and Good Friday following a spike in Covid-19 cases. In an order, Chief Secretary P Ravi Kumar, who is also the State Disaster Management Authority's State Executive Committee Chairperson has directed authorities concerned to ensure that public gatherings and congregations during the upcoming religious festivals not be allowed in public places, including parks, markets and religious places. It has asked the Commissioner, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP-city civic corporation), Deputy Commissioners, and authorities concerned to ensure strict compliance of the order and adequately inform and sensitise field functionaries in this regard. The order also warns of action under the Disaster Management Act, IPC and Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act, against those violating the guidelines.   Meghalaya: The Meghalaya government on Thursday issued a new Standard operating procedure (SOP) for Holi celebrations amid the recent spike in Covid-19 cases wherein it banned public celebrations of the festival. "SOP for Holi celebrations issued by the Home (Political) Department, Government of Meghalaya. 25th March 2021," the Department of Information and Public Relations of the state tweeted. Haryana: Haryana Home and Health Minister Anil Vij has announced in a tweet that the state government has banned public celebrations of Holi in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases. Chhattisgarh: Amid a rise in the coronavirus case, the Chhattisgarh government has decided to restrict the entry of people to tourist spots and banned social, political and religious programmes in the state capital Raipur. As per the guidelines issued by the Raipur district administration, Holi celebrations or other public gatherings is prohibited, but ‘Holika Dahan’ is allowed to take place on the condition that a maximum of only five people will be present. Goa:  The Goa administration has section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in both its districts, to prohibit public gatherings ahead of Holi, Shab-e-Barat, Easter and Eid-ul-Fitr festivals to control the spread of Covid-19. The district collectors of both North and South Goa issued the order banning gatherings under section 144 of the CrPC. (With agency inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/here-are-states-where-holi-hai-but-with-restrictions-967508.html
28-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Daily deaths over 300 for first time this year||India saw 62,714 new coronavirus infections in a day, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,19,71,624, while the daily deaths crossed the 300-mark for the first time in 2021, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. Registering a steady increase for the 18th day in row, active cases have increased to 4,86,310 comprising 4.06 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has further dropped to 94.58 per cent, the data stated. The 62,714 new cases were reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest since October 16, 2020, while the death toll increased to 1,61,552 with 312 daily new fatalities, the highest in around three months, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily death toll of 312 is the highest since December 25, 2020 when 336 new deaths were reported. As many as 63,371 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 16. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,23,762, while the case fatality rate stood at  1.35 per cent, the data stated.     India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,09,50,842 samples have been tested up to March 27 with 11,81,289 samples being tested on Saturday. The 312 new fatalities include 166 from Maharashtra, 45 from Punjab, 14 from Kerala, 13 from Chhattisgarh, and 10 from Delhi. A total of 161552 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 54073 from Maharashtra, 12659 from Tamil Nadu, 12492 from Karnataka, 10997 from Delhi, 10322 from West Bengal, 8783 from Uttar Pradesh and 7203 from Andhra Pradesh and 6621 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-daily-deaths-over-300-for-first-time-this-year-967509.html
28-03-2021||National||Modernisation in agriculture need of the hour: PM Modi in Mann Ki Baat||Emphasising the fact that India has "lost a lot of time", Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said modernisation in the field of Indian agriculture is the need of the hour. In his monthly radio address 'Mann ki Baat', Modi said adopting new alternatives, new innovations, along with traditional farming, are equally important to create new opportunities for employment in the agriculture sector and to increase the income of farmers. "The country has experienced it during the white revolution. Now bee farming is emerging as a similar alternative. Bee farming is becoming the foundation of a honey revolution or sweet revolution in the country. Farmers in large numbers are associating with it and innovating," he said. "Modernisation in the field of Indian agriculture is the need of the hour. It is already late. We have already lost a lot of time," Modi said in his 75th Mann ki Baat programme. The Prime Minister's remarks on agriculture and emphasis on adopting modern practices come at a time when thousands of farmers are protesting along Delhi's borders points at Tikri, Singhu and Ghazipur since November last year demanding the repeal of the three contentious central farm laws. On the Covid-19 pandemic, the Prime Minister said India has the world's largest vaccination programme while stressing "dawai bhi, kadai bhi" (medicines as well as strict preventive measures). He also referred to the Janata curfew on March 22 last year. "From very early on, the people of India have put up a spirited fight against Covid-19," he added. "The Janata Curfew had become bewilderment to the entire world. It was an unprecedented example of discipline; generations to come will certainly feel proud of that. Similarly, expressing honour, respect for our corona warriors, ringing thalis, applauding, lighting a lamp! You cannot imagine how much it had touched the hearts of corona warriors…and that is the very reason they resolutely held on the whole year, without tiring, without halting," Modi said. He also said India's 'Nari Shakti' is excelling in the sports field and lauded the recent sporting feats of cricketer Mithali Raj and shuttler P V Sindhu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modernisation-in-agriculture-need-of-the-hour-pm-modi-in-mann-ki-baat-967510.html
28-03-2021||National||Ex-HC judge to probe allegations against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh||The Maha Vikas Aghadi government has made up its mind to set up a Commission of Inquiry headed by a retired Bombay High Court judge to probe into the allegations made by former Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh against state Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh. During the last week, a series of meetings were held within three alliance partners – Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress – to discuss the issue and the possible fallouts in the wake of new information coming to light following the arrest of Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. Singh, an officer of the 1988 batch of IPS, who was shunted out and made the Commandant General of Home Guards, has alleged that Deshmukh was demanding Rs 100 crore per month from Vaze and the minister repeatedly bypassed him. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had also spoken to NCP supremo Sharad Pawar, the chief architect of the MVA government. The confirmation of a probe panel came from Deshmukh himself.  “The Chief Minister and the (MVA) government have decided that a retired judge of the High Court will probe the allegations against me. Whatever the truth is would come out,” Deshmukh told reporters in Nagpur. According to developments over the last week, the panel would be set up under provisions of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952 or just by an executive order by the establishment of a probe panel. Under the Commission of Inquiry Act, the Commission can summon and enforce the attendance of any person and examine on oath. The issues have multiple dimensions as there are two petitions in the Bombay High Court – one filed by Singh, who has challenged the transfer and demanded a CBI probe into the allegations and another by 1986-batch IPS officer Sanjay Pandey, who has been bypassed for the post of Maharashtra Police chief as 1988-batch officer Rajneesh Seth was made the acting Director General of Police. In fact, during the reshuffle, the government removed Singh and posted DGP Hemant Nagrale of the 1987-batch as the Mumbai Police Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ex-hc-judge-to-probe-allegations-against-maharashtra-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-967517.html
28-03-2021||National||Majority wants Centre to suspend flights from UK, South Africa amid jump in Covid-19 cases: Survey||As many as two-thirds of the people want the government to suspend flights from the UK and South Africa amid a near sharp increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country in recent weeks, according to a survey. At the same time, another 43 per cent of the people covered under the survey, conducted by online platform SocialCircles, were in favour of suspending all international air services to contain the 'second wave' of the pandemic, it said. The survey findings are based on the responses received from over 8,800 citizens from across 244 districts in the country, as per a statement. Scheduled international operations remain suspended since late March last year. Amid this, special international flights have been allowed under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with select countries since July. The direct lineage of SARS-COV2 variants, especially the UK and South African variants, has been detected in different parts of the country amid an upward trajectory in the number of active Covid-19 cases in the country, with over 60,000 cases now being reported daily, LocalCircles said. This is a five-fold increase in the daily caseload in 45 days which were about 12,000 on February 12 this year, it added. It is estimated that the UK variant has spread to over 70 countries, while the South African variant is in more than 30 countries, said the statement. In the wake of this, LocalCircles asked citizens if any restrictions on international flights should now be implemented via a survey, it added. "Sixty-five per cent of the citizens (are) still in favour of suspending arrivals of passengers from the UK and South Africa to limit coronavirus variants, (while) 43 per cent (are) in favour of suspending all international arrivals for a month," LocalCircles said in the statement with survey findings. There were also 32 per cent of the citizens who said "suspending flights is not the solution", while 3 per cent did not have an answer, it said. According to many citizens, the damage has already been done and the variants are at different stages in India primarily due to all the international arrivals in the last three months. However, at least shutting flights now will not bring in new infections and new strains, LocalCircles said. In fact, the platform had in late December, based on public feedback, escalated to the government the risk of mutant coronavirus, urging that all flights from the UK and other high-risk countries be shut till the end of January. In the survey, at that time, 64 per cent of citizens wanted bubble international flights shut with countries, particularly the UK, having cases of the new strain. The same was done. However, the UK flight shutdown was resumed from January 8 after keeping them on hold for about two weeks, LocalCircles said. With limited capacity to do genome testing, some 10,787 samples from 18 Indian states have shown so far 771 cases (736 of UK variant, 34 South African variants, and 1 Brazilian variant), according to the statement. It said Punjab Chief Minister Amrinder Singh has announced that 81 per cent of the cases found in his state based on genome testing are of the UK variant type. Punjab has direct flights between the UK and Amritsar that have been running as part of the Vande Bharat programme. it added. "It is not just Punjab that has identified the existence of B.1.1.7 in 18 states. Maharashtra is seeking the highest-ever surges with 35,000 case per day; and in Delhi, the daily caseload has tripled from 500 to 1,500 in a matter of five days," LocalCircles said. According to the platform, as many as 60 per cent of citizens in a related survey felt that this new surge is driven by variants. "While the government has not accepted that yet, it is known that the B.1.1.7 is 50-60 per cent more transmissible than the original Covid-19 strain. The strain has also impacted the young much more than the previous Covid-19 strain," it said. Though there will be no vaccine for the young at least till the end of this year, India has crossed six crore inoculations of adults and is vaccinating between 20-30 lakh citizens daily, as per the release. However, it will be the end of 2022 before the entire citizens in the country can be vaccinated, and "that is why this second wave of Covid-19 is extremely worrying to many", it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/majority-wants-centre-to-suspend-flights-from-uk-south-africa-amid-jump-in-covid-19-cases-survey-967519.html
28-03-2021||National||BJP will win 26 of 30 seats in WB, 37 of 47 in Assam: Amit Shah after Phase 1 polls||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday exuded confidence that the BJP will trounce Trinamool Congress in West Bengal and return to power in Assam with a thumping majority, predicting that his party will win at least 26 seats in Bengal and 37 in Assam in the first phase of polling. Shah also said that Bengal and Assam, which are known for poll violence, did not report any untoward incident throughout the first phase of polling on Saturday and none was killed. Counting on the high voter turnout -- 84 per cent in Bengal and 79 per cent in Assam -- in the first phase, the Home Minister reiterated that his party will win over 200 out of 294 seats in West Bengal. "In West Bengal, we will win more than 26 out of 30 seats which went to polls in the first phase on Saturday, while in Assam, we will emerge victorious in more than 37 out of 47 seats that went to polls...I have been repeatedly saying that we will win more than 200 seats and form the government," he said during a press conference. Claiming that the large voter turnout in Bengal meant that people want change, he said anti-incumbency can be encashed only when there is a credible alternative and the BJP is confident of overthrowing the Trinamool government. "Bengal is now immersed in an atmosphere of hopelessness. After 27 years of Communist rule, people thought the Trinamool will bring a new hope. However, only the election symbol and party's name changed," he said adding BJP has now raised the hope of a better Bengal with its vision of 'Sonar Bangla'(Golden Bengal). When asked how he can be sure of the BJP getting over 200 seats in Bengal, Shah shot back saying the media in Delhi has never been able to assess change and that they should be more active on the ground. They could not see the change in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Tripura and Assam earlier, he added. Asked about Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee seeking support in Nandigram, he said everybody has a right to seek support. "There is nothing special about Nandigram, it is just a seat for us but if Nandigram does it (vote for BJP), then there will be 'poriborton' (transformation). If the Nandigram electorate decide to go for 'poriborton', the whole of Bengal will also see a 'poriborton'," he said. On Trinamool Congress' allegation against BJP leader Mukul Roy that he was teaching a leader on how to deal with the Election Commission, Shah said one should listen to the conversation properly and whatever demand was discussed, it has been given in writing. "How and why were the phones tapped? That's the question everyone should ask the Trinamool," he added. He also claimed that not a single Trinamool election agent has filed a complaint against the polling process and it showed that they could not indulge in malpractices. Responding to a question about the arrest of a Trinamool leader Chhatradhar Mahato in a 2009 case, Shah said he was free till Saturday when elections concluded. In Assam, he said people have shown their confidence in BJP due to development works and the party is confident of winning comfortably.  Separately, he refused to speak about a meeting he had with NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Praful Patel in Ahmedabad on Saturday, saying such things are "not made public". He did not deny that the meeting took place, which came against the backdrop of the political controversy surrounding the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-will-win-26-of-30-seats-in-wb-37-of-47-in-assam-amit-shah-after-phase-1-polls-967522.html
28-03-2021||National||Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria tests positive for coronavirus||Union Minister Rattan Lal Kataria on Sunday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. "My Covid-19 report has come positive. I am alright. I am in Medanta Hospital (Gurugram) under the observation of doctors," the minister of state for jal shakti and Social justice and empowerment said in a tweet. Kataria, who is the MP from Ambala in Haryana, urged all those who may have come in close contact with him, during the past few days, to take all precautions and get themselves examined.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/union-minister-rattan-lal-kataria-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-967544.html
28-03-2021||National||Why Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, Punjab continue to surge||India has reported a record-high number of Covid-19 cases and deaths consecutively over the last few weeks. The majority of these cases and deaths are being reported from Maharashtra and Punjab.  On Saturday, the Centre had a high-level meeting with authorities from 12 states and Union Territories to discuss the surge of cases and containment procedures to be put into place.  As per the Centre, the occupancy rate of Covid-19 ventilator beds has breached the 50 per cent-mark in at least four districts of Maharashtra, triggering a surge in deaths and that most deaths in Punjab are being reported 48-72 hours after admissions, probably due to delay in hospitalisation. As of Saturday, Maharashtra reported 36,902 cases, the highest in any state, followed by Punjab at 3,122. Maharashtra also reported the highest number of casualties at 112 followed by Punjab at 59.  According to the report, top government officials present at the meeting said that a detailed discussion was specifically held with district magistrates of Pune, Aurangabad, Nagpur, and Yavatmal. “In Pune, 70 per cent of ventilator beds are already occupied. This is a signal that patients are coming late. The same was true of Nagpur. This number was around 50 per cent in Aurangabad; and around 40 per cent in Yavatmal. The issue of quick identification of cases and quick hospitalisation still remains, in at least these four districts,” the DMs were told, as per the report. Reportedly, the surge in deaths in Punjab was attributed to patients not coming to hospitals in time as per the clinical management protocol. “Due to this, most of the deaths are happening immediately on admission to hospitals,” the state was told. The Centre also shared the data on patients in ICUs and on ventilators, reporting a high percentage of patients being in severe conditions.  “The second thing that is happening, in both Punjab and Maharashtra, is that the field people don’t have a clear understanding of containment and contact tracing,” sources said. Both the states are learnt to have told the Centre that they test close contacts on the fourth day. “This is very good. However, when we questioned what the contacts do for these four days, they replied they remain at home,” as per the report.  India reported more than 62,000 cases on Sunday, the highest this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/why-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-punjab-continue-to-surge-967565.html
28-03-2021||National||Australian PM greets 'good friend' Modi on Holi||Australian Premier Scott Morrison on Sunday extended greetings to his "good friend" Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of Holi, the festival of colours. Morrison took to Twitter to wish Modi and the Hindu community in Australia. "Wishing our Hindu Australian community, my good friend @narendramodi and all the people who are celebrating it, a happy and colourful Holi!," Morrison tweeted, He also wrote "Holi ki shubhkamnaye" in Hindi. He also posted a video message on Twitter and noted that last year the festival was overshadowed by the coronavirus pandemic. He said that this year even though the pandemic will still affect the festival, people can still "look to the future with much greater confidence". India is doing a "tremendous job" in making vaccines that are helping the broader world, he said. He also noted India’s role in Quad, the grouping of India, the US, Japan and Australia. "We will continue to chart out a way forward together," Morrison said. "In a spirit of unity, I wish you all a very happy Holi," the Australian Prime Minister said. Holi will be celebrated on March 29 this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/australian-pm-greets-good-friend-modi-on-holi-967573.html
28-03-2021||National||Railways to provide loco-pilot, guard to private trains||Dismissing apprehension of job loss in railways due to allowing private firms to run passenger trains, the Indian Railways has said that crew (loco-pilot, driver and guard) will be provided by the Railways in private trains also. Even in private trains under Public-Private Partnership, only train maintenance will be by the private operator but the crew (loco-pilot, driver and guard) will be provided by the Railways, said an official in the railways here. This will ensure that there will be no job loss for railway employees, the official added. However, services like housekeeping, catering, courtesies extended to passengers, etc., may be the responsibility of the private partner, the official said. Since these new trains will be over and above the existing ones operated on the network by railways, there will not be any curtail of services in existing trains. Instead, the railways also plan to increase the speed of existing trains, the official said. The railways decided to allow private players to run passengers trains on 109 select routes spreading across the country with approximately 151 trains. The private players allowed to submit financial bids by June 30. Some of the players including GMR, IRCTC, RK Associates, PNC Infratech, IRB Infra and Medha have shown interest to operate trains. The railways expecting that the private players introduce new-age trains comprising 16 coaches, with modern technology in the Indian rail system which would reduce journey time substantially. While private entities have to pay the Indian Railways fixed haulage charges, energy charges as per actual consumption and a share in gross revenue determined through a transparent bidding process. The concession period for the project will be 35 years and the fare will be fixed by private players. The project is expected to entail a private sector investment of about Rs 30,000 crores. As per the plan, the railways will rollout out private trains by March 2023. The railways' plan to rope the private sector in operating trains is to provide quality service to passengers and create employment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-provide-loco-pilot-guard-to-private-trains-967604.html
28-03-2021||National||Farmers celebrate ‘Holika Dahan’ by burning copies of Centre’s farm laws||Farmers camping at Delhi borders on Sunday burnt copies of the Centre's new farm laws they have been protesting against during ‘Holika Dahan’, the Samyukta Kisan Morcha said. The protesting farmers celebrated Holi at the borders and maintained that their agitation will continue till the farm laws are repealed and a separate law on minimum support price is enacted, it said in a statement. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), a joint front of farmer unions, also said that it will observe "FCI Bachao Diwas" on April 5, adding that offices of the Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be gheraoed from 11 am to 5 pm across the country. “The government has made several attempts to end the minimum support price (MSP) and the public distribution system (PDS) indirectly. The FCI's budget has also been reduced over the last few years. Recently, the FCI also changed the rules for procurement of crops,” the statement said. The SKM also condemned the passage of the Haryana Recovery of Damages to Property during Disturbance to Public Order Bill, 2021 by the Haryana Assembly, saying it aims to suppress agitations. "It contains dangerous provisions that would surely prove fatal to democracy," the body added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-celebrate-holika-dahan-by-burning-copies-of-centre-s-farm-laws-967627.html
28-03-2021||National||Passenger on SpiceJet flight tries to open emergency door mid-air||A passenger travelling on SpiceJet's Delhi-Varanasi flight tried to open the emergency door of the aircraft when it was mid-air but was restrained by the flight crew and co-passengers, the airline said on Sunday. The passenger was later handed over to the police, it said. "On March 27, a passenger travelling on SpiceJet flight SG-2003 (Delhi-Varanasi) tried to open the emergency door of the aircraft in an abusive and aggressive state while the aircraft was airborne,” the airline's spokesperson said in a statement. The passenger was brought under control by the flight crew with the help of co-passengers, he said. The crew immediately informed the captain who requested the ATC (air traffic controller) for a priority landing. "The aircraft landed safely in Varanasi where the said the passenger was handed over to the local police by CISF and SpiceJet's security staff," the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/passenger-on-spicejet-flight-tries-to-open-emergency-door-mid-air-967644.html
28-03-2021||National||India's Covid-19 situation likely to worsen, warn experts||The ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 epidemic is likely to worsen in the coming weeks, necessitating “reinvigoration of the public and private healthcare systems”, officials and public health experts have warned. While the fatality rate stays low as of now, public health experts are not sure how long such a trend would hold if the caseload continues to pile up. The Union Health Ministry on Sunday reported more than 62,000 new cases in the past 24 hours for the second time in a row and over 300 Covid-19 deaths for the first time in three months. "As the current surge has the potential to overwhelm the health care facilities in many districts, there is an urgent need to ensure that health system capacity is augmented," Oommen John, a senior public health researcher at the George Institute for Global Health, here told DH. This, public health experts say, would require making arrangements for an adequate number of ICU beds and ensuring oxygen supply. Also the vaccination drive needs to be stepped up at least in the high risk districts. Notwithstanding the second surge, the case fatality rate is low till now. It declines steadily from 1.75% in July, 2020 to 1.4% in December and 0.79% in February. The CFR for the country stays at 0.59% between March 1-15, 2021. Even if the fatality rate is low, letting infections grow (seen from the rising R value trend) will eventually lead to a larger total number of deaths," tweeted Bhramar Mukherjee, a researcher at the University of Michigan's School of Public Health. “The lessons learned from the previous one year needs to be proactively addressed so as to minimise death," added John. The Union Health Ministry has asked the states to make advance planning of logistics and infrastructure management for 1-1.5 months as any unchecked spread of infection among the community may overwhelm the local administration. Scientists tracking the epidemic’s progress through computer models have found that the overall R value (a mark of the virus’s transmissibility) has touched 1.32 for India (data up to March 25) – an alarming rise seen after many months. “This is higher than the R value reported anytime after mid-April when it had reduced from the initial R of 1.82 to 1.28 during the first phase of lockdown,” said Sitabhra Sinha, scientist at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. The R is way above one in the 16 most affected states and in all the metros. The figures from Chhattisgarh (1.58), Uttar Pradesh (1.57), Andhra Pradesh (1.56), Delhi (1.5) and Telangana (1.42), may be an indication of alarming situation brewing in these states. Chhattisgarh (3,162 cases) on Sunday replaced Punjab as the state with second highest daily new cases after Maharashtra (35,726). Karnataka comes at the third spot with 2,886 cases. While R has to drop below one for the epidemic to contain, it is significantly high in almost all the states and metro cities including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana. “As the current surge is overwhelming the health care facilities in many districts, there is an urgent need to ensure that health system capacity is augmented,” John said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-situation-likely-to-worsen-warn-experts-967649.html
28-03-2021||National||Indian Army donates 1 lakh doses Covid-19 vaccines to Nepal Army||The Indian Army on Sunday gifted one lakh doses of made in India anti-Covid-19 vaccines to the Nepal Army, according to the sources. The vaccines brought on Air India aircraft were handed over by the Indian Army officials to their counterparts from the Nepal Army at the Tribhuvan International Airport. “Indian Army has gifted one lakh doses of made in India Covid– 19 vaccines to Nepal Army and it will be helpful for the force,” according to a source from the Indian Embassy in Kathmandu. Earlier India, which has provided made in India vaccines to several countries, has provided 1 million doses to Nepal in January. Previously, India has also provided medicines and testing kits to Nepal. Nepal has so far reported 276,839 cases of coronavirus and 3,027 deaths related to it, according to my Republica.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-donates-1-lakh-doses-covid-19-vaccines-to-nepal-army-967651.html
28-03-2021||National||India, South Korea agree to go for joint production, export of military hardware||In a significant move, India and South Korea have agreed to go for joint production and export of military hardware, enhance intelligence sharing and boost cooperation in cyber and space domains as part overall expansion of defence and security ties, official sources said on Sunday. The decisions were taken during delegation-level talks between Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and his South Korean counterpart Suh Wook on Friday with both sides resolving to give a major push to ramp up ties in strategically key areas, they said. The South Korean minister was on a three-day visit to India from Thursday last that was focused on boosting bilateral defence and military cooperation. In the field of defence industrial cooperation, the sources said the two sides decided to focus on joint research, joint production and joint export. "There were extensive discussions on it," said a source. South Korea has been a major supplier of weapons and military equipment to India. In 2019, the two countries finalised a roadmap for cooperation in joint production of various land and naval systems. In the talks, the South Korean minister also expressed keenness in seizing the opportunities in India's two defence corridors, particularly by investing in joint ventures under the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India) initiative. The government is working on setting up two defence industrial corridors in the country, one in Uttar Pradesh and another in Tamil Nadu, with an aim to ensure connectivity among various defence industrial units. The sources said issues regarding multilateral and regional cooperation in the emerging regional security scenario were also discussed between Singh and Wook. It is learnt that China's military assertiveness in the region figured in the talks. The two sides also agreed to increase focus on cyber and space cooperation besides resolving to continue to focus on streamlining the intelligence exchange mechanism. In the talks, the two ministers exchanged views on the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on the defence and security engagements as well as best practices followed by the armed forces to deal with the pandemic. The sources said the Korean minister also highlighted the congruence between India's Act East Policy and his country's Southern Policy. In light of India's experience in the UN peacekeeping operations, the Indian side conveyed to the South Korean delegation that it will ensure an appropriate participation in the upcoming UN Peacekeeping Ministerial meet in that country in December 2021. The South Korean minister also visited Agra where he was shown capabilities of India's special forces. He also interacted with top executives of defence public sector undertakings and representatives of industry chamber FICCI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-south-korea-agree-to-go-for-joint-production-export-of-military-hardware-967652.html
28-03-2021||National||Tension in west Delhi after Nigerian national’s death||The death of a 43-year-old Nigerian national at DDU hospital on Sunday sparked violent protest in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar by his compatriots who alleged that he was assaulted by a cop. Police have denied the allegation. According to police, the agitated African nationals created ruckus following the death of Leohand Lyeanyi. They broke glasses at Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) hospital. Initially, they were around 20 to 30, but their numbers increased to 100. The mob also attacked the local people and police personnel, they said. The nationals also attacked officials of the High Commission of Nigeria who had come to meet them, police said. The Nigerian protestors, however, claimed that Lyeanyi died after being lathi-charged by the police. Denying the charges, the police maintained that the victim was not hit by them and his medico-legal case (MLC) report showed no external injury on the body. A senior police officer said they received information about Lyeanyi’s death at around 3.30 am on Sunday from the DDU hospital. He said the post-mortem report of the victim is awaited. Police also said that they have found CCTV footage wherein the victim could be seen stepping out of an auto-rickshaw and sitting near a shop. He then collapsed, hitting his head on the ground. There was nobody around him, they said. Two cases have been registered against the violent mob, police said, adding that a probe is on in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tension-in-west-delhi-after-nigerian-national-s-death-967671.html
28-03-2021||National||1971 Battle of Basantar hero, Lt Gen Pinto (retd) passes away at 97||A military hero who led an infantry division to a legendary victory in the 1971 India-Pakistan War died in Pune at the age of 97, a senior official said on Sunday. Lieutenant General WAG Pinto (Retd) led the 54 Infantry Division in the Battle of Basantar in the war that gave birth to Bangladesh, leading his troops from the front with the motto he coined "bash on regardless", he said. "In this battle, Pinto's division won as many as 196 gallantry medals in just 14 days of fierce fighting, including two Param Vir Chakras and nine Maha Vir Chakras," the official added. In a solemn ceremony here on Sunday, Pinto was remembered by a host of military officials, including General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern CommandLieutenant General JS Nain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1971-battle-of-basantar-hero-lt-gen-pinto-retd-passes-away-at-97-967685.html
28-03-2021||National||Delhi L-G to get more power as President Kovind gives assent to NCT Bill||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave his assent to a Bill that accords primacy to Delhi's Lieutenant Governor (L-G) over the elected government. The central government announced about the presidential assent to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill, 2021 through a gazette notification. According to the legislation, the "government" in Delhi means the "Lieutenant Governor" and the city government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive action. Parliament passed the Bill last week -- Lok Sabha on March 22 and Rajya Sabha on March 24. After Rajya Sabha passed the Bill, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal termed it a "sad day for Indian democracy". The Centre has maintained that the Bill is in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 ruling on the ambit of powers of the Lieutenant Governor and the Delhi government after a series of run-ins between the two. Union Minister G Kishan Reddy had said the amendments would lead to transparency and clarity in governance in NCT of Delhi and enhance public accountability. Explaining the rationale behind the Bill, he said the amendments have been brought to remove ambiguities in the existing Act. He stressed that changes in the law have been sought in the spirit of what has been said in a Supreme Court judgment and maintained that there no political angle and the amendments are on "technical" grounds. "The proposed Bill does not curtail in any manner any of the powers enjoyed by the government of NCT Delhi which are already provided in the Constitution," he had said. In June 2018, Kejriwal and his Cabinet ministers had staged a sit-in at the Lieutenant Governor's office as a power tussle between the then L-G and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government had intensified. The Supreme Court had in July 2018 ruled that the Lieutenant Governor cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and that he must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers. The Aam Aadmi Party has already said it was planning to approach the Supreme Court against the legislation, alleging it was an "unconstitutional" attempt to make the Delhi government "administratively impotent" by a political party that has been made "electorally impotent" by the people of the national capital. The Congress, Trinamool Congress, Shiv Sena, DMK and other opposition parties also termed the Bill "unconstitutional" and claimed that it would fail judicial scrutiny. They had demanded that it be examined by a Select Committee. According to the statement of objects and reasons of the Bill, to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court which had ruled that the city government need not obtain the Lieutenant Governor's "concurrence" of every issue of day-to-day governance, the Bill has been brought. "The said Bill will promote harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the L-G, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of the National Capital Territory of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court," the statement of objects said. Minister Reddy said that the GNCTD law was first brought in 1991. However, the law went to the high court and Supreme Court benches as there were problems and ambiguity. "It is our responsibility to give clarity. Nothing is being added to the GNCTD Act which is contrary to constitutional framework...," he said, adding that the Bill proposes four key amendments. The minister said that Delhi is not a full-fledged state and does not have full power. Executive powers of the L-G of Delhi are different from the powers of Governors of the state. The Delhi assembly can make laws on all subjects in the state list and concurrent list except public order, police and land. The Bill stated that the legislative assembly shall not make any rule to enable itself or its committees to consider the matters of the day-to-day administration of the national capital or conduct inquiries in relation to the administrative decisions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-l-g-to-get-more-power-as-president-kovind-gives-assent-to-nct-bill-967687.html
28-03-2021||National Politics||Congress may contest future polls in Maharashtra solo: Nana Patole||The Congress in Maharashtra is exploring the possibility of contesting the forthcoming elections in the state on its own, state unit president Nana Patole told the party workers on Saturday. Patole also said that despite the Congress being in power in the state as a constituent of the Maha Vikas Aghadi, the work of the party workers was not being done. Addressing a meeting of Congress workers in Bhiwandi city in Thane district, the senior Congress leader said a disciplinary action will be taken against 18 corporators of the party for defecting to the NCP. "They would be expelled from the party and their corporatorship would be cancelled," he said. The Congress shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and the Nationalist Congress Party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-may-contest-future-polls-in-maharashtra-solo-nana-patole-967399.html
28-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami 'trapped' as he's 'corrupt', alleges Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday lashed out at AIADMK top leader and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami alleging he is trapped due to graft and he bowed in front of Union Home Minister Amit Shah as he had indulged in corruption. Addressing a public meeting here for the April 6 Assembly polls, Gandhi said when he saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi 'controlling' the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu and making him "touch his feet silently I am not ready to accept it." A 'leader' in Uttar Pradesh was forced to bow in front of Shah as he was corrupt and this person lost his freedom due to graft and Palaniswami too faced a similar situation, he claimed. The former Congress party chief did not specify the name of the UP leader. "The tragedy is, the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu does not want to bow in front of Amit Shah and no Tamil person will want to do that." However, Palaniswami is forced to bow in front of Shah because of the "corruption he has done," Gandhi alleged. "Ironically, because of the money he has stolen from the people of Tamil Nadu, he is now trapped," the Congress MP alleged. While previous polls were contests between political parties of Tamil Nadu, the AIADMK and DMK, the present one was between the AIADMK, RSS, Modi, Shah (BJP) on the one side and the Tamil people on the other side, he alleged. The AIADMK-BJP front would be 'decimated' in Tamil Nadu in the poll battle and the DMK, its chief M K Stalin and his party-led Secular Progressive Alliance is the instrument that would steer the rout of AIADMK and its allies, he said. Stalin would become the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, he exuded confidence. The 'attack' on Tamil Nadu shall, however, not end with Stalin becoming the CM, he said adding it shall happen only when the Saffron party was removed from power in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-cm-edappadi-k-palaniswami-trapped-as-hes-corrupt-alleges-rahul-gandhi-967543.html
28-03-2021||National Politics||BJP's 'communalism', 'hate-filled politics' will not go far in pluralist Kerala, says Shashi Tharoor||The BJP can only offer communalism, scaremongering over "love Jihad" and a hate-filled politics of division that will never go far in pluralist Kerala, senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Sunday and asserted that the BJP's high-profile recruit 88-year-old E Sreedharan cannot be the answer to the state's political future. He also dismissed suggestions that not having a chief ministerial face could dent the Congress-led United Democratic Front's (UDF) chances in the Kerala Assembly polls and said the party is "richly endowed" with experienced and capable leaders, any of whom could assume the mantle of chief ministership. In an interview with PTI, Tharoor said the trend in Kerala is clearly in favour of the UDF and he expects a "strong victory" when the results are announced on May 2. On whether the BJP would be a factor in the polls and the impact of 'Metroman' E Sreedharan being projected as the key person by the saffron party, the former Union minister said the BJP "can only offer communalism, tired scare-mongering over 'love Jihad' and a hate-filled politics of bigotry and division that will never go far in pluralist, inclusive Kerala". "They (the BJP) have hit their ceiling in the state. Mr Sreedharan's impact peaked with the announcement of his candidacy. An 88-year-old technocrat cannot be the answer to the state's political future," Tharoor said. On the BJP accusing the Congress of double standards in aligning with the Left in West Bengal and fighting against it in Kerala, the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said in a vast country like India, each state has its distinctive political characteristics. The competition between the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the UDF is deeply entrenched here, but on national issues, especially those related to secularism and opposition to the "anti-people policies" of the BJP, they share many common views and often make common cause, he said. "Since 2014, CPM MPs who campaigned against me in Kerala have supported my stand on many issues in the Lok Sabha. As for Bengal, you will have to ask the local party leaders there," Tharoor said. But the BJP’s allegation is not surprising because they have never understood or appreciated the diversity of India, he added. Asked about Home Minister Amit Shah questioning Congress' secular credentials over its alliance with the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) in Kerala, the Indian Secular Front in West Bengal and the All India United Democratic Front in Assam, Tharoor reiterated that each state and each state party has its own history, traditions and political appeal. There is little in common among the three parties mentioned other than that they are seen as essentially Muslim parties, he pointed out. "For the BJP, which has built its entire narrative and constructed its rise on communalism, to accuse Congress of that sin is preposterous. It is like the proverbial pot calling the kettle black, except that in this case the kettle is white," Tharoor said. "Speaking of Kerala, we understand the difference between, on the one hand, community organisations like the NSS (Nair Service Society) or SNDP (Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam) and community-rooted parties like the IUML, and on the other, communal parties like the BJP or the SDPI (Social Democratic Party of India) that have no vision beyond the narrow religious community they seek to serve," he alleged. Asked whether not having a chief ministerial face could dent the Congress-led UDF's chances in the polls, Tharoor answered in the negative and pointed out that even opinion polls have not suggested that this is a major factor. "The fact is that when the Congress does not have an incumbent CM, it tends not to project one. I cannot think of an exception in recent memory," he said. But the party is "richly endowed" with experienced and capable leaders, any of whom could assume the mantle, Tharoor asserted. Talking about the defining issues of the Kerala polls, he said there are both negative as well as positive issues. "The negatives relate to the failures, corruption and violence of the ruling Left in Kerala; the positives rely on the strong forward-looking vision of the Congress-led UDF, reflected in a 'people’s manifesto' that addresses all the key questions facing the state," he said. Against the proven corruption over which the LDF has presided, the UDF offers far-reaching welfare provisions, major educational reform, and an investor-friendly approach that will generate much-needed revenues for the state, Tharoor asserted. "The LDF has been shamelessly piling on debt for future generations to pay," he alleged. Kerala goes to polls to elect members of its 140-member assembly on April 6. Counting of votes will take place on May 2 along with that of Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry polls.    Kerala Assembly Election Result 2016||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjps-communalism-hate-filled-politics-will-not-go-far-in-pluralist-kerala-says-shashi-tharoor-967576.html
28-03-2021||National Politics||'Such things need not be made public': Amit Shah on speculations over meeting Sharad Pawar||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday added a tinge of mystery to his purported meeting with NCP chief Sharad Pawar a day before saying details of such meetings are not made public. Reports suggested that Pawar and senior NCP leader Praful Patel met Shah in Ahmedabad on Saturday, amid the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi government in Maharashtra facing political controversy over the discovery of explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai. "Such things need not be made public," Shah told a press conference here when he was asked about the meeting. He did not deny that the meeting took place. There was no word from the NCP. The recent controversies surrounding the discovery of explosives outside Ambani's residence, subsequent arrest of senior police official Sachin Waze and removal of Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh as well as his allegations against NCP leader and Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had triggered trouble in the Sena-led coalition.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/such-things-need-not-be-made-public-amit-shah-on-speculations-over-meeting-sharad-pawar-967595.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Yogi govt trying to tilt panchayat polls in BJP’s favour: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of planning to make administrative interference into the upcoming panchayat elections on the pretext of the Covid spread to tilt its result in the favour of the ruling BJP. Yadav made the allegation while addressing a public meeting after unveiling the statue of the party’s late veteran Beni Prasad Verma. "I have heard that on the pretext of Covid-19, the Uttar Pradesh government wants to influence the panchayat elections in the state,” he said. “When there was no election, there was no pandemic. And now, since there is the election here, the government on the pretext of the pandemic is snatching our rights," he added. "There are the assembly elections in West Bengal but there is no Covid-19 there. But there has to be some administrative interference into the panchayat elections here and so there is a pandemic here,” he said. The SP chief claimed that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has grown weary of seeing red colour in the state because he knows the people in red caps, a reference to party workers donning them, are going to form the next government in the state. Yadav also accused the state government of taking several wrong decisions and adding to the trouble of the people. “The country’s democracy and Constitution are in danger,” the former chief minister claimed. Yadav hurled the allegations a day after the Uttar Pradesh Election Commission issued the notification for the three-tier panchayat polls in the state to be held in four phases. Polling for all the gram panchayats, kshetra panchayats and zila panchayats will be held on April 15, 19, 26 and 29 and the counting of votes will be taken up from 8 am on May 2, the notification issued here by State Election Commissioner Manoj Kumar had said on Friday. According to the notification, there will be a general election for the posts of pradhans and members of all gram panchayats, kshetra panchayats and zila panchayats. The commission has made it clear that polling will not be held in the constituencies affected by a stay order issued by a court and where the local body has more than six months of its tenure left.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-govt-trying-to-tilt-panchayat-polls-in-bjp-s-favour-akhilesh-yadav-967415.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh reports 1,061 new Covid-19 cases, 4 deaths||Uttar Pradesh reported 1,061 new Covid-19 cases and four fatalities on Saturday, taking its infection tally to 6,12,351 and the death toll to 8,783. As per a state government statement, three deaths were reported in Lucknow and one from Allahabad. Of the fresh cases, 273 were reported in state capital Lucknow, it said. The statement said 255 more Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease and have been discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of patients who have recuperated to 5,96,953. The number of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 6,615, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-reports-1061-new-covid-19-cases-4-deaths-967416.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||3 hurt after under-construction flyover on Gurugram-Dwarka Expressway collapses||Three workers were injured after a portion of an under-construction flyover on Gurugram-Dwarka Expressway near Daulatabad collapsed around 7.30 am on Sunday, news agency ANI reported, quoting police. More details awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-hurt-after-under-construction-flyover-on-gurugram-dwarka-expressway-collapses-967484.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out in government hospital in Kanpur; no casualty||Over 140 patients were rescued after a fire broke out at the state-run LPS Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery in Swaroop Nagar here on Sunday morning, the Uttar Pradesh government said. According to hospital officials, two high-risk patients died in the morning but the deaths were "not caused by the fire". "Around 7.30 am, smoke was seen billowing out of a storeroom on the ground floor. The fire was subsequently doused and the patients were shifted to another building. All the patients are safe," Dr Vinay Krishna, Director of the hospital, told PTI. The deceased patients were Rasoolan Bi (80), a resident of Ghatampur who was suffering from acute respiratory problems, and Tek Chand of Hamirpur, who was put on ventilator support. About the deaths of the two patients, Krishna said, "Tek Chand died around 6.30 am, even before the fire broke out. Rasoolan Bi died later. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Prima facie, the high-risk patients had normal deaths and the fatalities were not caused by the fire. The post-mortem will reveal the exact cause of the deaths." Smoke filled the centrally air-conditioned building but the fire did not cause any casualty, he asserted. Krishna said the cause of the fire was "probably a short-circuit". "We used the fire extinguishers kept on the floor to douse the flames. Two fire-tenders were also pressed into service," he said. The fire broke out near the intensive care unit (ICU) on the ground floor of the hospital. "The fire broke out in a storeroom. Things are under control now and officers are on the ground. There are no casualties. Over 140 patients were evacuated," Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi told PTI. Kanpur's Additional Commissioner of Police Akash Kulhari said a couple of fire-tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames. Window panes on the first floor of the hospital were broken to let the smoke out, an official said. According to Swaroop Nagar Station House Officer (SHO) Ashwani Pandey, about 175 patients were evacuated from the ICU and other neighbouring wards and shifted to other wards. "A short-circuit is suspected to have led to the fire, but the exact reason will be ascertained only after an investigation," the SHO said. Kanpur's Chief Fire Officer, N P Singh, said that after getting information about the fire at the cardiology institute, an alert was sounded at all neighbouring fire stations including Colonelganj, Fazalganj, and Anwarganj. "Nine fire tenders were pressed into service and firefighters took over two hours to evacuate the patients and completely douse the blaze," Singh said and claimed that there was no casualty reported due to fire. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and directed that the evacuated patients be provided immediate care. He also sought a report from the district administration, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued in Lucknow. The chief minister has directed a high-level team, headed by the principal secretary, health education and also comprising the director general of fire services and the Kanpur divisional commissioner, to visit the site and give its report immediately, the statement said. He has said a campaign should be launched at the earliest to test the fire-fighting arrangements at all hospitals of the state, in accordance with the directives issued earlier to strengthen such measures. The hospital was established in 1975. The JK Charitable Trust had donated the building for the institute and it was named as Laxmipat Singhania Institute of Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-in-government-hospital-in-kanpur-no-casualty-967491.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Fix responsibility for non-establishment of model schools in Jammu and Kashmir: CAG||Taking a serious note of the non-establishment of model schools in Jammu and Kashmir in the past 10 years despite the availability of Rs 44.13 crore, the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has asked the state government to refund the unspent funds and fix responsibility. In its Jammu and Kashmir report on Social, General, Economic and Revenue for the year ending March 31, 2019, tabled in Parliament recently, the CAG said the failure of the education department to take timely action for utilisation of funds received from the Centre deprived quality education to the intended beneficiaries. “The matter was referred to the department/government in May 2020; their replies were awaited (September 2020). The State Government may ensure that unspent amount along with interest accrued thereon may be refunded in accordance with conditions laid down in the sanction order of Ministry of Human Resources Development and responsibility fixed for non-establishment of model schools,” the CAG said. It said the department of school education and literacy (DSEL), Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), launched a scheme in November 2008 with the objective of having at least one good quality secondary school (Model School) in every educationally backward block (EBB). “The scheme was to be implemented from 2009-10 onwards. As the State of Jammu and Kashmir (J-K) was a special category State, the funding pattern through Grant-in-aid for implementation of the scheme was 90:10 for GoI and Government of Jammu and Kashmir (GoJ&K) respectively,” the CAG said. It said the GoJ&K submitted proposals (November 2009) to the Grant-in-aid Committee (GIAC) of DSEL, MHRD, for setting up of 24 (17 new schools and conversion of seven existing schools) for EBBs. “During its third meeting (November 2009) the GIAC observed that the projected unit cost of 6.18 crore was higher than the scheme norm of Rs 3.02 crore per Model School and therefore, the State Government was required to either revise the estimate or to meet the extra financial burden. “In the same meeting, the representative from the State of J-K informed the GIAC that the estimates will be revised so as to bring it within scheme norms. The GIAC thereby recommended 19 new model schools (November 2009) to be set up in the State,” the report said. Thereafter, it said the revision of cost was stated to be submitted to Project Approval Board (PAB) in 2010-11 and subsequently, amendments were made to existing provisions by the Department of School Education and Literacy (DSEL), Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), which allowed (April 2014) Jammu and Kashmir an opportunity to revise the cost based on State Schedule of Rates (SSoR) in respect of the sanctioned 19 model schools for the EBBs as a one-time exception. A proposal based on the SSoR 2012 was stated to be submitted (August 2014) by the GoJ&K to the DSEL as per the information provided by the State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha, J-K Noor Audit Report-Social, General, Economic and Revenue Sectors for the year ended 31 March 2019, the CAG said. It said no relevant details of the revised proposals were provided on grounds that the office of the Directorate of Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) remained submerged in floods in the Valley in September 2014 for a period of more than 25 days and most of the records in hard copy were destroyed. The Centre, in February 2015 delinked the scheme from GoI support. The grant-in-aid of Rs 25.82 crore (90 per cent) of the first instalment was released (February 2010) and State Government released Rs 2.87 crore (June 2010) to State Project Director (SPD) Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). “The entire amount of Rs 29.23 crore was transferred in December 2010 and kept at the disposal of State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha, J&K Noor Society. Further, the State Government released an additional State share of Rs 2.87 crore (January 2011),” it said. The CAG said the scrutiny of records (January 2019) of State Project Director, Samagra Shiksha revealed that the grants-in-aid of Rs 25.82 crore and State share of Rs 5.74 crore were parked in the saving bank account of J&K Noor Society – the State Implementing Society for Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan. Even after a lapse of 10 years, the Government has not taken the adequate initiative (July 2019) for implementation of the scheme in Jammu and Kashmir, it said, adding the failure of the department to take timely action despite relaxation of norms for establishment of model schools not only resulted in non-utilisation of Rs 44.13 crore but also deprived intended beneficiaries of quality education. “Even the State Share of Rs 5.74 crore, plus interest included in the Rs 44.13 crore was blocked,” it said. When this was pointed out by the audit in January 2019, the Chief Accounts Officer, Samagra Shiksha, Jammu and Kashmir State stated (July 2019/June 2020) that the amount initially approved for the establishment of the model school was inadequate to take the construction work. However, the case regarding revision of cost submitted (2010-11) to Project Approval Board (PAB) was undecided (June 2020), it said. “The reply is not tenable as the department has not availed the benefit to either revise the unit cost estimate of each school or to meet the financial burden despite relaxation of norms by DSEL. Besides, after delinking of the scheme from the GoI support in 2015, the department was to arrange the additional funds from its own resources for which no steps were taken and Rs 44.13 crore continued to be held in the bank account,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fix-responsibility-for-non-establishment-of-model-schools-in-jammu-and-kashmir-cag-967507.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Policeman shot dead by colleague after altercation in Udhampur||A policeman was allegedly shot dead by his colleague following an altercation in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. The fratricide incident took place at around 11 pm on Saturday while the duo was deployed at a checkpoint at Jakhani Chowk along the Jammu-Srinagar National Highway, they said. Selection grade constable Kaka Ram and special police officer Manohar Lal got engaged in a heated argument over some issue. Lal lost his temper and fired upon Ram with his service rifle, they said. Ram succumbed to injuries at a hospital early Sunday, the officials said, adding Lal was overpowered and subsequently arrested. A case was registered and further investigation is on, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/policeman-shot-dead-by-colleague-after-altercation-in-udhampur-967512.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi zoo to bring 3 more tigers for breeding purposes; ostrich, chinkara to be added||The Delhi zoo may soon get three tigers from Chennai and Nagpur for "breeding purposes" under an animal exchange programme, officials have said. Zoo Director Ramesh Pandey said they plan to bring a pair of tigers from the Gorewada zoo in Nagpur, while another male tiger is likely to be brought from Chennai. A Royal Bengal tigress was brought to the zoo from Kanpur for breeding proposes in November last year. The Delhi zoo is a participant in the "Conservation Breeding Programme" of the Royal Bengal Tiger. According to the Central Zoo Authority, the Conservation Breeding Programme is the science of conserving a species by preventing an imminent population collapse in the wild due to a large number of eliminative pressures such as habitat loss, habitat fragmentation, industrialisation, poaching, illegal trade and climate change. At present, the Delhi zoo has seven tigers, including five white tigers, Pandey said. "A pair of sloth bears from the Nagpur facility is also on the cards," he added. A pair each of ostriches and chinkara (Indian gazelle) will be brought from Chandigarh this month, Pandey said, adding that the number of animal species in the zoo is likely to increase to 93 before it is reopened for the public on April 1 after remaining closed for over a year due to the coronavirus and bird-flu outbreaks. The Delhi zoo has not had a chinkara since July 2019. Chennai may also provide a male ostrich and a grey heron to the Delhi zoo, Pandey said. "A proposal has been submitted to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to bring five species from the Visakhapatnam zoo, including star tortoise, dhole (wild dogs) and iguana," the director said, adding that the target is to increase the number of species to 100 by the end of financial year 2021-22. At present, the Delhi zoo has 88 species of animals, up from 83 in March last year. The zoo administration is also in the process of bringing bar-headed goose and godwit from Rohtak. Recently, the Delhi zoo got a male sloth bear from Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh and a pair of striped hyenas. Pandey said once the zoo reopens, around 2,000 visitors will be allowed per day in two shifts of four hours each. The entry tickets will have to be booked online as there will be no ticket counter, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-zoo-to-bring-3-more-tigers-for-breeding-purposes-ostrich-chinkara-to-be-added-967525.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Hizbul militant among two killed in J&K encounter||A Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) militant, who had gone to Pakistan for arms training and returned last week, was among the two ultras killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian on Saturday, police said on Sunday. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said the encounter in Wangam area of South Kashmir's Shopian, which began on Saturday evening, was over with the killing of two militants belonging to HM and Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT). “Two deadly terrorists have been killed in the operation. One of them Inatullah Sheikh, a resident of Shopian, was active since 2018 and had gone to Pakistan that year for arms training. He returned last week only. He was with HM,” the IGP said here. Kumar said the other militant Adil Malik, resident of Anantnag, belonged to LeT. “One AK-47 rifle, one M4 rifle and a pistol has been recovered from the encounter site,” he said, adding, so far this year, security forces have recovered two M4 rifles from the militants. The IGP said it was more likely that Sheikh had brought the M4 rifle with him from Pakistan. An Army trooper identified as Havildar Pinku Kumar was also killed in the gunfight, while another soldier was injured. The injured soldier was taken to the Army's 92 Base Hospital here and his condition is stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hizbul-militant-among-two-killed-in-jk-encounter-967538.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Over 4,200 prisoners in J&K released on bail, 41 on parole amid Covid-19 case spike: DGP, Prisons||Over 4,200 prisoners were released on bail and 41 on parole since the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in March last year, Director General of Police (DGP), Prisons, V K Singh has said. He said there is only one Covid-positive patient among the prisoners, who is being treated at a hospital in Kathua district. "Since March last year, 4,204 inmates were released on bail and 41 on parole, in pursuance of decisions taken by the high-powered committee (constituted on the Supreme Court's directions to decongest jails to ensure social distancing among prisoners)," Singh said. Speaking at a cultural programme organised at the Amphalla District Jail here on Saturday, he said a total of 542 inmates across various jails were infected with the coronavirus, but all of them recovered, except two elderly prisoners who succumbed due to co-morbidities. "Presently, there is only one Covid case from the Kathua District Jail, who is admitted to the local Government Medical College," the DGP said. He said the prisons department has introduced a video-conferencing facility for the purpose of trial and remand, the e-mulaqat facility and the Prison Inmate Calling System, besides setting up modern interview rooms in jails. He said a cognitive behavioural therapy was taken up for inmates suffering from insomnia and it benefitted 135 of them -- 74 in Kot Bhalwal, Jammu and 61 in the Amphalla District Jail. The inmates sang folk songs, Bollywood classics and Sufi songs during the programme, which received a thunderous applause from the audience. Jammu District Jail Superintendent Mirza Saleem Beig highlighted various steps taken by the prisons department for the welfare of prisoners and strengthening the prison administration. He said the prison administration is committed to providing better correctional programmes to the inmates, including educational and vocational-training courses, awareness programmes and recreational activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-4200-prisoners-in-jk-released-on-bail-41-on-parole-amid-covid-19-case-spike-dgp-prisons-967545.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Covid-19 vaccination centre set up inside Tihar Jail||The Delhi Prisons Department has set up a Covid-19 vaccination centre inside Tihar Jail to vaccinate eligible inmates, officials said on Sunday. A total of 326 inmates in the Delhi’s prisons are above 60 years, and over 300 are in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities. These two categories are eligible for vaccination in the ongoing nationwide drive. The centre was set up on Tuesday in the central jail hospital at jail number 3, they said. According to jail officials, around 70 to 80 inmates of Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli jails have been vaccinated so far. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, if needed, a vaccination centre will be opened at Mandoli Jail too. "Our teams from the central jail hospital in jail number 3 will visit the inmates at Rohini and Mandoli Jails to vaccinate them starting next week. If needed, a vaccination centre will also be opened at Mandoli Jail," Goel said. Earlier, Tihar Jail inmates were taken to the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital for the vaccination. The vaccination drive for prison inmates started on March 18 and 13 inmates got the Covid-19 jab on day one. According to a senior jail official, family members of inmates eligible for getting vaccinated were asked to send the required documents through WhatsApp messaging app. "We spoke to the families of the inmates… asked them to send the documents required for the registration through WhatsApp and then vaccinated them,” a senior jail official said. None of the inmates who have received the jab reported any complications, the official said. However, the officials said there are several inmates who do not have the required documents for the vaccination process. "Due to which they were not selected for the shot. We are trying to figure out how they will be vaccinated," another official said. On March 1, the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the national capital. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-vaccination-centre-set-up-inside-tihar-jail-967547.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||PDP youth leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Para involved in 'dirty' gunrunning, paying terrorists for political gains, alleges NIA||The NIA has alleged that PDP youth leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Para is involved in "dirty" gunrunning, providing finance to terror groups and being "part of the larger conspiracy" hatched by Pakistan-based terrorist outfits to make "inroads" into important institutions in Jammu and Kashmir to carry forward their secessionist agenda. According to a supplementary charge-sheet filed at a Jammu court recently in the terror funding case, which also involves a deputy superintendent of police, Davender Singh, the agency has listed Para's activities since 2010 and alleged that he had formed a group of 20 to 25 youths who indulged in stone pelting during protests at his behest. This was done by Para to yield political mileage for himself from the People's Democratic Party (PDP), the National Investigation Agency (NIA) alleged. The party was in the opposition in 2010 in the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. It may be mentioned that in 2010, an agitation had taken place against the killing of three youths in the Macchil area of north Kashmir and they being labelled as terrorists. The protests, in which 126 lives were lost, were carried out despite police filing a charge-sheet against army personnel. Para, who is at present in judicial custody, has denied the charges of being involved with terror groups, and his party has said that he has been framed in the case only because he refused to join political parties being supported by the BJP. The NIA alleged that banned terror group Hizbul Mujahideen had sought the support of some mainstream political leaders like Para. The nexus clearly establishes that some of mainstream politicians are involved in "politics of convenience and deceit wherein they are seeking help" from terrorist organisations for "securing cooperation during election campaigns and for assisting their workers in management of election process, the agency said in its charge-sheet. "These mainstream politicians are seeking this cooperation through payment of money thereby making mockery of the electoral process," the NIA said. In the charge sheet, the NIA has alleged that Para was involved in the "dirty business" of gunrunning from Kupwara area to south Kashmir in 2016, when PDP was in an alliance government with the BJP in the erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state. "He (Para) used to visit the Kupwara area with his escort party and bring weapons in his vehicle as none of the security agencies used to check his vehicle en-route (with he) being an important political entity," the agency said. Para was arrested by the NIA in November last year in connection with the terror funding case in which DSP Davinder Singh and three others were also arrested. However, Para was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original as well as the supplementary charge sheets presented in July and October last year respectively. The court went on to observe that "there was not even whisper" regarding Para's involvement other than that a statement in February 2020 of an accused that allegedly implicated him. However, he was arrested by the counter intelligence wing of the CID in Kashmir in a case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA court in Srinagar. The NIA alleged that Para had entered into a criminal conspiracy with Singh and other accused in the case including commander of banned Hizbul Mujahideen Syed Naveed Mushtaq for procurement of arms and ammunition for the terrorists operating in Kashmir. The association of Para was "part of the larger conspiracy hatched by Pakistan based leadership of banned terrorist outfit Hizbul Mujahideen to make inroads into important institutions and entities for want of desired support to carry forward the agenda of secession of Jammu and Kashmir from the union of India by way of violent means i.e. terrorist activities", the agency said. Charging him under various sections of the anti-terror law and the Indian Penal Code, the NIA said Para was not only associated with banned terrorist organisations like the Hizbul and the Lashker-e-Taiba but also in constant touch with secessionist leaders. He extended financial support to them to keep the situation of Jammu and Kashmir volatile, it alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pdp-youth-leader-waheed-ur-rehman-para-involved-in-dirty-gunrunning-paying-terrorists-for-political-gains-alleges-nia-967577.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||UP cops blame rats for disappearance of seized illicit liquor cartons||A probe has been initiated into a claim by officials of a local police station that rats were behind the disappearance of a large number of seized cartons of illicit liquor from a strongroom. A senior police officer said over 1,400 cartons of liquor have gone missing from the Kotwali Dehat police station here and a case has been registered against Station House Officer Indreshpal Singh and clerk Rishal Singh. However, a general diary at the police station mentions that 239 cartons have been damaged by rats, which the senior police officer said seems to be fishy and unacceptable. Superintendent of Police, Etah, Udai Shankar Singh on Sunday confirmed the development and said that a probe is on in this regard. He, however, refused to elaborate further. A senior police officer of the district told PTI, "A week ago, it came to light that around 1,450 cartons of illicit liquor seized are missing from Kotwali Dehat police station." When asked whether some cartons have been damaged by rats, the police officer said, "The general diary of the police does mention that 239 cartons were damaged by rodents. However, this is not acceptable, and it seems that the matter is fishy. It has been probably done to cover the goof-up." A case has been registered against SHO Indreshpal Singh and clerk Rishal Singh. Both of them had not turned up to provide an explanation for the incident despite summons issued in their names, he said. Meanwhile, Vikas Kumar, a police officer from Aligarh who is probing the case, said, "Efforts are on to ascertain as to where the seized liquor has gone."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-cops-blame-rats-for-disappearance-of-seized-illicit-liquor-cartons-967613.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||SC asks Centre, UP govt to explain why roads connecting Delhi and Noida weren't free of blockade||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre and Uttar Pradesh government to explain why the roads connecting Delhi and Noida were not kept clear of any blockade. The roads had remained blocked for some months due to farmers agitation for the repeal of the three farm laws. "We consider it appropriate to issue notice to the Union government and others to ensure that the road area is kept clear so that the passage from one place to another is not affected," a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said. The court passed its order on a PIL filed by Monicca Agarwaal, who claimed it had become a nightmare to travel to Delhi where it was taking two hours instead of the normal 20 minutes. In her plea, the woman said she stayed in Noida and her work base was also in Noida but since she was in a marketing job she has to travel to Delhi frequently. She also claimed that she was a single parent and also had some medical issues. She contended that despite the various directions passed by this court to keep the to and fro passage clear of the roads, the same still does not happen. Even though the court said the matter reflected an administrative failure as the judicial view has already been, the woman insisted the bench ensure the people's right to passage should remain unhindered. The court then decided to seek a response from the Union and Uttar Pradesh government and put the matter for consideration on April 9. On October 7, 2020 judgement, the top court, while dealing with Shaheen Bagh sit-in against the Citizenship Amendment Act, had then declared that public roads and spaces can't be occupied indefinitely for protests, causing inconvenience to the people, and the demonstrations must be organised at designated places only. Amid ongoing sit-in by farmers at Delhi borders since November last, the court had on February 9 dismissed the review petition against its previous judgement while again emphasising that the right to protest cannot be anytime and everywhere.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-centre-up-govt-to-explain-why-roads-connecting-delhi-and-noida-werent-free-of-blockade-967640.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Assam polls a struggle to save people from BJP's misrule: Congress leader Sachin Pilot||Congress leader Sachin Pilot on Sunday claimed that the assembly election in Assam is a struggle to save the people of the state from the "misrule" of the BJP. The BJP government never stood by the people during the hour of crisis, Pilot alleged while addressing two election meetings at Silchar and Karimganj in Barak Valley region. "We are not fighting to come to power, but to save the people of Assam from the misrule of the BJP," he said. The BJP is dividing people on religious lines and they need to remain united in Assam and India, the former deputy chief minister of Rajasthan said. "When people were in crisis during the demonetisation, GST and lockdown, the BJP government was nowhere to be seen. So, it is time that we remove the party from power," he added. The Congress will form the next government in Assam, Pilot asserted. "In five years, the BJP gave CAA, NRC, autocracy, inflation and communalism, but not jobs. The biggest challenge today in front of the country and Assam is unemployment. The Congress has guaranteed that it will give five lakh government jobs (in five years)," he said. The Congress, once voted to power, will also implement 50 per cent reservation for women in all government jobs, Pilot said. In an apparent reference to rumours of Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and senior minister Himanta Biswa Sarma acting as rival power centres in the outgoing government, he said, "In Assam, nobody knows who is the CM. Is he the person who took the oath or the one who wants to be the CM?" The BJP has not announced its chief ministerial candidate before the polls and said that a decision in this regard will be taken by its Parliamentary Board at the time of forming the next government. Pilot along with All India Mahila Congress president Sushmita Dev also led a procession in Karimganj town in support of Congress candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/assam-polls-a-struggle-to-save-people-from-bjps-misrule-congress-leader-sachin-pilot-967646.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Rape survivor tied, paraded with accused in Madhya Pradesh village; 6 held||A 16-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 21-year-old man on Sunday in the tribal-dominated Alirajpur district of Madhya Pradesh, following which villagers paraded both the accused and the victim in public by tying them with ropes, police said. A total of six persons, including the man who is accused of rape, and five villagers, have been arrested. A video showing the girl and the accused tied with ropes, being beaten and forced to walk in public in the village under Jobat police station amidst slogans of "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" has gone viral on social media. The girl was rescued by police, a senior officer said. Sub-Divisional Officer of Police (SDOP) Dilip Singh Bilwal said that two cases were registered on Sunday on the FIRs lodged by the victim. "One of the cases was registered against the 21-year-old man who is accused of rape. Another FIR was registered against family members of the girl and villagers for parading her in the village and beating her," Bilwal said, adding that the rape accused is married with two children. He has been booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Family members and relatives of the victim were booked under sections 294 (Obscene act in public places), 355 (Assault or criminal force with intent to dishonour person), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement) and other sections of the IPC, the officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rape-survivor-tied-paraded-with-accused-in-madhya-pradesh-village-6-held-967650.html
28-03-2021||North and Central||Chhattisgarh CM chairs meet to review situation amid Covid-19 surge||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday asked officials to increase the vaccination coverage in districts where infection numbers are high. Chairing a meeting here on the outbreak situation, he also ordered district collectors to declare areas where cases are steadily rising as containment zones and impose necessary restrictions, an official said. The meeting was attended by cabinet ministers, senior administrative and police officials while collectors and functionaries of commerce and industries' associations joined online, he said. Speaking about discussions held in the meeting, state Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey said the administration was not in favour of a lockdown, but in almost all cities and containment zones, a 'no man's land' concept will be enforced from 9pm to restrict unnecessary movement of people. "It means all shops and commercial installations will be closed down at 9 pm. Only hotels and restaurants will be allowed to sell food parcels," he said, though he did not disclose when the plan will come into force. "The state government is not in the mood of imposing lockdown as of now, nor have we any intention to influence the business activities, but people will have to follow Covid-19 guidelines seriously," the minister added. The state government will focus on three fronts, namely vaccination drive, recruitment of health staff and strict compliance of Covid-19 guidelines to fight the current situation, he said. "The chief minister has said there should be no dearth of manpower, and walk-in-interviews should be held to appoint doctors and paramedical staff. He also directed collectors to arrange for beds with oxygen facility in sufficient numbers," Choubey informed. Meanwhile, Baghel, in a statement, said he will not celebrate Holi this year due to the spike in cases and asked people to celebrate on Monday by staying home and exchanging wishes through social media. In view of spike in cases, CrPC section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, has been imposed in some districts, including Raipur, Durg, Bastar, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur. PTI TKPC'garh CM chairs meet to review situation amid Covid-19 surge Raipur, Mar 28 (PTI) Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Sunday asked officials to increase the vaccination coverage in districts where infection numbers are high. Chairing a meeting here on the outbreak situation, he also ordered district collectors to declare areas where cases are steadily rising as containment zones and impose necessary restrictions, an official said. The meeting was attended by cabinet ministers, senior administrative and police officials while collectors and functionaries of commerce and industries' associations joined online, he said. Speaking about discussions held in the meeting, state Agriculture Minister Ravindra Choubey said the administration was not in favour of a lockdown, but in almost all cities and containment zones, a 'no man's land' concept will be enforced from 9pm to restrict unnecessary movement of people. "It means all shops and commercial installations will be closed down at 9 pm. Only hotels and restaurants will be allowed to sell food parcels," he said, though he did not disclose when the plan will come into force. "The state government is not in the mood of imposing lockdown as of now, nor have we any intention to influence the business activities, but people will have to follow Covid-19 guidelines seriously," the minister added. The state government will focus on three fronts, namely vaccination drive, recruitment of health staff and strict compliance of Covid-19 guidelines to fight the current situation, he said. "The chief minister has said there should be no dearth of manpower, and walk-in-interviews should be held to appoint doctors and paramedical staff. He also directed collectors to arrange for beds with oxygen facility in sufficient numbers," Choubey informed. Meanwhile, Baghel, in a statement, said he will not celebrate Holi this year due to the spike in cases and asked people to celebrate on Monday by staying home and exchanging wishes through social media. In view of spike in cases, CrPC section 144, which bars assembly of four or more people, has been imposed in some districts, including Raipur, Durg, Bastar, Rajnandgaon, Bilaspur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-cm-chairs-meet-to-review-situation-amid-covid-19-surge-967688.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||Delivery boy or your doctor — being kind without 'conditions-apply'||Whose side were you on when you saw the video of a woman bleeding from her nose who said she had been hit by a food-delivery guy while she was on the phone asking the company to cancel the order as the delivery was late? Did you switch sides when you later heard the man’s version, who said he had been sacked, despite waiting patiently while the lady was on the phone, and that it was she who had flung her slippers at him, hit herself, then made the video? Or when you saw a picture of him, eyes brimming, asking “Main aurat nahin, toh main galat?” (So, I’m wrong because I am not a woman?) This column is not to play judge on who was wrong and who was wronged, but to examine an issue that the Zomato episode exposed -- how we treat those around us who serve us -- which was debated on social media for days. This trait, of behaving in a certain way with those we consider “below us” in the social and economic order while being absolutely civil to our colleagues, respectful (even fawning/groveling) to those above us as higher-ups, has been so common that we don’t even see it as a problem. The maids and the men who work in our homes, no matter their age, are addressed as ‘nee/neenu/tu/tum’ (in the singular, that is) in Indian languages which, unlike English, have a warm phrase for those older or those who must be addressed with respect, such as ‘neenga/neevu/aap’ in the plural. Many let even their children speak down to or yell at the house-help and street-sweepers. The corporate world has tried to play the equaliser; the peon of yesteryears is today’s office assistant, cleaners and those who bring you tea at work are housekeeping. Yet, in house parlance, “I got late to work because my servant did not turn up,” comes naturally to a nation that can’t be bothered to use ‘domestic help.’ We also expect the working class to behave in a certain way – to gloat when we are good to them, to be bent with gratitude when we offer help. If the lady help refuses leftover food from our fridge, she is “arrogant”. If the gardener says no to the hand-me-down clothes of our kids that we think would be good for his kids, how dare he! Weekly offs, if given, are as per our wish; leave for travel or sickness – grudgingly, leading to them bunking work or not turning up at all, repeatedly killing off a fictitious grandfather of theirs. Books, clothes given to charity are not those we think the other side needs but what helps clear clutter at home. When post-lockdown, new migrants in a hamlet in Hassan were unable to eat the South Indian vegetarian fare that well-meaning organisations had taken to feed them, pictures went viral of “ungrateful North Indian labourers who had wasted food”, never mind that the food of a new place and culture takes time to get used to. The flip side is that this trait then spawns a whole culture of subsidy on the other side -- of entitlement to be given freebies, of work that won’t move unless given inaam or baksheesh. Our culture, across religions, goads us to be kind to all. What would make it powerful is when kindness is given with respect, without being patronising. Last month, I was asked to speak and facilitate at an international kindness festival. Famous people spoke of random acts of kindness that had rescued them from a life of drugs and loneliness; others spoke of how the kindness that they had put to practice in their workplace had enriched their personal lives, leading us to infer that being kind can be useful, too. Kindness of the selfless kind, too, is right around us; lakhs of people who quietly do things for the old, the homeless, the voiceless that includes animals who are not even of ‘use’ to them. Philanthropist Sudha Murty told me how as a kid, she saw her grandmother keep aside fine rice grains in their village front yard in a bag, a handful of which would be given to whoever came seeking alms, while the family would eat more ordinary stuff for the night. “I saw how those who gave did not feel superior giving, and those who received did not feel lowly in receiving. There was a gentle equilibrium.” That then is something to be learnt as part of the art of living – the art of giving.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/delivery-boy-or-your-doctor-being-kind-without-conditions-apply-967404.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||What stops former cops from naming names?||Not that we needed more proof of it, but with all the recent details of the police-politician tussle that spilled out in Mumbai, there are no two thoughts over the tumbling reputation of the Police as an Indian institution. If we see what transpired in Mumbai, alongside what we have witnessed from Delhi Police over the last few years, it’s hard not to conclude that India’s political and financial centres are in dire straits. But my question is a little different: Why have senior, retired and celebrated police officers kept quiet over their policing careers? Let me illustrate with a recent, discrete, instance. In his reflections in a recent cover story on Dawood Ibrahim in a major Indian publication, Neeraj Kumar, former Delhi Police chief and additional director of CBI, conceded that the law enforcement divisions he worked for in the last 30 years came close to breakthroughs, but were unable to catch the man, who now lives in Pakistan, or some of his key operatives. He spoke about the close misses over corruption in cricket, on which he led probes for Delhi Police. He recounted speaking to Dawood three times during the investigations into the 1993 Bombay blasts. At another moment, laden with meaning, he wrote, “one of my seniors, whom I had kept in the loop, inexplicably asked me to stop talking to Dawood.” Many questions arise: Who was this person? What was his/her reason to stop Kumar from continuing the interactions? Why doesn’t a senior retired police officer name names and give reasons for such actions? In May 2015, Kumar had made similar revelations, but they were questioned or countered by his contemporaries in the CBI like former director Vijay Rama Rao and former Army chief and now BJP politician General V K Singh. Reacting to them, Kumar had refuted making the claims that had been attributed to him. What made him change his mind now? At another point in his essay, Kumar wrote of how Dawood himself had called him some 19 years later and reminded him of his imminent retirement, asking him why Kumar was still naming and shaming the don when he would soon be leading the life of a commoner, perhaps a veiled threat that he would be vulnerable. How dismaying that Kumar hinted at so much without going all out. And if he did, how would the law protect him and to what degree? The history of criminal cartels across many parts of the world shows they thrive in alliance with the political and business elites within countries. It takes a village to raise a child, goes the African saying; well, it takes a whole society to spawn criminality. Who makes our criminal syndicates? Why did Kumar pull his punches? How many secrets about the political class will senior cops keep mum over? In many ways, like the events in Mumbai, Kumar’s essay signalled another failure in implementing police reforms despite the Supreme Court directions in Prakash Singh & Others vs Union of India in September 2006. Many of them haven’t been implemented yet, but a start will only happen with a reckoning by those who can. Reforms are lagging, because of a layered nexus and a consensus over the status quo: There are too many profiteers at the heart of the political structure, and the police are caught in their crosshairs. As the events in Mumbai show, arms of the police will take to policing as a financial opportunity. And why won’t they? Politicians come and go, but a police career entails everyday risk. Doesn’t a police officer stake more of his/her life on the job than the ‘mainstream’ politician or businessman? The Mumbai disclosures bespeak a post-ethical era. India remains one of the poorest and weakest policed ‘democratic’ nation-states in the world. Police forces have been kept weak and their autonomy defanged by central or state governments. Why has Kumar not spoken a word in his essay about the political and corporate forces and pressures that covered and shielded the likes of Dawood? It has many parallels with some of our fugitive tycoons. Is there a chance they will “sing” and if they do, then many parts of India’s political and corporate jet-set may have no place to hide?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/what-stops-former-cops-from-naming-names-967406.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||Vaccine diplomacy: Resistance to transparency||The first anniversary of the nation-wide Covid-19 lockdown arrived this month with tidings good, bad and ugly. The expansion of the vaccination drive, to cover all people over 45 years of age, is a welcome development. The curtailment of vaccine exports, though, has rung alarm bells in countries that looked to India for supplies. Overnight, India’s vaccine diplomacy has metamorphosed into vaccine nationalism. Apparently, blockages in the essential materials supply chain, thanks to a similar mutation in the respective foreign policies of the developed countries, are to be blamed. There is an ugly side to these developments as well -- lesser and lesser transparency about matters of public policy, despite the RTI Act requiring the government to be more and more open about decisions that affect people’s lives, especially during a public health crisis. Earlier this year, India shipped millions of doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine to countries like Bangladesh, Ghana, Argentina, Brazil and South Africa. So far so good, but domestically, the government remains tight-lipped about the details of such export commitments. In December 2020, along with a prominent advocate who campaigns for access to medicines for the underprivileged, this author sought details of the bilateral agreements into which India has entered for vaccine supply. The RTI made the usual rounds of several babus’ desks for two months. The Department of Pharmaceuticals not only denied copies of these agreements but also refused to name the recipient countries, saying that disclosure would prejudicially affect the strategic, scientific and economic interests of the State. Grateful Canadians in Toronto reportedly put-up billboards thanking Prime Minister Modi for the first batch of the million-plus Covid vaccine doses committed. Then, India halted further exports. Apparently, we citizens, do not have the right to know whether taxpayer funds were spent on these and other shipments or if the jabs were sold abroad for profit or the official reasons for halting vaccine exports. In the same RTI application, we had sought details of Covid vaccine purchase agreements which the central government has entered into with manufacturers and suppliers, for domestic use. The Vaccine Administration Cell of the Union Health Ministry rejected not only this information but also the names of those pharma companies in order to -- you guessed it right -- protect the strategic, scientific and economic interests of the State. It seems, the State has a set of interests diametrically opposed to those of the people it exists to serve. Later, in another RTI application, this author sought details about the setting up and the working of the Covid pandemic Joint Monitoring Group (JMG). The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), which reportedly chairs the JMG, was requested to proactively disclose on its website a copy of the office order or circular constituting the JMG, its terms of reference, its chairperson and members, its designated Central Public Information Officer (CPIO) and First Appellate Authority, and the dates and minutes of its meetings. According to the World Health Organisation’s factsheet, its country office in India coordinates with the JMG for providing technical support for epidemiological assessment, surveillance, testing, case management, containment and research activities for Covid-19 at all levels of the administration. DGHS shunted this RTI to the Union Home Ministry and other sections of the Health Ministry. The Home Ministry denied any knowledge of the JMG, though all Empowered Groups set up for combatting the pandemic function under its jurisdiction. The Health Ministry’s CPIOs are passing the RTI from one desk to another claiming they do not hold any information about the JMG. While vaccines for new viruses might be discovered with some effort, there is no effective antidote yet against the continued assault of deep-rooted sarkari secrecy on the body politic. The sudden shift from vaccine diplomacy to perceived vaccine nationalism could hurt India’s image and interests, especially if the government does not proactively disclose critical information to both its own citizens and to the world at large. No one will grudge India wanting to first safeguard its own population and then to send vaccine supplies abroad, so long as the government is transparent about why it needs to do so. But opaqueness brings the risk of turning the aspiring, altruistic vishwa-guru (world teacher) into a selfish gaampara-guru (guru of simpletons).||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/vaccine-diplomacy-resistance-to-transparency-967408.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||A Sino-Russian counter to the Quad summit||Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov’s March 22-23 visit to Guilin in China to meet his counterpart Wang Yi was aimed at putting a spanner in the works of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad) that held its first summit meeting of leaders of the US, Japan, Australia and India on March 12. This is the 51st meeting between the two foreign ministers. Russia and China are under pressure from the US and others due to the imposition of a series of sanctions on them over the Crimea and Xinjiang issues. Both mentioned challenges from the revival of “coloured revolutions” and interference in their internal affairs. As against the “rules-based order” that the West has been emphasising, the Lavrov-Wang joint statement mentioned “global governance” and the centrality of the United Nations. Of course, they did not mention UN Security Council reform. Russia and China have their own axes to grind against the West. Western sanctions are crippling the Russian economy -- specifically the energy prices that Russia is heavily dependent on. The pandemic has aggravated its woes, with Russia having among the highest numbers of Covid infections globally. These are now further complicated by the sanctions over the poisoning of opposition leader Alexei Navalny. Then, of course, is the reckoning that Biden has warned Putin of for interfering in US elections and for the SolarWinds cyber hacking. Speaking at the Russian International Affairs Council in December, Lavrov criticised the Quad for wooing India and weakening Russia-India relations. Lavrov also criticised the West for pushing the “rules-based order” and imposing sanctions on chemical and cyber-attacks. Russia facilitated the foreign and defence ministerial meetings at Moscow between India and China, working to defuse the Ladakh border row. Moscow also sells arms to both China and India. In the event of a surge in US-India relations, Russia wants to open a window into Pakistan, too (by first selling armed helicopters, turbofan engines or participating in Indian Ocean exercises and in the Afghan reconciliation process), unnerving New Delhi as no specific US assurances are forthcoming either on Washington’s relations with Pakistan. On China’s part, the Sino-US engagement process since 1971 has come to a crossroads on a number of issues – China’s militarisation of the South China Sea, escalation of Taiwan Straits and Senkaku islands crises, US criticism on Tibet, Xinjiang, Hong Kong and other issues. China’s rising tendency to use force, to kill Vietnamese, Indians, and recent orders to fire on the Japanese, is unnerving all its neighbours. Russia is more aggrieved and for long over US policies and wants to build a coalition of “multipolar” initiatives (such as Russia-India-China, BRICS, Shanghai Cooperation Organisation and others), while China, dependent on the West for investments, technologies and markets, has been reluctant to associate closely with Russia or others against the West. However, with the US-China confrontation intensifying, Beijing has no choice but to move closer to Moscow. Nevertheless, China shudders at the thought of either becoming another Soviet Union-like Cold War target for the US or having to enter into an explicit military alliance with Russia. Instead, China wants a loose coalition with Russia and others, like in the SCO or the BRICS, so that it can focus on its own “rejuvenation.” China’s careful critique of the Quad about regional order or ideological elements gels with Russian interests. But while it finds the Russian shield useful to counter the US, Beijing does not want to play second fiddle to Moscow. Differences between Russia and China are also on the rise, including due to China closing the gap with the US and the West on economy and technology, and due to Chinese migration to Siberia and a Russian fear of demographic change there. In recent times three more issues have surfaced -- Chinese spying on advanced Russian military technologies, Chinese restrictions on Russian entry into China after Covid-19 eruptions, and vaccine diplomacy. Two prominent Russian scientists, Valery Mitko and Alexander Lukanin, were arrested last year for passing on sensitive information on technologies to China. There is also suspicion of IPR theft on the S-400 missile systems that Russia sold to China. As the pandemic spread, China restricted Russian seafood imports, which the latter saw as an “undeclared trade war”. Both countries are also competing in vaccine diplomacy for influence in the Eurasian region, with many seeking Sputnik V or AstraZeneca vaccines while Uzbekistan wants Chinese vaccines. Clearly, India is caught in this vortex of Great Power relations and tectonic changes at the global and regional levels even as it is forced to strengthen defences on its borders with China and Pakistan. Geopolitical hedging and balancing appear to be the way forward in the short term.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-sino-russian-counter-to-the-quad-summit-967409.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||Is RBI fighting the wrong battle?||Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das believes that low interest rates are required to promote private sector investment and reignite growth. The problem with interest rates, however, is that they are rising. The Union budget for 2021-22 has implied that the central government will need to borrow a record Rs 12 lakh crore this year (about $167 billion). If you add the borrowing requirement of the states, going by past trends, the amounts involved could easily double. When demand goes up, prices (yields) start to rise as in any other market. An interesting game is thus playing out in the Indian bond markets. The RBI is reluctant to let the yields rise. It had made huge efforts in the past to push the yields down. The instrument used was the Repo rate: this is the rate at which RBI lends to banks. This rate had been brought down from 8% in January 2014 to 6% by April 2019 and 4% by May 2020, which is where it still is currently. The 10-year yield had, in response, earlier been steadily reducing from a high point of around 9% in early 2014 to a low of about 5.7% by July 2020. Historically, the spread difference between the Repo and the 10-year yield curve is around 150 bps. It then changed tack. It has further risen by an additional 27 bps in the past month to a recent high of 6.17%. It seems to be violating the historical trend. The experience of witnessing increased yield rates despite an unchanged repo is causing discomfort. However, it is oft forgotten that a silent factor which had aided the RBI drive to reduce yields in the recent past was the decline in inflation rates due to the global commodities price crash of 2014/15, caused by a China slowdown coming on top of the EU/US growth stagnation around the time. The crash had been sharp. Between mid-2014 and early 2016, the global economy witnessed very large crude oil price declines. The 70% price drop during that period (from around $120 to the mid-40s and later even further below) was one of the three biggest declines since World War II, and the longest lasting since the supply-driven collapse of 1986. Iron ore/coal etc., had also similarly fallen. Indian inflation rates fell from a peak 10.9% in 2013 to 6.35% by end 2014 to a low of 2.49% by 2017. However, inflation has now started going up. This is because in India, inflation is endemic, created by our regulatory management systems operating outside the purview of the RBI. In 2019, inflation was around 4.76%. In March 2020, it was reported to be around 5.84%, and 6.69% in August 2020. Thereafter, the weights used in the formula to calculate inflation were altered. Inflation accordingly fell and was reported at 4.5% by December in the new system. A significant increase in oil prices happened regularly thereafter, likely to support further inflation. Policy Repo rates have not been changed. A rate divergence is thus happening, which the RBI does not like. Till now, the RBI had managed to keep a lid on interest rates by using devices like Operation Twist (sale of lower yield short-term paper to buy up higher yield long-term paper to drive down long-term yields) and anonymous stealth borrowing by getting PSBs to front for it. Unfortunately, past excesses always tend to catch up. The bond holdings of the hapless public sector banks are already higher than the Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) limit, at times crossing 30% of deposit funds. The bond traders are also now not responding as they did in the past. Announced bond auctions are often failing, forcing repeated interventions by the central bank, fueling a sense of frustration amongst officials and bond investors alike. Forgotten in this tug of war is the question of whether interest rates really matter under Indian conditions. Admittedly, economic theory says that they should matter. But the Indian reality is that it does not. At least, this is what the CMIE economic outlook data regarding ‘project announcements’ (2000/01 to 2018/19) reveals. The correlation between the values of project announcements/completion and the Repo rates is very low (range of 0.27 to 0.44 for time lags upto ‘T plus 3’ years). The reason for this lack of influence of interest rates on the investment behaviour can be found in the ‘Profit and Loss’ accounts of our companies available in the CMIE database. The share of interest cost, in the Indian Corporate’s Profit and Loss account is seen to fluctuate between 1.7% to 2.4% of sales realisation, much lower than the share of taxes paid, which ranges between 6-8%. The share of all other ‘Management Expenses’ is seen to vary between 10-14%. Thus, the interest burden, if it is a burden, is the least of the burdens on our hapless entrepreneurs, at least if we accept that revealed behaviour is more important than ‘talk’. No promoter will talk about their actual fears. They can’t afford to annoy the powers that be. So, they take the easy way out and talk about interest rates. But actually, investment is not happening because of fears and apprehensions about regulatory overreach in a variety of areas. A regulatory calming is therefore required, to improve the ambience for risk-taking behaviour, not interest rate gymnastics.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/is-rbi-fighting-the-wrong-battle-967411.html
28-03-2021||Opinion||The UAE is seeking a new role as peacemaker||By Hussein Ibish Nicknamed “Little Sparta” by American generals like former U.S. Defense Secretary Jim Mattis, the United Arab Emirates is widely acknowledged as a small country that punches far above its weight in military terms. But the tiny Gulf state also has outsize ambitions as a peace broker. Its de factor ruler, Abu Dhabi’s Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed, was the prime mover in last year’s Abraham Accords between Israel and several Arab states. Going further back, Emirati diplomats played a key role alongside their Saudi counterparts in mediating the 2018 peace deal between Ethiopia and Eritrea. The UAE’s latest peacemaking project is arguably its most audacious ever. As Bloomberg reported last week, the Emiratis brokered the negotiations between India and Pakistan that led to an unexpected February 25 announcement that the South Asian rivals would respect their 2003 cease-fire agreement, despite heightened tensions between them. The announcement was followed by a quick visit to India by the UAE Foreign Minister, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed. The UAE is hoping to facilitate an exchange of ambassadors between New Delhi and Islamabad and restoration of trade links between the two countries. More ambitious still, it is aiming to secure a viable understanding on Kashmir, which has been the flashpoint for several wars since their 1947 partition upon independence from British rule. The two nuclear-armed neighbors are locked in what may be the world’s most dangerous faceoff. The latest round of tensions began two years ago when 40 Indian soldiers were killed in a suicide bomb attack, claimed by a Pakistan-based terrorist group, in Kashmir. India retaliated by launching air strikes inside Pakistan. Since then, the leaders of the two countries, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Imran Khan, have blown hot and cold, with little progress toward peace — until last month’s announcement. In many ways, the Emiratis are uniquely qualified to mediate between the two countries. It has strong trade and commercial ties to both, and is home to millions of Indian and Pakistani expatriate workers. And since the conflict is rooted in mistrust between Hindus and Muslims, the UAE’s credentials are strengthened by its aggressive promotion, at home and abroad, of a separation of politics and religion. Kashmir has been a consistent rallying cry for terrorist groups and radical Islamist organizations, such as Al Qaeda, the Islamic State and the Taliban, which the UAE considers its most dangerous opponents. Helping to defuse the conflict would allow the Emiratis to strike a significant blow against violent extremists. The South Asian initiative also plays into the UAE’s pursuit of other important foreign-policy objectives. It helps to deepen the partnership with Washington by paralleling American efforts to resolve the conflict in neighboring Afghanistan, where India and Pakistan have competing economic and security interests. At the same time. amity between its allies is doubly desirable for the UAE as American appetite to act in the Middle East appears to be waning. In recent years, the UAE has shifted its attention away from military projection to diplomacy, investment and other forms of soft power. Most of the regional conflicts through which it has sought to advance its interests militarily, either directly or through proxies, are resolved or stale-mated, or have otherwise passed the point of diminishing returns. The UAE has greatly reduced its footprint in Yemen and drawn down its forces in the Horn of Africa. It is looking to scale back in Libya, where it provided both air cover and material support for the rebel forces of Khalifa Haftar; the Emiratis are now backing a political solution to the civil war. The UAE has also sought to reduce tensions with Iran and is leading Arab efforts to reengage with the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, having concluded that the war there has effectively ended and that the only way to advance Emirati interests is through political, diplomatic and commercial means. The UAE is hoping that India and Pakistan will take a similarly enlightened view of their conflict. If they do, some of the credit will redound to the Emiratis. And if not, “Little Sparta” will be credited for at least trying to make peace.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-uae-is-seeking-a-new-role-as-peacemaker-967559.html
28-03-2021||South||Eight dead and six injured after tempo, lorry collide in Andhra Pradesh||Eight dead and six injured after a tempo and lorry collided with each other near Damaramadugu village in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, earlier today. Andhra Pradesh: Eight dead and six injured after a tempo and lorry collided with each other near Damaramadugu village in Nellore district, earlier today. More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eight-dead-and-six-injured-after-tempo-lorry-collide-in-andhra-pradesh-967487.html
28-03-2021||South||Judicial probe against Central agencies unfortunate, says Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday said the Kerala government's decision to recommend a judicial inquiry against central probe agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate (ED) probing the gold and dollar smuggling cases, was "unfortunate" and amounts to challenging the federal structure of the Constitution. Singh, who is in Kerala to campaignfor the BJP-NDA candidates in the April 6 Assembly polls, also said the Uniform Civil Code (UCC) will be implemented only after taking all the communities into confidence. The UCC is there in the BJP manifesto. "We will take all the communities into confidence and go forward. We are firm on that decision", Singh told reportershere. On the rising fuel prices, he said the Centre had requested all the states to reduce the state duty on petrol. On the smuggling cases, he said: "I came to know that the case is being probed by the ED and then a judicial commission has been appointed against the central agency. It's very unfortunate. This means the state government is challenging the federal structure of the Constitution. This is 100 per cent against the constitution." The CPI(M)-led LDF government had recently decided to order a judicial enquiry against the central agencies, including ED, for allegedly "derailing the probe" in the gold smuggling and dollar scams, days after the Kerala Crime Branch registered an FIR against some ED officials. While the gold scam relates to the seizure of about 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram Internationalairport in July 2020, the dollar smuggling case pertains to alleged smuggling of $1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs1.30 crore) by a former finance head of the UAE Consulate in Thiruvananthapuram to Muscat in Oman. Besides the ED, the Customs and the National Investigation Agency (NIA) are also inquiring into the scams. Attacking both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the opposition Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), Singh said even with 100 per cent literacy, Kerala is behind other states in various sectors. "The main reason is that even after seven decades after independence, the state cannot come out of the clutches of LDF and UDF. The state needs a new political alternative and only BJP can give it. UDF and LDF are playing friendly matches. Either the LDF or the UDF win the match but the people are getting defeated. In Kerala the Congress and communists are fighting but 2,000 km away, they are fighting us together," Singh said. Both the fronts were giving false promises and failed to understand the aspiration of the people of Kerala. The LDF should come with an action taken report on their promises rather than giving false hope to the people, he said, adding the appeasement policies of the two fronts had taken Kerala away from the path of development. Theminister also attacked senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and said he always assures to form a separate ministry for fishermen in Delhi. "Perhaps he doesn't know that Modi ji has already formed a ministry back in 2019," Singh said. The Union Minister, who held a road show at Varkala this morning, will be campaigning across Kottayam, Thrissur and Ernakulam districts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/judicial-probe-against-central-agencies-unfortunate-says-rajnath-singh-967514.html
28-03-2021||South||LDF-UDF playing 'friendly match' in Kerala: Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Sunday hit out at the ruling CPI (M)-led LDF and opposition Congress headed UDF saying they were playing a "friendly match" in poll-bound Kerala. While the Congress and Left are opposing each other tooth and nail in Kerala, 2,000 km away in West Bengal, they are allies, Rajnath, who is in Kerala for campaigning for the April 6 Assembly polls told reporters here. A victory of UDF or LDF is ultimately the defeat of the people of Kerala, he said. "The time of LDF-UDF is over. Both political alliances do not understand the new aspirations of the people of Kerala. People want change", he said adding the two fronts were giving "false promises" to the people. "LDF must come with an action taken report on their promises rather than giving falsehope to the people", he said adding the appeasement policies of the two fronts had taken Kerala away from the path of development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-udf-playing-friendly-match-in-kerala-rajnath-singh-967518.html
28-03-2021||South||Three women are contesting for different causes in Kerala Assembly polls||As a high voltage campaign is on in Kerala for the April 6 Assembly polls, the fight of three women candidates is drawing attention for reasons beyond politics in the state. Their campaigns may not be as loud and vocal as others but their candidature itself is sparking debate and discussion among the public. Three women - former Congress leader and Mahila Congress chief Lathika Subhash, mother of Walayar sisters and K K Rema, the widow of slain RMP leader T P Chandrasekharan - are contesting in the election symbolising three causes. More than winning elections, their priority seems to be projecting their cause - male dominance in political parties, murderous politics and speedy justice for abused daughters. If Lathika, who recently shocked everyone by tonsuring her head protesting against being denied assembly ticket, has plunged into poll fray to protest the male dominance and unfair treatment towards women in her party, K K Rema, through her candidature, wants to keep live her fight against the alleged murderous politics by the ruling CPI(M). Rema, who is now a leader of Revolutionary Marxist Party (RMP) after Chandrasekharan's death, believes that some of the leaders and workers of the Marxist party were behind the murder of her husband who had suffered 51 hack injuries on his body. While Lathika is seeking her electoral luck in Ettumanur, her hometownin Kottayam district as an independent candidate, Rema is contesting from Vadakara constituency in Kozhikode with the support of Congress-led UDF. The mother of the Walayar girls wants justice for her daughters, who were found hanging in their hut in Palakkad district under suspicious circumstances in 2017. Her repeated requests to take action against police personnel, who had allegedly committed lapses in the probe into their death, had prompted the woman, an ordinary homemaker so far, to contest elections. Her decision to take on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in Dharmadam constituency has brought back to the public consciousness the horrendous memories of the pain and sufferings underwent by the little Dalit siblings. Lathitka, who is now busy campaigning in the constituency, said she is thoroughly confident about her victory. "The voters in the constituency are considering me as one among them. The overall response is very positive," she said. The 56-year old leader also felt that she had been denied a ticket as she was a woman. If the students' union president and youth congress chief could get tickets, why the Mahila Congress head had been denied a seat, an emotional Lathika asked. Besides Congress-UDF candidate Prince Luckose, CPI(M) nominee N Vasavan and NDA's N Sreenivasan were her main opponentsin Ettumanur. Rema, who had unsuccessfully contested from Vadakara in the 2016 Assembly polls, was initially hesitant to contest this time. But, she later changed her decision and entered the poll fray following the pressure from her own party and from the Congress-UDF who see her as a strong choice against the CPI(M) in the segment, a traditional Left bastion. The UDF, which announced their support to her in the April 6 polls, also calculated that through her candidature, the brutal murder of T P Chandrasekharan, a CPI(M) dissident, can be brought back to the memory of voters again. Once a strong follower and now an arch critic of the CPI(M) and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Rema had shocked the Left camp by garnering over 20,000 votes during her maiden fight in 2016. "My fight is against the brutal murders carried out in the name of politics," the 51 year-old woman said and expressed confidence about her victory. LDF nominee Manayath Chandran and NDA's M Rajesh Kumar are her main opponents in the April 6 polls. A CPI(M) rebel who created a parallel Left outfit called RMP in his home turf Onchiyam in north Kerala, Chandrasekharan was hacked to death in May 2012. Several of the accused in the case were local CPI(M) workers, besides goons hired to execute the murder. In 2014, a special court had sentenced 11 people, three of them local CPI(M) functionaries, to life imprisonment. The mother of Walayar sisters, who has been on a warpath demanding action against police personnel, had recently tonsured her head as a mark of protest and carried out a state-wide rally seeking justice to her daughters. She said her candidature against the Chief Minister was also a protest against the alleged denial of justice by the Left government. "My priority is not success or failure in the elections. My daughters should get justice. All the accused should be punished. I hope the society will stand up with me in my fight," the mother of the girls added. Kerala Assembly Election Result 2016||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/three-women-are-contesting-for-different-causes-in-kerala-assembly-polls-967541.html
28-03-2021||South||LDF, UDF spar over free rice distribution in Kerala ahead of Assembly polls||As the ruling and opposition fronts continued to spar over the distribution of subsidised rice during the festival season ahead of the April 6 Assembly polls, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday alleged that the Congress-UDF had "misled" the Election Commission over the matter. The opposition was playing "dirty politics" by trying to block the supply of ration rice and food kits to the people, Vijayan said a day after the EC ordered to stop the distribution following the opposition's complaint. The LDF, which will ride back to power, is committed to transforming Kerala into a hunger-free state where shelter would be made a right of every citizen, Vijayan told reporters here. Attacking senior Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala for approaching the Election Commission against the distribution of subsidised rice and food kits alleging violation of code of conduct, Vijayan said distribution of rice and essentials was nothing new and was being continued to help the people affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. Chennithala had approached the Election Commission alleging that the LDF government was playing politics with the distribution of free rice days before the election. The opposition was of the view that Vishu food kits and pensions should only be given after the elections, as the model code of conduct was in force. The BJP also accused the government of vested interest behind the move. Asserting that the food kits distributed by the government had helped the people survive without starving throughout the pandemic days, he said the next LDF government will ensure that none in the state will starve. "We will start 'janakeeya' hotels across the state to ensure food for all and special food outlets would be opened in plantation areas. The Civil Supplies and ConsumerFed would encourage the opening of private outlets for distribution of provisions and vegetables at affordable prices," he said. "No person would be evicted from his house if no alternate arrangement is in place. The state will enact shelter as the right of the citizen," Vijayan added. Meanwhile, AICC General Secretary K C Venugopal told reporters the UDF has never said that the free provision kits should not be distributed in view of the elections. But a deliberate attempt was made to delay the distribution, he alleged. Chennithala said it was not the opposition that was playing politics over the issue, but the Left Front which had stopped the distribution of rice for 6-7 months. The Youth Congress held protests in various districts while the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activists protested by preparing rice gruel on roadsides across booth committees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-udf-spar-over-free-rice-distribution-in-kerala-ahead-of-assembly-polls-967563.html
28-03-2021||South||Puducherry polls: Congress manifesto promises free vaccination for all, scrapping of NEET||Free Covid-19 vaccination for all; scrapping of NEET and the new education policy; Rs 1,000 as assistance for homemakers; re-opening of mills; and enhanced pension for martyrs' kin are some of the promises made by the Congress party in its poll manifesto. The manifesto was released here on Sunday by former Union Minister and senior Congress leader Veerappa Moily. The manifesto promised free vaccination against Covid-19 the expenses of which would be borne by the government. A homemaker in every family would get a monthly assistance of Rs 1,000, the manifesto said. Steps would be taken to scrap NEET mode for medical admission, and the new education policy, the manifesto said. A university of agriculture would be set up in Karaikal and a varsity of law in Puducherry, the manifesto said. It promised waiver of loans taken by beneficiaries through the Backward Class Corporation and Puducherry Adi Dravidar Development Corporation. Civic elections would be conducted immediately, it said. A quota of 25 per cent for the students of Puducherry in each of the courses available in the Puducherry University, it said. Fifty per cent quota would be introduced for students in private medical colleges who were selected through CENTAC, it said. A homemaker in every family would get a monthly assistance of Rs 1,000, the manifesto said. Steps would be taken to re-open the government-owned AFT Mill, Swadeshi Cotton Mills and Sri Bharathi Mills which were closed by the NDA government at the Centre, it said. Similarly, the Cooperative Sugar Mill at Lingareddipalayam would be re-opened, it said. All households would be receive free water supply, it said. The procurement price of milk would be raised from present Rs 32 to Rs 38 per litre, the manifeso said. Monthly assistance for widows, destitute women and the aged would be raised to Rs 5,000; the martyrs' pension would be raised to Rs 10,000, it said. The move of the Centre to privatise distribution of power here would be opposed tooth and nail and the present arrangement of distributing power through the Electricity Department would be continued, the manifesto said. Physically challenged people would get an enhanced pension at Rs 5,000 per person, it said. Passenger ship facilities would be introduced between Karaikal and Sri Lanka, the manifesto said. Infrastructure development, protection of weaker sections and augmentation of basic amenities, special schemes for farmers, women self-help groups and healthcare services were among the other promises. The manifesto said the party would reiterate the demand for statehood for Puducherry and take action to persuade the Centre for waiver of loans due from Puducherry to the Centre over the years. The manifesto said steps would be intensified for inclusion of Puducherry as a member of the Central Finance Commission. The first copy of the manifesto was received by former Chief Minister V Narayanasamy. AICC general Secretary Dinesh Gundu Rao was among those present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/puducherry-polls-congress-manifesto-promises-free-vaccination-for-all-scrapping-of-neet-967568.html
28-03-2021||South||Chandy's vibrancy takes on his rivals youthfulness in Kerala||Even as youngsters are considered to be more vibrant, when it comes to Puthupally in the Kottayam district of Kerala, it is 77 years old Oommen Chandy who seems to be more vibrant than his 26-year-old rival in the Assembly election. The former chief minister, Chandy, who completed 50 years as MLA in a row last year, is the senior-most MLA in the fray this time. He is taking on Jaick C Thomas, a Students Federation of India leader hailing from Manarcaud, which also comes under the Puthuppally constituency. He has been deputed by the CPM against Chandy for the second consecutive term For the people of Puthuppally Chandy is still as vibrant as a youngster and hence they feel that Jaick won't pose any threat to Chandy who used to win with a thumping majority over the last five decades - a majority of over 27,000 in 2016. Mathew K Varghese, a young voter of Puthuppally, said that Chandy's age doesn't matter at all as he was more vibrant than his young rival. Chandy is with the people of Puthuppally round the clock and his age was not at all a barrier. Hence there was no question of the people opting for another person in the place of Chandy now. Chandy's connection with the people was quite evident as people of the constituency used to make a beeline to his house right from the early hours of Sundays as he would be definitely available there on Sundays and he would not make people return hopelessly. Chandy could be seen moving among the crowd listening to the grievances of the people and he could be able to identify most of them by their name itself. "Every household of Puthuppally could have received one or other help from Chandy and hence he need not even campaign for votes. For me, Chandy only helped in getting admission for my son for a vocational course," said Sabu Thomas, security of the church at Puthuppally where Chandy regularly attends Sunday mass. Chandy took part in the Palm Sunday mass amidst the election rush. While the people of Puthuppally have no doubt of Chandy's victory, the seasoned politician did not want to take things lightly. "At all elections, there will be a contest and it is the people's mandate. Anyway, this time there were no concerns for the Congress-led UDF across Kerala, " said Chandy. When pointed out that most of the pre-poll surveys were predicting the upper hand for the CPM-led Left Democratic Front, Chandy said that the pre-poll surveys indeed helped in energising the Congress cadres. It served as a warning message to the party workers and they were now working relentlessly to ensure UDF's victory. Hence we should be thanking the pre-poll surveys, said Chandy Chandy, who is known for his political strategies, was even made the chairman of the Election Management and Strategy Committee of the UDF. If the UDF returns to power Chandy even has high chances for a third term as Chief Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/chandys-vibrancy-takes-on-his-rivals-youthfulness-in-kerala-967591.html
28-03-2021||South||For 2nd year in a row, Andhra Pradesh govt brings out budget in form of ordinance||For the second year in a row, the Andhra Pradesh government on Sunday brought out the state Budget in the form of an Ordinance that authorised an expenditure of Rs 70,983 crore for a few months of the 2021-22 financial year. Governor Biswabhusan Harichandan promulgated the 'Andhra Pradesh Appropriation (Vote-on-Account) Ordinance, 2021,' authorising the government to withdraw money from the Consolidated Fund of the State for a part of the financial year, commencing on April 1. The Governor also issued the 'Andhra Pradesh Appropriation (No 2) Ordinance, 2021,' authorising a supplementary expenditure of Rs 7,955 crore during the 2020-21 financial year. The government did not conduct the mandatory legislature session to pass the Budget before March 31, citing elections to the local bodies and the by-election to the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat as the reasons. The Chief Ministers Office circulated the Budget papers to the ministers online recently and thus the Cabinet approved the Ordinance. This was subsequently communicated to the Governor, upon whose approval the Ordinance was promulgated on Sunday. Last year, the government skipped the Budget session of the legislature due to the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic and brought out an Ordinance. It conducted the legislature session in June 2020 and passed the Budget for 2020-21 financial year. The opposition parties found fault with the government over promulgating an Ordinance for the second year without conducting the Budget session of the legislature. "This is nothing but the bankruptcy of the government. It only exposes the gross contempt of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government towards the people, the legislature and the opposition parties. Getting the Budget approved through an Ordinance is an evil tradition set in by the Jagan regime," Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Council and former Finance Minister Yanamala Ramakrishnudu lashed out in a statement. The state Congress working president N Thulasi Reddy said it was unfortunate that the government got the Budget approved in the form of an Ordinance without conducting the legislature session.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/for-2nd-year-in-a-row-andhra-pradesh-govt-brings-out-budget-in-form-of-ordinance-967599.html
28-03-2021||South||DMK MP A Raja booked for alleged vulgar comments against Tamil Nadu CM||Former Union Telecom Minister and DMK leader A Raja was on Sunday booked by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Chennai City Police for his “derogatory speech” against Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his mother. Sources in the CCB said that a case under three sections of IPC was booked against Raja based on videos of his speech circulating on social media. The action by the police came as AIADMK workers burnt effigies of Raja in various places for his speech against Palaniswami. The speech, which was derogatory in nature, went viral on social media prompting DMK chief M K Stalin to appeal to his party leaders to ensure that their speeches are made in a dignified manner. Raja, in his response, said he never meant to disrespect Palaniswami or his mother but was only making a comparison on the political growth of the Chief Minister and Stalin. Meanwhile, Palaniswami turned emotional at an election rally near Chennai on Sunday while referring to Raja's speech. “They have made derogatory remarks against my mother. It is not about my mother alone, it is about women in general. If this is how they respect women, what will happen to women if DMK comes to power,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mp-a-raja-booked-for-alleged-vulgar-comments-against-tamil-nadu-cm-967601.html
28-03-2021||South||'Brother' Rahul should lead anti-BJP formation at national level: Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Sunday appealed to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi to lead the political formation against the BJP at the national level to defeat “fascist and communal” forces. Calling Gandhi as his “brother”, Stalin said that the BJP can be defeated if all “secular forces” come together and fight against the party in Tamil Nadu. Addressing a public meeting in Salem, 350 km from here, organised by the DMK alliance for the April 6 assembly polls, Stalin also asked the people of Tamil Nadu to “defeat” the AIADMK and BJP which refused land on the Marina Beach for his father M Karunanidhi's lifeless body to be buried next to the resting place of DMK founder C N Annadurai. With Gandhi by his side, Stalin spoke about how the AIADMK and BJP have “ruined” Tamil Nadu and asked the former Congress President to take the lead in heading a formation against the saffron party. “I used to address Rahul as sir during telephonic conversations but he would always ask me to call him brother. With the right that a brother possesses, I ask and appeal Rahul to take charge and lead the anti-BJP formation at the Centre,” Stalin said. Contending that it was a “strong and secular” alliance in Tamil Nadu that prevented the BJP from winning any seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Stalin said that the saffron party won because the Opposition parties were scattered in the poll battle. “Only 37 per cent of people voted for the BJP. But the remaining voted for various parties and this led to BJP's victory. Like in Tamil Nadu, there should be an alliance of secular forces at the national level,” Stalin added. Stalin was the first ally to endorse Gandhi as the prime ministerial candidate for the 2019 elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/brother-rahul-should-lead-anti-bjp-formation-at-national-level-stalin-967628.html
28-03-2021||South||AIADMK only a mask, BJP and RSS behind it, Rahul Gandhi alleges||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday drew an analogy between the AIADMK and the mask worn to help prevent spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, alleging it was only the RSS and BJP behind the ruling party, "a mere mask." In a grand public meeting here, the first in which top leaders of all parties in the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance in Tamil Nadu came together, Gandhi said these days one could see people wearing masks everywhere, making recognising those behind them difficult. The masks hid 'something' and one could not figure out if a person reciprocated a friendly smile, he said, adding the comparison was important to understand the ruling AIADMK. Seeking people's support for the SPA for the April 6 Assembly polls, he targeted AIADMK, BJP's electoral partner. "This is not the old AIADMK, please do not be confused. This is the AIADMK with a mask on top of it. It looks like the AIADMK. But if you take off the mask, you will find it is not the AIADMK behind the mask, it is the RSS, BJP behind the mask," he alleged. The 'old AIADMK' is dead and gone and it was finished, he claimed, hinting at the end of the era of party supremo J Jayalalithaa, who died in 2016 and who had opposed the BJP in 2014 Lok Sabha polls. "It is now a hollow shell which is controlled by the RSS and BJP and the people of Tamil Nadu have to be careful and understand what is behind this mask and why this mask is on." Though no Tamilian would like to bow in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi or touch the feet of Union Home Minister Amit Shah or RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, he asked why Chief Minister and AIADMK top leader K Palaniswami 'submitted' himself to them when such subservience went against the Tamil culture and tradition. Though Palaniswami does not wish to bow in front of Modi, he has to do so since the Prime Minister 'controlled' the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI. "The Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu has been corrupt and he has no choice," he alleged. However, the 'price' for this 'surrender' is paid only by the people of Tamil Nadu, he said. It was a 'huge price' and Tamil language, culture and history is under attack and Palaniswami is quiet despite such an assault from the Centre, he alleged. Tamil Nadu's biggest strength was small, medium and micro businesses and it was the manufacturing 'capital' of the nation and vehicles, including cars and ambulances driven across the nation, were made in the state, he said. Demonetisation and Goods and Services Tax were both an attack on Tamil innovation and manufacturing, he alleged. Though millions of Tamil people 'lost' their jobs and livelihood, the CM did not question Modi over it. Similarly, Palaniswami also did not utter a word against the farm laws, the new education policy, designed to 'harm' Tamil interests and in connection with the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, he claimed. He gave a 'blank cheque' to Modi and Shah to do whatever they wanted despite their divisive policies, he alleged. Against such a background, Gandhi said he was sure the Tamil people would no more tolerate the 'assault' and made it amply clear that DMK president M K Stalin was going to become the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu. People have already decided to make Stalin the CM and the election was only a process to 'formalise' their decision, he claimed. But the fight would not end with the victory of the secular alliance in Tamil Nadu and by halting the RSS-BJP forces from gaining a foothold in the state, he said. "They have unlimited resources, unlimited money.They will try again and again and the only way to stop them is first to stop them in Tamil Nadu and then remove them (from power at the Centre) from Delhi." The 'damage' from right wing forces was not confined only to Tamil Nadu, but the whole of the country and it includes destruction of democracy and independent institutions, the idea behind it being helping a few friends of the Prime Minister, the Congress MP alleged. In the end, "it is only a matter of money for them", but for Congress and its allies, it was all about 'our great nation' and its culture, languages and tradition, he said. Gandhi said he was convinced that "we are going to win both these fights (TN Assembly polls and one against BJP and dislodging it from power at the Centre)." He praised the Tamil people for reciprocating love and respect several times more. However, the RSS and Modi does not understand this aspect about the Tamils due to 'arrogance,' but would be forced to do so after the poll results, he said. DMK president M K Stalin, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K S Alagiri, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol Thirumavalavan, MDMK chief Vaiko and Left party leaders were among those who participated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-only-a-mask-bjp-and-rss-behind-it-rahul-gandhi-alleges-967638.html
28-03-2021||South||Union Minister Amit Shah slams Kerala govt for probe against Central agencies||The recent decision of the Kerala government to recommend a judicial probe against the Central agencies has been flayed by the BJP leaders at the Centre. While Home Minister Amit Shah termed it 'a bid by Kerala government to save its face', Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said that it amounts to challenging the nation’s federal structure. Kerala government on Friday decided to initiate a judicial probe against the Central agencies for allegedly trying to tarnish its image. The Kerala police also registered a case against Enforcement Directorate officials for allegedly pressuring the gold smuggling accused to give statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and some of his Cabinet colleagues. Speaking at an election meeting in Kerala on Sunday, Amit Shah said that even the chief minister’s principal secretary was arrested in connection with the gold smuggling case and the Kerala government had no option other than to sack him. Hence, the probe was being initiated against Central agencies in a bid to save its face. The defence minister, who was also in Kerala, said, “I came to know that the (smuggling) case is being probed by the ED and then a judicial commission has been appointed against the central agency. It’s very unfortunate. This means the state government is challenging the federal structure of the Constitution. This is 100% against the constitution.” The gold scam relates to the seizure of about 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram International airport in July 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-amit-shah-slams-kerala-govt-for-probe-against-central-agencies-967668.html
28-03-2021||South||'Son of the soil' card trumps everything else in Edappadi||Sitting inside her corner shop, a 59-year-old woman points her finger towards a daily calendar that sports the picture of a smiling Edappadi K Palaniswami. She was asked who she will vote for on April 6 when Tamil Nadu goes to assembly polls. “Who else we will vote for? Obviously, it is for our mudhalvar (Chief Minister) who has made everyone from this constituency proud,” the woman, who owns the corner shop just yards away from Edappadi K Palaniswami's ancestral house in Siluvampalayam village, told DH. Another woman not just echoed her sentiments, but went on to list the “achievements” of the mudhalvar. “We get water 24 hours a day,” the second woman said and opened a tap – water gushed from it – to “prove” her statement. “We get power 24/7 and look at the roads in a village. He has done everything for this village and our vote is for him,” she added. This sums up the mood in Edappadi, the home constituency of Palaniswami in Salem district in the western (Kongu) region. Swanky roads, flyovers, new buildings for schools, and hospitals, and an integrated market – the rural constituency boasts of “city-like” infrastructure. “After becoming Chief Minister, Palaniswami brought in all-round development to Edappadi and Salem. He ensured that people here get everything that they need, including clean drinking water and water for irrigation needs. We are happy,” Manickam, who runs a sarbath stall outside Edappadi bus terminus, said. Palaniswami, a Gounder, is contesting from the Vanniyar-dominated Edappadi constituency, a traditional stronghold of the AIADMK and PMK, for the seventh time – he won four times and lost twice. Besides his popularity and the party's committed vote bank, an alliance with PMK, influential among Vanniyars, is likely to add more weight to Palaniswami. PMK emerged the distant second in pushing the DMK to third slot in 2016 elections. By fielding Sambathkumar, the DMK is trying to reach out to the Vanniyars in the seat, besides banking on “anti-incumbency” against AIADMK Government to romp home from here. However, Vanniyars seem to support Palaniswami not just because he is Chief Minister, but he passed a legislation to provide 10.5 percent reservation to the community within the 20 percent MBC quota. Though the general mood is in favour of Palaniswami in the constituency that attained a star status after its MLA was thrust into Chief Minister's chair, youngsters say they are “disappointed” with the incumbent for not doing enough to generate employment for graduates. DMK claims it received 9,000 petitions from youth in the constituency complaining that they are “unemployed.”  “We have roads, electricity, and water. But as youngsters we need jobs also. What do we do without jobs? As Chief Minister, Palaniswami could have easily brought industries to the constituency to give jobs to unemployed youths. But he did not do it. My point is he could have done more,” Arul, a B.E. graduate, said. Opposition DMK has made “winning” the seat a prestige issue. Party chief M K Stalin conducted a “grama sabha” meeting in the constituency in January, and his half-sister Kanimozhi has campaigned in Edappadi more than once. The DMK is also working “hard” on the ground to win the seat, but the CM's 'son of the soil' plank seems to trump everything else, at least for now. “He is our man. He has given whatever he can to us. Above all, he is very simple. If he comes to our village, he always makes it a point to meet the villagers. We will meet him on April 6 as he will be here to cast his vote,” Sambu, a farmer, said, pointing to the school building where Palaniswami will exercise his franchise.   Edappadi Assembly Constituency 2016 winner: K Palaniswami (AIADMK) Runner-up: N Annadurai (PMK) Margin: 42,022 votes   2021 candidates K Palaniswami (AIADMK) T Sambathkumar (DMK) N Pookadai Sekar (AMMK) D Thasapparaj (MNM) Shri Rathna (NTK)   Electorate (2021) 2,84,378 votes||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/son-of-the-soil-card-trumps-everything-else-in-edappadi-967686.html
28-03-2021||State||Covid-19: Asymptomatic tests higher than symptomatic tests in Karnataka||Though the government has instructed the districts to follow a syndromic approach for coronavirus testing, that is testing symptomatic people over asymptomatic ones, figures show a higher test percentage of asymptomatic people, as officials are testing interstate travellers from Maharashtra and Kerala irrespective of their symptoms. Over the past week, there have been 19,149 Covid-19 symptomatic tests, and 4,26,385 asymptomatic tests. Despite testing a huge number of asymptomatic people, the positivity rate was 0.8% whereas, among the symptomatic, it was 2.7%. Symptomatic patients are more likely to transmit the virus compared to asymptomatic people, experts say. Bangalore Urban (including BBMP) has over the past week tested 2,17,795 asymptomatic people out of which 2,295 tested Covid-19 positive, which is a 1.1% positivity. Dr Srinivas GA, District Health Officer, Bangalore Urban, said, "The asymptomatic tests are high because we're testing -- apart from interstate travellers from two states -- hotel workers, school students, college students, factory workers, and restaurant workers, as per protocol, despite them being asymptomatic." Dharwad has tested the second-highest number of asymptomatic people over the past week with 13,769 tests out of which 69 tested Covid-19 positive, which is a 0.5% positivity rate. Dharwad District Health Officer Dr Rajendra M Doddamani, told DH, "We are receiving many travellers from other States. Swabs are taken at our old and new bus stations, railway stations, schools, colleges and students who've come from other States despite them being asymptomatic. They can infect the elderly at their homes." Mysuru is another district with a high number of asymptomatic test numbers with 13,281 tests out of which 103 tested Covid-19 positive which is a 0.8% positivity rate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-19-asymptomatic-tests-higher-than-symptomatic-tests-in-karnataka-967499.html
28-03-2021||State||Only 137 Covid-19 samples from Karnataka received for sequencing: Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in Lok Sabha||Centre has received only 137 Covid-19 samples from Karnataka for genome sequencing till March 10, although the combined capacity of the two labs in Bengaluru, NIMHANS and NCBS-InStem, which are part of INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) are testing 2,400 samples per month. This is as per the data tabled by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan in the Lok Sabha, in reply to a question, on March 19. As per the guidance document of the Union health ministry for INSACOG, NIMHANS' capacity to sequence total Covid-19 samples is 1,200, but the total number of samples sequenced from January to March 18, 2021, is 122 as per the National Centre for Disease Control.  Similarly, though NCBS-InStem's capacity to sequence samples per month is 1,200, only 183 have been sequenced so far as per the institute. This despite the two labs tasked with sequencing not just Karnataka's samples, but those from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry too. From Puducherry, five samples were received for sequencing and from Tamil Nadu 102, till March 10, as per Harsh Vardhan's reply. The reply makes it clear that the labs are still running on their own funds. No money has been received from the Ministry of Science and Technology yet.  As per the guidance document, the plan was to start sentinel surveillance, where 5% of samples testing positive every day was supposed to be sequenced. But the state is far from it. For example, on Wednesday, 2,298 coronavirus cases were reported in the state (5% of this is 115 samples). Bengaluru's 11,520 active Covid-19 cases have put it on the list of 10 districts in India with the most number of active cases. Nine of the districts are from Maharashtra.  Eminent virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, chair of INSACOG, told DH, "One of the bottlenecks is that all the reagents required for sequencing have to be imported. The stock is not as much as we expect. Everything requires money and logistics."  On the under-utilisation of the labs' capacity, he said, "Not enough samples are being sent to the labs. There is no backlog at the labs. Many times, officers on the ground don't send samples or don't send samples with the suitable Ct values," he said. "The required funds have already been sanctioned by the Department of Biotechnology. The final approval is expected from the Science Ministry any time now," he said. Prof Satyajit Mayor, Director of National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, echoed the statement and said importing reagents was a problem. Rs 10,000 per sample "It costs Rs.10,000 to sequence a sample," he said, adding that the institutional funds are currently being used for sequencing.  Dr Uma Ramakrishnan, a professor at NCBS, said, "If we get more samples, we can sequence more. We are sequencing samples of international travellers and not prioritising clusters. We have sequenced the high-priority samples that we have received so far. We are working with other labs that have a high load so that they can redirect the samples to us when necessary."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/only-137-covid-19-samples-from-karnataka-received-for-sequencing-union-health-minister-harsh-vardhan-in-lok-sabha-967503.html
28-03-2021||State||Showers bring respite in coastal, central Karnataka||Moderate to heavy showers, accompanied by thunder and lightning, lashed parts of coastal districts, north and central Karnataka on Sunday. The Malnad and plain regions in Uttara Kannada experienced hailstorms on Sunday evening. Family members of Arjun Shindhe at Mainalli village in Mundgod taluk had a close shave as the family was out when a bolt of lightning struck the house. Fairly large hailstones, accompanied by evening showers, lashed Mundgod town and parts of the taluk. Yellapur, Sirsi and Halyal taluks also received thunderstorms in the day. Kudgi in Vijayapura district too experienced a thunderstorm. Parts of Dakshina Kannada, including Mangaluru, Moodbidiri, Belthangady and Bantwal, received scattered rainfall. The first pre-monsoon showers brought some respite from soaring temperatures for the parched Hosadurga, Bharamsagar and Chikkajajur taluks in Chitradurga district. The hailstorm, however, has left the farmers in the region worried ahead of the harvest. More such storms would harm arecanut, banana, mango and vegetables, they fear. A portion of a house near Vinayak theatre at Bharamsagar was damaged following the lightning strike on Sunday late evening. Davangere city and several taluks saw a spell of rain with thunder activity in the evening. Overcast conditions prevailed all through the day in Shivamogga and Shikaripura taluks and by evening skies opened up. Narasimharajpura and Koppa taluks in Chikkamagaluru also witnessed thunderstorms. Kollegal town and rural pockets in Chamarajanagar district received showers, accompanied with strong winds, in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/showers-bring-respite-in-coastal-central-karnataka-967658.html
28-03-2021||State||Madhuswamy's jibe on Centre triggers debate||Remarks by Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy on the Central government “infringing” on the powers of the state governments triggered a debate on social media on Sunday. While a few demanded that he be sacked from the government, others hailed the minister for raising valid points on the federal structure of governance. Poll-bound Tamil Nadu’s DMK party leader Kanimozhi shared an article on his remarks to highlight even BJP-ruled states were criticising the Centre. “The Union Government is encroaching upon subjects in state and concurrent lists of the Constitution, leaving states at a disadvantage’. This was said by Madhuswamy, a minister in Karnataka’s BJP Government,” she tweeted.  Former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil commended the minister for speaking his mind. “Madhuswamy ji you spoke your mind. I hope the rest who are mute speak too,” he said in a tweet. Twitter user Jayateerth Nadagouda observed that criticising the Centre could prove detrimental to Madhuswamy. “Last time Yatnal questioned Union government on the non release of funds for floods, he was served with (a) show cause notice. Sooner or later Mr Madhuswamy will get the same,” he said. Others, like Rakesh Shetty, were not amused. Tagging handles of senior BJP functionaries, he tweeted: “Karnataka’s Minister Madhuswamy calls Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government dictatorial. Says Central government is intervening in state matters. Is it a free Pass for anyone to criticize Modi-ji?”, he asked. Another user Upasana Singh demanded that Madhuswamy be sacked. “Karnataka BJP Minister JC Madhuswamy accused Central Government of interfering in state’s internal affairs. BJP must sack him and let him join Congress. No need for people like him who wants to enjoy ministry and at the same time want to abuse BJP,” she tweeted. Madhuswamy, on Saturday, had highlighted how policies of the Central government were threatening the federal structure of the government and had urged Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya to raise the issue in Parliament.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/madhuswamys-jibe-on-centre-triggers-debate-967664.html
28-03-2021||State||State-level volleyball player dies on the court||A state-level volleyball player died after collapsing on the court during a local volleyball tournament at Innanje here on Saturday night. The deceased Devaraj Anchan (33), is a resident of Kurkalu Subhash Nagar. At around 1 am when the tournament was underway, Devaraj complained of chest pain and collapsed on the court. The tournament organisers immediately made arrangements to shift him to a hospital in Udupi. However, Devaraj breathed his last en route to the hospital. Devaraj, who had lost his father just four months ago, was unmarried. He is survived by his mother and five sisters. Fondly addressed as Pakki Devu, Devaraj had represented Uttara Kannada district team and several other teams in the state-level tournaments. Following the player’s death, the organisers called off the tournament mid-way.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/state-level-volleyball-player-dies-on-the-court-967666.html
28-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jog Falls set for Rs 165-crore makeover, to feature ropeway and boating facility||The majestic Jog Falls is set to get a much-needed makeover as officials are planning a host of projects, including a 400-metre ropeway and boating facility to Hebbail's Padmavathi temple. More than four years after the redevelopment talks began, the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (KPCL) has begun the process to commission various works to make the place a world-class tourist site. As part of the makeover, the current viewing deck will be upgraded and another one will be added. An amphitheatre for cultural events, a science park to keep the children engaged and amenities like cafeteria and toilets will be provided at the site. Sources in KPCL said the project is the brainchild of Shivamogga MP B Y Raghavendra and includes a religious aspect. Raghavendra didn't respond to calls and messages but the source said the MP's role was instrumental in the Rs 165-crore project getting the necessary approvals. "The project involves starting a boating facility from Jungle Lodges to Vadanbailu Padmavathi Temple in Hebbail village. At present, a tourist has to take permission from KPCL to travel to the temple via Kargal, a distance of 15 km. The boat journey will have prior approval and will cut the distance and time while providing an unique experience," the source said. KPCL has set the second quarter of 2023 as the deadline for the project, which will also involve setting up a bronze statue of Sharavathi at the site. Officials are also looking to rebuild the swimming pool which was dismantled about six years ago. "The ropeway from PWD guest house connecting the opposite hill will be the major attraction as it puts the tourist in a central point above the valley, giving an uninhibited view of the falls," an official told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jog-falls-set-for-rs-165-crore-makeover-to-feature-ropeway-and-boating-facility-967417.html
28-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: Efforts on to shut case, law will take own course, says D K Shivakumar||A day after the family of the woman in the purported sex video allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi blamed him for the scandal, Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Sunday said all efforts are on to close the case and the law will take its own course. "....the law will take its own course. All kinds of efforts are being made..they are bringing people and making them give statements. Let the government do whatever they want, but I just want to tell the police that they should safeguard their respect" (do the probe impartially), Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he alleged that efforts were on to close the case. "Let them do it." On the statement of the woman's parents against him before the Special Investigation Team probing the case, Shivakumar said they had complained against him, after which she also issued a statement to the media. "Let the investigation happen," he said. To a question on whether he wants the woman to come out and give her statement to the SIT after the developments on Saturday, he merely said he did not wish to speak on it now and wants to focus on coming bypolls in the state, as he also ruled out filing any defamation case. The scandal had taken a new twist on Saturday with the woman's family blaming Shivakumar and accusing him of playing "dirty politics" by using their daughter. After appearing before the SIT, her father and brother had said that Shivakumar would be responsible if anything happens to their family and urged him to send their daughter, who is at an undisclosed location, back to them. Minutes after the family's statement, Jarkiholi too had slammed the state Congress chief, stating that "There isn't any politician who is worse than Shivakumar" and had announced a political and legal battle against him. Jarkiholi had even used a Kannada expletive against Shivakumar multiple times, which triggered a protest by Congress workers, following which he had expressed regret. On Sunday, as Shivakumar landed in Belagavi — Jarkiholi's home district — to take part in Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll related activities, he received a rousing welcome from Congress workers, while supporters of the former Minister and Gokak BJP MLA waved black flags and shouted "DKS go back."  Some even tried block his convoy but were stopped by police. Downplaying the protests, Shivakumar told reporters in Belagavi "They (protesters) too in a way are welcoming me. I thank them. Their welcome will give us strength." Ramesh Jarkiholi's brother Satish Jarkiholi is the Congress candidate for the April 17 bypolls to Belgaum Lok Sabha seat. Meanwhile, the woman's lawyer Jagadish said she may appear before a court on Monday to get her statement recorded. In a video statement released on Saturday evening, the woman had alleged her parents were speaking under the influence of someone, while expressing fear about coming forward to give her statement before the SIT. She had requested help to record her statement about the 'injustice' done to her by Jarkiholi, before a Judge. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, reacting to the developments, said the SIT would examine videos, audios and the CD in a scientific manner by following due procedures and bring out the truth. On the woman's statement seeking help to record a statement before a judge, he said she was given five notices assuring security and it has been provided to her parents, as requested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-efforts-on-to-shut-case-law-will-take-own-course-says-d-k-shivakumar-967593.html
28-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka logs over 3,000 Covid-19 cases for first time in four months||Evidence that Karnataka is in the midst of a surge was highlighted on Sunday, after data showed that there has been a 69.2% jump in cases over the last seven days, compared to the previous week. The increase came as Bengaluru Urban registered its highest single-day caseload in four-and-a-half months. In the course of the last one week, the state registered 16,810 new Covid-19 cases, which is nearly double the number of cases recorded in the week of March 14 to 21 during which 9,930 cases were found. On Sunday, the state reported 3,082 new cases, out of which 65% (2,004 cases) were from Bengaluru Urban. This is the highest single-day Covid increase in the city since November 1 when 2,167 cases were found. State-wide, it is the highest increase since November 5, when 3,165 cases were recorded. The next highest numbers were reported in Kalaburagi district with 159 cases followed by Udupi 115 and Mysuru 114. The state’s active caseload has now increased to 23,037. In contrast, just two weeks ago, it stood at 8,364. These additional cases were found through a 22.8% increase in testing rates statewide --  from 5.9 lakh tests over seven days between March 15 and 21  to 7.25 lakh conducted last week. The state also discharged 1,285 people on Sunday, out of which 786 were in Bengaluru Urban. Alarmingly, the number of Covid-19 deaths have risen since March 18. On Sunday, 12 new deaths were reported, out of which only one had occurred on Sunday.  Seven of the fatalities had taken place on Saturday. The youngest was a 45-year-old man who died at a private hospital in Kalaburagi, three days after diagnosis. He had symptoms of Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI).  ICU cases soar The number of ICU cases have climbed sharply since March 16. Across the state, it has jumped from 129 on that day to 204 on Sunday. In Bengaluru Urban, the cases have jumped by 54.9% (from 51 on March 16 to 79 as of Sunday). Meantime, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), said it had conducted 56,268 tests over the last 24 hour period. Bellandur, HSR Layout, RR Nagar, Koramangala, Arekere and Shantala Nagar Wards reported the highest number of cases over the last 10 days.  The city’s test positive rate currently stands at 1.94%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-logs-over-3000-covid-19-cases-for-first-time-in-four-months-967611.html
28-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Covid-19: Private hospitals raise concern over sharp increase in bed occupancy||For private hospitals, history is repeating itself. Over the last week, the sector has reported an increase in the number of people with Covid-19 showing up and demanding beds, even as the government once again mulls a bed quota system from healthcare operators. According to Dr Prasanna H M, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA), “For three months, small and medium-sized hospitals had no Covid-19 patients at all. Now suddenly, their beds are filling up.” The surge has placed the industry on the back foot. Unlike last year, when over 11,000 beds were available across the private healthcare sector for Covid-19, only a fraction is currently available as the sector has moved on to non-Covid duties. “The limited numbers of beds set aside for Covid-19 are getting filled up,” Dr Prasanna explained. In this setting, there is concern that the government will once again call on private hospitals to allocate a percentage of their beds for government-referred Covid-19 patients as they had done from June to December last year. The sector worries that a larger influx of patients will further deepen the existing backlog of non-Covid healthcare procedures which the pandemic had created. Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Jawaid Akhtar said discussions were already on with the private sector. “The requirement is still being gauged,” Akhtar said. One thing is clear: the government scaled up the number of Covid-19 beds last week to over a thousand in Bengaluru alone, and already many of the new beds have been filled. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), 15 government hospitals across the city had 1,066 beds as of Sunday, out of which 371 beds were free. Dr Yatheesh Govindaiah, Unit Head and Assistant Director, Medical Services, Apollo Hospital, expressed optimism that the bed allocation would not reach the 50% that private hospitals were required to set aside last year. “Most Covid-19 patients turning up for beds are aged between 40 and 60, but there has been an improvement in the medical line of management. Unlike last year, people do not necessarily have to be admitted for a period of 10 days. Now, if inflammatory markers are improving, we can discharge earlier than 10 days,” he said. One doctor blamed the influx on the dramatic decline in Covid-appropriate behaviour: “At Apollo, last month, the RT-PCR positivity rate was 2%. Today’s statistic is 18%. This is a reflection as a whole on the community. People aren’t bothered (about Covid-appropriate behaviour).”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-private-hospitals-raise-concern-over-sharp-increase-in-bed-occupancy-967655.html
28-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex scandal: Shameful that police can't trace victim, says Siddaramaiah||The CD case is proof of the complete breakdown in administrative and police machinery in Karnataka, leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said, criticising the police for failing to trace the girl in the video. “Is she like Vijay Mallya or Nirav Modi hiding abroad?” he said. He urged Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai to allay the fears she had about the investigating authorities.  The police department and the BJP government are “pledging the pride of Karnataka in front of the whole country in the CD case. It is shameful that police could not trace the CD victim even after 26 days,” he said. The sleaze CD episode started in the first week of March, leading to the resignation of Ramesh Jarkiholi as water resources minister. Siddaramaiah questioned whether the police was playing to the tunes of the government, as they have been unable to track the girl. “The victim in the CD is constantly releasing her statements to the media through videos, reaching out to her parents and interacting with her lawyers. But the police is unable to track her. What does this mean?” he asked.  The videos of the ‘sex-for-job’ scandal victim “clearly show that the girl does not have confidence in the government and the police department. It looks as if she is of the opinion that police are involved in the conspiracy against her. Bommai should address this concern,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-shameful-that-police-cant-trace-victim-says-siddaramaiah-967667.html
28-03-2021||West||Maharashtra records highest Covid-19 positivity rate||Eight states and UTs have a weekly positivity rate of coronavirus infection higher than the national average of 5.04 per cent, with Maharashtra recording the highest rate at 22.78 per cent, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. Apart from Maharashtra, the other seven states and UTs with higher positivity rate than the national average are Chandigarh (11.85 per cent positivity rate), Punjab (8.45 per cent), Goa (7.03 per cent), Puducherry (6.85 per cent), Chhattisgarh (6.79 per cent), Madhya Pradesh (6.65 per cent) and Haryana (5.41 per cent). On the testing front, 15 states/UTs have lower tests per million than the national average (1,74,602). These states include Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra, the Health Ministry said. The total tests for Covid-19 conducted across India have exceeded 24 crore while the cumulative Positivity Rate continues to remain below 5 per cent, the ministry said in a statement. The country's total vaccination coverage has surpassed 6 crore on Sunday. The 6,02,69,782 vaccine doses have been administered through 9,85,018 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. "These include 81,52,808 healthcare workers (1st dose), 51,75,597HCWs (2nd dose), 88,90,046 frontline workers (1st dose) and 36,52,749 FLWs (2nd Dose), 66,73,662beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (1st Dose) and 2,77,24,920beneficiaries aged more than 60 years," the ministry said. Seven states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu have reported high number of Covid daily new cases. These states account for 81.46 per cent of the daily new cases registered in the last 24 hours. About 62,714 daily new cases were reported in a single day. Eight states cumulatively account for 84.74 per cent of the new cases reported in the past 24 hours. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 35,726. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 3,162 while Karnataka reported 2,886 new cases. Fourteen states/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Lakshadweep, Ladakh (UT), Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Sikkim, Tripura, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-records-highest-covid-19-positivity-rate-967520.html
28-03-2021||West||Gujarat: Five booked for destroying habitat of Slender-billed gulls||The forest department has registered an FIR against five persons for allegedly destroying the habitat of Slender-billed gulls during the construction of a road in Great Rann of Kutch. It has been alleged that the accused persons removed several hundred eggs of the birds from the nests in the original colony and shifted them to a new place around 800 metres off the road. During the act, at least a dozen chicks died. Forest officers said that the incident happened near Khavda village of Kutch district in the Greater Rann of Kutch. The colony of the bird came in the way of under construction 255-km Guduli-Santalpur road. This was the first time that the birds chose this particular location of hatching. A year ago, officials said, the first layer of soiling for the road was finished and since then the construction was awaited. The work resumed only on 16 of this month. "The labourers found the colony of the gulls and tried to shift them. Their intention was bonafide but still, it was illegal. Therefore, we have filed an FIR against them," Thakkar said.  This road, off the India-Pakistan border, will connect Santalpur in Patan district, north Gujarat, to Gaduli in western Kutch. It is being constructed by the National Highway Authority of India. In 2015, officials said, the National Board of Wildlife granted permission for construction of the road despite concerns of environmental damages. It is reported that the road became "necessary for security purposes for movement of Border Security Force. Video footage of the spot reveals several hundred eggs of the Slender-billed gulls kept on freshly dug up soil while hatchlings emerging from them. In the background, several trucks are lined up for the construction work. "We have stopped the construction after finding the incident. We have noted deaths of the hatchlings but it could be a natural phenomenon as well," the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-five-booked-for-destroying-habitat-of-slender-billed-gulls-967534.html
28-03-2021||West||Sanjay Raut calls Anil Deshmukh 'accidental home minister'||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut Sunday called Anil Deshmukh an accidental home minister, claiming he got the post after senior NCP leaders like Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil refused the responsibility. In his weekly column Rokhthok in the party mouthpiece Saamana, Raut also said the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra did not have damage control machinery as was seen after former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh claimed that Deshmukh asked cops to collect Rs 100 crore a month. "Deshmukh got the home minister's post by accident. Jayant Patil and Dilip Walse-Patil refused to take responsibility. That is why Sharad Pawar selected Anil Deshmukh for the post," Raut wrote in his weekly column. Perhaps mindful of the fact that his remarks about a senior minister of the ruling alliance partner may be viewed in poor light, Raut later tweeted, "Bura na mano Holi hai.." In his column, Raut said, "If a junior officer like Sachin Waze was running a (money) collection racket from the Mumbai police commissioner's office, why was the home minister not aware of it?" "Waze was a mere API in Mumbai police. Who gave him so much powers? Whose favourite was he? All this should come out," Raut wrote. "Deshmukh unnecessarily rubbed some police officials the wrong way. A home minister cannot function properly if he gets surrounded by suspicious officers," he said. Raut said a home minister should always speak less. Facing the cameras frequently and ordering inquiries is not his job, the Sena MP added. "The (home minister's) job is not only accepting salutes but giving a strong leadership. How can one forget that strong leadership requires honesty," Raut wrote. The MVA government had no damage control machinery when Singh dropped his letter bomb, Raut said. "No major leader came forward to defend the image of the government, which led people to believe in Singh's allegations," he added. IPS officials Sanjeev Bhat in Gujarat and Vaibhav Krishna in Uttar Pradesh had raised concerns on various issues through letters written to their chief ministers but these letters were thrown in the dust bin and instead action was taken against those officials, Raut said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sanjay-raut-calls-anil-deshmukh-accidental-home-minister-967567.html
28-03-2021||West||Sharad Pawar, Amit Shah meeting triggers speculations||Amid reports of a Sharad Pawar-Amit Shah secret meeting in Ahmedabad, the Maharashtra NCP on Sunday described the news as baseless but added that the NCP supremo’s relationship cuts across party lines. “Nothing of this sort (has happened)…it is baseless,” NCP chief spokesperson and Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik said. Meanwhile, close Pawar aide and state Housing Minister Dr Jitendra Awhad said that for the last 15 months some people are day-dreaming. “Pawar saheb is a senior leader…he enjoyed a good relationship with several people and had visited their homes,” he said and gave the examples of former Prime Ministers Chandrashekhar (Janata Dal) and Atal Bihari Vajpayee (BJP), CPI (M) leader and former West Bengal Chief Minister Jyoti Basu, Jammu & Kashmir National Conference Chairman and former Chief Minister Dr Farooq Abdullah, former Orissa Chief Minister Biju Patnaik and BJP leader Pramod Mahajan. “His friendship cuts across party lines and he is a Rajya Sabha member,” he said. The NCP reaction comes after the reports of the meeting of Pawar and Union Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah, the latter said, “everything can’t be made public.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-amit-shah-meeting-triggers-speculations-967579.html
28-03-2021||West||Maharashtra CM mulls another lockdown as Covid-19 cases rise||As Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra continued to rise, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday directed the administration to plan strategies for a smooth implementation of a lockdown in the days to come as citizens are not adhering to the Covid-19 protocols. At a meeting of the Covid-19 Task Force, Thackeray also directed authorities to augment the health infrastructure by enhancing the bed strength and increasing the oxygen and ventilator beds significantly. “Plan for lockdown if there is no adherence to restrictions,” Thackeray said, pointing out that while the government is putting up a fight against the Covid-19 pandemic, several stakeholders do not seem to take the situation seriously. “Still we come across that the 50 per cent attendance norms in private offices is not being followed, 50 people cap in marriage ceremonies are not being adhered to, there is no social distancing in shopping areas,” Thackeray said. “We have been telling people to wear masks, ensure that you wash and sanitise hands and maintain social distancing but that is not happening…we may have to go in for another lockdown if people do not follow the new normal and Covid-appropriate behaviour,” he said. “Make an assessment of the situation and procure foodgrains, medicines and also plan for essential services, medical services,” the Chief Minister said at the meeting in which Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope, Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte were present. The meeting follows Friday’s meeting of Thackeray with Divisional Commissioners, District Collectors, Municipal Commissioners, range Inspector Generals of Police, Police Commissioners and Superintendents of Police. From Saturday evening, prohibitory orders from 8 pm to 7 am were imposed by the government. All  political, religious, cultural and social gatherings have been banned in the state till April 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-mulls-another-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-rise-967588.html
28-03-2021||West||NIA takes suspended API Sachin Vaze to Mumbai's Mithi River; recovers electronic devices||In a breakthrough, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday fished out electronic devices from the Mithi River off the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), which may possibly have been dumped by suspended Assistant Police Inspector Sachin Vaze. The NIA team took Vaze to the spot around 3 pm, the official said. Thereafter a team of swimmers and divers recovered two CPUs of computers, number plates of a vehicle, two digital video recorder (DVR), and a laptop among other things. The recovered articles would be sent to the Central Forensic Science Laboratory for examination. Vaze has been booked in twin cases of planting of a Mahindra Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence and the murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran.  The recovery is yet to be linked to Vaze. It is suspected that Assistant Police Inspector Riyazuddin Kaazi had told the NIA during his interrogation that this evidence was thrown into the Mithi river.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nia-takes-suspended-api-sachin-vaze-to-mumbais-mithi-river-recovers-electronic-devices-967618.html
28-03-2021||West||Ajit Pawar calls Sanjay Raut 'spoilsport' after his 'accidental home minister' remark||In what may signal issues within the Maha Vikas Aghadi dispensation, Deputy Chief Minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said “no one should play spoilsport” in a coalition government. Pawar’s statement comes after Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut in his weekly column RokhThok that appears in Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamana every Sunday, in which he had described NCP leader Anil Deshmukh as “accidental home minister”. The development comes in the backdrop of the secret meeting between NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and his closest aide Praful Patel with Union Home Minister Amit Shah. In the evening, Raut, the chief spokesperson of Shiv Sena and the party’s trouble-shooter called on Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. Raut, in his column, said, “Anil Deshmukh got the Home Minister’s post after other senior NCP leaders such as Dilip Walse Patil and Jayant Patil refused to take up the role…That is why Sharad Pawar selected Anil Deshmukh for the post.” The junior Pawar, however, was blunt and said, “The allotment of cabinet berths is the prerogative of the chiefs of every political party (in the MVA). No one should play spoilsport when the three-party government is functioning properly.” It may be mentioned that state Congress President Nana Patole too has targeted Raut’s repeated suggestion that Pawar should take up the role of UPA Chairperson.  "Sanjay Raut has become the spokesperson of Sharad Pawar. Shiv Sena is not part of the UPA, and hence they have no right to make such statements…he should not speak on issues that do not concern him,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ajit-pawar-calls-sanjay-raut-spoilsport-after-his-accidental-home-minister-remark-967641.html
28-03-2021||West||NCP's Nawab Malik debunks Pawar-Shah meet speculation, slams BJP for creating confusion||Maharashtra minister and NCP national spokesperson Nawab Malik on Sunday rubbished talk of a meeting between his party chief Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. He further alleged that such talk was the BJP's way of creating "confusion". "It is a completely false information deliberately pushed by some people to create confusion. It is something that BJP wants to create some confusion. Such a meeting has not taken place. There is no reason that Pawar should meet Shah," Malik said. There has been speculation in political circles that Shah met Pawar and Praful Patel at a top industrialist's residence in Ahmedabad on Saturday.  At a press conference in New Delhi on Sunday, Shah parried a query on the purported meeting, saying everything cannot be made public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncps-nawab-malik-debunks-pawar-shah-meet-speculation-slams-bjp-for-creating-confusion-967643.html
28-03-2021||West||Mumbai sees 6,923 Covid-19 cases; highest-ever single-day jump||Mumbai on Sunday reported the highest rise in Covid-19 cases so far by adding 6,923 new infections, taking the tally to 3,98,674, the city civic body said. With eight more persons succumbing to the viral infection, the count of fatalities in Mumbai rose to 11,649. A total of 3,380 people were discharged during the day, taking the overall number of recoveries in the megapolis to 3,40,935, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. With 46,450 new tests, the number of samples tested so far in Mumbai went up to 39,83,380, it said. At 73, Dharavi slum cluster reported the highest number of new cases in a day, taking the count of cases to 4,770. The number of active cases is 439. There are 57 active containment zones in Mumbai, the BMC said, adding that 569 buildings have been sealed after new cases were reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-sees-6923-covid-19-cases-highest-ever-single-day-jump-967647.html
28-03-2021||West||Maharashtra sees new daily high of 40,414 Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra crossed the 40,000-mark on Sunday even as the government decided to come out with stringent norms to combat the pandemic. In the last 24 hours, the state recorded 40,414 cases and 108 deaths taking the progressive total to 27,13,875 and 54,181, respectively. While Mumbai recorded 6,933 cases, the larger Mumbai metropolitan region posted 12,319 cases. During the day, 17,874 patients were discharged. A total of 23,32,453 patients have been recovered from the deadly virus so far. The active case tally in the state stands at 3,25,901.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-new-daily-high-of-40414-covid-19-cases-967669.html
