29-03-2021||First Edit||Sex CD scandal: Court-monitored probe a must||The sex CD scandal that has rocked Karnataka is not as simple as it appears and given the wide ramifications, it is imperative that the inquiry by the Special Investigation Team (SIT), ordered by the government, is monitored by the High Court, if the truth has to come out. The Madras High Court, for instance, had taken suo motu notice of a sexual harassment case involving a top Tamil Nadu police officer, and is monitoring the probe being conducted by the Crime Branch Criminal Investigation Department (CB-CID). In the first place, the terms of reference to the SIT in the Ramesh Jarkiholi episode do not inspire any confidence as the mandate is to investigate the conspiracy angle, and not whether the girl in question was a victim of oppression. On the contrary, an attempt is being made to paint the victim as the villain. With the alleged survivor having surfaced through a video a few days ago and claiming that she was ‘used’ by Jarkiholi under the guise of providing her with a job, the police should have taken her statement into cognizance and registered a zero FIR, pending a formal complaint. The present inquiry appears to be a clear attempt to deal with immediate political exigencies and ultimately whitewash the whole controversy. The issue assumes all the more seriousness as it goes well beyond the Jarkiholi tapes. While six ministers have obtained an injunction against the media from publishing/telecasting contents of any ‘fake’ video involving them, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai has informed the Legislative Assembly that there are 19 such CDs in all. Sometime ago, BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had openly alleged that Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was forced to induct some legislators as ministers as he was blackmailed with a CD. There is every possibility that other ministers who allegedly feature in shady videos could have been blackmailed too, either for money or for government projects. It is also strange why Jarkiholi failed to file a police complaint when he has claimed that he was aware of the existence of the CD four months ago. A special audit into the projects cleared by all these ministers would thus be in order. Irrespective of the authenticity of the CDs, it also needs to be investigated if an organised gang is involved in extortion, either by laying honey traps or through doctored videos. Are ministers involved in sexual harassment or consensual sex-for-favour deals? Is there a political conspiracy? Are big corporates involved? Such weighty questions can be answered not by an SIT which is under the direct control of the government, but only by a court-monitored probe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/sex-cd-scandal-court-monitored-probe-a-must-967696.html
29-03-2021||First Edit||Gross misuse of official machinery||There is hardly a precedent in the country for a state government going in for an investigation of the working of Central government agencies. But the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government in Kerala has decided to institute a judicial enquiry against some Central agencies, including the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for "derailing’’ the investigation into cases related to the alleged smuggling of gold and foreign currency with the involvement of the UAE consulate in the state. A police case has already been registered in the state for pressurising the accused in the smuggling case to implicate Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and some ministers in the case. The government has sought approval of the Election Commission for proceeding with its decision as the state is going to the polls on April 6.  Though the move is unusual, the state government was forced to make it to counter the concerted campaign of the Central agencies which have targeted it during the investigation into the cases. Though the outcome and consequences of such an enquiry are not clear, the government probably wanted to make a point by drawing attention to the wrong and biased working of the agencies. The state government had requested the Centre to probe the charge of smuggling, but no substantial progress has been made in the investigation after eight months. Instead, the investigating agencies have been making insinuations and suggestions about the involvement of ministers and others close to the government in the cases and even leaking dubious materials from their reports. Some persons were questioned and even arrests were made. But the person who sent the gold has not been questioned. Nor is it known where it ended up. There is still no evidence in the public domain of the involvement of anyone in the government in the cases. The Income Tax Department has also conducted some raids on agencies of the state government.  The Narendra Modi government has been accused of misusing its investigation agencies to trouble the governments of opposition parties and to hound and harass opposition leaders and critics. The gold smuggling case has been used to target the LDF government in a well-coordinated political plan which includes smear campaigns, harassment and persecutions. An investigation which could well have been concluded in weeks has been deliberately stretched till the elections. The investigation agencies’ conduct, including raids, during the election time, amounts to gross misuse of the official machinery and may even be considered intervention in the electoral process. The Central agencies are, in effect, working against the LDF candidates in the election. It is surprising that the Election Commission has not taken any action or made any comments on this, and its silence only shows its failure to discharge its constitutional responsibility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/gross-misuse-of-official-machinery-968076.html
29-03-2021||In Perspective||Galwan Valley incident a symptom of the 'disease'||What happened in Galwan Valley on the Line of Actual Control on India-China border on June 15, 2020 in military parlance may be an issue of ‘persistent security dilemma’ existing between the two countries. On deeper analyses, however, it is the symptom of the disease and not the disease itself. The disease is the democratic deficit of China, a regimented and totalitarian state as contrasted with India’s vibrancy of democracy. Born contemporaneously, India in August 1947 and China later in October 1949, the two became competitive models of state craft and development in the Asian firmament. China, emerging from the internecine civil war, was again caught up in the fight against the USA in the Korean Peninsula in 1950s and in the domestic strife of Rural People’s Commune and later in the ‘Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution’ from 1966-69 which convulsed China’s polity and economy. India, during this period, embarked on its democratic experimentation and consolidation. It was only after the end of the ‘Cultural Revolution’ that China established diplomatic relation with the USA in 1972 and Deng Xioping’s ‘four modernisations’, economic reforms and liberalisation of 1978 that the Chinese economy took off in its trajectory of growth and development benefiting from Foreign Direct Investment particularly from the USA and integrating with the world market. India’s boisterous democracy and compulsions of electoral politics, on the contrary, hinder its economic prowess and potential. India’s democracy, none the less, has a self-healing capacity to absorb and withstand a myriad of challenges. In per capita income, it is worthwhile to note that India was ahead of China in 1870s and in 1970s. Until recently, the two were in neck-to-neck competition for the tag of world’s fastest growing economy. In 2018, India was the fastest growing economy of the world. People’s yarning India’s recent success of vaccine diplomacy and the projection of Moody’s Analytics that Indian economy is likely to grow at 12% in 2021 is disconcerting to China. If India can achieve the same rate of growth as compared with China by following a democratic path with all its potholes, China has a problem when there is democratic yarning among the people in China. This is precisely the reason why Beijing has enforced the draconian national security law in Hong King which jettisons the ‘one country, two systems’ as envisaged in the Sino-British Joint Declaration and the Basic Law. This is also the reason as to why China is critical of Taiwanese President Tsai Ing- wen and the leader of Democratic Progressive Party of Taiwan. The contestation between two competitive models of India and China is getting more exacerbated with India’s economic rise, which of course suffered due to the Covid-19 pandemic but has all the potentials to bounce back sooner than later with government’s dynamic initiatives and resolve to recalibrate the economic parameters. China has prided in its economic achievement being the second largest economy of the world following a totalitarian and repressive regime. Having suffered indignity at the hands of the west particularly during the ‘opium war’, China is showing belligerence with veneer of arrogance. At times, it has also ridiculed and trivialised India’s democracy. The Global Times, the mouthpiece of Communist China, has derided and mocked at India’s democracy from time to time. True, China is a multi-trillion economy, five times higher of India’s economy. But China suffers from a congenital complexity of democratic deficit in relations to India and this is more so when there is a suppressed desire among a substantial chunk of Chinese population for democracy and freedom. The Tiananmen Square incident of 1989 was only the tip of the iceberg. There is a pent-up aspiration for freedom. True, China has uplifted a substantial chunk of its population out of poverty and has afforded them a better quality of life; but then man doesn’t live by bread alone. Fulfilment basic necessities of life are fine, but once it is met and even if it is not met, every individual is a freedom loving person. India-China relationship has always been complex and a contrived one. The kind of bizarre incident of June 15 was only waiting to have happened. It was the outburst and outpouring of China’s animus against India. India’s rise as a democratic country is something that China cannot digest. The chances of India picking up the momentum of earlier growth rate may not be possible in the immediate future, but is a possibility the medium-term future. Howsoever Beijing may try to paper over the injury and the wound inflicted on India in which China also suffered casualties, the fact remains India-China relations cannot be the same again. As neighbours, the two countries need to realistically reassess and recalibrate the relationship between the two countries shorn off rhetoric and clichés. India has realised that China only respects raw military power and strategic heft. (The writer, a Delhi-based China scholar, is Senior Fellow, Indian Council of Social Science Research, Indian Institute of Public Administration)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/galwan-valley-incident-a-symptom-of-the-disease-967701.html
29-03-2021||In Perspective||‘Garibi hatao’ in Covid time||Though pilloried as mere propaganda and electoral rhetoric, the early 1970s slogan ‘garibi hatao’ had its continuing relevance and came well within the tradition of several anti-poverty programmes with quite a history of nomenclatures. At that time, the proportion of the poor in the country was being credibly estimated at about 70-73% --the BPL people variously reckoned spread unevenly across the Indian states. And over the years, steadily and fitfully manifold achievements were perceptible on the development front: improvements in HDI, health, longevity, education, dropout rates, income parameters due to government spending and planning, and self-propelled efforts of people, women and youth, villagers and urbanites, agriculturists and industrial workers/entrepreneurs. There was steady growth and a particular reduction in absolute poverty though relative poverty and inequality have been galloping persistently. As absolute poverty witnessed a steady decline, the ranks of the middle class, their incomes, including the unearned ones, and savings swelled (the proportion of household savings to GDP steadily witnessed improvements to 30% and more). Their numbers have reached about 75-80 crore. And, increasingly, many gradually became variously inured and insensitive to obnoxious inequality and increasing relative poverty. This provoked a political talking point and pandering to these neo-rich, and was a consolidating vote-bank or electoral enterprise. The phraseology and its political use changed. Anti-poverty devices like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), loans to the poor and general subsidies for agriculture and rural areas were looked at derisively, particularly since 2014.  Systemic causes of poverty, like the absence of a level playing field, were belittled and ignored. This was a corollary to the steady right-ward drift in the economic, social policy, favouring capital instead of labour and poor. 'The government policy and administration should be less ‘povertarian’ and focus on the so-called aspirational middle classes’ became a popular articulation, though not ubiquitously vociferous. The attitude or belief is that poverty will decline if incomes of the skilled, productive, investing entrepreneurial classes are ensured by lower taxes and bank interest rates, and above all by ‘ease of doing business’ policies (manifest damage to the environment and manifold pollution of precincts did not much matter). The economy was sought to be run by ‘trickle-down of employment and incomes’ policy and direct attack on poverty lost preference. The year 2016, the aftermath of demonetisation, was somewhat of a watershed in economic policies and envisagement of people’s woes, rather extant practices, needs and preferences. Before 2012-13, for nearly six years, there was a manifest trend reduction of BPL numbers majorly owing to the unveiling and implementation of the famous anti-poverty MGNREGA, indeed a ‘garibi hatao’ programme. Rural wages, including those of women, witnessed a steady annual increase of 6-8% and drift migration into urban centres was controlled and more girls remained in schools for longer years. But the 2016 demonetisation blow severely disrupted the highly cash-centric informal sector in cities as well as villages, largely disabling 50 crore or more unorganised labour, heuristically said to be contributing nearly 50% of the total GDP. And low growth ensued and poverty did not diminish; rather there were signs of stagnation and increase in unemployment among the unorganised workers. Rising numbers of poor Then came the 2019 Covid-19 pandemic engulfing the country and the world. Lockdown measures further slowed down the economy and crores of labour returned to their native. This increased poverty numbers by about 7.5 crore — the poor are now reported to have swelled to 13.4 crore, according to a Pew Research Centre estimate. This sudden accrual to poverty numbers and unfathomed/unsurveyed features of unemployment and poverty has provoked increased widespread demand for the officially pooh-poohed (hole digging!) MGNREGA programme of income spreading. Also, occurrences of floods and droughts have persisted and these need a systemic approach about conservation of available rainwater in local, small and big water bodies. The identification of these localised MGNREGA works and their undertaking along with the necessary investment in a really participatory democracy spirit will ensure a trajectory of irreversible development at the grassroots in cities and villages. This will intrinsically improve production, income and consumption inexorably and impact general industrial development across all sectors as well as geographical areas. Or, this MGNREGA ‘garibi hatao’ programme will lend realism to all kinds of economic reconstruction, including skill development, raising financial resources and investment. (The writer is a public affairs enthusiast)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/garibi-hatao-in-covid-time-968078.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Woman alleges Sagar town cop raped her, threated to sexually abuse her daughters||A woman from Bhadravathi lodged a complaint against Sagar town Police Inspector Ashok Kumar alleging that he raped her. In the complaint, she alleged that she was raped by Kumar over the last four years. She met him for the first time when he was serving in the Bhadravathi rural police station. He had given her juice that she claims was spiked and raped her. Later, he abused her sexually using the sex video and photos to blackmail. He even threatened to sexually abuse her two daughters, she added. Superintdent of Police K M Shantaraju said that investigation was on and that the probe would reveal the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/woman-alleges-sagar-town-cop-raped-her-threated-to-sexually-abuse-her-daughters-967835.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||No garland of sandals thrown at DK Shivakumar: Bommai||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that no garland made of sandals was thrown at Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee President D K Shivakumar. He said that someone must have thrown it at the vehicle which was behind Shivakumar's vehicle. Police Commissioner of Belagavi has been directed to initiate action if anyone takes the law into their own hands, he added. The minister was speaking to a section of media persons at Mangalore International Airport during his private visit to Mangaluru on Sunday. "The Police Commissioner has been directed to ensure that no untoward incidents take place in Belagavi. Security should be given to those who visit Belagavi." The SIT is investigating the issue of a CD involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. "It is not important what Congress leaders are saying on it. We are investigating it legally. The Congress government in the past hushed up the sex scandal allegedly involving former minister H Y Meti. No case was booked. Hence, we will not give importance to the statements of Congress leaders," said Bommai. "The SIT has honest officers. They will not heed any pressure. Several CDs and audio clips have been released so far. The probe will be carried out scientifically. I do not wish to speak on the issue as the case is under investigation," added Bommai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/no-garland-of-sandals-thrown-at-dk-shivakumar-bommai-967850.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Srinivas Gowda creates new record in Kambala race||Kambala jockey Srinivas Gowda, who had grabbed national attention last year, has scripted another record by covering 100 metres in just 8.78 seconds in the ‘Sathya-Dharma’ Jodukare Kambala at Kakyapadavu in Bantwal taluk. In the last week’s ‘Soorya Chandra Jodukere’ Kambala, organised at Venoor-Permuda in Belthangady taluk, he had completed 100 metres in 8.96 seconds. With the new record, he has broken his previous record.  Srinivas made the record with the pair of buffaloes, owned by Shakitprasad Shetty of Mijar, in the Hagga Hiriya category. Jilla Kambala Samithi Secretary Yedthoor Rajeev Shetty said, “In the previous Kambalas, the sensor was fixed for 125 metres. This is the first time that the sensor was fixed for 100 metres to get accurate results. It is one of the best performances by Gowda in this Kambala season.” A year ago, he had created a record by covering a 100-metre track in 9.55 seconds. Later, Bajagoli Nishanth Shetty went on to break the record by covering 100 metres in 9.52 seconds at Venoor.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/srinivas-gowda-creates-new-record-in-kambala-race-967886.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Foundation stone laid for RuB at Mahakalipadpu||The long-pending demand of the construction of the road underbridge (RuB) at Jeppu Mahakalipadpu railway-level crossing became a reality with Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel laying foundation stone for the same on Sunday. The work on the RuB is taken up under Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL). The Mahakalipadpu Road is the main thoroughfare towards the southern parts of the city as well as Kerala -- on NH 66 -- and witnesses heavy traffic movement. The level crossing gate at Mahakalipadpu on Mangaluru-Ullal railway line, which gets frequently closed to allow train movement, hinders traffic movement. Further, the road is narrow and traffic congestion on the stretch is normal. The RuB will reduce the distance between the National Highway 66 bypass and Mangaluru city. The RuB, to be constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 49.95 crore, is expected to complete within 12 months (excluding monsoon). The MP also initiated the work on an approach road that will be developed at an estimated cost of Rs 19.87 crore. Kateel said that the RuB project was delayed due to litigation in High Court. “After several deliberations with the Southern Railway, the work on the RuB was approved. The MSCL has already paid Rs 30.07 crore to the Railways and the work will be executed by the Southern Railway through Mangaluru-based Mugrodi Constructions. A sum of Rs 19 crore will be sanctioned for the development of the approach road from the MPLAD fund,” the MP said. Mangalore South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath said that the project including RuB and an approach road requires 20 acres of land to be acquired. Out of 20 landowners, 18 have already agreed to hand over the land and we will convince others too. Thukaram Shetty, a land owner, has agreed to hand over 25 cents of his land for the project, Kamath said. The MP, MLA and Mayor Premananda Shetty felicitated Thukaram Shetty for handing over 25 cents of land. On the project Two four-lane RuBs will be constructed across Ullal – Mangaluru Junction and Ullal – Mangaluru Central railway lines. The RuBs that connect the National Highway 66 from Jappinamogaru to business areas of Mangaladevi, Pandeshwar, Hampankatta and Bunder will reduce traffic congestion on the stretch. At present, the road is 4.5 to 6 metres in width on the stretch. Under the new project, the road will be converted into a four-lane concrete stretch of 18-metre width with median, streetlights and stormwater drains. The RuB will be nine-metre wide and 5.209-metre in height.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/foundation-stone-laid-for-rub-at-mahakalipadpu-967888.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||3 tiger cubs die of starvation in Bandipur; 1 rescued||Two of the three tiger cubs which were rescued from the Nugu wildlife range under Hediyala sub-division, Bandipur tiger reserve on Sunday, have died.  While one cub died on the spot, the other died at Mysuru zoo. One male cub is under observation at the zoo. On Monday, another tiger cub was found dead at a distance of 500 metres from where the other three cubs were spotted. After post-mortem, veterinarians said that the cubs died of starvation. The young ones might be one month old, they said. The mother tiger might have got separated from the cubs a few days after delivering them. Hence, they could not get food and had turned weak, they said. The Forest department personnel who spotted the cubs found that they were very weak. They immediately brought it to the notice of the higher officials and shifted the cubs to Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens in Mysuru. However, one cub died on reaching the zoo. The surviving cub is being taken care of,” said assistant range forest officer K Paramesh. Bandipur Tiger Project director S R Natesh said a combing operation was conducted at the place where the cubs were found. “Pug marks of an adult tiger have been found. Efforts are on to trace the mother. There is also a possibility that the tigress abandoned the cubs after finding them to be infected. Cameras have been installed around the place and personnel have been deployed to keep a vigil,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-tiger-cubs-die-of-starvation-in-bandipur-1-rescued-967892.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru rowdy Prasad Attavar arrested for cheating Mangalore University professor of Rs 17.5 lakh for VC post||Rowdy sheeter and Sri Rama Sene Founder-President Prasad Attavar, accused of collecting Rs 17.50 lakh from a Mangalore University Professor after promising to make him the next Vice Chancellor of Raichur University, was arrested by Kankanady Town Police on Monday. The professor was acquainted with Attavar through one Vivek Acharya, DCP (Law and order) Hariram Shankar revealed. Attavar (40) had promised a professor of Mangalore University to facilitate his appointment as the next Vice Chancellor of Raichur University. He had made the victim believe that he had contacts with state BJP leadership including Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and could get anything done with help of his contacts. He had even shared his photographs with BJP leaders at the state and national level. Attavar initially had demanded Rs 30 lakh from the professor. Later, he forcefully took Rs 17.5 lakh along with three blank cheque leaves.  When the professor realised that he was cheated, he confronted Attavar and asked him to return the money. But Attavar had issued life threats to him and also abused him, the victim revealed in his complaint submitted to Kankanady Town Police Station. The police have filed a case under sections 406, 417, 420, 506, and 34 of the IPC. Attavar in the past had identified with fringe Hindu vigilantes and was prime accused in the Amnesia pub attack case in Mangaluru in 2009. He had served as district president of the Sri Rama Sene. Attavar, a resident of Kudupu on the city's outskirts, had even joined BJP in 2016. There are many cases against him in Mangaluru North and Mangaluru East Police Stations. In fact, the police had even opened a rowdy register against him in Mangaluru North and Kankanady Town Police Station, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-rowdy-prasad-attavar-arrested-for-cheating-mangalore-university-professor-of-rs-175-lakh-for-vc-post-967939.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Gold worth Rs 18.75 lakh seized at Mangalore Airport||The officers of the Customs Department seized 405 grams of gold worth Rs 18.75 lakh in two separate cases at the Mangalore International Airport on Monday. The team of officials had intercepted two passengers -- 48-year-old Sukkur Moideen Kunhi from Kasargod and 44-yar-old Misri Naseemul Gani from Bhatkal. They had arrived in Spicejet and Air India flights respectively from Dubai and were trying to smuggle gold by concealing in specially designed footwear. It may be recalled that the Customs officials had arrested the couple for smuggling gold worth 39.48 lakh on March 27 and 1.23 kg gold worth Rs 57.14 lakh on March 26.  The operation was led by Dr Kapil Gade I.R.S, Deputy Commissioner and further investigation is underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gold-worth-rs-1875-lakh-seized-at-mangalore-airport-967981.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wheel damage at Nanjangud car fest: MLA recommends suspension of engineer||MLA B Harshavardhan on Monday said that he has directed the temple executive officer to suspend the engineer concerned for dereliction of duty, in connection with the incident, where a wheel of the chariot got damaged during Srikanteshwara Swamy Rathotsava, recently. The engineer has to inspect the chariots and provide a certificate that they are fit to be taken on a procession, before the jatra. But, the right wheel of the chariot carrying goddess Parvathi got damaged after moving for around 20 ft. The idol was later placed on another chariot and taken on a procession. It shows the negligence of the official concerned, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wheel-damage-at-nanjangud-car-fest-mla-recommends-suspension-of-engineer-968017.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||CD row: Nayaka outfit members protest against DKS||Members of Karnataka Rajya Nayaka Yuva Sene (KRNYS) and Congress staged separate protests in connection with the obscene CD, in which Ramesh Jarkiholi is allegedly involved. While KRNYS members protested against Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar, Congress workers protested against Jarkiholi for abusing Shivakumar. KRNYS members staged a protest near the office of the deputy commissioner and demanded Shivakumar’s resignation. "Shivakumar is oppressing Jarkiholi politically, behind the shield of a woman, who is involved in the CD case. The parents of the woman have accused Shivakumar of involving in the case. Shivakumar has no moral right to lead Karnataka Congress. Thus, he should resign," the agitators said and demanded the police to arrest Shivakumar. Congress leaders protested against Jarkiholi in front of their party office in the city, and alleged that the state government is protecting him. Congress city president R Murthy said that even though the victim has given a written complaint, the government is protecting him. “We have lost confidence on the Special Investigation Team, which is investigating the case. Even though an FIR is filed against Jarkholi, no action is taken," the party workers said and demanded immediate arrest of Jarkiholi for his derogatory remarks against Shivakumar. Congress rural president B J Vijaykumar alleged that Jarkiholi is making a conspiracy against Shivakumar and he should be arrested immediately. Congress leaders filed a complaint with City Police Commissioner Chandragupta, demanding the arrest of Jarkiholi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cd-row-nayaka-outfit-members-protest-against-dks-968018.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Reopen Covid Care Centres in Hassan, says Chief Secretary||State Chief Secretary P Ravikumar said that it is mandatory for those coming from other states and their contacts to undergo RT-PCR tests. In a virtual meeting with the deputy commissioner, he said, "As Covid-19 positive cases are on the rise, tests should be ramped up at APMC markets. It is important to maintain social distance and also wear masks." "Security should be strengthened at checkposts and marshalls should be deployed. There should not be gatherings in weddings, jatras and other functions. Beds should be reserved for Covid patients at taluk hospitals. Reopen Covid Care Centres in the district and, also increase the number of ventilators and ensure oxygen supply," he said. "If there are excess doses of vaccines, they can be sent to other hospitals, where there is a shortage or demand. All primary health care centres should increase the number of vaccinations. It should be made mandatory for truck drivers from other states to produce their RT-PCR test reports and then allowed to enter the district," he said. After the meeting, DC R Girish told the officials that the drivers of trucks that transport potatoes and vegetables from Punjab and other states, and their customers should be subject to Covid tests. "Pamphlets should be distributed and street plays should be conducted to encourage more people to get vaccinated," he said. ZP CEO B A Paramesh, Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, and Additional DC Kavitha Rajaram were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reopen-covid-care-centres-in-hassan-says-chief-secretary-968019.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Pangolin rescued in Hunsur||Local residents rescued the pangolin at Chikkadiganahalli in Hunsur taluk on Sunday night. They handed it over to the Forest department, said, RFO Sandeep. The pangolins are on the verge of extinction and are usually poached to be sold illegally, for their supposed medicinal value. A few persons found the pangolin in an unused well and rescued it with the help of the fellow residents. The pangolin has been released into the protected forest in Melkote, Mandya district, Sandeep said. Pangolins are usually found in rocky areas, where it is warm. It is also called ant eaters, as it feeds on ants, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pangolin-rescued-in-hunsur-968020.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||B’luru-Mysuru highway blocked over attack on Shivakumar’s car||Demanding immediate arrest of MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi and his supporters for pelting stones at KPCC president D K Shivakumar’s car, Congress workers, led by former MLA Ramesh Bandisiddegowda, staged a protest by forming a human chain on Bengaluru-Mysuru highway, on Monday. Traffic was affected for a while, as the protesters blocked the road and staged a protest for an hour. They raised slogans against the BJP government, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Ramesh Jarkiholi. Claiming that the stone pelting incident was instigated by the former minister, Ramesh Bandisiddegowda criticised the government for not taking the issue seriously. “Both the CM and the home minister have exhibited their helplessness. The government has failed to take action against Jarkiholi, who is facing serious allegations of rape and cheating. There is no proper law and order in the state. Even when there is blatant violation of law, no action is taken,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/b-luru-mysuru-highway-blocked-over-attack-on-shivakumar-s-car-968022.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Owners oppose property tax hike, demand Mysuru City Corporation to withdraw decision||The property owners, under Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), are opposing the civic body for increasing property tax amidst Covid-19 crisis and and demanding withdrawal of the decision. The MCC Council approved the hike of 15% property tax in a meeting chaired by Mayor Rukmini Madegowda, recently. The revised taxation will come into effect from April 1. The revised tax is applicable on houses, commercial complexes, trusts, theatres, choultries, community halls and other establishments. There are 1,83,949 properties under the purview of MCC and the civic body was generating Rs 150 crore until now. With 15% hike, the MCC will get an additional Rs 30.34 crore. With this, the revenue from property tax will go up to Rs 180.34 crore. Uday Kumar, a resident of Gokulam, who owns a commercial building, said, "It is not the right time to increase tax, as many people are under financial crisis. "Due to the Covid pandemic, there is no business." Kumar, who had rented three portions in his building, said, "Two of the portions are vacant since July 2020. I have no income from them. But, I have to pay electricity bill and tax. The officials concerned must think about it, before increasing tax. I am not opposing a hike. But, a small hike would be welcome." Chandrakala of Vijayanagar took severe exception to the MCC and corporators. “We have no problem to pay tax. But, the authorities should ensure proper services. The problem of road and water remain unattended since several years. The main road near Vijayanagar water tank was dug two years back to lay water pipeline. The MCC and corporators have no moral right to increase the tax,” she said.          Chandru said, "Water problem is rampant during summer and the residents depend on private water tankers. Though, the MCC supplies water through tankers for free, they are not available when needed. Thus, we spend Rs 500 to Rs 600 per tanker for water. It was not proper to hike 15% during Covid crisis. I have lost 30% in my salary and I have no other income." However, an officer claimed that the tax hike is inevitable, to provide services and for maintenance. "A majority of the property owners are reluctant to pay tax. Pending tax is a huge amount. Only 60% tax was collected in the last financial year," he said. Rajasekhar, a property owner said, "Just because a majority of property owners do not pay the taxes promptly, penalising prompt tax-payers is not acceptable. Instead of increasing the taxes, the MCC should take steps to recover pending taxes from defaulters."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/owners-oppose-property-tax-hike-demand-mysuru-city-corporation-to-withdraw-decision-968023.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘36L traffic violation cases await disposal in Mysuru’||There are 36 lakh traffic violation cases pending with Mysuru City Traffic Police since 2013 and thus weekends -- Saturdays and Sunday -- will be dedicated to collect fines from violators. City Police Commissioner Chandragupta revealed about the pending cases, during an interaction with journalists at Mysuru District Journalists' Association here, on Friday. He said, "The traffic police register nearly, 5,000 traffic violation cases per day. While 500 cases are filed by the police, during checking, 4,500 violations are recorded through CCTV cameras and other equipment." The commissioner said that the people ignore Field Traffic Violation Report (FTVR) notices. "In many cases, residential address of the vehicle owners mismatch. There was audit objection and thus, the police are clearing old cases, by collecting fine. There are many vehicles with more that a hundred violation cases. It is obvious for the owners to get angry, when the police ask them to pay a huge amount as fine. The people should not violate the norms, as the violations are recorded automatically on CCTV cameras, AMG cameras and others," he said. The commissioner urged the owners of vehicles to visit Karnataka one website to check for violation cases against their vehicle. He said that every Saturday and Sunday, all Traffic Police stations in the city will accept fines from owners of vehicles. The commissioner said that the Police department has plans to minimise spot fines and it will be nil in the coming years. We have tied up with Paytm, an E-commerce company, and Postal department for the purpose. The move will help in controlling irregularities, he said. The commissioner said that the city police have identified 13 accident zones in Mysuru city and have taken measures to provide alternative roads, with the help of Public Works Department (PWD) and local bodies like Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). A majority of road accidents are reported on Outer Ring Road due to over speed, he said. The commissioner said, "The people must know about the rules and procedures. In many cases, people allege that police constables inspect vehicles and impose fine against them. But, as per norms, officers above the rank of assistant sub-inspector are allowed to inspect and imposing fine."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/36l-traffic-violation-cases-await-disposal-in-mysuru-968025.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||DK Shivakumar denies commenting on CD row||KPCC President D K Shivakumar denied commenting on the alleged CD scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and said that the Congress's efforts were focused towards winning the by-election. Speaking to reporters on Monday, Shivakumar said he has prayed to the almighty for success in the upcoming by-election. KPCC Working President ,Satish Jarkiholi, after assuming office demanded that he be given responsibility of training party cadres. "We need to leaders who develop knowledge, teach discipline. How many such leaders do we have?" he questioned. Satish Jarkiholi has been fielded for the Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency by the Congress as he is a strong leader and none have objected his candidature, Shivakumar said||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dk-shivakumar-denies-commenting-on-cd-row-967826.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Jarkiholi sex CD row won't impact ongoing bypolls: Sriramulu||Karnataka Social Welfare Minister B Sriramulu on Monday said that the sex CD scandal allegedly involving former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi will have no bearing on the ongoing bypolls in the state.  Speaking to reporters after BJP candidate Pratap Gouda Patil filed his nomination for the bypoll here, Sriramulu stated that the party will seek votes on the basis of the development of the constituency. "Our candidates will win the polls," the minister said. Reacting to the remarks made by Leader of the Opposition in Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah who'd said that BJP MPs were slaves, the minister said the Congress leaders were talking like that due to fear of defeat in the bye-elections. "Being a senior leader, Siddaramaiah should not give such statements," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jarkiholi-sex-cd-row-wont-impact-ongoing-bypolls-sriramulu-967876.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Belagavi LS bypoll: Congress nominee Satish Jarkiholi files papers||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) working president Satish Jarkiholi on Monday filed his nomination papers as party candidate for the bypoll to Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency.  Satish submitted his papers to Deputy Commissioner, also District Election Officer, Dr K Harish Kumar. Accompanied by Leader of Opposition in Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D K Shivakumar, Jarkiholi, sporting a green shawl, filed his nomination papers. Satish, accompanied by former ministers M B Patil and R V Deshpande, filed second set of nomination papers. He filed third set in the presence of former MLA Feroz Sait and MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar. During his filing of fourth set of papers, MLAs Anjali Nimbalkar and Mahantesh Koujalagi were present.   Speaking to reporters, Satish Jarkiholi expressed hope that people of the constituency would stand by him and get him elected based on his works as MLC, MLA and minister for the past 20 years. Replying to a specific query, the Yamakanamaradi MLA said, “The Congress opposes the farm laws, which are against the farmers’ interests. The farmers cell (of the party) wanted me to wear green shawl to express solidarity with the agitating farmers. Hence, I sported it during the nomination filing,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/belagavi-ls-bypoll-congress-nominee-satish-jarkiholi-files-papers-968005.html
29-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Don't read too much on meetings with Jarkiholis: Sudhakar||Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar advised against reading too much into his late evening meetings with former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi and his brother Balachandra Jarkiholi. The three reportedly met late on Saturday and Sunday and discussed the developments surrounding the sleaze CD case. "It is human nature to visit friends when we are facing problems. There is no need to read much into that," Sudhakar said, adding that he and Ramesh were friends and colleagues. "It is not wrong to offer advice. I have shared some information and views I had about the case (with them)," he told reporters While refraining from commenting about the case taken up by the Special Investigation Team, Sudhakar said that he was confident that justice would be delivered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dont-read-too-much-on-meetings-with-jarkiholis-sudhakar-968040.html
29-03-2021||Main Article||The reality behind Bengaluru's ease of living ranking||Many Bengulureans, particularly those managing the metropolis, are elated over their beloved city securing the top rank in the Ease of Living Index (ELI) 2020, following a survey of Indian cities by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa attributed the achievement to the “Bengaluru model of development of citizen-centric initiatives and delivery of services”. While taking legitimate pride in being part of ‘the most livable city’ of the country, a reality check would be in order. Two Assessment Frameworks were developed by the ministry to assess the progress made by 111 cities across the country that included all the smart cities (100) and state capitals: 1) Ease of Living Index (ELI) and 2) Municipal Performance Index (MPI). The ELI measures the wellbeing of citizens on the basis of four broad parameters: Quality of Life carrying a weightage of 35%, Economic ability (15%), Sustainability (20%) and Citizen Perception Survey (30%). To get a true picture of the livability of a city, we must first understand the methodology followed to assess the ease of living. The ELI score is arrived at by calculating the weighted average of the scores of all the four parameters mentioned above. For instance, the indicators used to assess the Quality of Life include education, health, housing, drinking water, solid waste management, mobility, safety and recreation; for Economic ability, the indicators are the level of economic development and economic opportunities, and for Sustainability-environment, green spaces and air quality, among others. Let us now look at the scores obtained by Bengaluru in respect of each of the four parameters. Under economic ability, it emerges at the top with a score of 78.82. But the ranking slides sharply under the other three: Quality of Life-12th with a score of 55.67, Sustainability-13th (59.97) and Citizen Perception Index-18th (78). Thus, Bengaluru’s first position in the overall ranking is facilitated in an overwhelming measure by its economic ability. There can be no dispute about its economic strength on account of its consistent performance in the IT sector and a high level of GDP. In terms of quality of life and sustainability, however, there is no cause for celebration. Even in the case of citizen perception, Bengulureans have not been kind in giving their city a good rating. It is interesting to note that the Municipal Performance Index presents an altogether different picture. Here the ranking is based on five verticals: 1) Services with a weightage of 30%, 2) Finance (20%), 3) Planning (15%), 4) Technology (15%), and 5) Governance (20%). In the million plus category, the top rank is secured by Indore with a score of 66.08, followed by Surat (60.82) and in under a million, New Delhi Municipal Corporation is ranked first (52.92) and Tirupati second (51.69). Bengaluru which occupied the pride of place in EOLI, is ranked at a lowly 31. The BBMP does not figure high under any of the parameters: Services-ranked 25, Finance and Planning--worse at 40 and 36, respectively, and slightly better in Governance, which is still not good at 8. What comes as a surprise is that the civic body, which takes pride in setting up the first hi-tech war room in the country to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic, should be placed at No. 25 in technology. Lagging behind On the whole, except for economic ability, Bengaluru lags behind many other cities in the country in every other parameter. In the case of economic strength, due credit must be given to private enterprise including foreign investments, especially in the IT and other technology and service sectors. The state has played more of an enabling role which is no doubt important. What should concern us really is why a metropolis renowned as a world technology hub not able to provide a quality of life befitting its image? This in turn gives rise to the following questions: Why are we not able to build roads which don’t give way to potholes? Why are our footpaths in such a bad state, making them pedestrian-unfriendly? Why is our street lighting so poor, making walking at nights unsafe, especially for women? Why can’t we manage our waste disposal efficiently? Why can’t we get simple services like issue of a khata certificate, birth and death certificates, and a building license or registering a document without harassment and corruption? Why are the authorities turning a blind eye to illegal constructions that exert pressure on city’s infrastructure and makes life in neighbourhood uncomfortable? More such questions can be added to the list. The fact is, these simple things are what contribute to ease of living, they are all doable and at little cost. Then why are we not doing them? If cities like Indore and Surat can keep their cities clean and provide municipal services without harassing their citizens, why can’t Bengaluru? If scores under all parameters are taken into consideration, the performance of these two cities is commendable, with Indore securing the first position in Finance and Technology, second in Services and Governance and fourth in Planning. Surat figures in the first nine in all parameters. Pune and Ahmedabad, placed at second and third in EOLI, score far above Bengaluru under all indicators except economic ability. To conclude, if Bengaluru is to sustain its economic vibrancy and global profile, and continue to attract the best of talent in science, technology and entrepreneurship, it must pay serious attention not only to Ease of Doing Business but to Ease of Living. Equally important is to improve efficiencies in the functioning of the city institutions - BBMP and those delivering services such as water, electricity, public transport and regulatory services. The government must accord high priority to strengthening of the civic institutions. (The writer is retired Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/the-reality-behind-bengalurus-ease-of-living-ranking-967697.html
29-03-2021||Main Article||NCT Bill a fresh event in Delhi administration's struggle for supremacy||The Act sought to give the Lieutenant Governor of NCT of Delhi (L-G) primacy over the elected Delhi government. Broadly, it provides that the opinion of the L-G “shall be obtained” on all such matters as may be specified by the L-G, before taking any executive action on decisions of the Council of Ministers of the Delhi government; L-G shall be declared as “Government of Delhi”. Essentially, the L-G will become the real head of administration over the elected government. It is interesting to note how the distribution of power between the Central government through the L-G and the Delhi government becomes a core concern each time. This underlines the issue of federalism, that is, distribution and division of power, for which the Constitution has sought to provide a fine balance. The courts have adjudicated federative disputes from time to time and the parties – governments - have called for an interpretation more favourable to them and made attempts (like amendments) in that regard. This is precisely what is being sought to be done under the Amendment Act. Delhi, a Union Territory, is not fully under the control of the Central government like other Union Territories. Parliament vide the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991, inserted Articles 239AA and 239AB and conferred special status on Delhi, whereby Delhi was to have its own Legislative Assembly. The Legislative Assembly was empowered to legislate on every subject matter in the State List except on subjects, broadly, of public order, police, and land. Thus, Delhi is a hybrid of state and UT and is a sui generis territory, that is, a class in itself. This was also explained and underlined by courts at various instances, in the New Delhi Municipal Corporation Case, and most recently in 2018 by a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in the Government of NCT of Delhi v Union of India. The constitutional history of the NCT of Delhi is traceable to the Government of Part C States Act, 1951; the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963; the Delhi Administration Act, 1966; the Balakrishnan case; and the Constitution (sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991. Notably, the powers conferred on the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi and consequently on the Government of NCT of Delhi is a creature of the Constitution directly as opposed to previous regimes whereby it was statutory. Any alteration of these powers would require a change in the constitutional scheme following the procedure laid down by for such alteration. The changes introduced vide the Amendment Bill seek to make L-G the real head of NCT of Delhi. It seeks to make it mandatory for the Council of Ministers of Delhi to consult L-G before their exercise of executive power. This in actual terms would mean that all actions of the elected government of Delhi have to be approved by the L-G. In case L-G has a difference of opinion, he/she can refer the matter to the President and stall any action till then. In contravention of Article 239AA? What is interesting is that the changes are sought to be introduced to the Government of NCT of Delhi Act, 1991 and not Article 239AA per se. Article 239AA is the main source of division and distribution of powers for the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister vis-à-vis the L-G. In 2018, a five-judge bench of the Supreme Court in Government of NCT of Delhi v Union of India had categorically held that the NCT was to function like other state governments in every matter and should only inform the L-G of their action who cannot disagree except on subjects, broadly, of public order, police, and land for which the prior permission of L-G is required. Constitutional scheme The basis of this decision by the Supreme Court was sui generis position of Delhi as a hybrid between state and Union Territories. The Supreme Court interpreted the constitutional scheme, particularly under Article 239AA, on the notions of representative democracy to empower govt of NCT of Delhi as it stands today. The Amendment Act does not bring a change to either Article 239AA of the Constitution or the constitutional scheme in general. It seeks to bring about changes to the 1991 Act, which is to sit in direct contrast with Article 239AA of the Constitution. A statutory law which is in contravention of a constitutional provision and seeks to circumvent it, is no good law and is unconstitutional. Federalism forms a part of the basic structure of our Constitution. Any attempt to change the federative scheme in relation to territories must strictly follow the constitutional procedure laid down. Any casual approach or indirect method to change such distribution and division of power is a colourable exercise of power and undermines the representative form of government. The Amendment Act seeks to render the elected government toothless, which does not bode well in a constitutional democracy, where the will of people is paramount. The argument certainly is not that the changes sought cannot be introduced at all but it is that the changes cannot be introduced in the particular manner it has been introduced. So long as the constitutional scheme providing for sui generis status to NCT of Delhi is constitutionally intact, a representative form of democracy, where the elected government has primacy, must be treated as paramount. Any attempt to change this without following the requisite procedure is unconstitutional.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/nct-bill-a-fresh-event-in-delhi-administrations-struggle-for-supremacy-968077.html
29-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'Bangladesh remains the same right?'||Addressing the main golden jubilee celebrations of Bangladesh's Independence and the birth centenary of its founder 'Bangabandhu' Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in the presence of his counterpart Sheikh Hasina and President Abdul Hamid, Prime Minister Modi said that both nations possess the power of democracy, with a clear vision to move forward. Modi, who was wearing a 'Mujib Jacket' as a tribute to Bangladesh's Father of the Nation, said that Bangabandhu had a mesmerising personality and was blessed with an unwavering commitment to further human empowerment. No wonder all sections of society were inspired by him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bangladesh-remains-the-same-right-967768.html
29-03-2021||National||India calls Saudi advice on tapping stored oil 'undiplomatic'||Indian oil minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Friday described his Saudi counterpart's advice to reduce oil stores to tackle high crude prices as "undiplomatic". "That was in a way (an) undiplomatic answer by some of our old friend. I politely disagree with that kind of approach. "Certainly India has its own strategy, when and how to use our own storage, and we are conscious about our interests," Pradhan said at Times Network's India Economic Conclave in the Indian capital. Pradhan has criticised OPEC and Saudi output cuts aimed at supporting prices and suggested India will have to look for energy alternatives to Gulf oil, its main source of crude. With India hard hit by rising oil prices, Pradhan has repeatedly called on the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, known as OPEC+, to ease supply curbs. Saudi Energy Minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman in response has suggested India dip into strategic reserves filled with cheaper oil bought last year. India, the world's third-biggest oil importer and consumer, has asked refiners to speed up diversification and cut reliance on Middle Eastern oil. Indian refiners are planning to cut imports from Saudi Arabia by about a quarter, sources told Reuters this month. "Today Iraq is the number one supplier of our requirement, we are taking a substantial amount from UAE also. UAE is a very reliable partner," Pradhan said, adding Indian companies are free to buy oil from any country. He said to cut import dependence India would look to meet incremental requirement through renewables. On Thursday Pradhan said that African nations could play a central role in India's effort to diversify its oil sources. Separately, HPCL-Mittal Energy Ltd, a joint venture between state-run Hindustan Petroleum Corp and steel tycoon L.N. Mittal, on Friday confirmed Reuters story that it has made India's first purchase of Guyanese oil Liza for processing in April as it seeks to diversify crude sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-calls-saudi-advice-on-tapping-stored-oil-undiplomatic-967773.html
29-03-2021||National||Stranded at sea, coronavirus takes a toll on mental health of sailors||When Ritesh Mehra, 43, enlisted for a four-month stint as captain on a liquid gas tanker last July, he never expected to be stranded at sea until spring. "Twice it has happened that the ports are not allowing crew change," Mehra told Reuters via Zoom from the bridge of the 80,000-tonne ship docked outside the Indian port of Haldia. "My family won't trust me anymore. I have been giving them dates when I would come home from December." Mehra, who has 20 years experience at sea, is also trying to buoy the spirits of his nervous crew of 23, many struggling with fatigue and social isolation. "Being chained to this particular place, you can almost say jail, is bearing on the crew now," Mehra said. "They are thinking more about it than the actual job at hand." An estimated one hundred thousand seafarers are stranded at sea due to the pandemic, the International Chamber of Shipping said last week. Crew rotations depend on complex logistics, including securing transit visas and arranging chartered flights to repatriate sailors when they disembark at an international port. In order to maintain effective operations and safety, sailors are only allowed off a ship when a replacement can be brought on board. Arranging for the right entry permits, and quarantine and testing to take place during the short time when a ship is at port can be daunting because of coronavirus restrictions. As a result, crew rotations during the pandemic are often cancelled at short notice, while regular shore leave, once a mainstay of life at sea, has also come to a halt. Near Hong Kong's busy waterways, visiting ships are often anchored for days as they unload goods to smaller vessels or barges. Reverend Stephen Miller, who would normally come aboard to give counselling and advice to sailors, is now reduced to delivering bags with supplies, including SIM cards and snacks. He says he is concerned about the sailors' mental health. "You can just imagine it for yourself, you have been planning to go home, maybe see a young child for the first time in many months, and then it is taken away from you," he said. "That obviously leads to sadness, which can lead to depression. If it is not talked about, it may sadly lead to people thinking that life's not worth living." Mehra finally disembarked this month and has returned to India, his family eagerly waiting to see him. During his time at sea, he had missed the funeral of a close relative and said his time away had taken a toll on his family. "My younger son is not talking to me very well," he said. "There will be things I have to take care of. It is not going to be a very joyful homecoming."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/stranded-at-sea-coronavirus-takes-a-toll-on-mental-health-of-sailors-967796.html
29-03-2021||National||PM Narendra Modi extends best wishes to all on Holi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted people on Monday on the occasion of Holi and extended them his best wishes.  In a tweet, Modi wished that this festival of joy and celebration infuses new energy and enthusiasm in everyone's life   आप सभी को होली की ढेर सारी शुभकामनाएं। आनंद, उमंग, हर्ष और उल्लास का यह त्योहार हर किसी के जीवन में नए जोश और नई ऊर्जा का संचार करे।||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-extends-best-wishes-to-all-on-holi-967800.html
29-03-2021||National||India's fresh Covid-19 cases cross 68,000, in the biggest daily spike of 2021||India saw 68,020 new coronavirus cases in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the country's Covid-19 tally to above 1.20 crore, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. Registering a steady increase for the 19th day in a row, the active cases have increased to  5,21,808, which comprise 4.33 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.32 per cent, the data stated. A total of 68,020 new cases were reported in a day, the highest recorded since October 11 last year, taking the country's tally of cases to 1,20,39,644, while the death toll increased to 1,61,843 with 291 fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. As many as 74,383 new cases were recorded in a span of 24 hours on October 11. The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 comprising 1.25 per cent of the total infections. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to     1,13,55,993, while the case fatality rate has further has dropped to 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed 20 lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19 last year. According to the Indian Council for Medical Research, 24,18,64,161  samples have been tested up to March 28 with 9,13,319 samples being tested on Saturday. The 291 new fatalities include 108 from Maharashtra, 69 from Punjab, 15 from Chhattisgarh, 12 each from Kerala and Karnataka, and 11 each from Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. A total of 1,61,843  deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 54,181 from Maharashtra, 12,670 from Tamil Nadu, 12,504 from Karnataka, 11,006 from Delhi, 10,324 from West Bengal, 8,786 from Uttar Pradesh, 7,205 from Andhra Pradesh and 6,690 from Punjab. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-fresh-covid-19-cases-cross-68000-in-the-biggest-daily-spike-of-2021-967790.html
29-03-2021||National||Meeting with Jaishankar not 'finalised or requested': Pakistan Foreign Minister Qureshi||Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi has said no meeting has been "finalised or requested" so far with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on the sidelines of the 'Heart of Asia' conference on Tuesday at Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe, according to a media report on Monday. The participation of both the ministers at the conference has sparked speculation of a possible meeting between the two leaders amidst recent peace overtures from the Pakistan Army. Qureshi on Sunday told the Dawn newspaper that “no meeting (between him and Jaishankar) has been finalised or requested.” When asked about media speculation that India and Pakistan have been quietly negotiating for the full resumption of diplomatic relations, Qureshi said, “No such decision yet.” Jaishankar last week also did not give a specific reply to questions on whether he will meet Qureshi on the sidelines of the conference. "My scheduling is in progress. So far I do not think any such meeting (is scheduled)," he said at the India Economic Conclave in New Delhi on March 26. While announcing his participation, the Ministry of External Affairs in a statement on Friday said Jaishankar is expected to meet leaders of other participating countries on the sidelines of the 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference. The last meeting between Qureshi and an Indian external affairs minister took place in May 2019 in Bishkek on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting. Late Sushma Swaraj was then holding the portfolio of the external affairs minister. Pakistan's Foreign Office on Sunday said Qureshi would hold “consul­tations with key regional and international partners” on the sidelines of the conference. India and Pakistan are without high commissioners in each other’s capital -- New Delhi and Islamabad, respectively -- since the relations between the two countries nosedived after India withdrew special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories in August 2019. On March 18, Pakistan's powerful Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa said it was time for India and Pakistan to "bury the past and move forward". India has said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence and that the onus is on Islamabad to create an environment free of terror and hostility. The HoA-IP ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process - a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan - that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/meeting-with-jaishankar-not-finalised-or-requested-pakistan-foreign-minister-qureshi-967842.html
29-03-2021||National||Covid-19: Dr Reddy's expects Sputnik V vaccine to get approval from Indian regulator in next few weeks||Pharma major Dr Reddy's Laboratories expects the Russian coronavirus vaccine Sputnik V to get approval from the Indian regulator in the next few weeks, a company official has said. "We expect to get approval in the next few weeks. It is a two-dose vaccine. You take the first dose on day zero and the second one on day 21. The peak immunity develops somewhere between day 28 to day 42. So, it is a two-dose vaccine and we expect it to be available in the next few weeks," Deepak Sapra, the company's CEO, APIs and Services, said. Sapra, who was speaking in a webinar on Sunday evening, was asked as to how soon Sputnik would be available and whether it is a one dose or two doses vaccine. Dr Reddy's has partnered with the Russia Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to bring the Sputnik V vaccine to India and other countries, he said. Observing that trials of the vaccine have been conducted in Russia, India, the UAE and others, he said the vaccine demonstrated an efficacy of 91.6 per cent as published in the reputed journal Lancet. The data on trials is currently with the Indian regulator and the company expects it to get approved in the next few weeks, he said. "Now, what we have done in India, in addition to all this, we also conducted trials in India and evaluated the vaccine on the Indian population for both safety as well as for immunogenicity. This data is currently with the Indian regulator and we expect it to get approved in the next few weeks," he said. The webinar on "India's vaccination journey and the second wave of Covid-19' was conducted by the All India Professional Congress (AIPC), Telangana. Former minister J Geeta Reddy, a medical doctor, moderated the event. Mahima Datla, Managing Director of Biological E, and Nageshwar Reddy, Chairman of AIG Hospitals, spoke on various important issues concerning the Covid-19 surge and the vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dr-reddys-expects-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-get-approval-from-indian-regulator-in-next-few-weeks-967844.html
29-03-2021||National||Hoist national flag on all govt buildings within 15 days: J&K govt to officers||After schools, Jammu and Kashmir government has directed officers in the union territory to hoist the national flag on all government buildings and establishments under their jurisdiction. The decision was taken by the Lieutenant Governor in a meeting with the divisional commissioners, district magistrates and superintendents of police of the UT. Accordingly, the officers have been directed to hoist the national flag on all the government buildings within the next two weeks. A circular issued in this regard by Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir reads: “The Indian national flag represents hope and aspiration of the people of India. It is a symbol of our national pride. There is universal affection and respect for, and loyalty to the national flag.” “As such it is enjoined upon all the Deputy Commissioners / Head of Departments / Directors of Kashmir Division to ensure hoisting of national flag on all government buildings/offices on all days and occasions, ceremonial or otherwise with the dignity and honour of national flag,” it adds. Earlier last month, J&K government had asked all the schools in the valley to install a signboard of standard design with the national flag in the background for which April 30 has been given as deadline. Till the abrogation of J&K’s special status under Article 370 in August 2019, the erstwhile state had its own flag, besides the national flag. The red flag with a plough and three stripes is no longer in use. J&K had adopted a separate constitution in 1956, under which it was permitted to hoist its own flag till August 2019. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, while reviewing the activities under the "Azaadi ka Amrut Mahotsav", has asked the district officers to identify people from their areas who played an important role in the freedom struggle and felicitate them in the celebrations. “Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav” is a series of events organised to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hoist-national-flag-on-all-govt-buildings-within-15-days-jk-govt-to-officers-967851.html
29-03-2021||National||SC grants anticipatory bail to Goa restaurant owner accused of rape||In a special sitting held on the Holi, the Supreme Court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to Jude Lobo, owner of Souza Lobo in Goa's Calangute in a rape case. After going through the contents of the FIR, the woman's statement made before a judicial officer and her WhatsApp chats, a bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and S Abdul Nazeer said that the court is satisfied that the petitioner has made a prima facie case for grant of anticipatory bail.  "We direct that in the event the petitioner is arrested, he shall be released on submitting a personal bond of Rs 10,000 only. The petitioner shall cooperate with the investigation," the bench said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the petitioner, contended that the case was a perfect example of a cock and bull story.  "An FIR was lodged by the woman in December 2020 with Bhajanpura police station here while the rape allegations are of 2009. She wanted to host a party at my restaurant and I refused. She improved her case in the statement made under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code," he said. He further referred to her statement which said that she had met Lobo 10 years ago and claimed that Lobo would marry her, even though he was already married and had three children, out of whom, two were adults. She claimed she would not get justice in Goa, so she came back to Delhi and got an FIR registered. The counsel also referred to WhatsApp chats between the petitioner and the woman. The court, allowing the relief, issued notice to the Delhi police and the complainant on the petitioner's plea against the Delhi High Court's order of March 26 denying him the protection from arrest. The top court is on a week-long Holi vacation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-grants-anticipatory-bail-to-goa-restaurant-owner-accused-of-rape-967852.html
29-03-2021||National||8 states account for over 84% of India's fresh Covid-19 cases||Eight states including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and account for 84.5 per cent of the 68,020 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday. On the other hand, the total vaccination coverage in India has crossed 6 crore, it said. Maharashtra has reported the highest daily rise of 40,414 Covid-19 cases, followed by 3,082 in Karnataka, 2,870 in Punjab, 2,276 in Madhya Pradesh, 2,270 in Gujarat, 2,216 in Kerala, 2,194 in Tamil Nadu and 2,153 in Chhattisgarh, the ministry said. These eight states account for 84.5 per cent of the 68,020 new Covid-19 cases reported in a day in the country, it said. India's total active caseload has reached 5,21,808 and constitutes 4.33 per cent of the total infections. A net rise of 35,498 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a day, the ministry said. Five states -- Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh -- cumulatively account for 80.17 per cent of the total active cases in the country, it added. Seventeen states and union territories have lower cases per million than the national average (8,724), while 19 states and UTs have higher cases per million than the national average, according to the ministry. Ten states -- Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan -- are displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the ministry said. More than 6.05 crore (6,05,30,435) vaccine doses have been administered through 9,92,483 sessions, according to the provisional report till 7 am. This includes 81,56,997 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose, 51,78,065 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 89,12,113 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 36,92,136 FLWs who have taken the second dose, the ministry said. Besides, 67,31,223 beneficiaries aged above 45 with specific comorbidities and 2,78,59,901 aged above 60 have also been administered the first dose. Eight states -- Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, West Bengal, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra -- account for 60 per cent of the cumulative vaccine doses administered so far in India. On March 28, the 72nd day of the vaccination drive, a total of 2,60,653 vaccine doses were given. Of these, 2,18,798 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 7,465 sessions for the first dose of the vaccine and 41,855 HCWs and FLWs received the second dose, the ministry said. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,13,55,993 with 32,231 recoveries being registered in a day. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single-day recoveries with 17,874 newly recovered cases. Besides, 291 deaths were reported in a day in India. Seven states -- Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh -- account for 81.79 per cent of these deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 108, followed by 69 in Punjab, the ministry said. Eighteen states and UTs have higher deaths per million than the national average, it said. Fifteen states and UTs -- Assam, Uttarakhand, Odisha, Puducherry, Ladakh, Daman and Diu and Dadar and Nagar Haveli, Lakshadweep, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh -- have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8-states-account-for-over-84-of-indias-fresh-covid-19-cases-967857.html
29-03-2021||National||NGOs received over Rs 50,000 crore foreign donations since 2016-17||NGOs in India received over Rs 50,000 crore foreign funds between 2016-17 and 2019-20 with organisations in Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala bagging the most funds, according to latest government statistics. The donors were from 130 countries, with most of them from the United States who donated as much as Rs 19,942.22 crore or 39.11 per cent of the total donations during this period. The year 2016-17 witnessed Rs 15,355.17 crore foreign funds reaching NGOs and volunatary organisations registered under the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) or through prior permission granted by the government while the following fiscal saw it growing to Rs 16,940.57 crore. In 2018-19, it fell to Rs 16,490.88 crore while in 2019-20, according to statistics available till March 16 this year, it has been Rs 2,190.52 crore. The amount for 2019-20 will further increase as NGOs have time till June 30 this year to submit details of donations they received in the previous fiscal. At least 18,304 NGOs or other entities received foreign funds in 2016-17 while it marginally declined to 18,235 in 2017-18 and 17,540 in 2018-19. In 2019-20, only 3,475 NGOs submitted their reports. Altogether, statistics collated by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) based on the annual returns filed by NGOs, foreign funds to the tune of Rs 50,997.16 crore have reached the NGOs in the last four fiscals. According to FCRA, only those NGOs which are registered under the legislation can receive foreign funds. There is also a provision in the law for NGOs not registered under FCRA to receive foreign donations by seeking "prior permission" from the government. During this period, NGOs in Delhi have received the highest foreign donations at Rs 12,861.64 crore or 25.23 per cent of the total donations followed by Tamil Nadu Rs 6,395.26 crore and Maharashtra Rs 5,367.03 crore. Along with Tamil Nadu, Karnataka with Rs 5,246.72 crore and Kerala with Rs 3,391.82 crore, found a place in the top-five states. Andhra Pradesh (Rs 3,001.84 crore) and Telangana (Rs 2,451.85 crore) were in the sixth and seventh position and all the southern states were in the top-ten states. West Bengal (Rs 2,355.61 crore) and Gujarat (Rs 2,005.68 crore) also saw substantial receipt of foreign funds. In all the fiscals, Delhi had topped the donation list while Tamil Nadu was second in all except 2019-20, when Kerala bagged the second spot. Karnataka was ranked third in 2016-17 and 2018-19, fourth in 2017-18 and fifth in 2019-20. Delhi received Rs 3,607.91 crore in 2016-17, Rs 4,462.80 crore in 2017-18, Rs 4,370.44 crore in 2018-19 and Rs 420.46 crore in Rs 2019-20. Karnataka received Rs 1,796.09 crore, Rs 1,613.19 crore, Rs 1,709.74c crore and Rs 127.68 crore in these fiscals respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngos-received-over-rs-50000-crore-foreign-donations-since-2016-17-967863.html
29-03-2021||National||A look at Maharashtra and Punjab's Covid-19 numbers in the past year||India reported over 68,000 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, registering the largest single-day spike of 2021. Maharashtra and Punjab were two of the biggest contributors to this number, with 40,414 and 2,870 new cases, respectively. The pace with which these states have added fresh cases since the end of February has caused an alarm across the country. According to a report, of the total 36 districts in Maharashtra, the most affected 25 districts account for 59.8 per cent of the total cases reported in the country in the past week. Meanwhile, it was reported that eight of the 10 most affected districts in the country belonged to Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Punjab saw a worsening death rate even when the rest of the country was doing better on that parameter. Since February 15, close to 500 Covid-19 deaths have been reported in the northern state giving it a case fatality rate (CFR) of 4.5 per cent, much higher than India's. Even the cumulative CFR for Punjab is 3 per cent as against India's 1.4 per cent. Let's take a look at some Covid-19 trends observed in the two states: Punjab On March 28, the Covid-19 death toll in Punjab rose to 6,690 with 69 more fatalities. The state's fresh cases stood at 2,963, taking the total caseload to 2,31,734. The number of active cases is 23,917. Of the new cases, Jalandhar reported the maximum, 489 cases, followed by 437 in Ludhiana, 372 in Amritsar, 307 in Patiala, 291 in Mohali and 289 in Hoshiarpur. Punjab was one of the worst-hit states in the Covid-19 second wave which started in India by the mid of February. The state has witnessed an increase of over five times in its daily cases between February 22, when it reported 389 cases, and March 26, when it recorded 3,176 cases. The state registered its first case on March 9, 2020, and went into complete lockdown on March 22, 2020. Over the next two months, as lockdowns were extended, there was a steady rise in the daily cases of the state. By the end of June, the state government, parallel to the Centre, was opening up the state with the strictest rules for gatherings and events. On September 17, 2020, Punjab had recorded the highest count of daily cases at 2,896. Punjab only breached that number on Friday, when new Covid-19 cases in the state came in at 3,176. The number of new cases mostly fell between September and the end of January. Maharashtra As India sees a second wave of the infection, Maharashtra on March 28 reported 40,414 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise so far in a single day, taking its tally beyond 27 lakh to 27,13,875. With 108 fresh fatalities due to the Covid-19 infection, the overall toll in Maharashtra reached 54,181. The first confirmed case of Maharashtra was detected on March 9 after a couple returning from Dubai tested positive for the virus, and the state was shut down on March 22. The state saw its peak on September 11 last year, when it reported 24,886 fresh Covid-19 cases. It then breached this level on March 18, with 25,833 fresh cases. In the following days, the state's total number of cases increased sharply, with most of the caseload coming from Mumbai, Mumbai metropolitan region, Pune and Nashik. Why such a surge in these two states? The surge in Punjab has been attributed to patients not coming to hospitals in time as per the clinical management protocol. This is why the death toll in the state is said to be rising. Experts have also said that these states have a bigger group of susceptible populations. Laxity among the public with respect to Covid-19 protocols like social distancing, wearing masks etc has also been observed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-look-at-maharashtra-and-punjabs-covid-19-numbers-in-the-past-year-967896.html
29-03-2021||National||China 'happy' over Pakistan-India 'active interactions': MEA spokesman||China said on Monday that it was "happy" over the recent "active interactions" between Pakistan and India, indicating that it would like to work with Islamabad to inject "more positive energy" into regional peace, stability and development. The militaries of India and Pakistan announced on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. Weeks later, both Pakistan's Prime Minister Imran Khan and powerful Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa made peace overtures towards New Delhi saying it was time for the two neighbours to "bury the past and move forward". “We are happy about the active interactions between Pakistan and India," Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here in response to a question. "We would like to work with Pakistan to inject more positive energy into regional peace and stability as well as development," he said. Zhao was responding to a question on Pakistan President Arif Alvi’s remark that China is his country’s "closest and friendliest friend” during his speech at the Pakistan Day parade on March 25. While welcoming Alvi’s remark, Zhao also referred to the recent rapprochement between India and Pakistan to dial down the tensions between the two countries. "China expresses warm congratulations on the 82nd Pakistan Day. We believe that Pakistani Government and people will make further progress on national building and revitalisation,” he said, adding that Beijing “highly appreciates” President Alvi’s remarks. "China also values the all-weather strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries," he said. "I would like to take the opportunity of the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties to work with Pakistan to fight coronavirus and carry forward our traditional friendship to expand our all-dimensional cooperation and build a closer China-Pakistan community of shared future in a new era,” the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-happy-over-pakistan-india-active-interactions-mea-spokesman-967928.html
29-03-2021||National||Two British-era cannons to be restored||Two cannons possibly built during 1856 — a year before the Indian Rebellion of 1857-58 — which were lying in a garden, would be restored to their pristine glory. These two 3.10-metre long, 165-year-old steel cannons were among the scores of large guns which once protected Bombay, now Mumbai. The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to restore, refurbish and erect the two cannons belonging to the British East India Company era. The cannons are lying at the Lions Children’s Park at Ghatkopar in Mumbai. “The canons are still sturdy and in good shape," said BMC’s Gardens Superintendent Jitendra Pardeshi. The Archaeological Preservations Engineer has been tasked to restore them. Built during 1971, the Lions Children Park is spread across 55,843 sq. feet of lush greenery frequented daily by thousands, but the cannons had remained neglected. Both the steel cannons are 3.10 metre long with an inner and outer circumference of 0.64 and 1.17 metre respectively and have 'NCPC' and '1856' inscribed in Roman script.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-british-era-cannons-to-be-restored-967967.html
29-03-2021||National||SC notice to Centre on plea for preserving digital, electronic devices seized by investigating agencies||The Supreme Court on Monday issued a notice to the Union government on a plea by a group of academicians to lay down guidelines for preserving the contents of digital devices in case of seizures by the investigating agencies. The petitioners claimed the CBI or the NIA manuals do not contain any such procedure, resulting in damage and loss of the research work of academicians if they are subjected to investigation. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and R Subhash Reddy said the court thought it appropriate to seek a response from the Union government within four weeks by issuing a notice to it. The order in the case was passed on March 26. The petitioners in the matter were former JNU professor Ram Ramaswamy, professor at Savitribai Phule Pune University, Sujata Patel, professor of Cultural Studies at the English and Foreign Languages University, Madhava Prasad, professor of Modern Indian history at Jamia Millia Islamia, Mukul Kesavan and theoretical ecological economist Deepak Malghan. Led by senior advocate Nithya Ramakrishnan, they contended that the investigating agencies had seized devices in several cases in the past. The academic community does store their research and writings in the electronic and digital medium and the threat of loss or premature exposure of academic or literary work in the event of seizure of electronic devices is considerable, their petition claimed. The petitioners claimed there was no procedure or guideline stipulated in any law or even in most police manuals of a mode appropriate to the recovery of electronic or digital material, which was distinct from the recovery of other kinds of material.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-for-preserving-digital-electronic-devices-seized-by-investigating-agencies-967969.html
29-03-2021||National||India administers over 6 crore vaccine doses so far||India has administered more than six crore doses of Covid-19 vaccines to beneficiaries, as per the provisional report on Monday morning. On account of Holi, many states did not schedule vaccination sessions on Monday, a health ministry spokesperson said. As per the provisional report available on Monday morning, 6,05,30,435 doses of Covid-19 vaccines were administered since the immunisation drive began on January 16. Eight states – Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala – account for 60 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far. On Sunday, 2,60,653 vaccine doses were administered of which 2,18,798 were given the first dose of the vaccine, while 41,855 healthcare and frontline workers received the second dose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-administers-over-6-crore-vaccine-doses-so-far-967977.html
29-03-2021||National||J&K HC dismisses Mehbooba Mufti's plea seeking direction to authorities for issuance of passport to her||The Jammu and Kashmir High Court on Monday dismissed a petition filed by PDP president Mehbooba Mufti, in which she had sought a direction to the passport authority for the issuance of the document to her. Dismissing the petition, Justice Ali Mohammad Magray observed that Mehbooba's application for a passport was rejected by the passport officer, Srinagar as the police verification report recommended against the issuance of the document to her. "In such circumstances, I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner. Even otherwise, the scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited in as much as the court, in this behalf, can only direct the concerned authorities to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject," the judge said in his order. The court observed that it did not find any reason to interfere with the course of action adopted by the respondents in the case and "as a sequel thereto, the petition of the petitioner is hereby dismissed, along with the connected CM(s). Interim directions(s), if any subsisting as on date, shall stand vacated". It, however, said the dismissal of the writ petition shall not come in the way of the petitioner for availing the remedy as may be available to her in accordance with the law. In a letter to Mehbooba, the Regional Passport Office informed the People's Democratic Party (PDP) president on March 26 that her application for a passport was rejected on the basis of the "adverse" police verification report. The passport officer also informed the former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister that the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Union Territory had recommended against granting a passport to her. The letter said Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex-Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jk-hc-dismisses-mehbooba-muftis-plea-seeking-direction-to-authorities-for-issuance-of-passport-to-her-967985.html
29-03-2021||National||Jaishankar arrives in Tajik capital to attend key conference on Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar arrived in Tajikistan’s capital on Monday to attend a key conference on Afghanistan, where representatives from around 50 countries and international organisations would discuss building regional consensus around the peace process in the war-torn country. "Touchdown in Dushanbe. Look forward to my bilateral visit and attending the Heart of Asia Conference tomorrow," Jaishankar tweeted. The 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process - a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan - that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey. "Visited the Dushanbe-Chortut Highway Project site. Good work being done by @BROindia under our grant assistance. The 8-lane highway will decongest Dushanbe,” the minister tweeted. Last week, Jaishankar said that India would like to clearly see a sovereign democratic and inclusive Afghanistan that takes into account the interests of its minorities. "There is something called the peace and reconciliation process and everybody else is saying that the Taliban is reaching out and changing etc. Let us wait and watch," he had said. During his visit, Jaishanakar is also expected to meet leaders of other participating countries on the sidelines of the conference. Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi is also attending the conference and the participation of both the ministers at the conference has sparked speculation of a possible meeting between the two leaders amidst recent peace overtures from Pakistan. Qureshi, however, said no meeting has been "finalised or requested" so far with his Indian counterpart on the sidelines of the conference. Jaishankar last week also did not give a specific reply to questions on whether he will meet Qureshi on the sidelines of the conference. "My scheduling is in progress. So far I do not think any such meeting (is scheduled)," he said at the India Economic Conclave in New Delhi on March 26. The last meeting between Qureshi and an Indian external affairs minister took place in May 2019 in Bishkek on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) meeting. Late Sushma Swaraj was then holding the portfolio of the external affairs minister. India and Pakistan are without high commissioners in each other’s capital -- New Delhi and Islamabad, respectively -- since the relations between the two countries nosedived after India withdrew special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the state into two union territories in August 2019. The militaries of India and Pakistan announced on February 25 that they have agreed to strictly observe all agreements on ceasefire along the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir and other sectors. Weeks later, both Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan and powerful Army chief Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa made peace overtures towards New Delhi saying it was time for the two neighbours to "bury the past and move forward". India has said it desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan in an environment free of terror, hostility and violence and that the onus is on Islamabad to create an environment free of terror and hostility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-arrives-in-tajik-capital-to-attend-key-conference-on-afghanistan-967991.html
29-03-2021||National||Jaishankar meets Iranian counterpart; discusses bilateral cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met his Iranian counterpart Javad Zarif here on Monday and discussed bilateral cooperation, including on the strategic Chabahar Port. Jaishankar, who arrived in the Tajik capital to attend the 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference, would meet leaders of other participating countries on its sidelines. "Began my Heart of Asia engagements with a meeting with Iranian FM @JZarif. A warm conversation that underlined our convergences. Also discussed our bilateral cooperation, including Chabahar,” Jaishankar tweeted. In September, Jaishankar made a stopover in Tehran while on his way to Russia to attend a meeting of the foreign ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) and discussed strengthening bilateral cooperation and reviewed regional developments with Zarif. Located in the Sistan-Balochistan province on the energy-rich Iran's southern coast, the Chabahar port is being developed by India, Iran and Afghanistan to boost trade ties. Recently, India has supplied the second shipment of equipment to Chabahar port. In January, India had supplied a consignment of two mobile harbour cranes to the Chabahar port, having a total contract value of over $25 million. Development of the Chabahar port will help in expansion of economic and mutual relations between India and Iran as well as give a further boost to the maritime trade between both the countries. The location of the Chabahar port has strategic advantage and high potential to provide connectivity among India, Iran, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan and other Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) countries, specially Eastern CIS nations, and boost trade. On Monday, Jaishankar also met Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu on the sidelines of the Heart of Asia conference here. "Our discussions focused on Afghanistan-related developments and our bilateral relations,” Jaishankar tweeted after meeting his Turkish counterpart. The HoA-IP ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process - a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan - that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey. At the conference, the representatives from around 50 countries and international organisations would discuss building regional consensus around the peace process in the war-torn country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-meets-iranian-counterpart-discusses-bilateral-cooperation-967995.html
29-03-2021||National||Jaishankar, Qureshi in Dushanbe, no bilateral meeting scheduled so far despite speculation||Though both External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and his counterpart in Pakistan, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, are at Dushanbe in Tajikistan to attend a conclave on Afghanistan, the two sides have not yet scheduled a bilateral meeting between them on the sideline of the multilateral event. Jaishankar and Qureshi separately arrived at Dushanbe on Monday to take part in the ninth ministerial meeting of the “Heart of Asia – Istanbul Process”, a multilateral initiative to end the conflict in Afghanistan. Islamabad did send informal messages to New Delhi through back-channels, exploring the possibility of a meeting between Jaishankar and Qureshi on the sideline of the “Heart of Asia” meeting in Dushanbe. But as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government decided to tread cautiously, no such meeting has been scheduled till late in the evening on Monday, sources in New Delhi told DH. Jaishankar and Qureshi will join counterparts or representatives from Russia, China, Afghanistan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkey at the Heart of Asia meet in Dushanbe on Tuesday. Qureshi spoke to his Foreign Minister of the United Arab Emirates, Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, on Sunday. The UAE purportedly played a behind-the-scenes role in making the Indian Army and the Pakistan Army agree on February 25 last to strictly adhere to the 2003 ceasefire pact and stop firing across the Line of Control (LoC). A day later, the External Affairs Minister hosted the UAE Foreign Minister in New Delhi and the two had a meeting. A news agency recently reported that they had a discussion on the possibility of working out a roadmap towards restarting the stalled talks between India and Pakistan. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi, however, did not confirm or deny the UAE’s role in back-channel efforts to make the two South Asian neighbours return to the table of negotiation. Qureshi also spoke to Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud ahead of his visit to Dushanbe. Jaishankar had a bilateral meeting with Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif on the sideline of the Heart of Asia meet hours after arriving in Dushanbe. The MEA, however, remained silent about the possibility of his holding a bilateral meeting with the Foreign Minister of Pakistan. Asked if he is likely to hold a bilateral meeting with Qureshi during his stay in Dushanbe, Jaishankar said at an event last Friday that his schedule was still in progress but no engagement with Pakistan Foreign Minister had been scheduled till then. Qureshi, himself, purportedly said in Dushanbe on Monday that no bilateral meeting between him and Jaishankar had been scheduled so far. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on March 17 said that his counterpart Narendra Modi’s government in New Delhi would have to first make the move to restart the stalled bilateral dialogue between the two nations. The chief of the Pakistan Army, Gen Qamar Javed Bajwa, on March 18 said that it was time for his country and India to bury the past and move forward. India, however, put the onus back on Pakistan to create a conducive atmosphere for the resumption of the bilateral dialogue. “The onus is on Pakistan to create such a conducive atmosphere including by taking credible, verifiable and irreversible action to not allow any territory under its control to be used for cross border terrorism against India in any manner,” V Muraleedharan, the Minister of State for External Affairs, informed the Rajya Sabha in a written reply to a question on March 18. “India desires normal neighbourly relations with Pakistan and is committed to addressing issues, if any, bilaterally and peacefully in an atmosphere free of terror, hostility and violence.” New Delhi had suspended its formal bilateral talks with Islamabad in January 2013 after Pakistan Army personnel had brutally killed two Indian Army soldiers along the Line of Control (LoC) in J&K. Though the Modi Government had in December 2015 agreed to restart the engagement between the two neighbours as Comprehensive Bilateral Dialogue, the attacks on the Indian Air Force (IAF) base at Pathankot in Punjab and on the Indian Army’s brigade headquarters at Uri in J&K by the terrorist outfits based in Pakistan derailed the process. The Indian Army’s “surgical strike” on terrorist camps in Pakistan in September 2016, the terror attack on Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel at Pulwama in J&K and the retaliatory bombing by the Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on the terror camps in the neighbouring country in February 2019 worsened the relations between the two nations. Islamabad also launched a global campaign against New Delhi to protest against the Modi Government’s August 5, 2019 decision to strip J&K of its special status and reorganize it into two Union Territories. But when the armed forces of the two nations last month agreed to stop firing across the LoC and adhere to the 2003 ceasefire agreement, it fuelled speculation about back-channel talks between New Delhi and Islamabad for exploring the possibility of restarting the stalled bilateral dialogue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-qureshi-in-dushanbe-no-bilateral-meeting-scheduled-so-far-despite-speculation-968015.html
29-03-2021||National||Centre plans Khajuraho as convention destination||Known for its exquisite temples dating back to the 11th century, Khajuraho in Madhya Pradesh is top on the Centre’s charts for development as a destination for international conventions and exhibitions. The meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) hotspots in the country are located in the national capital region, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad, Goa, Bengaluru with destinations such as Agra, Pune, Ahmedabad vying to join the coveted list. “For MICE tourism, we need a good convention centre, sight-seeing opportunities so that participants can go back happy with good memories. In Khajuraho, we have it all,” Shiv Shekhar Shukla, Principal Secretary (Tourism), Madhya Pradesh government said. Last week, Tourism Minister Prahlad Singh Patel inaugurated the Maharaja Chhatrasal Convention Centre in Khajuraho built under the ‘Swadesh Darshan’ scheme to turn the town, known mostly for the erotic art some of the temple walls, into a destination for meetings and conferences. Spread over 14,880 sq ft, the convention centre could serve as a place to host meetings, conferences and corporate banquets – both large and small groups with visits to the group of temples and the Panna Tiger Reserve nearby. “We need to coordinate with the Archeological Survey of India to have special visiting hours for the participants of such conferences that could be in sync with their programme schedule,” Amaresh Tiwari, Vice Chairman of the India Convention Promotion Bureau said. He said the global share of the MICE tourism market was to the tune of $745 billion with India having a minuscule 1% toe-hold. Of the total MICE events over the world, 53% take place in Europe and 23% in the Asia-Pacific region. Among the Asia-Pacific countries, Dubai, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and Sri Lanka have emerged as popular MICE destinations. Tiwari said besides special timings for visits to and activities at ancient monuments, he expected the government to facilitate group bookings on trains or booking of entire trains for ferrying delegates to nearby tourist spots. Built between 950-1050 AD by the Chandela Dynasty, the Khajuraho temples depict various forms such as meditation, spiritual teachings, kinship, wrestling, royalty and most significantly, erotic art. The temples consist of stunning displays of fine sculptures and exceptional architectural skill, making them one of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India. The temples were built over a period of 100 years and it is believed that each Chandela ruler commissioned at least one temple in the complex during his lifetime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-plans-khajuraho-as-convention-destination-968093.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Congress lodges FIR against Sarbananda Sonowal, J P Nadda, eight Assam newspapers over BJP advertisement||The Congress has filed a police complaint against Assam Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal, BJP chief J P Nadda, state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass and eight leading newspapers for "camouflaging an advertisement as news" predicting the party's victory in all the seats in Upper Assam that went to polls in the first phase on March 27. The FIR was lodged with Dispur police station on Sunday night for allegedly violating the Model Code of Conduct (MCC), provisions of Section 126A of the Representation of People Act, 1951 and the ECI's directives issued on March 26, APCC Legal Department Chairman Niran Borah said. "This is a blatant violation of MCC, Representation of People Act, 1951 and the ECI's relevant instructions and media policies by BJP leaders and members, who after realising that their defeat is inevitable have resorted to desperate illegal and unconstitutional methods to influence the voters across the state," he said. "In a pre-planned conspiracy to deceive voters in the second and third phases, CM, BJP national president, state chief and other members of the party have knowingly issued advertisements camouflaged as headlines on front pages of various newspapers claiming that the BJP will win all the constituencies of Upper Assam," Borah said. The advertisements have been presented in a manner to "prejudice the mind of the voters and this deliberate, malicious and malafide set of advertisements are in clear violation of Section 126A of the Representation of People Act, 1951, which is punishable by two years of imprisonment and fine", he said. Moreover, the ECI's instructions, specific to Assam, had prohibited the dissemination of any form of prediction related to poll results between 7 am of March 27 till 7.30 pm of April 29, Borah said. "The publication of large-scale advertisements by the BJP falsely predicting the outcome of the current assembly election in their favour also amounts to a direct violation of the instructions," he said. The APCC further urged the police to take "prompt and necessary action" against those named in the complaint, including the newspapers. The state Congress had filed a complaint with the Assam Chief Electoral Officer Nitin Khade and the AICC with the Election Commission of India against the publication of the advertisements on Sunday urging immediate action against the BJP and the newspapers. An official at the CEO's office here had said on Sunday that the matter will be examined by the ECI. The leading English, Assamese, Hindi and Bengali newspapers that published the advertisements include The Assam Tribune, Asomiya Pratidin, Aamar Asom, Niyomia Barta, Asomiya Khabor, Dainik Asam, Dainik Jugasankha and Dainik Purvodaya. An estimated 79.93 per cent of the total 81.09 lakh voters exercised their franchise in 47 assembly constituencies during the first phase of polling in Assam on Saturday. Elections to 39 seats will be held in the second phase on April 1 and 40 in the third and final phase on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-lodges-fir-against-sarbananda-sonowal-j-p-nadda-eight-assam-newspapers-over-bjp-advertisement-967832.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Why was Amit Shah mum when Hathras took place: Mamata on death of elderly woman||Amid the furore over the death of an 82-year-old "mother of a BJP worker" in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Monday said she does not support violence against women and is not aware of the real reason behind the death and wondered why Union Home Minister Amit Shah remains silent when women are "tortured to death" in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. The BJP claimed that the elderly woman, a party worker's mother, succumbed to her injuries sustained during an attack by Trinamool Congress supporters in Nimta area of West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district last month. "I don't know how the sister has died. We don't support violence against women. We have never supported violence against my sisters and mothers. "But the BJP is now politicising the issue. Amit Shah is tweeting and saying Bengal Ka Kya Haal hain. Why does he remain mum when women are attacked and brutalised in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh?" Banerjee said while addressing a rally in Nandigram. Highlighting that Model Code of Conduct is in place, law and order is now under the jurisdiction of the ECI, Banerjee said, "Three Trinamool Congress workers have been killed in the last few days." The Union Home Minister tweeted in the morning, "Anguished over the demise of Bengals daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. টিএমসির গুন্ডাদের নির্মম অত্যাচারে আজ বাংলার কন্যা শোভা মজুমদার মহাশয়ার মৃত্যুতে আমি গভীরভাবে শোকাহত। এই পরিবারের গভীর ক্ষত আর ব্যথা দীর্ঘদিন মমতা দিদিকে বিদ্ধ করবে। হিংসামুক্ত ভবিষ্যত গড়তে,বাংলার মা-বোনেদের জন্য সুরক্ষিত রাজ্য গড়তে বাংলা লড়াই করবে। "The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/why-was-amit-shah-mum-when-hathras-took-place-mamata-on-death-of-elderly-woman-967884.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Family's pain will haunt Mamata Banerjee: Amit Shah on death of BJP member's mother in West Bengal||BJP leaders on Monday condoled the death of Shova Majumdar, the 85-year-old mother of a party worker in West Bengal who was allegedly attacked by Trinamool Congress (TMC) members, with Home Minister Amit Shah asserting that the state will fight for a violence-free tomorrow. Shah also said the pain and wounds of Majumdar's family will haunt West Bengal Chief Minister and TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee for long. "Anguished over the demise of Bengal's daughter Shova Majumdar ji, who was brutally beaten by TMC goons. The pain & wounds of her family will haunt Mamata didi for long. Bengal will fight for a violence-free tomorrow, Bengal will fight for a safer state for our sisters & mothers," he said in a tweet. টিএমসির গুন্ডাদের নির্মম অত্যাচারে আজ বাংলার কন্যা শোভা মজুমদার মহাশয়ার মৃত্যুতে আমি গভীরভাবে শোকাহত। এই পরিবারের গভীর ক্ষত আর ব্যথা দীর্ঘদিন মমতা দিদিকে বিদ্ধ করবে। হিংসামুক্ত ভবিষ্যত গড়তে,বাংলার মা-বোনেদের জন্য সুরক্ষিত রাজ্য গড়তে বাংলা লড়াই করবে। BJP president J P Nadda said Majumdar lost her life for being the mother of a worker of the saffron party and added that her sacrifice will be remembered forever. "She was also a mother of Bengal, a daughter of Bengal. The BJP will continue to fight for the safety of mothers and daughters," he wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/familys-pain-will-haunt-mamata-banerjee-amit-shah-on-death-of-bjp-members-mother-in-west-bengal-967891.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Will respond like a lion: Mamata Banerjee on 'hooliganism' in Nandigram||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday slammed the BJP over "hooliganism" in Nandigram.  Recalling the "attack" on her in Nandigram, Mamata said, "They attacked me. No one from Nandigram attacked me but you (BJP) brought goons from UP, Bihar. We want a free and fair election. If they come, women should beat them up with utensils." She further said that those who cannot love culture, cannot do politics in West Bengal. "Nandigram is witnessing hooliganism. We did a meeting in Birulia, TMC office destroyed. He's (Suvendu Adhikari) doing whatever he wants. I can play games too. I too will respond like a lion. I'm Royal Bengal tiger," she said at a rally in Nandigram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/will-respond-like-a-lion-mamata-banerjee-on-hooliganism-in-nandigram-967922.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||People in Tamil Nadu in favour of change, will vote for a secular, democratic govt, says CPI leader D Raja||The results of the elections in four states including Tamil Nadu and the union territory of Puducherry will reflect on the BJP-led government at the centre and also decide the country's future, CPI General Secretary D Raja said on Monday. The voters of Tamil Nadu have already decided to change the government, as they were against the 'fascist BJP and its puppet AIADMK', which have deprived the rights of the State and failed to protect the people, Raja told reporters here. "The people have already decided to oust the AIADMK, the appendage of the BJP for its failure to protect the rights of the state and citizens, and wanted to install a new secular, democratic government," he added. The CPI top leader said the results of the ensuing elections would reflect on the BJP-led government at the Centre, which could also lead to its downfall and also decide the country's future. Accusing the BJP of totally destroying the secular fabric of the country and welfare of the states, thus bending the Constitution, he said the saffron party wanted to implement RSS' ideology by dividing the people on the basis of language and religion. With its plan to privatise almost all the sectors, including 74 per cent in Defence and to hand over to the cronies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi like Adani and Ambani, the economy was now in recession, Raja said. BJP was 'throttling' democracy by registering cases under UAPA and sedition against dissent and by bringing in the three contentious farm laws, it wanted to create an open market for corporate houses, he alleged. Raja rejected charges of the Left parties being communal after they had joined hands with the Indian Secular Front (ISF) in West Bengal, saying the CPI always opposed communal and religious fundamentalism.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/people-in-tamil-nadu-in-favour-of-change-will-vote-for-a-secular-democratic-govt-says-cpi-leader-d-raja-967925.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Real fight in Assam is between Modi and Badruddin Ajmal: Himanta Biswa Sarma||The "real fight" in Assam is between the ideology propagated by Narendra Modi and Badruddin Ajmal, Assam minister and BJP's poll strategist, Himanta Biswa Sarma said in at least two election rallies on Monday, two days before second phase of elections in the state. Sarma'a attack on Ajmal is seen as his attempt to polarise voters ahead of second and third phase of elections on April 1 and April 6 respectively, where Muslim votes are likely to be crucial.  "It's not just a fight between BJP and Congress-AIUDF candidate. The real fight is between Modi and Ajmal and the ideologies that they stand for. Ajmal says if Congress-led government comes to power, they will open the Madrassas. Modiji says we need more engineering colleges and medical colleges. They want to make some mollahs not doctors or engineers. Ajaml says in his government, women will be encouraged to give birth to more and more children. So just imagine in what direction our society, our youths will go if they come to power," Sarma said at Bokoliaghat in tribal-dominated Karbi Anglong district and in Sipajhar in Darrang district. The BJP-led government in the state had earlier decided to stop all government-aided Madrassas saying that it was against providing religious education with government money.  "It's a fight between two ideologies. And so we must protect our ideology and culture from Ajaml by voting for BJP," Sarma said at Sipajhar, where BJP has fielded Paramananda Rajbongshi, former president of Asam Sahitya Sabha, the state's 100-year-old literary body.  Sarma had earlier said by aligning with Ajmal, Congress had poralised the elections as the AIUDF chief was a "threat to the composite Assamese culture". "Ajmal is propagating Miya language and culture (of the Bengali speaking Muslims), which must he stopped," Sarma had said earlier. BJP and its allies are likely to face tough fight from the Congress-led grand alliance in at least 33 Muslim dominated constituenices in Barak Valley (Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts) in the second phase and in Western Assam (Dhubri, South Salmara, Goalpara, Barpeta and Darrang districts) in the third and final phase. BJP had in 2016 won in several seats in these districts mainly due to division of Muslim votes between Congress and AIUDF.  Assam has 126 Assembly seats and election for 47 seats was held on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/real-fight-in-assam-is-between-modi-and-badruddin-ajmal-himanta-biswa-sarma-967938.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||Tamil Nadu election: Palaniswami targets Stalin over faith||Targeting his rival M K Stalin on the subject of faith, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday said AIADMK members were true believers and lashed out at the DMK leader for certain past controversial acts, including him allegedly 'wiping off' kumkum from his forehead. The AIADMK Joint Coordinator also recalled the alleged attack on late Chief Minister and then Leader of Opposition J Jayalalithaa in the Assembly in 1989, when the DMK was in power. "If that had been her plight, imagine that of the common man," Palaniswami, who has launched a full-scale attack against the DMK while seeking a third term for his party in the April 6 Assembly elections, told an election rally here. Speaking at T Nagar in support of party candidate B Sathyanarayanan, Palaniswami said Stalin has been speaking only about him and that he wished him long life in one of the meetings. "I am living because of the grace of God. We have devotion to God. Unlike you, we don't wipe off the sacred ash if we go to temple," he said, apparently referring to a past incident where Stalin allegedly removed the kumkum put on his forehead by some temple priests. "When Stalin went to the memorial of Thevar (revered leader Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar), Stalin threw away the sacred ash given there," he charged. Palaniswami further said that those with devotion to God will also have other characteristics like compassion and love. Stalin's rivals, especially the BJP, had been targeting him for being "anti-Hindu", with the leader hitting back at them saying there was an attempt to brand his DMK, known for rationalist ideology, and himself in such a colour. He had recently said that while his wife visits temples, many party leaders sport kumkum and the sacred ash. Palaniswami, recalling the 1989 episode, said the late M Karunanidhi was the then chief minister, as also the DMK president, when Jayalalithaa was allegedly assaulted in the Assembly. However, she vowed to return to the House as chief minister and did so two years later, he said at another election stop in the city. Taking a swipe at Stalin for not favourably responding to his calls for a debate on charges levied by the former against the government, Palaniswami said he was open for a discussion anywhere. "We have nothing to hide. I have said in many places that I'm ready for a debate on any dais. You are accusing us of irregularities, come to a common stage and point them out, am ready to reply. Let people give the judgement.. you should also respond to my charges regarding your (DMK)rule," he said. "But he is not responding. He has no stuff, so he is unable to come," the chief minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tamil-nadu-election-palaniswami-targets-stalin-over-faith-967972.html
29-03-2021||National Politics||No FIR against CM in gold smuggling: Congress alleges nexus between BJP-led NDA and LDF govts||Attacking the ruling left in poll-bound Kerala, the Congress on Monday alleged there seems to be some understanding between the BJP-led NDA and LDF governments due to which no FIR has been registered against the Chief Minister, three of his cabinet colleagues and the Assembly speaker in the gold smuggling case. The case has landed on the door of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, AICC general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala said. Not only the CM, but three of his cabinet colleagues and the Speaker have been named by Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the case, he claimed and pointed out that the former principal secretary to Vijayan was arrested by the probe agencies. "But Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government have not registered an FIR against the chief minister in the gold smuggling case nor have they acted against him," Surjewala told reporters. He also wanted to know what special relationship Vijayan enjoyed with Modi which prevented central agencies like the Enforcement Directorate from initiating action against the chief minister, his three ministers and Speaker. There seems to be a nexus between the CPI(M) and the BJP, he alleged. The gold smuggling case relates to the seizure of about 30 kg gold worth Rs 14.82 crore from a diplomatic baggage at Thiruvananthapuram International airport in July 2020, which is being probed by the Enforcement Directorate, Customs and the National Investigation Agency. M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the CM, now under suspension, was arrested in connection with the case and is on bail. The congress leader also wanted to know whether the LDF government was seeking to purchase 300 MW long term wind power from the Adani group for 25 years at an approximate cost of Rs 8,785 crore to the exchequer and people of Kerala. Surjewala said if the answer was in the affirmative, then perhaps the LDF government's protest against the handing over of the Thiruvananthapuram airport to the Adani group was a mere facade to "hoodwink" the larger understanding between the LDF and Centre. The Congress leader asked why the Left government was purchasing wind power at Rs 2.90 per unit when solar power was available at Rs 1.90 per unit and if the two governments "deliberately and consciously" had reduced the quota of solar power in the renewable energy basket from 2.75 per cent of total energy to 0.25 per cent to facilitate the purchase of power from the Adani group||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-fir-against-cm-in-gold-smuggling-congress-alleges-nexus-between-bjp-led-nda-and-ldf-govts-968045.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Huge cache of arms, ammunition seized in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district||Security forces have seized a cache of arms and ammunition, including five AK assault rifles, from an area close to the Line of Control in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara district, an army official said on Monday. "In a major success to security forces deployed in Karnah, a huge recovery was made in the late hours of Sunday owing to high state of alertness of the army and police," the official said. He said the security forces launched an operation based on specific intelligence input and recovered five AK rifles and seven pistols with several magazines and ammunition rounds. "The operation was conducted in very close proximity of the Line of Control in Dhanni village which is under direct observation of Pakistan Army posts in Lipa Valley," the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/huge-cache-of-arms-ammunition-seized-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-district-967798.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir continues to see a rise in Covid-19 cases||As the Covid-19 positive cases breached the 300-mark for the first time this year in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, the Union Territory government has instructed stricter enforcement of SOPs for containing the spread of the infection, instead of a lockdown. The number of Covid-19 positive cases has shown exponential growth from an average of below 100 cases per day in the first two weeks of March to over 300 cases a day. The last time J&K reported over 300 cases was in December last. Divisional Commissioner Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole, said that the rise in cases was a concern and that the government was monitoring the situation closely. “The government is in touch with opinion makers, religious heads, traders associations and other stakeholders to help increase adherence to mask guidelines. Stricter fines on people found without masks at public places have also been ordered,” he said. Pole said that the government was aggressively undertaking vaccination of all the high-risk groups and so-far over six lakh people have been vaccinated. Sources said the UT government had received instructions from the Union health ministry to impose lockdown or restrictions on gatherings if and when cases rise. “However the UT government is keeping that option as the last resort given the implications it will have and all stakeholders, including the business community, is being kept in a loop towards such steps,” they said and added a night curfew was also being discussed as a step that may be taken if the situation continues to worsen.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-continues-to-see-a-rise-in-covid-19-cases-967827.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Mehbooba Mufti denied passport over 'national security' concerns||As authorities refused to issue a passport to PDP president and former chief minister, Mehbooba Mufti, over “national security” concerns, J&K High Court on Monday dismissed her petition seeking a direction for the issuance of the document. Jammu and Kashmir High Court dismissed a petition filed by Mehbooba seeking a direction to the passport authority for the issuance of the passport to her. Justice Ali Mohammad Magray of Jammu and Kashmir High Court observed that her application for a passport was rejected by the passport officer, Srinagar as the police verification report recommended against the issuance of the document to her. “In such circumstances, I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of a passport in favour of the petitioner,” the judge said in his order. Earlier in the day Mehbooba while sharing a letter from Passport Office, Srinagar, tweeted, “Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation.” The letter No POSK/Court/2021/(177&78)/150-53 dated 26-03-2021 reads that the preliminary verification report (PVR) received from Additional Director General (ADG) of police, J&K CID has returned Mehbooba’s case as “NOT RECOMMENDED PASSPORT CATEGORY.” “In view of the J&K Criminal Investigation Department (CID) report, your case was found to attract refusal under Section 6 (2) (c) of the Passport Act, 1967. In view of the above, your application for issuance of passport is refused,” it adds. However, the PDP president is at liberty to file an appeal against the decision with the Chief Passport Officer, Ministry of External Affairs, Patiala House, New Delhi, in case she has any grievance with the order. The 61-year-old, who headed an alliance government with the BJP in J&K till June 2018, had applied for a fresh passport in December last year after the previous one expired. The former CM was put under preventive custody on August 5, 2019, the day the Central government revoked the special status of J&K under Article 370 and bifurcated the erstwhile state into union territories. She was released from detention last October but has been vocal in criticising the BJP government’s policies, especially on J&K. She has gone even to allege that the ruling BJP at the Centre was trying to replace the constitution of the country with its party manifesto. However, she is facing multiple charges including being in touch with Hizbul Mujahideen militants and one of her trusted lieutenant’s has been accused by the National Investigation Agency of giving Rs 5 crore to Hurriyat Conference for keeping secessionist activities alive in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mehbooba-mufti-denied-passport-over-national-security-concerns-967849.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Mehbooba Mufti denied passport over ‘national security’ concerns||In your evening news brief, Mehbooba Mufti denied passport over ‘national security’ concerns; MV Ever Given, the container ship stuck in the Suez canal, moves 80% in the right direction and Lebanon parliamentary speaker Nabih Berri says that country would sink like the Titanic if it could not form a government.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of March 29, 2021: PDP president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti was not issued a passport over “national security” concerns under the Passport Act 1967. “Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex-Chief Minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she tweeted while sharing a letter from the Passport Office, Srinagar.   The enormous container ship blocking the Suez Canal for almost a week has been turned 80 per cent in the right direction, officials said Monday, raising hopes the vital trade route could soon be clear. But its owner said that while the giant ship "has turned", it was still not yet fully unwedged. The MV Ever Given, longer than four football fields, became wedged diagonally across the canal during a sandstorm last Tuesday, strangling world supply chains and costing the global economy billions.   Influential parliamentary speaker Nabih Berri said on Monday that Lebanon would sink like the Titanic if it could not form a government. Prime minister-designate Saad al-Hariri and President Michel Aoun have been at loggerheads over a new cabinet for months, dashing hopes of a reversal of Lebanon's deepening financial meltdown. The assembly was due to discuss a $200 million emergency fund to pay for fuel for Lebanon's electricity company. The energy ministry has said there are no funds to pay for imports beyond March. Source: DHNS/ AFP/ Reuters||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-mehbooba-mufti-denied-passport-over-national-security-concerns-967894.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||J&K: BDC member, cop killed in Sopore militant attack, civilian injured||A block development council (BDC) member and a policeman were killed and a civilian was injured in a militant attack outside the municipality office in Sopore area of north Kashmir’s Baramulla district on Monday. A police official said that BDC member Reyaz Ahmad Peer of Ningli, Sopore, and special police officer (SPO) Shafqat Khan and a civilian, Shamas Din Peer, were seriously injured when militants opened fire on them. The injured were shifted to a hospital where Peer and Khan succumbed to their injuries. The civilian has been referred to Srinagar for specialized treatment. “#Terrorists fired at Municipal Office #Sopore. In this #terror incident, police personnel Shafqat Ahmad & councillor Riyaz Ahmad got #martyred & councillor Shams-ud-din Peer got injured. Injured shifted to hospital for treatment. Area cordoned off & further details shall follow,” J&K police said in a tweet. According to eyewitnesses, a meeting of BDC chairperson Fareeda Khan of the Langate, Handwara was being held at the Dak Bungalow, Sopore, when the militants opened fire. Meanwhile, former chief minister and National Conference leader, Omar Abdullah condemned the attack. “News coming in of a militant attack on the municipal office in Sopore. My unequivocal condemnation of this attack together with my sympathies for the deceased & prayers for the injured (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-bdc-member-cop-killed-in-sopore-militant-attack-civilian-injured-967905.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||BJP names Mahesh Jeena as its bypoll candidate from Salt in Uttarakhand||The BJP on Monday named Mahesh Jeena as its candidate for the Salt Assembly constituency in Almora district of Uttarakhand, where a bypoll is scheduled to be held on April 17. The bypoll to the seat was necessitated after the untimely death of MLA  Surendra Singh Jeena due to Covid-19 in November last year. Mahesh Jeena is the elder brother of Surendra Singh Jeena, who enjoyed the reputation of being an energetic and farsighted leader dedicated to the development of his constituency. By fielding Mahesh Jeena from the seat, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) hopes to reap the advantage of his late brother's good work in his constituency and the sympathy factor. Mahesh Jeena will file his nomination on Tuesday, the last date for the filing of nominations for the bypoll, state BJP media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said. According to the voters' list prepared in January, there are 95,241 voters in the Salt Assembly constituency -- 48,682 men and 46,559 women.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-names-mahesh-jeena-as-its-bypoll-candidate-from-salt-in-uttarakhand-967910.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi logs over 1,900 Covid-19 cases; positivity rate rises to 2.77%||Delhi recorded over 1,900 Covid-19 cases on Monday, the highest in around three-and-a-half months, while the positivity rate rose to 2.77 per cent, the Health Department said.   Six more people succumbed to the disease, taking the death toll to 11,012, it said. The 1,904 new infections pushed the tally to 6,59,619, while over 6.40 lakh patients have recovered from the virus, it said.  This is the highest number of cases since December 13 when 1,984 people tested positive for the virus, according to official data.  The city had recorded 1,881 cases on Sunday, 1,558 cases on Saturday, 1,534 cases on Friday, 1,515 cases on Thursday, 1,254 cases on Wednesday and 1,101 cases on Tuesday -- the first time since December 24 that the number of cases crossed the 1,000 mark. The positivity rate was 2.35 per cent on Sunday, 1.70 per cent on Saturday, 1.80 per cent on Friday, 1.69 per cent on Thursday, 1.52 per cent on Wednesday, 1.31 per cent on Tuesday, and 1.32 per cent on Monday. The active cases rose to 7,545 on Monday from 6,625 the previous day. A total of 68,805 tests, including 52,490 RT-PCR tests, were conducted a day ago, the bulletin said.  The number of people under home isolation rose to 4,639 on Monday from 4,237 a day ago. The containment zones rose to 1,849 from 1,710 on Sunday, it said. The caseload in Delhi on January 1 had stood at over 6.25 lakh and the total fatalities were 10,557. The number of daily cases had started to come down in February. On February 26, the month's highest daily count of 256 cases was recorded.  However, the daily cases started to rise again in March and it has been steadily increasing over the past few days. Health Minister Satyendar Jain had on Saturday dismissed any possibility of imposing another lockdown in Delhi, saying it was not a solution to check the spread of the coronavirus that is again surging rapidly. The minister had said there were enough hospital beds available for coronavirus patients and it could be increased if the need arises. Health experts and doctors have attributed this "sudden rise" in cases to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behaviour and "assuming all is well now". The next two-three months could be challenging, they said, adding the situation can be kept under control if vaccination is opened up for more people and Covid-19 protocols are strictly adhered to.   The Delhi Disaster Management Authority had on Tuesday ordered that there will be no public celebrations in the national capital during upcoming festivals such Holi and Navaratri. Jain had said action will be taken against those found violating the directions issued for Holi celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-logs-over-1900-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-rises-to-277-967943.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||J&K admin rolls out policy for houseboats in Dal and Nigeen lakes||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday rolled out a policy aimed at regulating the functioning of the houseboats moored in the world-famous Dal and Nigeen lakes by adopting the models of sustainable and responsible tourism. Under the new policy, the houseboats are required to be registered online, subject to the fulfilment of various conservation parameters, within 30 days from the date of notification of the policy, an official spokesperson said here. Keeping in view the carrying capacities, the tourism department has capped the number of houseboats in both lakes at 910. The spokesperson said the Administrative Council, which met under the chairmanship of Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha, approved the rollout of the policy and guidelines for a sustainable operation of houseboats in the twin lakes, star attraction for the tourists visiting Srinagar. "In a bid to preserve the marine ecosystem of the lakes, the new policy aims to regulate the functioning of the houseboats moored in the Dal and Nigeen lakes by adopting the models of sustainable and responsible tourism," he said. The spokesperson said the policy envisages providing a pleasant experience to tourists and a sustainable source of living to the stakeholders while preserving the fragile ecosystem. He said the houseboats and the associated structures are required to be fitted with bio-digesters for a scientific treatment of solid or liquid waste in accordance with the approved design of the Lakes and Waterways Development Authority, besides ensuring the availability of adequate fire safety equipment, along with trained staff to be verified by the fire and emergency services department. The policy lays down regulations for ancillary facilities such as kitchens, lodging, furniture, first-aid, electricity, power back-up, sanitary fittings and shikara for navigation, the spokesperson said. He said the policy also ensures availability of minimum basic facilities to the tourists to be categorised on the basis of the different classes of the houseboats. The policy includes provisions for undertaking repairs on damaged, dilapidated and abandoned houseboats, and revival of cruise boats and donga cruise, the spokesperson said. Moreover, he said the policy provides for the constitution of an advisory committee under the chairmanship of the Director, Tourism, Kashmir to look into the conservation of the lakes in relation to the functioning of the houseboats while recommending measures to increase the tourist influx in a sustainable manner. Additionally, a regulatory committee headed by the Deputy Director, Tourism will also be constituted for ensuring compliance with the norms and procedures laid down in the policy, the spokesperson added. He said the policy bridges the aspirations of all the stakeholders while complying with the directions of the high court in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-rolls-out-policy-for-houseboats-in-dal-and-nigeen-lakes-967948.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir okays 7 new trekking routes in protected wildlife areas to develop state||In a mega push to promote eco-tourism in Jammu and Kashmir, the Administrative Council headed by Lt Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday approved development of seven new trekking routes in various protected wildlife areas. It also okayed opening up of existing infrastructure and resources of the forest department to tourists and wildlife enthusiasts to sustainably promote tourism in the forest hinterland without disturbing the ecological balance in the protected areas, a spokesperson said. He said the decisions would allow online booking of 29 forest rest houses and inspection huts in Kashmir and Jammu divisions, under a common brand and logo from May 1. The department of Forest, Ecology and Environment has been directed to put in place a user-friendly online portal for booking identified rest houses on a first-come, first-serve basis according to their availability and intake capacity, the spokesperson said. He said the department was directed to refurbish and open another batch of 58 rest houses and huts to tourists by July 1.  These accommodations are located in different forest divisions at the quaintest places amid pristine nature, he said, adding till now they were reserved for forest officers to be utilized only during official tours. The spokesperson said the administrative council approved development of new trekking routes in Bahu Conservation Reserve, Sudhmahadev Conservation Reserve, Thein Wildlife Conservation Reserve, Tral Wildlife Sanctuary-Dachigam National Park-Overa-Aru Wildlife Sanctuary, Thajwas Wildlife Sanctuary, Khrew Wildlife Conservation Reserve-Dachigam National Park-Khonmoh Conservation Reserve, and Khrew Wildlife Conservation Reserve. "The trekking avenues range from short day-long treks up and down mountain slopes to long trans-mountain traverses involving a week of trekking and camping in the wilderness," he said. "Now that youth across India are inclined more towards adventure activities, these treks will be developed as well sought-after destinations for trekkers. The development of these trekking routes will provide gainful employment to the local population and tap the adventure/eco-tourism potential of the Union Territory," the spokesperson said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-okays-7-new-trekking-routes-in-protected-wildlife-areas-to-develop-state-967983.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||3 ex-legislators from NC, PDP join Sajad Lone's JKPC||The Sajad Lone-led Jammu and Kashmir People's Conference received a shot in the arm as three former legislators from the NC and the PDP joined the party here on Monday. Former minister Syed Basharat Bukhari, who recently left the National Conference; former MLA Peer Mansoor, who was associated with the People's Democratic Party since its formation; and former MLC Khurshid Aalam, who had joined the PDP after retiring from services, joined the JKPC at a function here. The trio was welcomed into the JKPC by party chairman Lone and other senior leaders. Bukhari said he was happy and given respect in the NC but "I could not get much done". "Many people came to me asking me to float a new party, but my conscience did not allow me to float another party as it would have led to the further division of votes," he said. "I think I am the first one from south Kashmir to join the JKPC. I am proud to be a part of this new team," he added. Bukhari described Lone as a very practical and sincere man. Speaking to reporters, Lone said, "It is with great pleasure that we welcome the three senior leaders of Jammu and Kashmir into our party. We are very happy that they have joined us and our party will benefit immensely from their experience." He said the three former legislators were joining a political movement and expressed hope that in the coming years, the JKPC would "play a great and a pivotal role in contributing to the state of J&K, to the politics of J&K". "I am hopeful that this caravan of change will get stronger and we will try to play a constructive role in the extraordinary situation in J&K and navigate it through the troubled waters," he added. Asked about his party's stand on the revocation of Article 370, Lone said the special status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir can be restored either in the Supreme Court or the parliament. "We were among the first ones to challenge it (the revocation of Article 370) in the Supreme Court. That is one institution. The other is the people of India, which is the parliament. There is no magic wand other than these," he said. Lone said the people of Kashmir have to engage with the people of India and cannot possibly "dream" of getting Article 370 back by not engaging with them. "You have to engage with them. The ball is in their court and they will decide whether you get it back or not and we have to tell this to our people. The more you speak negatively or irritate them, the more you confirm that it won't return. "The more you engage with them, clear misunderstandings with them, clear the image that has been created about us, the more you are going to win the sympathy of those people - the people, the Union government and the opposition," he said. Lone said the reality is that "we have failed our people". "None among us has gone to talk to them, be it the ruling party or the opposition. I think there is scope and space and we can do things differently. It is a very difficult task, but not impossible," he said. Lone also condemned the militant attack in Sopore earlier in the day in which a block development council (BDC) member and his personal security guard were killed and a civilian injured. "We have always condemned violence in all its forms. It is a reprehensible act committed by the enemies of Kashmir," the JKPC chairman said. Militants opened fire on BDC member Reyaz Ahmad and his security guard Shafat Ahmad outside the municipality office in Sopore. They both died on the spot while a civilian sustained injuries in the attack, according to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-ex-legislators-from-nc-pdp-join-sajad-lones-jkpc-967987.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Severe heat wave in Delhi, highest temperature in March since 1945, says IMD||Delhi reeled under a "severe heatwave" on the day of Holi, as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a maximum temperature of 40.1 degrees Celsius, which was eight notches more than normal, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre. "It is the hottest day in March since March 31, 1945, when the national capital recorded a maximum of 40.5 degrees Celsius," he said. The weather stations at Najafgarh, Narela, Pitampura and Pusa recorded maximums of 41.8 degrees Celsius, 41.7 degrees Celsius, 41.6 degrees Celsius, and 41.5 degrees Celsius, the IMD said. The city's minimum temperature settled at 20.6 degrees Celsius, three notches more than normal. For the plains, a "heatwave" is declared when the maximum temperature is more than 40 degrees Celsius, and at least 4.5 notches above normal.  A "severe" heatwave is declared if departure from normal temperature is more than 6.5 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/severe-heat-wave-in-delhi-highest-temperature-in-march-since-1945-says-imd-968031.html
29-03-2021||North and Central||Rajasthan assembly bypolls: Congress candidates to file nominations on March 30||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and other Congress leaders will address public rallies on Tuesday when the party's candidates file nominations for the April 17 by-elections in three assembly constituencies. The rallies in Sujangarh (Churu district), Sahara (Bhilwara) and Rajsamand will be addressed by Gehlot, AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, state party chief Govind Singh Dotasra and former deputy CM Sachin Pilot. The Congress has fielded former minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal's son from the Sujangarh assembly seat which fell vacant after his death last year. Manoj Meghwal is pitted against BJP leader and former minister Khemaram Meghwal. Bhanwarlal Meghwal, who was the state social justice and empowerment minister, died of brain stroke in November. For the Sahara assembly constituency, the Congress, the ruling party in Rajasthan, has fielded Gayatri Devi against BJP candidate and former MLA Ratanlal Jat. This seat fell vacant after Gayatri Devi's husband Kailash Trivedi died in October after being infected with COVID-19. Tansukh Bohara will be contesting the bypolls from the Rajsamand assembly constituency, which fell vacant after Kiran Maheshwari died due to the coronavirus infection in November last year. Bohara, a social worker, has been fielded by Congress against Maheshwari's daughter and BJP candidate Deepti Maheshwari. Polling in these three constituencies will be held on April 17 from 7 am to 6 pm, and counting will take place on May 2. Tuesday is the last date of filing nomination papers. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on March 31 and nominations can be withdrawn by April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-assembly-bypolls-congress-candidates-to-file-nominations-on-march-30-968069.html
29-03-2021||Oasis||Saluting the human spirit ||A year ago, when Covid-19 became a global pandemic, everyone across countries, became equally vulnerable.  Millions got infected and scores of the others lived with the anxiety of getting infected.  It was in the midst of this situation that the floodgates of the virtues held high through the ages were opened. As the suffering multitude was beginning to be submerged in the calamity, others better placed rose like the waves of a tsunami to extend their help.  They reached out in large numbers from every nook and cranny. In our own country Good Samaritans rushed to the highways to quench the thirst and feed the hunger of those trudging unimaginable miles in the sweltering summer heat to reach their home towns during the lockdown.  Corona warriors were out in the open carrying food and buying medicines for the elderly and the sick.   Doctors and nurses found a fresh calling to their vocation, one that demanded them to put their own lives in the back burner and to care for the infected jeopardizing their well-being. They dared and risked their very lives in treating the infected, several selflessly succumbing to the contagion in the process. Many landlords waived the rent of their tenants who had lost their jobs. Several ordinary individuals continued paying salaries to their domestic help, drivers and cooks even if they could not render their services. Thousands and thousands of others found a new purpose to their lives working from home and living in isolation, a purpose in being benevolent to all; a purpose that was born out of gratitude for life’s many unseen blessings now wholly visible in the wake of a pandemic.     It was these incredible acts of goodness and kindness that eventually saw the masses of one of the world’s most populous countries tide through what can be termed as one of the darkest periods in the history of modern India.  A year after the onset of Covid-19, we bemoan the grave misfortunes that fell on us for no obvious fault of ours. We lament the inexplicable ways in which our lives have been morphed. Yet, we salute the human spirit that braved the catastrophe and shone with kindness, illuminating the dark days of the pandemic through the last one year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/saluting-the-human-spirit-967695.html
29-03-2021||Oasis||Body, mind and soul||It has been a year since the first lockdown and the pandemic has had an impact on individuals of varying temperaments. In some sense, everyone has been contemplating things. Hopes and the fears which stem from desire have taken the form of toning the physical, fine-tuning the mental, and perhaps simplifying the spiritual. The more physical among us have made a survival statement by drawing up a list of desires to be fulfilled. It is not surprising that the priority is the comfort of the most basic need, food. Experiments with health foods, nutritional foods and foods made at home have never in recent times been more enthusiastic or widespread. Traditional flavours have been revisited with newfound respect and hope bordering on faith. The cerebral population has turned to the mind. The powers of the mind are being viewed and challenged with awe. Language, creative arts, psychology and the fine arts are all being used as stressbusters. Mental health is no longer taboo. It is discussed openly. The fear of a doctor’s waiting room has given a chance to the mind to guide the body in healing itself. Hypochondria seems to have been put on the backburner. For the spiritual, it is still mainly religion, but the ritual and superstition may be abating. The desire to assert moral superiority has been tempered by the forced realisation that both life and the world one lives in are not as stable or enduring as one assumes them to be. Such a realisation puts the focus back on day-to-day existence in a virtuous manner so that every minute becomes meaningful. Both hope and fear, which come from the mistaken notion that the world and life are enduring, shackle the freedom to live virtuously which is indeed the nature of the spiritual.  This freedom enhances not just the moral but also the physical and mental well-being of the individual. Actions, decisions and judgements made with such freedom and detachment from desire make life meaningful in itself. In such a scenario society would become a reflection of the individual: physically strong, mentally enduring and tolerant, and morally the conscience keeper of all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/body-mind-and-soul-968085.html
29-03-2021||Opinion||Buying a Tesla with Bitcoin defeats the purpose of buying an EV||By Liam Denning Tesla Inc. has begun accepting Bitcoin as payment for vehicles in the US. This could be a clever marketing strategy, a way of bolstering the value of the company’s own crypto-bet, or perhaps just something to do. Maybe it’s all three. One thing it isn’t: compatible with Tesla’s green credentials. “Mining” Bitcoin is energy-intensive. The computers competing to log and verify the transactions underpinning, and securing, the cryptocurrency demand electricity — currently as much as used by the entirety of Finland, according to one estimate. Unfortunately, most Bitcoin mining doesn’t happen in Finland, where power generation is low-carbon. Bitcoin miners, like any other miners, want to keep costs down — and China has some of the cheapest power in the world (roughly half Finland’s industrial tariff, for example). More than two-thirds of Bitcoin mining is believed to occur in China, where coal is the fuel of choice for generating electricity. A common criticism of electric vehicles is that their plugs are ultimately tethered to fossil-fuel plants, making them less green than advertised. It’s a gotcha well past its prime: Even in China, a passenger EV will, on average, generate 38 per cent lower carbon emissions over its lifetime than a comparable vehicle with an internal combustion engine. Pay for that EV in Bitcoin, however, and things change — although not in a straightforward way. It’s impossible to know the exact power consumption and carbon footprint of the Bitcoin mining sector. But Bank of America made some estimates in a report published earlier this month. What was interesting about their analysis was the linkage between Bitcoin’s price and likely emissions. As with anything else that gets mined, a rising price for Bitcoin attracts more miners. The resulting increase in network complexity is an essential security feature guarding against hackers (also attracted by those rising prices). But this means a corresponding increase in the computation rate of the network; it’s up by an estimated 60 per cent over the past year alone, according to Blockchain.com. This increasing complexity is a treadmill, and one which, despite more efficient mining hardware, causes energy consumption to keep rising.  Meanwhile, Bitcoin’s supply is both capped and in relatively few hands. New supply is designed to halve every four years, and an estimated 95 per cent of the existing amount is controlled by less than 3 per cent of accounts. Leave aside what this says about the actual usefulness of Bitcoin as a means of exchange as opposed to a coal furnace with a gambling habit. The point is that it means relatively small inflows of capital can move the price by a lot. BofA estimates a $93 million inflow would move the price up by 1 per cent. In comparison, moving gold’s price by that much requires about $2 billion, BofA estimates. So now consider Tesla. In February, the company announced it had put $1.5 billion into Bitcoin and was planning to let buyers transact with it. That sparked a renewed rally, ultimately taking the price of a Bitcoin from $40,000 all the way up to $60,000 (it’s bouncing around the mid-$50,000s now). By BofA’s calculation, a fresh $1 billion inflow would raise the price of Bitcoin by 11 per cent — and the associated increase in electricity consumption by miners generates an extra 5.4 million tons of carbon emissions. By the same math, a $1.5 billion inflow equates to 8.1 million tons. That is equivalent to the average life-cycle carbon savings of almost 238,000 electric vehicles in the US — more than the estimated number of Model 3s produced in the US last year. The corresponding figure for China would be almost 475,000 EVs. Now consider someone handing over one freshly minted Bitcoin today for a Model 3 with a performance upgrade (roughly $55,000 before incentives). The implied carbon footprint, under BofA’s math, is almost 300 tons — or almost nine times the estimated reduction in emissions for a vehicle of that sort over its lifetime. In actuality, an individual driver using that Bitcoin isn’t directly using energy in the process (or it’s an immaterial amount). Similarly, a consumer buying a new Bitcoin for the sole purpose of turning around and handing it over to Tesla for a new car also wouldn’t on their own move the price of the cryptocurrency itself in a meaningful way. The point is that, in aggregate, as enthusiasm for Bitcoin increases, and the price responds to relatively small inflows, so the associated energy consumption and emissions will rise. It’s impossible to apportion the exact role of say, Elon Musk’s tweets, Tesla’s own investment or the opening of vehicle sales to cryptocurrency purchases in all this. Together, though, the blend of cultish celebrity, hard cash and transactional potential enhance Bitcoin’s allure and thereby push its price higher. The individual, crypto-loving driver isn’t negating emissions savings from their vehicle; but they are participating in a strange ecosystem that will tend to do so. And much as I enjoy Finland, two would be an extravagance. The same goes for several other fine countries. BofA has estimated the emissions associated with Bitcoin at different prices. At $100,000 — roughly double today’s level and more than enough for a Model S — implied emissions rise to about those of Nigeria, Africa’s largest economy. And so on.  In melding its fortunes with those of Bitcoin, Tesla gambles with recently raised investor dollars, gives everyone a chuckle and its accountants a headache. It also lends its considerable weight to an ethereal phenomenon with real-world effects that undercut the company’s purported mission.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/buying-a-tesla-with-bitcoin-defeats-the-purpose-of-buying-an-ev-967932.html
29-03-2021||Panorama||Thackeray govt faces massive challenges on many fronts||Maharashtra is witnessing a never-seen-before political turmoil thanks to eyeball-to-eyeball fight on a daily basis between the opposition BJP and the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi. The government is in constant threat of `Operation Lotus’ engineered often by the BJP in other states. In October-November, 2019, when Shiv Sena broke ties with its nearly three-decade-old saffron partner and joined ranks with Congress and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) of Sharad Pawar, both Sena supremo Uddhav Thackeray and Pawar were well aware that the sailing for the “Trimurti government” would not be smooth. In the last 16 months, the MVA has faced one problem or another besides the Covid-19 pandemic - the Palghar mob lynching, cases of death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput, talent manager Disha Salian, regular spats with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the BJP-led Centre often targeting it, Kangana Ranaut episode, the action against Republic Media Network’s Arnab Goswami in the Anvay Naik suicide case and the TRP manipulation scam and so on. Besides, there were natural disasters like the Nisarga cyclone and heavy rains, and incidents like the Bhandara hospital fire in which 10 infants died, not to forget Enforcement Directorate action against senior Shiv Sena leaders Pratap Sarnaik, Sanjay Raut’s wife even as senior politician Eknath Khadse switched over from BJP to NCP. In the midst of all these, Pawar managed to ensure that the MVA remains intact and the government functions. But when on February 25, as a Mahindra Scorpio SUV laden with gelatin sticks and a threatening letter was found near Antilia, the Mumbai residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, things took a different turn. With this leading to several twists and turns, the MVA boat seemed to be in rough waters with their leaders and troubleshooters working overtime. It was now the right moment for Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis to hit back – and he ensured that he got all the information before Thackeray and state’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh - and put the government on the mat. Even as the NIA took over the Scorpio case, the government tasked the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) to investigate the Mansukh Hiren case and made two arrests. The NIA later took over the Mansukh Hiren case as well. The matter did not end here – Param Bir Singh was shunted out and made the Commandant General of Home Guards. But Singh has his own plans – and he shot off a letter to Thackeray saying that Deshmukh demanded Rs 100 crore per month from Vaze - and also mentioned that the same was briefed to him, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar and the NCP supremo himself. He also went to the Supreme Court demanding a CBI probe into the allegations against the minister and challenged his transfer, however, was asked to move Bombay High Court, which he did. Incidentally, Singh’s son is married to BJP leader Datta Meghe’s granddaughter. A judicial enquiry has now been ordered into the charges against Deshmukh. Fadnavis disclosures Meanwhile, Sanjay Pandey, a 1986-batch officer, too has moved the court against the state government saying that he was ignored yet again for the post of Maharashtra police chief and his junior Rajneesh Seth was given the top job. Fadnavis then came out with an intelligence report – prepared by then Commissioner of State Intelligence Department Rashmi Shukla and forwarded by then Director General of Police Subodh Jaiswal to Thackeray - pointing out that a racket of brokers and people with political links are operating cash-for-promotions-and-transfers racket. The MVA has accused Shukla of being a “BJP agent” and questioned the unauthorised phone-tapping. Fadnavis last week met Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla seeking a CBI probe into the issue. A report prepared by Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte, who then headed the Home Department, had said that Shukla had exceeded the brief and that no one had sanctioned phone tapping. He added that she had apologised and withdrew the report. “The political situation is in a state of turmoil," said Prakash Akolkar, veteran political analyst, who has seen Maharashtra politics closely for 40-plus years. "The government is safe, at least as of now. Much depends on the results of the Assembly elections in five states and how BJP will perform. As far as the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government is concerned, it has lost credibility because of corruption charges and acting on various issues late. The government had started off on a good note and a lot was expected given the vast experience of the ministers but the Covid-19 pandemic emerged as a big challenge and other issues are just compounding the situation." Top leaders including Pawar and Thackeray had repeatedly said that the government was stable. “The BJP is daydreaming that it will collapse … and the Centre is trying to destabilise the government,” said Sena leader Sanjay Raut. Close Pawar aide and state’s Housing Minister Jitendra Ahwad said: “The phone-tapping was done with a plan to topple the government. Phone-tapping led to the resignation of (US President) Richard Nixon ... we also know about the fall of the then Chief Minister Ramakrishna Hegde’s government in Karnataka.” The MVA government faces a big challenge as it gets embroiled in several controversies – facing cases in the Bombay High Court, an officer close to ruling Shiv Sena gets entangled in an NIA probe, a Home Minister facing a judicial inquiry etc. Right now, the coalition government is struggling to come out clean.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/thackeray-govt-faces-massive-challenges-on-many-fronts-967692.html
29-03-2021||Panorama||Tuberculosis remains a big challenge||Tuberculosis (TB) is a communicable disease that is a major cause of ill health and one of the top 10 causes of death worldwide. According to WHO in 2019 a total of 1.5 million people died worldwide because of TB making it a major public health crisis. According to WHO, India reports for a quarter of all global and multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) cases. Unfortunately, only 58% of overall estimated new and relapsing TB cases are notified in India. According to the latest report by WHO, the number of people who were provided with TB preventive treatment had increased four times from 1 million in 2015 to over 4 million in 2019. However, the Covid-19 pandemic threatens to unwind the gains made over recent years. The impact of the pandemic on TB services has been severe since there is a sharp decrease in TB notifications in 2020 in the country like India where the TB burden is the highest. In an annual report issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), India TB Report 2020, it was reported that up to four lakh TB patients went missing or unreported. There is an urgent need for both private and public health care sectors, to collaborate and build a strong surveillance system with a proper framework for notifying new, existing, missing and relapsed patients.  The early accurate diagnosis followed by prompt appropriate treatment is vital for ending TB. The conventional detection of TB is through microscopic examination in the smears of clinical specimens. Although smear remains the mainstay for diagnosis in resource-poor countries, it cannot easily differentiate between the Mycobacterial species. Culture-based identification although the gold standard, is time-consuming, requiring 2–6 weeks to produce results and is labour-intensive. WHO recommends the use of Nucleic Acid Amplification Tests (NAAT) as the initial diagnostic test for TB.  Among the currently available NAAT, the Xpert MTB/RIF Assay (CB-NAAT), the Line Probe Assay (LPA) and the Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification (LAMP) are endorsed by WHO for in vitro diagnosis of TB. These popular tests are excellent for rapid detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and screening of drug resistance. However, there is still a gap in the market that accurately profiles drug resistance mechanism for the causative organism in a TB patient, which can help the treating clinician take an informed decision on which treatment regimen to be prescribed. While phenotypic drug susceptibility test provides physical proof of whether the drug will act or not on a culture grown from the patient’s sample, sophisticated molecular techniques provide a much-detailed view of the infection. Keeping in mind this burning issue, we have developed a test that sequences the entire genome of the causative organism from the sputum sample directly and performs drug resistance profiling. Because it is as easy as spitting and then sequencing, we have named the test “SPIT-SEQ”. SPIT SEQ is a comprehensive approach that does direct sputum based whole genome sequencing test for diagnosis and drug resistance profiling in pulmonary tuberculosis. This test provides insights to the treating clinician for informed treatment decisions that are tailored as per the causative organism of an individual TB patient. In a country where we have a significant number of MDR-TB patients, SPIT SEQ fits as the best solution as it gives a detailed analysis of drug resistance-related mutations present in any TB bacteria causing drug resistance. The phenotypic drug susceptibility test that is currently used for drug resistance profiling is more time consuming and do not provide data regarding the gene mutations which are associated with drug resistance.  Just like many other infectious diseases, TB has also been sidelined due to the Covid-19 pandemic. However, the pandemic did teach us the importance and need for faster and accurate molecular diagnostics and the infrastructure required for it. This pandemic has also shown that how governments, public and private health care organizations, professionals, and policymakers have come together—to fight against Covid-19. I believe that lessons learnt from Covid-19 pandemic should be applied to TB. Thus, the medical infrastructure for TB diagnosis and prognosis should be reworked upon based on learnings and innovations brought in due to Covid-19.  (The writer is CEO, MedGenome Labs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/tuberculosis-remains-a-big-challenge-968082.html
29-03-2021||Right in the Middle||Private or public?||An uncle of ours discovered a video of a nephew crooning away on social media. When he saw the gifted young man who he had known from the time the singer had been an infant, his avuncular affection only strengthened. He promptly shared the vocalist’s prowess on his social media platform. One kin commented that the alto’s parents were unaware of the existence of this show.  Within a day’s time, the hero of the recital  was engulfed with attention in his family circles. He flew into a fit of rage. He had uploaded his video on a network exclusively created for his friends. He felt that his privacy had been breached despite all the caution he had exercised. He sulked for a while before coming to terms with what had happened. In retrospection, the adulation he received soothed the ethos of the singer in him, for he knew that the many who had commented were quite accomplished in the field. Further reflection made him realise that expecting his kin to respect his confidentiality was illogical. After all, he had publicised his talent on a public platform albeit under a pseudo profile. His attitude underwent a sea of change. From then on, the chastened singer’s posts gained character. He decided have a uniform identity across social media. He uploaded worthy posts infrequently yet inimitably. The episode of the chastened young adult ended on a good note. However, not all incidents end similarly. Picture the current scenario. People are spending most of their waking hours online. They are using technology to update themselves, to work and mainly to stay connected with their loved ones. Given the nature of the human mind to wander, they spend quite a bit of time peeking through other people’s posts too. They feel tickled when they see a fake profile with filtered information about some people they know personally. When people have the option to react or comment on the various happenings there is little chance that they will let go of the opportunity to do so.  On the one hand, people are merrily sharing innocuous private moments of their lives publicly on the other hand they get terribly rattled when they receive undesirable or caustic reactions on their posts. If one cannot maintain equanimity no matter what the responses to their posts they must either refrain from advertising their status or learn to take the bouquets and brickbats with grace.   Won’t life become easier if we integrated our private and public image and live up to Joyce Meyer’s definition of integrity by being the same in public as in private?||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/private-or-public-967702.html
29-03-2021||Second Edit||Make Jal Shakti Abhiyan a success||The Jal Shakti Abhiyan, launched by the Central government, is a key initiative aimed at ensuring water security for all people in the country. The first phase of the programme, which was launched in 2019 after the formation of the Jal Shakti ministry by integrating other existing ministries related to water, is over and the second phase is set to be launched on April 1. The aim of the programme is to provide water to every household (Har Ghar Jal) by 2024. The second phase will have the motto "catch the rain where it falls when it falls’’, and will be implemented across 734 districts covering over 6,00,000 villages. The overall strategy for implementation of the programme consists of management and conservation of rainwater and preservation and rejuvenation of water bodies, including the recharging of aquifers in the country. The first phase of the programme did not yield the expected results. The shortcomings and failures of the programme should be studied and the lessons should guide the implementation of the second phase. The importance of the programme cannot be overemphasised because nearly 600 million Indians are considered to be facing “high to extreme water stress” and the country’s water demand is likely to double by 2030. India supports about 18% of the world’s population and 15% of the livestock but has only about 4% the global fresh water resources. The shortage and stress will be aggravated by climate change which will result in unexpected events including weather variations which will have an impact on the availability of water. Events like excessive rainfall or failure of the rains, the rise in sea levels and the melting of glaciers will have serious consequences. The Jal Shakti Abhiyan at present only has the limited aim of making the minimum requirement of water available to all households in the next three years, but the long-term scenario should not be lost sight of. The figures for water conservation and water bodies renovation projects, rain water harvesting, reuse and recharge initiatives and watershed development during the first phase show that performance could have been better. One encouraging achievement, as was brought out by a recent report, was the exemplary use of MGNREGA funds for water conservation and rainwater harvesting by some villages. The programme needs to be made a people’s programme with greater involvement of agencies and organisations outside the government. There is increasing awareness about the worth of water among the people but it has not been turned into habits and practices in everyday life. Wastage of water is very high even as there is acute scarcity in many places. The programme needs to be made a success in national interest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/make-jal-shakti-abhiyan-a-success-967699.html
29-03-2021||Second Edit||India on way to rule world cricket||Head coach Ravi Shastri couldn’t have summed up Indian team’s performances in the last four months any better when he congratulated the players for owning a “season of a lifetime” following a clean sweep of formats against England on Sunday. And it has been indeed one for a number of reasons. From the tough playing conditions to injuries to half-a-dozen first-choice players in Australia and frequent hard quarantines to staying in the highly-restricted bio-secure bubble in a pandemic-hit world, Indians were up against excruciatingly demanding circumstances. And mind you, they started living in the bubble from the start of the last IPL in September. It is, therefore, a tribute to their fortitude and skills that they managed to win five of the six series across all three formats against two of the toughest sides in the world in two vastly differing conditions -- Australia and India. While India won the Test and T20I series in Australia to enhance their credentials as a well-travelling side, they conquered in all three formats against England to stamp their superiority in home conditions. In rallying to beat Joe Root’s men 3-1 in the Test series, they also sealed a spot in the World Test Championship final against New Zealand to be held in Southampton from June 18. It’s no more than a just reward for their consistency and commitment to the longer format. The success in Tests against England, amid the standard quibble against quality of pitches, was followed up by similar results in T20Is and ODIs where most of their key pacers were absent for various reasons. And that is the most heartening feature of India’s twin wins against Australia and England. The depth in talent that India have managed to throw up in such a short span of time has been astonishing. India have fielded over a dozen rookies who have all made a seamless transition to the international stage from domestic cricket. With little fear of the big stage or occasion, these young guns have shown that India’s future is in safe hands. Such is India’s bench strength that most of these new entrants won’t even make it to the squad when the rested and injured seniors return to take their rightful spots. It’s thus not surprising that Ian Chappell, the former Australian captain, sees in India a potential to be a West Indies or an Australia of the yore when they ruled the cricket world with an iron fist on the field for years. India are on the cusp of achieving something similar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/india-on-way-to-rule-world-cricket-968075.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala gold smuggling accused alleges dirty intention behind Sreeramakrishnan's move||Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the Kerala gold smuggling case, has given a statement to the Enforcement Directorate (ED), alleging that Assembly Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan had tried to befriend her "for some personal dirty intentions". The Speaker rejected the allegations made in a document submitted by the ED in the Kerala High Court, alleging that "fake propaganda" is unleashed against the Left organisations and their leaders. "Apart from Sreeramakrishnan's investments in the Middle East College in Oman, as far as I know, the flat at Marutham, Pettah belongs to Sreeramakrishnan. But, it is in the name of another person and he told me about the real ownership of the flat to make me feel safe as he used to call me there for some personal dirty intentions", Suresh is quoted as saying in a deposition made before the ED officials probing the case. She made the statement in response to a question of whether the Speaker has any investment other than Middle East College in Oman. In her statements given to the ED officials, Suresh stated that Sreeramakrishnan had called her to the flat in Marutham apartment in Pettah twice and told her that it was his "hideout". "I went there to meet him along with Sarith (another key accused in the gold smuggling case). However, as I did not agree to his personal interests, the role offered to me in the Middle East college was also dropped," the statement said quoting Suresh. Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, claimed that the Speaker kept trying to get close to her as he was in need of the help of the Consul General for his personal affairs in UAE. The deposition containing Suresh's statement was submitted last week as an additional document as part of the petition filed by the ED in the high court seeking to quash the FIR registered against it by the state police. The FIR was registered for allegedly forcing Suresh to give statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Sreeramakrishnan alleged that the ED was engaged in "character assassination" by creating false statements against the government, the CM and the Speaker. He also said the people will clearly understand the bid by the central agencies to tarnish their image during the time of elections. Meanwhile, Union Minister and BJP leader Smriti Irani, who was campaigning in the Kerala elections, said "the submissions made by the ED are startling." Noting that the state of Kerala is always known for ensuring dignity of women, Irani asked whether the leadership of the Left parties were in the know of their morally corrupt legislative leader. According to the first depositions submitted in the high court by the ED on March 23, both Suresh and Sarith have claimed before the investigating officials that Sreeramakrishnan had made investment in Middle East College in Oman and handed over currency bundles meant for a UAE consulate official. Suresh and Sarith, former employees of the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram, are the key accused in the case relating to the smuggling of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic baggage and now under judicial custody since their arrest. They are also allegedly involved in the dollar case related to alleged smuggling of $1,90,000 (equivalent to Rs 1.30 crore) by a former UAE Consulate official to Muscat in Oman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-gold-smuggling-accused-alleges-dirty-intention-behind-sreeramakrishnans-move-967717.html
29-03-2021||South||PM Modi to address election rally in Puducherry on March 30||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address a poll rally in Puducherry on Tuesday to seek support for the NDA in the union territory for the April 6 Assembly elections. This is the Prime Minister's second visit to Puducherry to campaign for the NDA candidates after having addressed a poll rally here on February 25 after unveiling several centrally sponsored development projects that day. He will speak at the rally to be held at the AFT Thidal, Puducherry, BJP sources said. The AINRC, which heads the NDA here, is contesting from 16 of the total 30 constituencies, while BJP is seeking election from nine seats and the AIADMK from five. AINRC leader and former Chief Minister N Rangasamy is seeking election from two segments-Thattanchavady and Yanam. Elections in Puducherry will be held in a single phase on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pm-modi-to-address-election-rally-in-puducherry-on-march-30-967841.html
29-03-2021||South||Political parties field actors, TV stars in Kerala, adding glamour to poll arena||To spice up the electoral arena in Kerala, political parties have fielded a host of film and television personalities for the April 6 Assembly polls, hoping to woo the electorate with their favourite stars. As many as nine actors are in fray in the state, trying their luck in the electoral battle for their respective fronts. National award-winning film actor and Rajya Sabha MP Suresh Gopi has been fielded by the BJP-NDA from the Thrissur constituency, while his tinsel town colleagues--K B Ganesh Kumar and Mukesh, both sitting MLAs of the Left Front, are trying their luck from Pathanapuram and Kollam assembly constituencies respectively. Suresh Gopi, who has acted in over 200 films, including "Oru Vadakkan Veeragatha", "Thalasthanam", "Eklavya" and "Patram", had unsuccessfully contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Thrissur and is hoping to make it this time to the state assembly. Former minister Ganesh Kumar, son of Kerala Congress (B) leader R Balakrishna Pillai, entered films in 1985 through K G Geroge's"Irakal" and forayed into the political arena in 2001. He has successfully represented Pathanapuram in the Assembly since then and is confident of sailing through effortlessly this time too. Another actor, Mukesh, known for his comic roles and television programmes, is hoping that the electorate would give him a second stint as an MLA. Actors G Krishnakumar (Thiruvananthapuram) and Dharmajan Bolgatty (Balussery) are making their electoral debut on BJP and Congress tickets respectively. Pala MLA, Mani C Kappan, who switched over to the Congress-led UDF camp, after the LDF denied him the seat, is once again trying his luck from the same constituency, hoping to give a tough fight to his rival Jose K Mani, leader of the Kerala Congress (M) faction. Kappan has essayed various roles in 25 films, produced at least 12 films, besides directing the super hit "Mannar Mathai Speaking"in which Mukesh had essayed a role. Playback singer Daleema Jojo is the LDF candidate from the Aroor Assembly constituency and is locking horns with UDF candidate and sitting MLA Shanimol Usman. Film and television serial actress Priyanka Anoop is contesting as an independent in Aroor. TV actor Vivek Gopan, a favourite of small screen viewers, is trying his luck from Chavara on the BJP-NDA ticket and is seeking votes on the development plank. His role in the serial "Parasparam", which ran for over 1,500 episodes, made him a household name in the state. Unlike neighbouring Tamil Nadu, where actors like M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa went on to become Chief Ministers, the politically conscious voters of Kerala normally keep celebrities at an arm's length. Though late actor Murali had unsuccessfully contested in 1999 from the Alappuzha Lok Sabha seat on the CPI(M) ticket, actor Innocent, won from Chalakudy as CPI(M) backed independent in 2011, but had to bite the dust in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Eminent film-maker Ramu Kariat whose "Chemmeen" brought Kerala its first National award in Malayalam was elected to the Assembly in 1964 from Nattika as a CPI(M) backed independent. Actor Jagdeesh and TV star Ramesh Pisharody are not in the fray but are busy campaigning for UDF candidates. Meanwhile, veteran actor Devan, who recently joined the BJP after merging his 17-year-old Kerala Peoples Party with it, is campaigning for the saffron party candidates. Jagdeesh and Devan had unsuccessfully contested Assembly polls earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/political-parties-field-actors-tv-stars-in-kerala-adding-glamour-to-poll-arena-967845.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala HC directs EC to ensure only one vote per person||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Election Commission to take steps to ensure that voters having their names entered in voters list in multiple constituencies cast only one vote in the April 6 polls to the State Assembly. The court gave the interim order on a plea filed by Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala seeking to restrain fake and multiple entry voters from participating in the April 6 polls. Considering the plea, the court said this was a serious issue concerning the rights of the citizens. The court will consider the case further on Tuesday. The court on Friday had sought the views of the poll panel on the plea. The Commission on Monday informed the court that it will ensure the sanctity of the elections by ensuring that no multiple votes are cast by such voters in the polls. In his plea, Chennithala had sought criminal action against those responsible for fake and multiple entry of voters' names in 131 Assembly constituencies in the state. He alleged that a scrutiny of the electoral rolls would prove that there were more than 4,34,042 fake and multiple entry voters in these Assembly segments. The Congress leader, who is also the Leader of the Opposition in the state Assembly, submitted he was "highly aggrieved by the gross lethargy and inaction" of the poll panel in not taking action in pursuance of letters sent to them in rectifying the mistakes in the electoral rolls. He appealed to the court to issue an interim order directing the Election Commission to ensure that fake and multiple entry voters in the electoral roll are not permitted to vote in the assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-directs-ec-to-ensure-only-one-vote-per-person-967875.html
29-03-2021||South||DMK MP A Raja extends apology to Tamil Nadu Chief Minister for 'vulgar' remarks||DMK MP A Raja on Monday extended an apology to Chief Minister K Palaniswami for making certain remarks allegedly referring to the latter's deceased mother, but claimed his words were 'misunderstood' and 'manipulated.' Raja's apology to the AIADMK veteran came a day after the chief minister turned emotional at an election rally in Chennai while recalling the episode, besides police booking the Nilgiris MP under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Representation of People Act over the matter. Elections to the 234 member Tamil Nadu assembly will be held on on April 6. Raja said he clarified in a public meeting in Gudalur in the district on Sunday that he did not intend to defame Palaniswami or his late mother, but was making a comparison between the leadership qualities of his party chief M K Stalin and the CM, using a children's analogy. "Still, I came across reports that the chief minister turned emotional at my remarks and I am deeply anguished over this. I express regret from the bottom of my heart for lines that were misunderstood," he said. "In fact, I have no hesitation to apologise to CM Palaniswami if he really felt hurt and (did not do it) for politics (turning emotional)," he read out from a statement before reporters. Seeking to clarify things with the CM, his party workers and others, Raja said his speech was not about the personal criticism of two leaders, but an estimation and comparison of two political figures in public life--Stalin and Palaniswami. Raja, who said his words were "selectively picked and manipulated for political reasons," said that while acquitting him in the 2G Spectrum allocation scam, Special Judge O P Saini had said the case was about "misreading of files, selective reading of files, non-reading of files, out of context reading of files," and said his speech in contention should be seen in its totality of 40 minutes. He said he had extended the apology since the CM had turned emotional and that he did not want the episode to remain a "black mark" in his public life. He also did not want to embarrass his party DMK or its chief Stalin, Raja added. To a question, he said possible electoral gains may be behind the matter becoming controversial. Raja's alleged vulgar remarks had earlier touched a raw nerve with the ruling AIADMK, with party workers staging state-wide protests demanding his arrest, even as his effigies were burnt in places like Salem, Palaniswami's native district. The CM on Sunday turned emotional while reacting to Raja's alleged disparaging remarks against him, his mother and said a mother occupied a lofty position in society and anyone who denigrated women would be punished by God. The ruling party had also petitioned the Election Commission, seeking a ban on Raja from campaigning. AIADMK ally BJP had also hit out at Raja for his comments, with Union Minister Smriti Irani alleging that "DMK is such a political party that does not respect women." DMK president Stalin, without mentioning anyone's name, had said on Saturday that during campaigns, party workers must make dignified comments, saying rivals would distort and edit speeches.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mp-a-raja-extends-apology-to-tamil-nadu-chief-minister-for-vulgar-remarks-967879.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: UDF will decide its Chief Minister after April 6 polls, says A K Antony||Veteran Congress leader and former Defence Minister A K Antony on Monday said the party-led United Democratic Front (UDF) would decide its Chief Minister after the April 6 Assembly polls. No assurance had been given to anyone regarding the top post and a unanimous decision would be taken in this regard post elections, the Congress Working Committee (CWC) member said here on a television channel. "The UDF will take a decision on its chief minister after the Assembly elections. A unanimous decision will emerge then," Antony said. The veteran leader's reaction assumes significance in thewake of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy being entrusted with the task of leading the Congress-led opposition front in the crucial assembly polls by the party high command recently. A 10-member Election Management and Strategy committee, with Chandy as its Chairman, had been approved by Congress President Sonia Gandhi in January. Speculations were high when Chandy was projected as the face of the party and front though senior leader Ramesh Chennithala had been leading it in the state Assembly in the last five years as the leader of the Opposition. However, the party leadership had set aside all rumours and said its present focus was on ensuring the UDF's victory in the polls and any other decision would be taken after the elections. When asked about his political plans, Antony said he had already ended electoral politics in 2004 and would put an end to parliamentary politics by 2022 with the completion of his Rajya Sabha tenure. Unleashing a scathing attack on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Congress leader said the CPI(M) in Kerala has been limited to just Vijayan now and in a democracy, there should not be a leader who is unquestionable. He said it was better for Vijayan to sit on the Opposition bench for the next five years so that he would be in a position to be questioned over his past rule. Expressing confidence about the victory of Congress nominee K Muraleedharan at Nemom, the lone BJP seat in the state Assembly, Antony said it was not a stronghold of the saffron party. BJP veteran O Rajagopal had won the Nemom segment in 2016 Assembly polls due to the sympathy of the voters towards the candidate as he had repeatedly failed in several previous polls, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-udf-will-decide-its-chief-minister-after-april-6-polls-says-a-k-antony-967881.html
29-03-2021||South||AIADMK candidate in Karaikal, Puducherry tests positive for Covid-19||A U Asana, the AIADMK candidate for Karaikal (South) in the April 6 Assembly poll in Puducherry, tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. A Health Department spokesman told PTI that Asana underwent a check up as he planned to come to Puducherry on Tuesday to attend the rally to be addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He tested positive and was being evaluated and kept under observation, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/aiadmk-candidate-in-karaikal-puducherry-tests-positive-for-covid-19-967902.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala High Court cautions against using ration supply to woo voters||The Kerala High Court on Monday cautioned that the special ration distribution in Kerala should not be misused by the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front for influencing voters. The court also stayed an order of the Election Commission stopping the special ration supply for Easter, Vishu and Ramadan festivals following complaints that it was a violation of the Model Code of Conduct. The Opposition Congress-led UDF had alleged that it was an attempt to woo the voters by manipulating the normal ration supply and making the supply just ahead of the April 6 Assembly election. The High Court stayed the Election Commission order citing that the decision to supply the special ration was taken before the elections were notified and already steps for procurement were made. But the supply should be done in accordance with the Model Code of Conduct,  the court maintained.  The state has been witnessing a major political row over the issue with Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan accusing the Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala of trying to scuttle the ration supply to the people for political gains. The Opposition alleged that the government manipulated the normal schedule of ration supply to make the special ration supply to non-priority ration cardholders as a bid to woo the voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-high-court-cautions-against-using-ration-supply-to-woo-voters-967929.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: BJP to support CPM rebel in Thalassery||The BJP in Kerala has decided to back the CPM rebel candidate COT Naseer contesting from Thalassery in Kannur district in the upcoming assembly elections. The Election Commission had rejected the nomination of the BJP's Thalasserry candidate N Haridas and Guruvayur candidate Niveditha Subramanian over technical flaws. This had triggered allegations and counter-allegations by the CPM and the Congress of having a political nexus with the BJP. The BJP had received considerable votes in both these constituencies in the previous elections. The saffron party has also decided to back Dileep Nair of the Democratic Social Justice Party (DSJP), a local political outfit, from Guruvayur in Thrissur. The DSJP was launched in 2019 as a political party of the unreserved communities and the party was trying to be part of the NDA. Naseer is a former CPM local leader who later came out in open against the party's Kannur leaders and raised corruption allegations. He suffered a major attack in 2019 and which was allegedly planned by sitting MLA A N Shamseer of the CPM. Shamseer is contesting from Thalaserry this time as well.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-bjp-to-support-cpm-rebel-in-thalassery-967959.html
29-03-2021||South||Recollect tyrannical rule of DMK before voting: BJP leader||The BJP on Monday asked the people of Tamil Nadu to recollect the five years of alleged tyrannical rule of the DMK from 2006-2011 before casting their vote during the April 6 Assembly poll in the state. "DMK president M K Stalin believes that by spreading lies on a daily basis, he can come back to power. But, the Tamil people have realised that they have been taken for a ride", BJP's state election in-charge C T Ravi said. He said, "DMK stands for Dynasty, Money, Kattapanchayat." "Everyone (in Tamil Nadu) still recollect with fear the five years of tyranny, and when are you (Stalin) going to apologise for the endless atrocities and brutalities against them," Ravi said at a press meet. They (Tamil Nadu people) have led a peaceful life under the able administration of Chief Minister Palaniswami, he said on the sidelines of releasing the manifesto of Coimbatore south constituency candidate Vanathi Srinivasan. "Only the double-engine government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Palaniswami can take Tamil Nadu on the super-highway of progress and prosperity," Ravi said. Condemning the derogatory remarks made by former Minister and DMK senior leader A Raja against the Chief Minister and his mother, Ravi said this was the "DNA of DMK". Asked how confident the NDA alliance was in retaining power in the state as many surveys have given the DMK-led alliance an upperhand, Ravi said many of the earlier surveys had proven wrong. The AIADMK led-alliance was sure of retaining power, he said. To a question on the Mekedatu Dam issue which farmers from the state were opposing, Ravi said the next intention of the government was to interlink rivers. Once it was over, the water crisis and disputes would be solved, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/recollect-tyrannical-rule-of-dmk-before-voting-bjp-leader-967970.html
29-03-2021||South||Will not allow implementation of CAA if voted to power, says DMK chief Stalin||DMK President M K Stalin on Monday promised that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act will not be allowed in Tamil Nadu if his party was voted to power in the April 6 Assembly elections and slammed the ruling AIADMK for 'supporting' the BJP in Parliament on the issue. Had the AIADMK and lone PMK member in the Rajya Sabha voted against the bill, CAA would not have seen the light of day and the two parties should be blamed for the 'plight' of minorities all over the country, he said. Protests had broken out against the contentious Act earlier in various parts of the country, including in Shaheen Bagh in Delhi. Addressing an election meeting here, Stalin charged the ruling AIADMK with "enacting a drama" on the matter ahead of the polls and recalled that his party had earlier staged protests against the CAA and also launched a massive signature campaign against it. "I assure. We are going to come to power, there is no doubt about that. So after we come to power, we will not allow this CAA (to be implemented) in Tamil Nadu. This is an assurance given by Stalin," he said. The DMK shared an "umbilical chord" with minorities and will always back them, Stalin added. He also recalled that his party had opposed the bill in Parliament. The AIADMK supported the ruling BJP at the Centre on issues like abrogation of Article 370 and abolition of Triple Talaq, but was now "enacting a drama" as if it were a protector of the minorities, Stalin said while lashing out at his party's arch-rival. He also slammed Chief Minister K Palaniswami for not passing an assembly resolution against the three contentious central farm laws, facing stiff resistance from farmers agitating outside Delhi for about four months, pointing out that states like Punjab, West Bengal and Kerala had done so. He promised to do the same in the state if his party won the April 6 polls and formed the government. Various promises made in the DMK manifesto for the polls, including Rs 1,000 "rights assistance" to women family heads, cutting down petroleum prices would be implemented if it was voted to power, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/will-not-allow-implementation-of-caa-if-voted-to-power-says-dmk-chief-stalin-967973.html
29-03-2021||South||Report on Raja's remarks sent to EC for action: TN Chief Electoral Officer||A detailed report on DMK leader A Raja's alleged personal criticism of Chief Minister K Palaniswami has been sent to the Election Commission for action, Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo said on Monday. It includes the video clip and the action taken by district election officer (DEO) and Superintendent of Police, he told reporters here. Explaining that the DEO and SP would analyse the video clip to see if it invokes IPC sections or CrPC while the Election Commission will examine if there has been violation of model code of conduct, Sahoo said, "we have sent a detailed report including the video clip and action taken report of the DEO and SP to the EC to take a call on the issue." He was responding to a query on AIADMKs complaint seeking to debar the former union minister from campaigning for his alleged unsavoury remarks against the chief minister, targeting his mother. While Palaniswami turned emotional while speaking on the matter during an election rally here on Sunday, the city police had booked Raja under sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and The Representation of The People Act. Raja, DMK's deputy general secretary, courted controversy during his poll campaign in Thousand Lights assembly segment here on Friday when he made the alleged remarks against Palaniswami. On Monday, he tendered an apology. Briefing reporters on the preparatory arrangements for the April 6 assembly elections, Sahoo said there were 88,937 polling stations and of them 537 have been identified as critical and another 10,183 booths as vulnerable. About 1,55,102 ballot units, 1,14,205 counting units and 1,20,807 VVPAT (Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail) have been readied. "We have arranged for additional EVMs at every polling booth to be replaced in case the machines become faulty. Also, engineers have been kept ready to attend to any complaints of faulty EVMs," the CEO said. Postal ballots have been sent to the voters who are 80 years and above, differently-abled and the Covid-19 affected to enable them exercise their franchise from home. Till March 28, the election commission has seized cash and products totalling Rs 319.02 crore. This included cash amounting to Rs 142.29 crore besides liquor, precious metals, drugs and other products/freebies during various raids. "Salem topped the district in terms of maximum seizure worth Rs. 40.47 crore," Sahoo said. He said the EC has commenced the process of distributing Voters Information Slips to voters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/report-on-rajas-remarks-sent-to-ec-for-action-tn-chief-electoral-officer-967976.html
29-03-2021||South||Election process for 3 RS seats from Kerala to be decided in 'one or two days': EC to HC||The Election Commission on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that the election process for the three Rajya Sabha seats from the State will be initiated soon as per the statutory schedule. The Election Commission made this submission on pleas filed by the State Legislative Assembly and ruling CPI (M) in the state, challenging the EC's decision to keep in abeyance proceedings for the proposed election to three vacancies from the state in the Rajya Sabha. The election to the seats from Kerala falling vacant next month was to be held on April 12. Abdul Wahab of the IUML, K K Ragesh of the CPI(M) and Vayalar Ravi of the Congress are retiring on April 21. The notification for the biennial elections was to be issued on Wednesday last. When the matter was taken up today, standing counsel for the EC submitted that the dates of the biennial election will be decided shortly, "within one or two days". The court directed the poll panel to file a written statement in this regard. The case has been posted for Tuesday for consideration. Counsel for the state legislative assembly secretary submitted that the poll panel had initially announced that the elections for the three seats will be held on April 12 but later through a press note, the commission said it is kept in abeyance following a communication received from the Union Ministry of Law and Justice. The counsel argued that the Union Law Ministry has no right to interfere with the decision taken by the Election Commission, an independent constitutional body. The ECI standing counsel submitted that the EC has not published the notification for the polls in terms of Section 12 of The Representation of The People Act. In its plea, the state assembly submitted that withholding of the election process will leave much scope for its 'abuse' and the state will be left with three representatives less to represent the aspirations and wishes of its residents in the Council of States. Moreover, it will adversely affect the legislators of the 14th Kerala Legislative Assembly, insofar as they will be denied an opportunity of electing three representatives to the Council of States, the assembly added. On Sunday, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury had raised suspicion over the EC decision to keep in abeyance the elections, and called it 'unconstitutional'||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/election-process-for-3-rs-seats-from-kerala-to-be-decided-in-one-or-two-days-ec-to-hc-967982.html
29-03-2021||South||Jose K Mani's remark on 'Love Jihad' creates political row in Kerala||Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K Mani, a new entrant to the CPM-led LDF, caused an embarrassment to the LDF with Mani stating that the concerns over 'Love Jihad' should be addressed. While Mani's statement could be seen as a bid to appease the Christian vote banks, it put the CPM in a tight spot as the party was opposed to the 'Love Jihad' theory. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan also preferred not to comment on Mani's statement. The BJP as well as various Christian outfits like the Kerala Catholic Bishops' Council backed Jose K Mani's stand, while the Congress accused Mani of trying to create communal polarisation. As it snowballed to a major political embarrassment for the left-front, Mani came out with a clarification that his party's stand on 'Love Jihad' was same as that of the LDF. He also alleged that a misleading campaign was being carried out against his statement to divert attention from the development agenda of the LDF.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jose-k-manis-remark-on-love-jihad-creates-political-row-in-kerala-967993.html
29-03-2021||South||Passenger tests Covid-19 positive, deboarded from flight||A 35-year-old Kolkata-bound passenger was deboarded from a flight here on Monday after information was received that he had tested positive for Covid-19, officials said. The passenger was to fly to Kolkata via Mumbai and had a Covid-19 negative certificate but later it emerged that he had tested positive, they said adding that the airline received information in this connection. He was immediately deplaned and taken in an ambulance for medical treatment, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/passenger-tests-covid-19-positive-deboarded-from-flight-968000.html
29-03-2021||South||Drones, UAVs prohibited in Puducherry for PM's visit||Flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has been banned in the entire Puducherry region from March 29-30 to ensure security during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit for electioneering. An order to this effect came from the District Magistrate Purva Garg on Monday. In a press release, Garg said an order under section 144 CrPc has been clamped in whole of Puducherry region to prohibit flying of drones and other unmanned aerial vehicles. Any violation of the order would attract action under section 188 of Indian Penal Code and other relevant laws, the District Magistrate said. Modi would address an election rally on Tuesday to woo voters for NDA candidates contesting the April 6 Assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/drones-uavs-prohibited-in-puducherry-for-pms-visit-968001.html
29-03-2021||South||Madras HC closes contempt plea against TN Chief Electoral Officer||The Madras High Court on Monday closed a contempt plea against the state Chief Electoral Officer (CEO), observing that no case was made out against him. Teachers associations had sought to initiate contempt proceedings against Satyabrata Sahoo for alleged violation of its earlier orders. Originally, the Tamil Nadu High & Higher Secondary Graduate Teachers Association had moved the Court with a PIL seeking to establish separate polling booths for the members of the association to cast their votes through EVMs much before the polling date of April 6, so that they could take up the assignment of duty on the general polling date. Following a submission from the CEO counsel that the plea could not be conceded and that they can exercise their franchise through postal ballot system, the first bench of the High Court consisting of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy disposed of the PIL with a direction to the authorities to ensure that the postal ballot facility is extended to the teachers much in advance and restrict the absenteeism below 10 per cent. Alleging that this order was not complied with in full, the association moved the Court again with the present petition. When it came up before the bench today, the CEO's counsel listed the steps taken to ensure the voting of the association members through the postal ballot system. Only the request of 114 persons has been rejected and it would account for only 0.3 per cent, he pointed out. Satisfied, the bench closed the contempt plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-closes-contempt-plea-against-tn-chief-electoral-officer-968008.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: Will K M Mani’s son Jose K Mani be able to regain father’s legacy?||As one moves around Pala town in Kottayam district in central Kerala, the name of K M Mani is prominently seen in most parts of the town as the political stalwart of Kerala represented the constituency in the Kerala Assembly for 54 years in a row till his death in 2019. With infights in Kerala Congress (Mani) playing the spoilsport for the party candidate Jose Tom in the 2019 Assembly bypolls, Mani's son and former MP Jose K Mani himself is in the fray this time to regain the father's legacy. Last year Kerala Congress (M) witnessed a split and the faction led by Jose K Mani ended its long-term relationship with the Congress-led UDF and joined the LDF. Now Jose K Mani is contesting from Pala against sitting MLA Mani C Kappan, who recently left the NCP, an ally of the CPM-led LDF in Kerala, and joined the UDF mainly as the LDF preferred to give the Pala seat to Jose K Mani. The LDF hopes to make inroads into the Christian vote banks of central Kerala which are influenced by the Kerala Congress. Impressed over the performance of the party in the region in the recent local body polls, the LDF gave 12 seats to the Jose K Mani faction for the Assembly polls. While Jose K Mani faction is highlighting K M Mani's legacy and emotional connect of the party with the region, Mani C Kappan is playing the same card by stating that 'Pala is his heart' apart from the development and welfare acts he initiated. He is learnt to have extended maximum assistance to the people, especially the convents in the region, during the lockdown and increased his personal rapport. Paulose, an ordinary voter of the Pala, said that it was a 50:50 situation. Jose K Mani switching over to the LDF had not gone down well with many in Pala. The legacy of K M Mani may help Jose K Mani while the people of Pala were not attached to Jose K Mani as they were towards K M Mani, he said.  On the other hand, a section of voters has a soft corner towards Mani C Kappan as the LDF denied the seat to him even after he won the Pala seat after 50 years for the LDF. Mani C Kappan lost to K M Mani by only 4,700 votes in 2016. Political analysts feel this election would be crucial for the Kerala Congress factions led by Jose K Mani and the rival faction led by former minister P J Joseph, which is still with the UDF. Whichever faction that performs well would claim to be the original Kerala Congress, said political analyst C A Josukutty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-will-k-m-mani-s-son-jose-k-mani-be-able-to-regain-father-s-legacy-968043.html
29-03-2021||South||ED's plea in HC with 'hidden agenda', says Kerala govt; seeks its dismissal||The Kerala government on Monday sought dismissal of the ED's plea in the High Court seeking to quash the FIR registered against its officials by police for allegedly forcing Swapna Suresh, key accused in the gold smuggling case, to give statements against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. In a counter affidavit filed before the court, the state government said the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) petition was "with an ulterior motive" and "hidden agenda". In its plea filed on March23, the ED had alleged that the FIR was registered against its unnamed officials with "ulterior motive of derailing the statutory investigation" under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) into a large economic offence of smuggling of huge quantities of gold. The Crime Branch had registered a case on March 17 on the basis of a report filed by the Crime Branch team which was probing the leak of a voice clip, purportedly belonging to Suresh. According to the FIR, the ED officials, probing the gold smuggling case while questioning Suresh on August 12 and 13, 2020, have forced her to give false statements against the state chief minister in order to make fake evidence. The state government today submitted that the ED had made a request to the Prisons department for an inquiry on the alleged leak of the voice clip, based on which a probe was initiated. "During the course of inquiry by the jail authorities, Swapna Prabha Suresh has given a letter in her own handwriting dated 19-11-2020 in which she admitted that the voice clip belonged to her," the government said in the affidavit. The state government also said the officer P Radhakrishnan, the deputy director of the agency, has filed the petition in his personal capacity through a private lawyer, when he is not figured as an accused in the said FIR and no report has been submitted before the jurisdictional court arraigning him as an accused. "It is not expected of an officer of the government to make use of the documents which he has access by a reason of his official capacity, for redressal of his personal grievance..." "..it is amply clear that the writ petition has been instituted with an ulterior motive, with some hidden agenda, apart from mere challenging of the FIR and the investigation which is being undertaken by the state police," the affidavit said. The government said through the petition, ED was attempting "to put various allegations, speculations and rumours", in relation to the recent investigations in the state by the central agencies "to the public arena", through production of some "legally unsustainable documents", so as to "malign and to make imputations" against some highly reputed political personalities of the state, who are not parties to the proceedings. The central agency wanted the court to stay all further proceedings pursuant to the FIR against ED officials and direct no coercive action against the officers of the Enforcement Directorate "who are performing their official duties" under the PMLA 2002 pending disposal of the petition. The Crime Branch case has been registered under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 167 (public servant framing an incorrect document with intent to cause injury), 192 (fabricating false evidence), 195-A (threatening any person to give false evidence), among others, of the Indian Penal Code. Suresh, a former employee of the UAE consulate here, is the prime accused in the case relating to the smuggling of 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic baggage and now under judicial custody since her arrest. In a voice clip purported to be that of Suresh circulated a few months ago, it was alleged that some ED officials had threatened her while she was being interrogated at the agency office in Kochi in August last year to give statements against Vijayan and some ministers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/eds-plea-in-hc-with-hidden-agenda-says-kerala-govt-seeks-its-dismissal-968059.html
29-03-2021||South||Madras HC refuses to disqualify DMK candidate||The Madras High Court on Monday refused to disqualify Thangam Thennarasu, DMK candidate from Tiruchuli in Virudhunagar, from contesting in the April 6 assembly polls, after an independent candidate alleged the former Minister distributed gifts to voters. Instead, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy directed the petitioner M Thiruppathy to approach the Election Commission of India, which is the sole authority to decide on the issue. The petitioner, an independent candidate, alleged that Thennarasu indulged in distributing gifts to the voters and thereby, violated the provisions of the Representation of the People Act. Despite repeated complaints to local election authorities, no action was taken, and hence, he has moved the court, the petitioner contended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/madras-hc-refuses-to-disqualify-dmk-candidate-968070.html
29-03-2021||South||I will be CM if NR Congress alliance wins Puducherry polls: N Rangasamy||Former Chief Minister V Narayanasamy failed to govern Puducherry for five years and the people of the Union Territory will certainly vote for the Opposition alliance, All India NR Congress chief N Rangasamy said, speaking to DH's ETB Sivapriyan at his office in Puducherry on the eve of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the UT on Tuesday.  Q: NR Congress is leading the Opposition alliance in Puducherry, and how is people's response to your campaign? A: The response from people is overwhelming and it demonstrates the fact that Puducherry needs a strong government. People of this Union Territory want the NR Congress-BJP-AIADMK alliance to win in the April 6 election and form a government. Q: It is alleged that the Opposition parties destabilised the V Narayanasamy government at the fag end of its tenure with the help of nominated members of the Puducherry Assembly. Your views? A: We had no role in the fall of the Congress government. The government plunged into minority after two ministers, and a few legislators resigned from the Congress. As a responsible opposition, we just pointed out this to the Lt. Governor, who asked the then Chief Minister (Narayanasamy) to prove his majority on the floor of the House. The government fell because it lost support from its own legislators. Why blame us for their internal problems? Q: But the Congress says the government fell only due to support from nominated MLAs. Is it right to vote out a democratically elected government in the Assembly with the help of nominated legislators? A: It has been clarified a number of times by authorities concerned that the nominated legislators have the right to vote. Q: Former Chief Minister Narayanasamy has complained more than once that the L-G does not allow elected leaders to work. How confident are you on delivering promises made to people if the alliance is voted to power? A: I was Chief Minister for 12 years, and I never fought with any L-G. Without fighting in the open, I was able to deliver good governance to people. The law says files have to go through the L-G, and is it not the duty of the Chief Minister to get them cleared? I did it through my tenure, but Narayanasamy says his moves were stonewalled. If he does not know to run a government, that is not our fault. Q: The NR Congress alliance did not win the Lok Sabha elections and there is an opinion that the BJP is not acceptable to the people of Puducherry. Your views? A: The dynamics in the Lok Sabha poll were different and now we are fighting the assembly polls. People want to vote for our alliance as they feel only we can deliver. BJP is ruling at the Centre and this will help in developing Puducherry further. Q: Who will be the Chief Minister if the Opposition alliance wins? There seems to be some confusion with BJP maintaining that the CM will be elected after elections? A: Is there a doubt? I do not think so. If our alliance wins, the Chief Minister will be from NR Congress, which is the largest party in the combine. Every other partner has agreed to it, and there is no confusion. As far as NR Congress is concerned, I am the Chief Ministerial candidate. And I will hold the top post if the alliance that my party leads is elected by the people.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/i-will-be-cm-if-nr-congress-alliance-wins-puducherry-polls-n-rangasamy-968097.html
29-03-2021||South||Kerala Opposition Leader lauds HC directive to EC||Leader of Opposition in the Kerala Assembly Ramesh Chennithala on Monday welcomed the High Court directing the Election Commission to ensure each voter casts only one vote in the April 6 Assembly polls. Chennithala said the court has observed that his plea seeking to restrain fake and multiple entry voters from participating in the elections was serious. "We welcome the High Court direction to ensure that voters with multiple entries in the voters list are allowed to vote only once. The court has observed that the matter was very serious," Chennithala told reporters. He claimed the extent of fraud in the voters' list was shocking. "There are names of deceased persons in the voters list. Similarly, there are names of deceased persons in the postal ballot list too," the Opposition Leader alleged. He said the Congress party has found out that names of eight deceased people are there in the postal voters list in Thiruvananthapuram constituency. "There are names of those who have not even applied for postal vote in the list for postal ballot. For example, the name of one person, who passed away eight years ago, and another, who passed away two years ago, are there in the list of postal ballots," Chennithala said. Considering the plea, the court said this was a serious issue concerning the rights of the citizens. The court would consider the case further on Tuesday. The Commission today informed the court that it would ensure the sanctity of the elections by ensuring that no multiple votes are cast by such voters in the polls. In his plea, Chennithala had sought criminal action against those responsible for fake and multiple entry of voters' names in 131 Assembly constituencies. He said a scrutiny of the electoral rolls would prove that there were more than 4,34,042 fake and multiple entry voters in these Assembly segments. Chennithala had submitted he was aggrieved by the alleged gross lethargy and inaction of the poll panel in not taking action in pursuance of letters sent to them in rectifying the mistakes in the electoral rolls. He appealed to the court to issue an interim order directing the Election Commission to ensure that fake and multiple entry voters in the electoral roll are not permitted to vote in the Assembly election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-opposition-leader-lauds-hc-directive-to-ec-968105.html
29-03-2021||State||Over 3 lakh cases settled in Karnataka's Mega Lok Adalat||As many as 3,32,936 cases were settled in the Mega Lok Adalat held on March 27. Justice Aravind Kumar, executive chairman of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) informed that the total cases settled include 19,113 pre-litigation cases and 3,13,823 pending cases. Justice Aravnid Kumar said that Rs 1,033.5 crore compensation was paid, while Rs 18.2 crore penalty was recovered. Apart from cases under the Negotiable Instrument Act, matters such as criminal compoundable cases, MACT cases, 3,853 partition suits were also settled. Justice Kumar said that at the rate of three cases that a judge can pass orders in a day, the cases settled would have required 95 days to conclude. In the two other Lok Adalats held amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, on September 19, 2020, a total 1,15,938 cases were settled, and in December 2020, a total 2,63,215 cases were disposed of.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/over-3-lakh-cases-settled-in-karnatakas-mega-lok-adalat-968002.html
29-03-2021||State||Harassing debtors will invite longer jail term in Karnataka||Moneylenders harassing their debtors for repayment can now be imprisoned for up to two years, according to the recent amendment to the Karnataka Money Lenders Act. Any moneylender who intimidates or uses violence against the debtor can be imprisoned for a period of one year as per the provisions of the amended Act, notified recently. Based on the severity of the offense, the guilty will have to either pay a fine of up to Rs 50,000, or serve a prison sentence, or both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/harassing-debtors-will-invite-longer-jail-term-in-karnataka-968006.html
29-03-2021||State||Four Ilkal youths die in car-lorry collision||Four youths were killed while another sustained grievous injuries after an SUV they were travelling crashed into a stationary lorry at Bevinamatti Cross on Raichur-Belagavi highway in the taluk late on Sunday night. Deceased are: Naveen Nagesh Saka (22), Chandrashekar Gopal Butta (22), Channabasava Bhojraj Anji (22) and Basavaraj Krishnappa Bhandari (33), all residents of Ilkal. Driver Vijayakumar Bandi has been admitted to a hospital in Bagalkot with serious injuries. The accident occurred when they were returning home after attending their friend’s birthday party at Guledgudd. The Hungund police have launched a manhunt to nab the lorry driver. 3 killed in Gangavati  In another accident reported late on Sunday night, three people were killed after the goods auto collided with a lorry at Mukkumpi Cross on Gangavati-Koppal road. Fakirappa (30), Bhimanna Hyati (35) and Ramanna Dolli, all three natives of Boodhgumpa, died on the spot. The accident occurred when they were returning to their native village from Gangavati APMC yard. The Gangavati Rural police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-ilkal-youths-die-in-car-lorry-collision-968009.html
29-03-2021||State||Nearly 50K files pending for clearance in Karnataka govt departments||The Primary and Secondary Education department stands second in the list of departments with the highest number of files pending as 25.44% of the files have been pending across seven departments for more than 30 days. Data available from the government shows that as on March 18, 2021, as many as 6,403 files are pending, of which 1,629 files have crossed 30 days. Of these, 286 files are pending with e-office. According to the sources from the department, the delay was due to the files pending for clearance at higher levels. “In most of the cases, higher ups keep the files pending seeking opinions,” said an official from the department of primary and Secondary Education. The data also shows that the revenue department stands first when it comes to uncleared files. The revenue department has a total of 9,845 files pending for clearance, of which 2,934 have been waiting for clearance for the last one month, as on March 18, 202.  The seven departments, including Revenue, Primary and Secondary Education, Urban Development, DPAR, Forest and Environment, Health and Family Welfare, Rural development and Panchayat Raj have together 41,069 files pending in e-office.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/nearly-50k-files-pending-for-clearance-in-karnataka-govt-departments-968010.html
29-03-2021||State||Karnataka to launch campaign to make 3.2 lakh persons literate by May 2021||The department of mass education is launching a Central government-sponsored 'Odu Baraha' (Padhna Likhna) campaign on April 2 to reach the target of making 3.20 lakh people literates by May 2021. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar announced this during a review meeting of the department here on Monday. "The campaign will be held in 24 taluks and 219 gram panchayats of Raichur, Yadgir, Kaalburagi, Vijayapura and Chamarajnagar districts," he said. The campaign aims to cover 2.4 lakh illiterate women, in 15-50 age group and 80,000 men. After the completion of the campaign, an examination will be conducted and those who clear the exams will get a certificate. As per the data provided by the department, of the 1.26 crore illiterate persons identified in the state so far, 57 lakh have become literates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-to-launch-campaign-to-make-32-lakh-persons-literate-by-may-2021-968011.html
29-03-2021||State||Karnataka govt to junk Nanjundappa panel indicators on taluk backwardness||Karnataka is all set to adopt a new set of indicators to determine backwardness of taluks, replacing the two decades old metrics put in place by the D M Nanjundappa Committee, to address regional imbalances in development.  The Nanjundappa Committee, which submitted its report way back in 2002, identified 114 backward taluks. Since 2007, the state government has allocated thousands of crores of funds, but legislators continue to complain of regional disparities.  “Funds are being allocated to taluks based on the indicators provided by the Nanjundappa Committee report. But the report itself is nearly 20 years old,” an official from the Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring & Statistics said.  So, authorities are now planning to use 49 indicators that the NITI Aayog developed for its aspirational districts programmes. These 49 indicators are spread across six areas: Health and Nutrition; Education; Agriculture and Water Resources; Financial Inclusion and Skill Development; Basic Infrastructure.  The Nanjundappa Committee used 35 indicators under Agriculture & Allied Sectors, Trade Business & Finance, Economic Infrastructure, Social Infrastructure and Demographic Characteristics. It was based on this that the 114 backward taluks were classified as most backward (39), more backward (40) and backward taluks (35).  Many of these taluks are located in north Karnataka, especially the Kalyana Karnataka region.  Although the Nanjundappa Committee gave its report in 2002, the government began implementation only in 2007-08 for an 8-year period till 2014-15. This was extended for another five years that ended in 2019-20. The government has allocated Rs 3,000 crore each in 2020-21 and 2021-22 for remedying regional imbalance.  The Committee had recommended an outlay of Rs 31,000 crore for the backward taluks. Till the 2020-21 fiscal, the government has kept Rs 35,821 crore against which Rs 27,341 crore have been spent.   According to the authorities, the implementation of the Nanjundappa Committee report has resulted in “partial” redressal of regional imbalances. A 2018 evaluation done by the government showed that 18 out of 114 backward taluks witnessed development at the rate of 15.7%. Also, ten out of the 39 most backward taluks saw development.  Former minister Priyank Kharge of the Congress agreed that a new report was needed. “It’s a two decades old report while social demographics and aspirational values have changed,” he said. “But I’d like to flag that the 49 indicators of the NITI Aayog should be localized instead of being copy-pasted.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-junk-nanjundappa-panel-indicators-on-taluk-backwardness-968012.html
29-03-2021||State||Mob ransack locality in Kalaburagi over 26-year-old's murder in front of GIMS||A group of youths bludgeoned a 26-year-old to death over old rivalry in front of the Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) on Sedam Road on Monday evening. The deceased has been identified as Veerataa Upadyaya, a resident of Mangarawadi. Assuming that youths of Sundarnagar are behind the murder, about 200 youths wielding talwars (swords), wooden logs and stone ran amok in Sundarnagar and damaged a few cars and tens of motorbikes. They even barged into the house of an aged woman in the locality and beat her up. Youths were said to be in an inebriated condition due to the Holi celebration.  They also smashed the windowpanes of several houses in the vicinity. A resident of the area told DH that his family members hid under cots fearing the mob.  Soon, tension gripped the area. Over 50 police personnel have been deployed there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mob-ransack-locality-in-kalaburagi-over-26-year-olds-murder-in-front-of-gims-968024.html
29-03-2021||State||Order keeping Civil Services Board in abeyance invalid: CAT||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Monday reinstated the Civil Services Board (CSB), which was kept in abeyance by the state government in 2014. While disposing of an application filed by IAS officer B Sharat, challenging his premature transfer from the post of deputy commissioner of Mysuru district, the CAT bench directed the competent authority (Chief minister) to revisit the transfer order after taking recommendations from the Civil Services Board. The central government had brought in Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Amendment Rules, 2014 pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court in the T S R Subramanian case, mainly on the issue of minimum tenure of IAS officers. The state government had constituted the CSB on January 31, 2014, but kept it in abeyance on March 12, 2014. The board comprised the chief secretary as chairman, additional chief secretary as a member, principal secretary or secretary of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR-Services) as convener. A CAT bench (Bengaluru), comprising judicial member Suresh Kumar Monga and administrative member Rakesh Kumar Gupta, termed the order keeping the board in abeyance as invalid and ineffective right from the date of its inception. “In our considered view, the Government Order dated 12.03.2014 keeping the Civil Services Board in abeyance for an indefinite period is not only contrary to the directions given by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Subramanian’s case (supra) but it is also in defiance of a mandate given by the ‘2014 Amendment Rules’ which, in any case, were promulgated by the Central Government in consultation with the State Governments concerned while deriving the powers form the provisions of Section 3 (1) of the ‘1951 Act’,” the bench said. The competent authority now has to revisit the September 28, 2020 order transferring Sharat, after taking recommendations from the CSB. The board has been directed to follow the procedure as enumerated under the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Amendment Rules, 2014. The tribunal also added that CSB should afford an opportunity of hearing to Sharat before making such a recommendation to the competent authority and the whole exercise should be undertaken within a period of one month from the date of receipt of a certified copy of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/order-keeping-civil-services-board-in-abeyance-invalid-cat-968039.html
29-03-2021||State||Karasamadhana scheme: Karnataka govt offers 100% waiver of penalties, interest||The state government on Monday issued an order offering 100% waiver on penalties and interest payable by dealers under various pre-GST tax laws. This is under the Karasamadhana scheme announced by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in the 2021-22 budget presented earlier in the month. Arrears of penalties and interest payable under tax laws such as Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957, Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003, Central Tax Act and others has to be assessed or reassessed before July 31. On completion of the assessment process a dealer has till October 31 to pay arrears in tax to the government. Any discrepancies in the declaration made by the dealer will be addressed by November 15, after which penalties and interest on the tax will be waived. Dealers who have no arrears of tax but only arrears of penalty and interest will also receive benefits under the scheme. The order noted that any case or appeal filed by a dealer in courts regarding payment of taxes or penalties should be withdrawn to avail benefits under the scheme. The scheme will not cover such dealers against whom state has filed appeals in various courts on charges of tax evasion. The order of waiver will be passed within 30 days from November 15, according to the order. The Karasamadhana scheme is being introduced to complete the pre-GST legacy audit and to clear tax arrears expeditiously.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karasamadhana-scheme-karnataka-govt-offers-100-waiver-of-penalties-interest-968042.html
29-03-2021||State||CD scandal: My daughter under pressure, says girl's father||The father of the girl allegedly found in the sleaze CD involving MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi has said that his daughter was under pressure and her statement should be recorded only after she becomes normal. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, the father of the girl, who claimed himself an ex-serviceman, said that his daughter should be allowed to stay with her parents for four-five days and urged that the court should consider any statement recorded by her directly. "We do not have anyone behind us. There is neither any pressure. The chief minister, Home minister and the court should consider our appeal seriously," he said. Replying to a question, he claimed they have 11 witnesses and would decide further course of action in consultation with his advocate only after the girl returns. "We have released two audios and still nine are there," he said. One of her brothers said that his sister had been staying away from her after receiving money from D K Shivakumar and that she should be freed from captivity first. "I spoke to her on March 2. She told me that she was conducting herself as directed by D K Shivakumar," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-scandal-my-daughter-under-pressure-says-girls-father-968046.html
29-03-2021||State||CD scandal: SIT quizzes Ramesh Jarkiholi, asks him to appear on April 2||Former minister and Gokak MLA Ramesh Jarkiholi on Monday appeared before the Special Investigation Team (SIT), at the Interrogation Cell in Adugodi, in connection with the CD scandal case. Jarkiholi was questioned by the SIT officials for about four hours from 10 am to 2 pm. The officials found that the answers provided by Jarkiholi were not satisfactory and have asked the BJP MLA to appear again on April 2.  Sources in SIT revealed to DH that Jarkiholi asked for four days' time to reply to their questions. Further, he also asked the officials to investigate the case filed by him at Sadashivanagar police station. One of the officials, who was present during the interrogation, said that the former minister repeated most of the issues that he had already recorded previously.  Ramesh Jarkiholi is said to have stuck to his argument that the CD itself was fake and that he does not know the woman in person. However, when the officials confronted him with supporting evidence, including call details records and unedited footage, Ramesh reportedly told the officials that he would require some time to reply to the questions.  Earlier in the day, Ramesh was greeted with protest by a few Kannada organisations when the former minister reached the SIT cell. After recording his statement, the BJP legislator exited the SIT cell through the back gate.   The senior officials, including Sandeep Patil, joint commissioner of police (Crime), Ravi Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (Crime), and Cubbon Park police questioned Jarkiholi. The former minister had already been questioned twice by the SIT officials with respect to his complaint at Sadashivanagar police station against unknown persons.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/cd-scandal-sit-quizzes-ramesh-jarkiholi-asks-him-to-appear-on-april-2-968053.html
29-03-2021||State||Mysuru reports 110 fresh Covid-19 cases, two deaths||Mysuru reported 110 new Covid-19 cases and two deaths, taking the total number of positive cases to 55,447. The death toll now stands at 1,051. Currently, there are 618 active cases in the district. Out of the new cases, 77 are primary contacts of the existing cases. While 27 suffer from Influenza-like illness (ILA), six are Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases. The district has recorded a total of 55,557 positive cases so far. 53,888 of them have recovered and have been discharged from the hospital.  While the Health department authorities have observed a total of 3,33,906 persons to date, 2,73,955 have successfully completed seven days of quarantine and 4,397 are under quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru-reports-110-fresh-covid-19-cases-two-deaths-968084.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||D K Shivakumar faces wrath of Ramesh Jarkiholi's supporters in Belagavi||KPCC president D K Shivakumar was on Sunday greeted with protests by supporters of scandal-hit Ramesh Jarkiholi as he arrived in Belagavi to attend a rally in support of Satish Jarkiholi, the Congress candidate for the upcoming bypoll to Belgaum Lok Sabha constituency. Shivakumar is scheduled to participate in a rally in the city, a stronghold of the Jarkiholi brothers, before filing nomination papers of Satish on Monday. Satish is the brother of Ramesh, who was forced to resign from the Yediyurappa government due to the sleaze CD scandal that has been making headlines for several days now. Parents of the woman allegedly in the CD on Saturday had blamed Shivakumar for the episode. Scores of Ramesh's supporters arrived at the Sambra Airport and hurled slippers and stones at the Shivakumar's convoy. Black flags were also raised by the protestors who demanded the KPCC president be arrested "for conspiring against Ramesh". Police had to resort to mild caning to disperse the crowd. Supporters of Ramesh have announced that they would disrupt all events attended by the KPCC president, putting the state Congress in a spot of bother ahead of the bypoll. The incident prompted angry reactions from state Congress, with Opposition leader Siddaramaiah terming it "BJP-sponsored goondaism". "If the state president of an Opposition party is not safe under state BJP rule, what is the fate of the common man?" Siddaramaiah asked, adding that the behaviour of Belagavi police supported the sex-for-job scam victim's notion that she could not trust the police. Speaking to reporters in Bengaluru earlier in the day, Shivakumar said that he would participate in the rally in Belagavi despite protests by supporters of Ramesh. "Let them protest. Are they (supporters of Ramesh) protesting because he has done such a great deed?" he asked.  Commenting on the SIT investigation into the case, Shivakumar said, "They are trying a lot of things by bringing in people and issuing media statements about the case." The KPCC president added that he was confident that investigating officials are "balanced", despite the political overtones of the case. Congress workers also staged a protest in Bengaluru demanding the arrest of Ramesh in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/d-k-shivakumar-faces-wrath-of-ramesh-jarkiholis-supporters-in-belagavi-967714.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka govt to set up 9th elephant camp at Harangi||The state government will set up a new elephant camp at Harangi in Kodagu to decongest the existing eight across Karnataka where the pachyderm population has increased over the years. Sources in the Karnataka Forest Department told DH that orders were issued last month to initiate work on the camp. Hearing a PIL in 2019, the Karnataka High Court had rapped the state government after a report by an expert committee flagged the poor state of health facilities among others in the camps. “The High Court had also directed us to set up a new camp to accommodate excess elephants at these camps," a senior official from the forest department said. "Accordingly, the state government, on February 12, 2021, ordered setting up of a new elephant camp near the Harangi Reservoir Tree Park in Attur division of Kushalnagar Range in Kodagu." The official said they were told to "make use of funds available under the Kodagu Man-Animal Conflict mitigation Foundation for providing required infrastructure at the park”. Currently, Karnataka has eight jumbo camps housing about 100-plus domesticated elephants that are used to rescue wild animals and for logging purposes at government timber depots, according to officials. The new elephant camp is expected to reduce the burden on the nearby Dubare elephant camp, which currently has 31 elephants — the highest in the state.  In its report, the High Court-appointed committee had stated that there were only six veterinarians looking after the camps without any surgical equipment or cold storage to stock up emergency and life-saving drugs. The report gave a health ranking of 2.5 on a scale of 5 points to the camps, highlighting the poor condition of elephants ailing with several medical problems.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-govt-to-set-up-9th-elephant-camp-at-harangi-967715.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD Scandal: Ramesh Jarkiholi reaches interrogation cell in Adugodi||Former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi reached the interrogation cell in Adugodi around 9.55 am, where the Special Investigation Team (SIT) is going to question him with regard to the rape case registered against him by the woman allegedly in a controversial CD with him. The SIT team had served a notice to Ramesh on Sunday to appear before them for interrogation on Monday around 10 am. The woman had filed a complaint with Cubbon Park Police through her advocate on March 26. After SIT recorded the statements of the woman's parents and brothers, she had alleged that SIT is questioning her parents instead of treating her complaint seriously and questioning Ramesh Jarkiholi. According to the police, Ramesh has carried some materials with him to produce before the investigating officer. Ramesh Jarkiholi was questioned twice by the SIT officials with respect to his complaint with Sadashivanagar police station against unknown persons. Today, he is appearing for the third time, but it is the first interrogation after the woman filed a complaint against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-scandal-ramesh-jarkiholi-reaches-interrogation-cell-in-adugodi-967808.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD scandal: In a letter to Chief Justice, woman alleges that Jarkiholi threatened her||After a series of video statements, an unauthenticated letter surfaced in the early hours on Monday said to be written by the woman allegedly in the CD with former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi to the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court. In a three-page letter dated March 28, the woman requested the CJ to supervise the investigation of the matter personally and direct the state government to provide her protection and ensure her justice. The woman in the letter claimed she was a rape victim and said she had filed a complaint against Ramesh Jarkiholi with Cubbon Park police. Jarkiholi is a "highly influential person and has already threatened me in public of going to any extent against me to clear charges against him", she wrote. "I have already expressed my serious apprehension that there is a threat to myself and my parents from Ramesh Jarkiholi and I have requested the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to provide security for myself and my parents. Despite this, SIT has not given any protection to myself and my parents so far in collusion with Ramesh Jarkiholi," she stated. She added that she had learned from the media that Ramesh has already wielded his influence through SIT and caused a "serious threat" to her parents, using criminal force to prevent her from appearing before the magistrate and preventing her from making any statement against him. She also alleged that the minister has started destroying evidence regarding offenses in every possible way. "He is openly threatening me that he can go to any extent to prevent me from approaching the investigating agency," she wrote. "This is my fight, not anybody's. My family is in captive of Ramesh Jarkiholi, DySp Kattimani is pressurizing and working on behalf of Ramesh Jarkiholi and pressurizing," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-scandal-in-a-letter-to-chief-justice-woman-alleges-that-jarkiholi-threatened-her-967811.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to allow resumption of quarry, crushing ops||Karnataka government has decided to allow operations to resume at all quarry and crusher units that were shut after the recent explosions at Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur.  Mines & Geology Minister Murugesh Nirani on Monday said that the closure of units had led to job losses and impacted the state’s revenue.  “The owners of quarry and stone crushing units will have to give an undertaking to the authorities that they would abide by existing rules and regulations,” Nirani said.  “Owners licenses from the Director General of Mines Safety (DGMS) will be given a 90-day deadline to avail licenses for blasting in their quarries,” the minister said, adding that only 250 of the 2,500-odd quarries and crushing units hold blasting licenses currently. “Almost all stone quarries and crusher units have stopped operations following the tragic incidents at Shivamogga and Chikkaballapur districts. The state exchequer has suffered a loss of more than Rs 300 crore due to their closure," Nirani said. The prices of construction raw materials have also suddenly skyrocketed in the market due to the closure, inconveniencing citizens, the minister added. Two separate blasts - one in January at Shivamogga and another in February at Chikkballapur - killed 12 labourers who were employed in the quarries. The owners of quarries and crushers have laid off a large number of workers as they are unable to maintain the stalled units. Nirani also said that his department would ease the process of obtaining permits. “It is mandatory for quarries and crushing units to obtain permits from the DGMS. But the owners are finding it very difficult to purchase, store and blast explosives due to tough regulations. The Mines & Geology Department has decided to ease the process by changing the present guidelines," he said. Responding to queries, Nirani said that those without licenses can enter into agreements with quarries that possess the DGMS license for blasting purposes. Deputy Commissioners of districts are directed to approve these temporary arrangements between the units during the 90-day period set for securing DGMS licenses, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-allow-resumption-of-quarry-crushing-ops-967936.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka bans parties, rallies for 15 days as Covid-19 cases surge||The state government on Monday imposed a ban on holding parties at apartment complexes and decided against allowing any protest or strike for a period of 15 days to halt the Covid-19 surge that has gathered pace in the state. But there will be no lockdown or night curfew in any part of Karnataka. The government also ruled out promoting kids up to class 9 without exams, saying there was “no such proposal before it”.   Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa announced the decisions after meeting his Cabinet colleagues and the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) experts, even as he quashed demands on bringing in more stringent restrictions.  Yediyurappa acknowledged that while the test positivity rate of Bengaluru Urban had climbed from 0.94% in February to 1.94% in March, it was better to elicit the cooperation of people to contain the spread than introducing restrictions. But the Chief Minister warned that people found violating Covid-19 protocols from now on would be punished severely. Bypoll restrictions Announcing a ban on strikes, protests as well as parties in apartments, the Chief Minister said: “Even public gathering during bypolls will also be regulated”. The government, he said, would review the situation every three days. “Minister and zonal officers’ meetings will be held,” a source said. Earlier on Monday, the government reinstated several IAS officers to Special Officer positions to oversee eight zones in Bengaluru limits. While the government voted against dramatically increasing bed numbers in the state, sources said that a gradual scale-up will begin. “The bedding numbers will slowly be increased. The government’s next priority is to fill up beds in all medical colleges, after which it will seek to secure 10% of beds in private hospitals,” a source present during the meeting told DH. Yet another source present during the discussion said that Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar reportedly asked the Chief Minister to institute a series of measures, including implementing some of the recommendations made by the TAC. Yediyurappa cautioned the public that from Tuesday crackdown will begin on those violating Covid rules. “All people have to wear the mask and anybody violating the rule will be dealt seriously. Those who are caught not wearing masks will be penalised heavily from today,” Yediyurappa said.  He also clarified that no restrictive measures will be taken as far as cinema halls are concerned. Sources said that Dr Sudhakar’s calls for restrictive measures were out-voted by other government officials, including Revenue Minister R Ashoka who blamed the surge on “parties being held at apartment complexes.” Wedding halls found flouting social distancing rules will be closed for six months, Ashoka said. Exams to go on Putting an end to confusion over shutting schools and colleges and promoting kids without examinations, Yediyurappa on Monday said “there is no such proposal before the government”. “The examinations will be held as per the schedule,” he said. The chief minister added that the examinations for up to grade 9 will be completed in the next 15 days and there was no question of closing down schools and colleges. “Instead, institutions have been asked to follow the safety measures strictly while conducting offline classes and examinations,” he said. Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday spoke about promoting all students up to grade 9, which created confusion among parents, students and school managements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bans-parties-rallies-for-15-days-as-covid-19-cases-surge-967951.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka schools, colleges to remain open, exams to be held as per schedule||Putting an end to the confusion over closing down the schools and colleges and promoting students without examinations, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday, saying "there is no such proposal before the government". Addressing the media after a detailed meeting with experts from the State Technical Advisory Committee on Covid-19 where senior ministers and officials of various departments were present, the chief minister said there was no proposal before the government to promote students up to class 9. "The examinations will be held as per the schedule," he said. The chief minister added that the examinations scheduled for up to class 9 will be completed in the next 15 days and there was no question of closing down the schools and colleges. "There is no discussion about closing down schools and colleges. Instead, the institutions have been asked to follow the safety measures strictly while conducting offline classes and examinations," he said. Health and Family Welfare Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Sunday spoke about the promotion of all students up to class 9, which created confusion among parents, students and school managements. The private school managements association requested the minister not to give such statements about the department which does not come under his portfolio and requested the government to allow schools to conduct exams and declare summer vacation. The chief minister said that the state government will write to the Union government requesting to vaccinate teachers on a priority basis and consider them as corona warriors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-schools-colleges-to-remain-open-exams-to-be-held-as-per-schedule-967971.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Strike threat: Karnataka govt prepares to end monopoly in bus operations||Two years after notifying the ‘comprehensive area scheme’ which gave the state road transport corporations (RTCs) near monopoly over operating buses in Karnataka, the state government’s move to bring private players to minimise the impact of the RTC workers’ strike on April 7 has set the stage for a shift in policy. Days after the transport commissioner invited private operators to run buses on various routes over the provision of temporary permits for a month, the department has received positive response from several players.  The area scheme allowed RTCs to run buses without stage carriage permit in almost all parts of the state, even as the transport department stopped issuing such permits to private buses. Officials in the department, who acknowledged that the latest move was aimed at sending a warning signal to the RTC workers, said the implications of the temporary permit will go beyond the strike. “Amid the pandemic, the government has provided Rs 1,700 crore to the four RTCs towards the salary expenses of the workers. Eight of the nine demands they have placed have been addressed. We have no other option than to open the sector for private players,” a senior official told DH. In the regional transport office, where the fine details of the plan are being prepared, officials have resolved to allow the private players to use bus terminals of KSRTC, BMTC and other corporations.   An official said there were 10,000 private buses and 1 lakh maxi cabs which can fill any gaps in transport service created by the strike. “There will be hiccups on the first two days. But within a week, we will bring an efficient alternative system that can withstand any strike,” he added. S Nataraj Sharma of the Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association said the government had ignored the demand of private players for an entire year and now seeking to use their services. “The financial crunch means all private bus owners and operators will jump at the government’s offer. But the devil is in the details. For instance, who will be responsible in case of an accident,” he asked. Sources in the department said the Centre was already working on a bill that seeks to split the bus transport operations equally between RTCs and private operators. “The change will come whether one likes it or not. The strike and our experiment with a temporary permit will convince the state to notify the central rule. Ceding the ground to private companies will also reduce operational costs eventually,” the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/strike-threat-karnataka-govt-prepares-to-end-monopoly-in-bus-operations-968003.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Jal Shakti mission for water conservation kicks off in Karnataka||Drawing up plans for water conservation in Karnataka, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa flagged off the Jal Shakti programme on Monday. The programme was recently launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on World Water Day.  As part of this, water conservation initiatives including recharge of wells, kalyanis, borewells and construction of check dams will be taken up across the state.  The 100-day programme will be implemented with the MNREGS funds, under which 65% is reserved for natural resources management. The government will make use of its Dishaank app or Google to identify water sources for the lakes and rejuvenate them.  The programme will also include desilting of lakes, lake bund development and development of canals from lakes that flow into agricultural fields. New lakes will be developed on government lands and in forest areas, an official release said.  The government is also looking at the rejuvenation of kalyanis and nalas at the gram panchayat level. Importance will be given to recharging borewells in gram panchayats for ensuring drinking water.  "Even though rainwater harvesting has been made mandatory, not many are following it. In these 100 days, we will ensure that buildings in gram panchayat limits take up rainwater harvesting," MNREGS commissioner Anirudh Sravan said. Speaking to DH, Sravan said the entire campaign was being implemented in coordination with gram panchayat members. "We have an action plan ready in all gram panchayats for groundwater recharge. Gram panchayat members have been involved in mapping kalyanis and other water sources that need rejuvenation in their vicinity," he said.  District incharge ministers, MLAs and DCs will be in charge of monitoring the implementation of the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/jal-shakti-mission-for-water-conservation-kicks-off-in-karnataka-968004.html
29-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 2,792 new Covid-19 cases, 16 deaths||Karnataka, on Monday, reported 2,792 new cases of Covid-19 and 16 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 9,89,804 and the death toll to 12,520. The day saw 1,964 patients getting discharged after recovery. Of the fresh cases, 1,742 were from Bengaluru Urban alone. As of March 29 evening, cumulatively, there were 9,53,416 people discharged. Out of 23,849 active cases, 227 are in the ICUs. Bengaluru Urban saw nine deaths, Hassan three, Mysuru two, Bidar and Mandya one each. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Bidar reported 247, Kalaburagi 118, Mysuru 110, Udupi 71 and Tumakuru 60. A total of 2,11,95,741 samples have been tested so far, of which 87,197 were tested on Monday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-2792-new-covid-19-cases-16-deaths-968013.html
29-03-2021||West||Sharad Pawar unwell, to undergo gallbladder surgery on Wednesday||NCP supremo Sharad Pawar was rushed to the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai for gallbladder issues and would undergo a surgery on Wednesday. Maharashtra’s Minority Affairs Minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik confirmed the news. “Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb was feeling a little uneasy due to a pain in his abdomen last evening and was therefore taken to Breach Candy Hospital for a check up. Upon diagnosis it came to light that he has a problem in his gall bladder,” Malik said. “He is on blood thinning medication which is now being stopped due to this issue. He will be admitted in hospital on the 3 March 2021 and an endoscopy and surgery will be conducted,” he tweeted. All Pawar’s programmes were cancelled until further notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-unwell-to-undergo-gallbladder-surgery-on-wednesday-967813.html
29-03-2021||West||Amid Pawar-Shah meeting, Shiv Sena says MVA safe||Amid reports of a secret meeting between NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister and BJP stalwart Amit Shah and resultant speculations, the Shiv Sena and NCP on Monday yet again asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is absolutely safe. The Shiv Sena and NCP vehemently denied that any Pawar-Shah parlays took place, however, the BJP kept the people guessing. The Maharashtra Congress, however, has not commented on the issue. “The MVA has been formed by Pawar saheb, there is no reason to think about unnecessary things,” NCP’s general secretary Praful Patel told reporters in Kochi. According to him, the MVA government is “absolutely safe” and is working with 100 per cent commitment. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said that there was nothing wrong with the meeting. “Pawar saheb is a senior leader and he can meet the Union Home Minister… I can also meet him,” he said. “There is nothing called a secret meeting in politics…if it was secret how you came to know?” asked Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. According to him, the MVA government is “absolutely safe” and is working with 100 per cent commitment. Raut, a Rajya Sabha member, said that there is nothing wrong with the meeting. “Pawar saheb is a senior leader and he can meet the Union Home Minister… I can also meet,” he said. “The Home Minister said that ‘not every meeting can be made public’, however, if I recall he had spoken about what has happened behind the closed door,” Raut said in an indirect reference to the Shah-Thackeray meeting in February 2019 at Matoshree. Raut’s statement comes a day after he met Thackeray. Asked about the meeting, he said, “The Chief Minister is the Shiv Sena President… He is our supreme leader and when we meet our leader, we discuss state and national politics, issues of importance." Taking a dig at Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis of BJP, Raut said, “He should also think about Maharashtra.. He sees everything in Delhi… He looks at the Centre, he meets Home Secretary… The BJP should play the Holi of love for the next three and a half years.” Meanwhile, state BJP President Chandrakant Patil evaded a direct reply. "All such meetings take place routinely. In Indian culture, politics is on one side, but we all should meet. Of late, such meetings have decreased in Maharashtra, since Pawar and Shah were there (in Ahmedabad), they might have met,” he said. Asked whether he is okay if the BJP and NCP come together, Patil said whatever decision is taken by the senior leadership of the BJP, it will be accepted as it will always be in the interest of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/amid-pawar-shah-meeting-shiv-sena-says-mva-safe-967846.html
29-03-2021||West||Maharashtra’s more than 50% active cases are in Mumbai-MMR, Pune and Nashik||As Maharashtra's Covid-19 situation worsens, government data shows that more than 50 per cent of the fresh cases and the total active cases are from the Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) and neighbouring Pune and Nashik districts. This reflects the stress on the state's public and private health infrastructure. As of Monday morning, the total active cases in Maharashtra were 3,25,901 of which the Mumbai-Thane-Pune belt accounts for 1,71,585. In the MMR, the twin districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban account for 43,599 active cases while the neighbouring districts of Thane had 32,780 cases, Palghar had 3,361 cases and Raigad had 4,285 cases. Pune, with 62,022 cases, has the largest number of active cases in India while Nashik has a total of 26,538 active cases. Sunday’s numbers reflect that the state had 40,414 cases, of which MMR account for 12,319 while Pune and Nashik reported 8,324 and 3,613 cases, respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-s-more-than-50-active-cases-are-in-mumbai-mmr-pune-and-nashik-967853.html
29-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: 5 ultras killed in anti-Naxal operation in Gadchiroli||Five Naxals were killed on Monday morning in an operation conducted by police against the rebels in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district, a senior police official said. The anti-Naxal operation is still on, he said. "Five Naxals were killed in the operation in Khobramenda forest area of Gadchiroli," the official said. On Saturday, the district police seized a rifle and three pressure cooker bombs which Naxals were allegedly planning to use to ambush security forces, an official earlier said. Acting on information about the rebels gathering in large numbers in a forest here against the backdrop of 'Naxal week' being observed by them, the Gadchiroli police's C-60 commandos had conducted an anti-Naxal operation on Saturday in the Hetalkasa forest area. Around 60 to 70 ultras had opened fire on the C-60 commandos, a specialised anti-Naxal unit, following which the security personnel retaliated, the police said. After firing from both sides for about an hour, the rebels had fled from the spot leaving behind their belongings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-5-ultras-killed-in-anti-naxal-operation-in-gadchiroli-967860.html
29-03-2021||West||Five Maoists killed in encounter in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli district||In a major intelligence-guided operation, five Maoists including two women were gunned down in a big encounter with the police and security forces in the deep forests of Khobramendha-Hetalkasa in the Gadchiroli district of Maharashtra on Monday. A huge cache of arms and ammunition were seized from them during the operation at Kurkheda tehsil of Gadchiroli that borders Chhattisgarh. The operation was led by the C-60 commandos of the Anti-Naxal Operations (ANO) of the Maharashtra police. “Five Naxals were killed in the encounter,” said Sandeep Patil, the Deputy Inspector General of Gadchiroli Range. Patil and Gadchiroli Superintendent of Police Ankit Goyal personally oversaw the operation. “In yet another act of bravery C-60 commandos neutralized 5 Naxals in an encounter in Khobramendha-Hetalkasa forest area of the Gadchiroli district. The impeccable bravery shown by them is laudable.  Congratulations to the team!!,” state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh tweeted. According to information reaching here, acting on a tip-off, a team of police and security forces undertook a combing operation and discovered the camp, where the encounter took place. Around 60 to 70 ultras had opened fire on the C-60 commandos following which the security personnel retaliated. After firing from both sides for about an hour, the rebels had fled from the spot leaving behind their belongings. Five Maoists were found dead. The incident comes close on the heels of a 48-hour operation on March 2 and March 4 when a successful Tactical Counter Offensive Campaign (TCOC) was carried out against the Naxalites along the Gadchiroli-Baster border. Then a C-60 team had busted an illegal arms and ammunition manufacturing unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/five-maoists-killed-in-encounter-in-maharashtras-gadchiroli-district-967869.html
29-03-2021||West||No meeting took place between Sharad Pawar and Amit Shah, says NCP leader Jitendra Awhad||Amid reports of a secret meeting between NCP supremo Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, NCP leader Jitendra Awhad said no such meeting took place.  पवार साहेब-अमित शहा भेट झाली नाही. ही काळ्या दगडावराची पांढरी रेघ आहे. तरी देखिल आमचे काही पत्रकार मंडळी रंग उधळत आहेत.चघळायला काही नसले कि अफवेभवती दोन दिवस घालवता येतात. हेच या बातमीच्या रूपाने सिद्ध होतं.माझ्या सर्व पत्रकार बांधवांना होळीच्या शुभेच्छा! बुरा ना मानो होली है. Earlier, the Shiv Sena on Monday asserted that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government is absolutely safe and will complete its full term. “There is nothing such as 'secret meeting' in politics. If it was secret, how did you come to know?” said Shiv Sena chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut, a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-meeting-took-place-between-sharad-pawar-and-amit-shah-says-ncp-leader-jitendra-awhad-967872.html
29-03-2021||West||Madhya Pradesh's Barwani seals border with Maharashtra over Covid-19||Authorities in Barwani have decided to seal the Madhya Pradesh district's border with neighbouring Maharashtra to check the spread of coronavirus infection, an official said on Monday. The number of Covid-19 cases has been increasing in Barwani, district Collector Shivraj Singh Verma told PTI. The main reason is that the district shares border with Maharashtra, where there has been a spike in coronavirus infection, he said. "Hence, instructions have been issued to officials to seal all the roads on the border adjoining Maharashtra, barring the Agra-Mumbai Road and Khetia Road," Verma said. He appealed to people to follow the coronavirus prevention guidelines and get vaccinated. Verma said the district shares 150 to the 200-km-long border with Maharashtra. A large number of people cross the border every day for work. To a question, the collector said health screening of people travelling in cars and other vehicles on the Agra- Mumbai Road is not possible due to high traffic on the route. However, police, health department and the Barwani administration have been conducting screening at 10 places in the district. Thermal screening of travellers is being done and those found with high body temperature and being advised home quarantine, the official said. Meanwhile, residents of the district's Warla and Balwadi villages, located on the border adjoining Maharashtra, imposed a lockdown on their own with effect from Monday in a bid to control the spread of coronavirus infection. Balwadi resident Abhay Bihani said the self-imposed lockdown will continue for the entire week, except Wednesday when shops will be opened for two hours. On Sunday, 35 new cases of coronavirus were reported in Barwani, raising the infection count in the district to 3,291, as per the state health bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/madhya-pradeshs-barwani-seals-border-with-maharashtra-over-covid-19-967895.html
29-03-2021||West||BJP nominates Nimisha Suthar for Morva Hadaf bypoll||The ruling BJP in Gujarat on Monday announced former MLA Nimisha Suthar as its candidate for the Morva Hadaf (ST) Assembly bypoll scheduled to take place on April 17. Suthar will take on the Congress' Suresh Katara. The bypoll in Morva Hadaf Assembly seat in Panchmahal district was necessitated after Independent MLA Bhupendrasinh Khant was disqualified in May, 2019 for submitting an invalid caste certificate after he lost a case in the Gujarat High Court on the issue. Khant died in January this year. Incidentally, Suthar had won from Morva Hadaf in a bypoll held in 2013. Counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bjp-nominates-nimisha-suthar-for-morva-hadaf-bypoll-967906.html
29-03-2021||West||Had warned that Vaze could create problems for Maha govt: Raut||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Monday claimed he had warned some party leaders that Sachin Vaze, the suspended Mumbai police officer who is currently in the NIA's custody, could create problems for the Maharashtra government. Raut also said the Sachin Vaze episode taught some lessons to the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra. The Sena, NCP and Congress share power in the state. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) earlier this month arrested Vaze over his alleged role in planting an explosive-laden SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambanis residence in south Mumbai on February 25. He was earlier also suspended in 2004 over the custodial death of Ghatkopar bomb blasts accused Khwaja Yunus, and was reinstated into the police force last year. "When there was plan to reinstate Sachin Vaze into the Maharashtra police force, I had informed some leaders that he could create problems for us. His behaviour and style of working could lead to some troubles for the government," Raut told a TV channel. The Rajya Sabha member further said he cannot reveal names of those leaders, but "they are well aware of my conversation with them". Raut said he has been a journalist for some decades and hence, knows about Vaze. A person is not bad, but sometimes a particular situation makes him so, he said. "This whole incident of Vaze's activities and controversies thereafter taught a lesson to the MVA government. It was good in a way that it happened and taught us some lessons," the Sena's chief spokesperson said. On Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray backing the suspended police officer, Raut said they did not have enough information about Vaze and his activities. "The chief minister supported him, but with his (Vaze's) activities having surfaced, there is no reason to shield the officer," he said. On the speculation in political circles that Union Home Minister Amit Shah met NCP leader Sharad Pawar in Ahmedabad on Saturday, Raut said Shah is known for holding several meetings in the Gujarat city with various leaders. "There is nothing to raise eyebrows over the rumoured meeting between Sharad Pawar and BJP leader Amit Shah. In fact, a dialogue between leaders of opposition (rival) parties is good. I am saying this provided they actually met each other in Ahmedabad," he said. Raut further said even if Pawar and Shah had met, there was nothing to read too much into it. "If it was really a secret meeting, how come it (news about it) came out," he said. Raut also said the three-party alliance in Maharashtra will not be affected by the outcome of the Assembly polls in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu or other states. On his remark in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' where he called Maharashtra NCP leader Anil Deshmukh an accidental home minister, Raut said Deshmukh is a gentleman. "He must have gone through a lot of trouble and hardship while handling a crucial portfolio like the home ministry. I had even spoken to him and told him that he would face lot of criticism," the Sena leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/had-warned-that-vaze-could-create-problems-for-maha-govt-raut-967914.html
29-03-2021||West||Lockdown not a solution for Covid-19 surge, says BJP Maharashtra chief Chandrakant Patil||A day after Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked officials to prepare a plan for implementation of a lockdown, state BJP president Chandrakant Patil said lockdown is not a solution for the rise in cases of coronavirus. Talking to reporters here after meeting Pune Police Commissioner Amitabh Gupta, Patil said not only the BJP, but all traders and workers from unorganised sectors will oppose the lockdown. "Lockdown is not an answer to the increasing Covid-19 cases in the state. If the lockdown is imposed, you (state government) will not give any package (for relief to affected people). How people lived in the last one year cannot be understood by sitting inside 'Matoshree'," Patil said. 'Matoshree' is the residence of CM Thackeray in Bandra area of Mumbai. Patil said there is no objection to night curfew, but activities during the day should be continued. "I am okay with the night curfew. Nobody goes out at night. There are some people with you (in state government) who go out as they want nightlife," the BJP leader said. He was apparently referring to state minister Aaditya Thackeray who had pitched for the revival of nightlife in Mumbai. "If you really want to impose lockdown, announce a package and give Rs 5,000 per month to every worker from the unorganised sector," Patil said. Testing, tracing and treatment of Covid-19patients are the keys to check the spread of the viral infection, but lockdown is not an answer, he asserted. Asked about speculation in political circles that NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Union Home Minister Amit Shah met in Ahmedabad on Saturday, Patil said he has no details of it. "All such meetings take place routinely. In the Indian culture, politics is on one side, but we all should meet. Of late, such meetings have decreased in Maharashtra (among opponents)," he said. Patil said since Pawar and Shah were there (in Ahmedabad), they might have met. The NCP shares power in Maharashtra with the Shiv Sena and Congress. Asked whether he is okay if the BJP and NCP come together, Patil said whatever decision is taken by senior leadership of the BJP, it will be accepted as it will always be in the interest of the party. Patil also wished good health to Pawar (80), who will undergo surgery at a hospital in Mumbai after it was diagnosed that he has gall bladder issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-not-a-solution-for-covid-19-surge-says-bjp-maharashtra-chief-chandrakant-patil-967920.html
29-03-2021||West||Pandharpur bypolls move towards an interesting battle of votes||The bypolls in Pandharpur - Mangalwedha seat of Maharashtra Legislative Assembly - is moving towards an interesting battle of votes. The elections in this Solapur district seat have been necessitated after the death of NCP legislator Bharat Bhalke on November 28, 2020, due to Covid-19 related complications. The last date of nominations ends on Tuesday – while polling is scheduled on April 17. Bhalke was a three-time MLA, who won in 2009 as an Independent, 2014 on a Congress ticket and in 2019 from the NCP. The Sharad Pawar-led NCP has given ticket to Bhalke’s son Bhagirath Bhalke for the seat. The BJP has given ticket to Samadhan Autade, who was earlier keen on an NCP nomination. Shiv Sena women’s wing chief Shaila Godse has filed papers as an Independent, rebelling against the party. Swabhimani Shetkari Sangathana candidate Sachin Patil too has filed papers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pandharpur-bypolls-move-towards-an-interesting-battle-of-votes-967945.html
29-03-2021||West||Maharashtra reports 31,643 new Covid-19 cases, 102 deaths||A day after reporting the highest one-day rise of 40,414 coronavirus positive cases, Maharashtra on Monday added 31,643 fresh infections, taking the overall tally to 27,45,518, the state health department said. With 102 fatalities, the death toll in the state went up to 54,283. The detection of fewer cases on Monday is attributed to reduced testing because of Holi holiday. Maharashtra has been conducting more than 1.50 lakh tests every day on average for the detection of coronavirus positive cases. On Monday, the state conducted 1,36,848 tests against 1,65,591 samples that were tested on Sunday. Mumbai reported 5,890 new Covid-19 cases on Monday and 12 deaths, taking the tally to 4,04,614 and the toll to 11,665, the department said. Of the 102 deaths, 85 fatalities occurred in the last 48 hours whereas 14 patients had succumbed in the last week. The rest three fatalities had taken place before the last week, it said. A total of 20,854 patients were discharged during the day, taking the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 23,53,307, it said. The state is now left with 3,36,584 active cases. Thane city neighbouring Mumbai reported 1,010 fresh cases while 934 infections were added in the limits of the Kalyan Dombivali municipal corporation, a Health official said. Pune city and neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad township reported 2,554 and 1,481 new cases, respectively, taking the tally to 2,69,429 in the Pune corporation area and to1,31,675 in the Pimpri Chinchwad area. Nashik city recorded 1,892 new cases, taking its caseload to 1,12,345. A total of 825 infections were detected in Nashik district, the department said. Ahmednagar district neighbouring Nashik also reported 1,892 fresh cases. With 825 new cases found in the Ahmednagar district, the overall tally rose to 59,368. Ahmednagar municipal corporation reported 470 new cases, taking the tally to 31,994, as per the department. In the Marathwada region, Aurangabad city reported 803 new cases while 678 cases were detected in Nanded city. Beed and Osmanabad districts reported 398 and 323 new infections, respectively, which is indicative of a higher number of cases to be detected in these districts in the next two days, the official said. Buldana and Washim districts reported 435 and 426 new cases, respectively, during the day. The local administration has already undertaken measures like imposition of a night curfew and clamping a weekend lockdown, but the number of new cases continues to rise, the official said. Nagpur city and Nagpur district (barring the city) added 2,281 and 962 new cases, respectively, in the day. With 1,36,848 new tests, the number of samples tested for coronavirus in Maharashtra has gone up to 1,94,95,189. Maharashtra's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 27,45,518, new cases: 31,643, death toll: 54,283, discharged: 23,53,307, active cases: 3,36,584, people tested so far: 1,94,95,189.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-31643-new-covid-19-cases-102-deaths-967975.html
29-03-2021||West||Covid-19: BMC to release asymptomatic patients to ensure beds for more serious cases||As Covid-19 cases are going up rapidly in Mumbai, the city civic body on Monday decided to discharge asymptomatic patients at the earliest to vacate beds for the patients with more serious symptoms. The civic body has also decided to place the order for procuring 1.5 lakh injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid any potential shortage of medicines at hospitals, a senior official said. In its order, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that no asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patient without any comorbidities will be allotted a Covid bed in any public or private hospital. It described the "needy" patient as the one with "mild or serious symptoms or a Covid-19 patient with comorbidities". Mumbai on Sunday reported the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases by adding 6,923 new infections, taking the total tally to 3,98,674. BMC commissioner I S Chahal has empowered assistant commissioners to take decisions at the ward level and stressed activation of war rooms at the ward level for better management of available beds, ICU beds, ventilators among others, as per the order. Chahal stated all admissions should be routed through the ward level war rooms to avoid any chaos experienced during the first wave of coronavirus when several patients ran from the pillar to post to get a bed. The civic chief also pointed out that direct admission in any Covid Care Centre or private hospitals will not be permitted without prior intimation to the ward war room. "No asymptomatic Covid-19 positive patient without any co-morbidities be allotted Covid bed in any public/private hospital to ensure prompt availability of beds to the needy. Urgently discharge any asymptomatic Covid positive patients admitted to any Covid hospital to vacate the beds," Chahal said. The order stated that 80 per cent of the total beds and 100 per cent of ICU beds in private hospitals shall be kept reserved only for the allotment through the ward war rooms for Covid-19 patients. "No direct admissions on these reserved beds to be taken by hospitals," the order said. Chahal directed all hospitals in the megapolis to charge patients as per the rates notified by the Maharashtra government. "All the bills will be audited by the municipal auditors," the commissioner said. Chahal also directed officials to immediately assess the structural stability and fire audit of all Covid facilities. As on March 25, there are 8,466 non-ICU beds and 931 ICU beds being operationalised at the hospitals run by the government and the BMC, the order said. Meanwhile, the BMC has also decided to place the order for procuring 1.5 lakh injections of antiviral drug Remdesivir and other medical equipment to avoid any potential shortage of medicines at hospitals. A senior official said a sizeable number of new cases are being reported from high-rise buildings. "We are worried due to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city, which is a hub of major industrial and financial institutions. To treat coronavirus positive patients, we need to buy as many 1.5 lakh vials of Remdesivir injection so that we can cover maximum patients. "We want to avoid any shortage of medicines by hospitals or treatment centres," said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health), BMC. Remdesivir is a broad-spectrum anti-viral medication. Because of a steady rise in new cases, the Maharashtra government recently decided to purchase additional oxygen cylinders and ventilators for various Covid treatment centres. Maharashtra on Sunday reported 40,414 coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise so far in a single day, taking its tally to 27,13,875, just two days after the caseload reached 26 lakh, as per the state health department. In a meeting held with Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, Health Minister Rajesh Tope and other officials on Sunday, principal secretary to state health department Dr Pradeep Vyas had predicted a "tremendous stress" on the availability of beds, oxygen supply, and ventilators, which could fall short if the cases continue to go up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-bmc-to-release-asymptomatic-patients-to-ensure-beds-for-more-serious-cases-967986.html
29-03-2021||West||Maharashtra subordinate courts work hours' cut short amid Covid-19 surge||Due to a surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra, work hours of all subordinate courts in the state have been restricted. As per a notice issued on Monday by Bombay High Court Registrar, the Chief Justice of Bombay HC, Dipankar Datta, and the HC Administrative Committee have directed that subordinate courts in Maharashtra will function from 11 am to 1.30 pm and 2 pm to 4.30 pm on all working days from March 30. Last week, Justice GS Patel had given lawyers and all parties with cases listed in his court the choice to attend hearing through a video conferencing interface. The notice issued by HC earlier this week also said that lawyers and parties from outside of Mumbai should not travel here and must "invariably" opt for video-conference hearings. The rest of the courts in the principal bench of Bombay HC are still conducting physical hearings for most matters. On Saturday, the Bombay Bar Association had written to the CJ seeking hearings through video-conference or a combination of physical and online hearings amid the spike in Covid-19 numbers. After the nationwide lockdown imposed in March last year, all benches of Bombay HC had stopped physical hearings, and were conducting hearings for urgent cases through video conferencing. However, in December last year, the principal bench resumed physical hearings on four of the five working days of a week. On Fridays, a few designated courts hear such matters through video-conferencing where the lawyers or parties are not based in Mumbai. Earlier this month, the Nagpur and Aurangabad benches of HC reverted to online hearings owing to the rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-subordinate-courts-work-hours-cut-short-amid-covid-19-surge-967990.html
29-03-2021||West||Kalyan-Dombivali civic body restricts entry of visitors as Covid-19 cases rise||As Covid-19 cases rise in the twin city of Kalyan and Dombivali in Thane district of Maharashtra, the local municipal corporation has put restrictions on the number of people visiting the civic office, an official said on Monday. Similarly, the number of visitors to civic ward offices has also been restricted. In an order issued on Monday, Kalyan-Dombivali Municipal Corporation (KDMC) Commissioner Vijay Suryavanshi said former corporators and office-bearers should book an appointment over the phone and visit the civic office only if it is necessary. Suryavanshi directed municipal officials to hold meetings virtually for which no outsider should be allowed to attend. Besides, all letters to the KDMC should be sent through email, the order stated. Citizens have been asked to make payment of tax digitally and avoid visiting the civic office. Thane district has so far reported 3,09,561 coronavirus positive cases, an official said earlier in the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/kalyan-dombivali-civic-body-restricts-entry-of-visitors-as-covid-19-cases-rise-967994.html
29-03-2021||West||4 policemen injured after youths broke Gurudwara gates in Nanded||Four Police personnel were injured after some Sikh youths broke the gates of Gurudwara in Nanded, Maharashtra, and allegedly attacked them. The SP said, "Permission for Hola Mohalla wasn't granted due to Covid-19. Gurudwara committee was informed and they'd said that they would do it inside Gurudwara premises itself. But around 4 pm when Nishan Sahib was brought to the gate, they started arguing and 300-400 youth broke the gate and marched outside." The SP added that vehicles were also damaged. An FIR has been registered and the probe is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/4-policemen-injured-after-youths-broke-gurudwara-gates-in-nanded-968014.html
29-03-2021||West||Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani weighed against 85 kgs of silver at event||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani was on Monday weighed against 85 kilograms of silver at a function organised in Gandhinagar. Rupani donated the silver for the welfare of livestock at cow shelters, a state government release said, adding that the 'rajat tula' event was organised by Samast Mahajan Trust. Rupani said his government was committed to the welfare of livestock, and had enacted a stringent law against cow slaughter with jail terms of up to 12 years. He said his government had launched 'Karuna Abhiyan' to treat birds injured during the kite festival, apart from operating 350 mobile veterinary vans, and offering financial assistance to cow shelters. Steps had been taken to make such cow shelters, or panjrapole, self-sufficient by helping those running it grow fodder, the CM added. Rupani also inaugurated in online mode 'gauchar' development work||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-cm-vijay-rupani-weighed-against-85-kgs-of-silver-at-event-968033.html
29-03-2021||West||NCP fields late MLA's son in Pandharpur Assembly bypoll||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) has decided to field Bhagirath Bhalke, son of late MLA and the party leader Bharat Bhalke, in the next month's byelection to Pandharpur-Mangalvedha Assembly constituency in Maharashtra. The BJP has fielded former Shiv Sena leader Samadhan Autade against Bhalke for the April 17 bypoll. Autade quit the Sena after the 2019 state assembly elections and joined the BJP. Bhalke and Autade are owners of sugar mills in Solapur region. Farmers in the region had protested against certain sugar mills for deferring payment for the sale of sugarcane, which is one of the crucial issues in the upcoming contest. NCP leader and sitting MLA Bharat Bhalke had died due to Covid-19 infection. NCP state unit president Jayant Patil and his BJP counterpart Chandrakant Patil will attend the submission of nomination papers of the candidates of their respective parties on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-fields-late-mlas-son-in-pandharpur-assembly-bypoll-968034.html
29-03-2021||West||Cops injured in Nanded as Sikh youth break barricade||At least four policemen were injured when a group of Sikh youths charged at the gates of a gurudwara and broke barricades in Nanded after the local administration denied permission for a Hola Mohalla in the city. The permission was denied in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed by government banning all kinds of religious, social, cultural and political gatherings in the stage till 31 April. However, a mob - with some of them flashing swords - came out of the gurudwara to the streets and engaged in violence targeting police vehicles. The incident took place between 4 - 6 pm. Half a dozen police vehicles were damaged in the incident. Nanded Collector Dr Vipan Itankar and Superintendent of Police Pramod Kumar Shewale appealed for peace. Shewale was personally present on spot and escaped an attack. At the time of going to press, an FIR was being registered. Shewale confirmed that four persons were injured in the incident. "Over the past few days we have been in touch with the gurudwara committee. They gave an undertaking that there would not be any procession in the streets. However, around 4 pm, a mob broke the gates and barricades," he added. Dr Itankar said that that the situation is now under control. "A proper investigation would be carried out," he said. The Maharashtra police headquarters in Mumbai is constantly reviewing the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cops-injured-in-nanded-as-sikh-youth-break-barricade-968095.html
