30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Fitness camp for cops to be extended to entire state: Bommai||The fitness camp aimed at helping police personnel shed weight will be extended to all police stations across the state, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday. He was addressing a gathering during the valedictory of a month-long fitness session, organised for police officers and personnel by Mangaluru City Police Commissionerate, at Fr Muller’s Convention Hall in the city. The pilot programme controlling the weight of police personnel has been initiated in KSRP. In the civil police, the fitness programme has been successfully implemented in Mangaluru police commissionerate jurisdiction. Similar sessions will be held across the state. A circular in this regard will be issued shortly, Bommai said. “Only those who have will power can keep their body fit through hard work. Physical fitness is essential for those who work in the police department,” the Minister added. The department has been giving more emphasis for physical fitness of the staff. The police should be fit and healthy. Excess weight will have an impact on the health of an individual, which in turn will have a negative impact on the work. The fitness programme initiated by Mangaluru police is a model which should be emulated elsewhere, the Minister stressed. The minister also thanked Patanjali Yoga tutors for holding yoga training and Fr Muller institutions for providing its premises for the month-long programme. All in the department right from constables to director general of police should be part of such exercise. Mangaluru Commissioner of Police N Shashi Kumar said that the training session was held from March 1 to 29. “As many as 26 women police, who were weighing more than 70 kgs, and 50 male police personnel, who were weighing more than 90 kgs, had attended the fitness training programme. The month-long yoga, exercise, balanced food diet and fast walking had helped participants reduce their weight. Those who attended had lost weight between 1 kg and 10.40 kgs during the session,” the Commissioner said. Bhanuprakash’s achievement came in for praise after he succeeding in reducing his weight by 10.40 kgs. Similarly, four participants had lost 9 kgs while 18 persons had lost between 7 and 9-kg, 44 persons had lost 4 to 6 kgs and six personnel had lost 1 to 3 kgs of weight, DCP (Law and Order) Hariram Shankar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/fitness-camp-for-cops-to-be-extended-to-entire-state-bommai-968132.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Bommai refuses to comment on woman writing to HC CJ||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai refused to comment on a query on the woman in the sleaze CD writing to High Court Chief Justice and seeking a court-monitored investigation. He also refused to respond to the woman's request to High Court on directing the state government to provide her with security. "No comment," was the cryptic response from Home Minister after being surrounded by media persons. To a query on SIT officers pressurising the family members of the woman, he said that the investigation will bring out the truth. "It is common to witness allegations and counter-allegations on any issue. The SIT is moving in the right direction in this case," he stressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bommai-refuses-to-comment-on-woman-writing-to-hc-cj-968199.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Order keeping Civil Services Board in abeyance invalid: CAT||The Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) on Monday reinstated the Civil Services Board (CSB), which was kept in abeyance by the state government in 2014. While disposing of an application filed by IAS officer B Sharat, challenging his premature transfer from the post of deputy commissioner of Mysuru district, the CAT bench directed the competent authority (Chief minister) to revisit the transfer order after taking recommendations from the Civil Services Board. The central government had brought in Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Amendment Rules, 2014 pursuant to the directions of the Supreme Court in the T S R Subramanian case, mainly on the issue of minimum tenure of IAS officers. The state government had constituted the CSB on January 31, 2014 but kept it in abeyance on March 12, 2014. The board comprised the chief secretary as chairman, additional chief secretary as a member, principal secretary or secretary of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR-Services) as convener. A CAT bench (Bengaluru), comprising judicial member Suresh Kumar Monga and administrative member Rakesh Kumar Gupta, termed the order keeping the board in abeyance as invalid and ineffective right from the date of its inception. “In our considered view, the Government Order dated 12.03.2014 keeping the Civil Services Board in abeyance for an indefinite period is not only contrary to the directions given by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Subramanian’s case (supra) but it is also in defiance of a mandate given by the ‘2014 Amendment Rules’ which, in any case, were promulgated by the Central Government in consultation with the State Governments concerned while deriving the powers form the provisions of Section 3 (1) of the ‘1951 Act’,” the bench said. The competent authority now has to revisit the September 28, 2020 order transferring Sharat, after taking recommendations from the CSB. The board has been directed to follow the procedure as enumerated under the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Amendment Rules, 2014. The tribunal also added that CSB should afford an opportunity of hearing to Sharath before making such a recommendation to the competent authority and the whole exercise should be undertaken within a period of one month from the date of receipt of a certified copy of the order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/order-keeping-civil-services-board-in-abeyance-invalid-cat-968211.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||2 B'luru labs got just 137 Covid samples from state for genome sequencing||Only 137 Covid samples from Karnataka were received for genome sequencing, till March 10, although the combined capacity of the two labs in Bengaluru - NIMHANS and NCBS-InStem - that are part of INSACOG (Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium) is 2,400 samples per month. This is as per the data tabled by Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the Lok Sabha, in reply to a question, on March 19. As per the guidance document of the union health ministry for INSACOG, NIMHANS' capacity to sequence samples is 1,200, but the samples sequenced from January to March 18, 2021, is 122 as per the National Centre for Disease Control.  Similarly, though NCBS-InStem's capacity to sequence samples per month is 1,200, only 183 have been sequenced so far as per the institute. This despite the two labs tasked with sequencing not just Karnataka's samples, but those from Tamil Nadu and Puducherry too. From Puducherry, five samples were received for sequencing and from Tamil Nadu 102, till March 10, as per Dr Harsh Vardhan's reply. The reply makes it clear that the labs are still running on their own funds. No money has been received from the Ministry of Science and Technology yet.  As per the guidance document, the plan was to start sentinel surveillance, where 5% of samples testing positive every day was supposed to be sequenced. But the state is far from it. For example, on Wednesday, 2,298 cases were reported in the state (5% of this is 115 samples). Bengaluru's 11,520 active cases has put it on the list of 10 districts in India with the most number of active cases. Nine of the districts are from Maharashtra.  Eminent virologist Dr Shahid Jameel, chair of INSACOG, told DH, "One of the bottlenecks is that all the reagents required for sequencing have to be imported. The stock is not as much as we expect. Everything requires money and logistics."  On the under-utilisation of the labs' capacity, he said, "Not enough samples are being sent to the labs. There is no backlog at the labs. Many times, officers on the ground don't send samples or don't send samples with the suitable Ct values," he said. "The required funds have already been sanctioned by the Department of Biotechnology. The final approval is expected from the Science Ministry any time now," he said. Prof Satyajit Mayor, director of National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS), Bengaluru, echoed the statement and said importing reagents was a problem. Rs 10k per sample "It costs Rs. 10,000 to sequence a sample," he said, adding that the institutional funds are currently being used for sequencing.  Dr Uma Ramakrishnan, a professor at NCBS, said, "If we get more samples, we can sequence more. We are sequencing samples of international travellers and not prioritising clusters. We have sequenced the high-priority samples that we have received so far. We are working with other labs that have a high load, so that they can redirect the samples to us when necessary."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/2-bluru-labs-got-just-137-covid-samples-from-state-for-genome-sequencing-968212.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Results of second serosurvey out, yet to be made public||Though the results of the second round of serosurvey are ready, the authorities are yet to give time to the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), for it to brief them on the results. Even last year, the announcement of the survey results was delayed because of the bypolls in Sira and RR Nagar in Bengaluru. Though the survey report was ready by October 24 last year, the results weren't made public till November 4. On Friday last, the TAC requested for a Zoom call to be scheduled with additional chief secretary (health) Jawaid Akhtar, health commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra, National Health Mission director Dr Arundathi Chandrashekar and health department director Dr Omprakash Patil, so that the committee can brief them on the results. Trilok Chandra told DH, "By the end of this week, we will deliberate on the results. That is when the public will know the results of the second serosurvey." The results are crucial to gauge the extent of the virus spread in the community. However Dr C N Manjunath, TAC member told DH, "We expected higher prevalence of antibodies. But that is not the case. In some districts, in bigger cities, the exposure has been more and in smaller cities, the exposure has been less. The state average for percentage of population which developed antibodies is less."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/results-of-second-serosurvey-out-yet-to-be-made-public-968213.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Vehicle scrap policy, fitness certificate fee hike will hit the poor’||Goods and passenger vehicle operators, who oppose the Centre’s scrap policy, termed the latest rules hiking the fees for fitness certificate (FC) as an instrument of "harassment" by the government which has lost touch with the reality. At present, the testing and renewing FC together cost between Rs 400 to Rs 1000. Since 2002, owners of aged vehicles have also paid green tax ranging from Rs 200 to Rs 500. The Centre has recently issued a draft notification hiking the testing and FC fee for vehicles aged above 15 years. With this, the testing and FC will cost about Rs 1,500 for two-wheelers, about Rs 4,500 for auto rickshaws, Rs 8,800 for light motor vehicles and about Rs 14,000 for heavy vehicles. Federation of Lorry Owners Association president B Channareddy said while the government’s aim to reduce pollution and safety was welcome, bringing rules that impose huge amounts of "penalty" will deprive lakhs of people of their livelihood. "The government has to understand that most of the people who will be affected are the middle or lower-middle class people who depend on such vehicles for their livelihood. Many people spend years of savings to buy small and medium commercial vehicles to transport goods to APMC market, railway goods shed or to local markets. Most often, these are short-distance trips," he said, adding that forcing them to pay high amounts of fee amid a pandemic should be opposed. The goods transporters have also noted that the scrapping policy will hit the small players in the market. Most of the people who operate commercial vehicles have been described as those owning one or two vehicles. According to the draft notification, commercial vehicles over 15 years and personal vehicles over 20 years will be marked for scrapping if they fail the fitness test. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Tourist Vehicle Operators Association, said the old vehicles have to go but the government needs to understand that it was not just commercial vehicles even personal vehicles will be affected. "People who have retired and live on pension can’t afford to scrap an old car and buy a new one. Such aspects have to be considered before issuing rules," he said. Karnataka State Travel Operators Association’s S Nataraj Sharma said the government should also change the way it assesses vehicles. "Many people run vehicles for lakhs of kilometres within the first three or four years and then there are those who do not operate them much even over the 15 year period. The government should assess a vehicle based on the distance it has clocked," he suggested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/vehicle-scrap-policy-fitness-certificate-fee-hike-will-hit-the-poor-968216.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Technical Advisory Committee recommends ramping up testing to over 1.27L||The Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) has recommended the government to revise the Covid testing target to 1,27,800 tests per day. The revised testing norm at the district level shall be allocated rationally by the district health authority involving district surveillance officer, epidemiologists, microbiologists, and others by considering the incidence of cases, test positivity rate, etc While for Bengaluru, the existing target of 40,000 has been retained, for districts like Belagavi (3,000 to 6,000), Bengaluru Rural (1,200 to 2,100) and Bidar (3,000 to 6,000), the targets have been doubled. Health Commissioner Dr Trilok Chandra told DH, "We are almost touching the target already anywhere between 1 lakh and 1.15 lakh. So, 1,27,800 revised target can be eventually reached as per TAC's recommendations." After Bengaluru Urban, the revised targets are highest for Shivamogga (3,500 to 7,000), Mysuru (3,000 to 6,000), Bidar, and Belagavi. Shivamogga District Health Officer Dr Rajesh Suragihalli, told DH, "At the moment, we are testing 1,600-1,700 on an average per day. Even at the peak of the pandemic, we were testing 4,500. This month our positivity rate is more. It has increased from 0.3 to 0.98, which is almost one per cent. In last week's video conference we conveyed that we have achieved 83% of our testing targets." Mysuru District Health Officer Dr T Amarnath, told DH, "At present we are testing 5,000 on an average. At the peak of the pandemic we tested up to 6,000 people. The recommended revised target is already something we have met before. Our rapid antigen tests are used only in ten per cent of the cases like for testing people in courts and in emergencies."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/technical-advisory-committee-recommends-ramping-up-testing-to-over-127l-968220.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||30K 2nd appeals pending before Information Commission: RTI reply||As many as 30,000 RTI (second) appeal cases are pending before the Karnataka Information Commission (KIC), with more than half of them older than 2020. While the lockdown in 2020 has slowed down the clearance rate, the old problem of staff shortage and lack of accountability among the commissioners has been cited as the main reason for many cases pending for more than four years. As per the information obtained under RTI by activist B H Veeresh, as many as 16,659 of the total 29,205 cases pending before the commission were appeals filed between 2015 and 2019. As many as 92 cases date back to 2015 while more than 350 are from 2016. An official in the commission said many of the information commissioners have a poor clearance rate. "An independent audit should be conducted to assess the competency of the commissioners. Some of them do not even turn up to work at the right time," he said. To a question, Chief Information Commissioner N C Srinivasa said he has provided all facilities for conducting hearing in the middle of the pandemic. "We have adopted a hybrid model in all courts, which facilitates speedy clearance of cases by helping officials in remote places attend the hearing with a click rather than travel all the way to Bengaluru," he said and added that he could not comment on tardy clearance by commissioners. Veeresh said there were several loopholes in the system. "From appointment to preparation of cause list, there is no transparency and accountability. After an automatic system of case allotment was implemented, the commissioners pick and chose the case that goes to the cause list. Old cases and partly heard cases have been ignored," he said. Srinivasa acknowledged the problem but noted that he is chief only in the administrative domain as all commissioners are equal when it comes to hearing. "It is true that providing information years later may defeat the purpose of filing an RTI application. It is left to discretion of each commissioner to clear the pending cases," he added. He also said that lack of staffers has led to poor work flow in the KIC. "Of the 100 staffers, 96 are outsourced persons without the required qualification or skills. For example, a stenographer who takes the commissioner's orders doesn't know shorthand which leads to delay in issuing orders," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/30k-2nd-appeals-pending-before-information-commission-rti-reply-968223.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||After Muslim youth as head of mutt, it is now the turn of 40-year-old woman to head mutt||Breaking the tradition of appointing a male as head of Koraneshwar Sansthan Mutt at Khajuri village in Aland taluk of the district, Murughendra Koranesahwar Shivayogi (61), the pontiff of the mutt, appointed a 40-year-old woman as his successor, terming it as rare in the state. This appointment has been made to the mutt a year after a Muslim youth was appointed head of a branch of a lingayat mutt in Asuti village in Gadag district. Murughendra Koraneshwar Swamiji on Monday announced the appointment of Neelalochana Taayi as his successor in a simple function held on the mutt's premises in Khajuri village which borders Maharashtra. Murughendra Koraneshwara Swamiji told DH that he has just followed the fundamental principles of Basava. We keep talking about equality and egalitarian society but in reality, we will not practice it. "Being a follower of Basava principles, I decided to make it practical". Khajuri mutt has a history of centuries as it was established in the 12 century. Neelalochana Taayi has been made head of the mutt legally as no relatives should claim the ownership of the mutt, the seer explained. As the mutt is located on the border village of Maharashtra, it has followers from both Karnataka and Maharashtra states. "I wanted a successor who knows both Kannada and Marathi languages to preach Basava principles. The woman successor has studied up to the 10th standard in the Marathi language. She has studied the Basava principles and religion for three years at Basavatatva College in Chitradurga's Murugha mutt and belonged to the Jangama goudaru caste, the seer told. Neelalochana Taayi told DH that "I am happy to be the head of the mutt and also its an honour. I will engage in social work and will preach the principles of Basavanna for the devotees from both Karnataka and Maharashtra. I will try to solve the problems of the devotees who visit mutt. Lingadharana will be administered to the devotees", Taayi told. After three years of training at Sri Murugha Mutt, Taayi returned to Khajuri where she was in-charge of Nijacharane Residential School from 2006. "Observing her dedication and social work, we decided to appoint her as my successor", the Swamiji told. Neelalochana Taayi is the youngest daughter of Hanumanthappa Nagare and Mathurabai couple in Khajuri village. She has two elder brothers and two sisters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/after-muslim-youth-as-head-of-mutt-it-is-now-the-turn-of-40-year-old-woman-to-head-mutt-968295.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Historical inscription found in Hassan's Arsikere||An inscription possibly belonging to that of the Jain religion was found during construction work at the Government Engineering College, near Kallangere Gate, on the outskirts of Arsikere town in Hassan district. The historical inscription was discovered when workers were using earthmovers to dig up the site. The officials from the Directorate of Archaeology and Museums visited the site and inspected it on Monday. According to the officials, the inscription might belong to the Jain religion. Another team of experts will visit the place and provide correct information, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/historical-inscription-found-in-hassans-arsikere-968319.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Government to decide on sixth pay commission salary for transport workers on April 2: Laxman Savadi||Deputy Chief Minister Lakshman Savadi said on Tuesday that a decision on paying salary as per the sixth pay commission for transport employees will be taken on April 2. Speaking to reporters at Kalaburagi Airport, he said the government has fulfilled their nine demands put forth before the government during the previous strike. A positive decision on paying salary on par with the sixth pay commission will be taken in the meeting. "As transport employees organisation has informed us that they will resort to the strike again, a meeting with the leaders of the organisation is going on," he stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-to-decide-on-sixth-pay-commission-salary-for-transport-workers-on-april-2-laxman-savadi-968364.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MBBS fresher allegedly ragged by seniors in Chamarajanagar Medical College||A first-year medical student was allegedly ragged by second and third-year students at Chamarajanagar Medical College hostel. A complaint was lodged in this regard with Chamarajanagar Rural Police station. The incident occurred around three days ago. However, the police have not filed an FIR. The police, who inquired seven students involved in the ragging incident, have taken a recognizance letter (muchalike patra) from them. The dean of the college has also warned the students. Additional Superintendent of Police Anitha B Haddannavar visited the college and interacted with first and second-year students. The college administration board has summoned the parents of all the seven students and decided to give a strict warning to the students. The first-year student is a native of Tumakuru. It is alleged that the seniors came to his hostel room, slapped him, forced him to remove his clothes and harassed him. The affected student had called his parents and informed them about the ragging. He also wanted to leave the college because of this. The student's father, who came to Chamarajanagar, lodged a complaint with the Dean and also at the police station. The police had summoned the students on Sunday night and inquired them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mbbs-fresher-allegedly-ragged-by-seniors-in-chamarajanagar-medical-college-968393.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||New stone age tool discovered in Bhadravathi village||A team of officials of  Archaeology, Museum and Heritage Department, led by assistant director R Shejeshwar, has discovered a tool, belonging to the Neolithic or New Stone Age, at a farm at Kallahalli in Bhadravathi taluk. The stone axe found in the farm, belonging to K R Venkatesh, measures 17 cm in length and six cm in width and dates back to 2500 BC. The point of the stone axe is sharp and it has sharp edge. Stones, streams were found to indicate that the place was a New Stone Age site. As many as 27 Neolithic sites, including Aanaveri, Ashok Nagar, Nagasmudra, Nimbegondi, Bhagavathikere, Mathighatta, Vadderapura, Singanamane, Gonibeedu and B R Project in Bhadravathi taluk, have been discovered in the district so far. JD(U) vice-President Shashikumar Gowda and Kallahalli gram panchayat members helped the officials to discover it. The Stone Age was a broad prehistoric period during which man used stone widely to make tools with an edge, a point, or a percussion surface.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-stone-age-tool-discovered-in-bhadravathi-village-968405.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Police job is a challenge, says IGP||IGP (Southern Range) Praveen Madhukar Pawar on Tuesday said that the job of police is not just for salary, but is meant for honour and sacrifice. Participating in the passing out parade of the 16th batch of Civil Police constables, at DAR Police Parade ground in the city, he said, "Out of 47 people who have passed out today, 40 are more qualified for the constable posts. This would help them in their career in future." "The attitude of the police constables should be equal towards all despite their economic status. A small mistake would have an impact on the entire police department. Do not be lethargic or get lured by corruption. Be honest. Most of the people have a bad opinion on the police department. This should be erased," he told the constables. "Police job is a challenge for all. The recruits should believe that work is worship. Look after your parents and family and, be a model to the society," he said. Superintendent of Police R Srinivas Gowda, Additional SP and Polie Training School Principal B N Nandini were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/police-job-is-a-challenge-says-igp-968407.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Cakewalk for GTD faction in MyMUL election||It was a cakewalk for the faction of Chamundeshwari MLA G T Devegowda of the JD(S) in the election of Mysore District Co-Operative Milk Producers’ Societies Union ((MyMUL), here, on Tuesday. P M Prasanna, son of Periyapatna MLA K Mahadev, also of JD(S), was elected as the president of MyMUL. He was elected as director, with 14 others, on March 16. Prasanna had identified himself with Devegowda faction, which won 12 seats against three of former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy-MLA Sa Ra Mahesh faction. There was pressure on Devegowda, from directors of his faction, to become president. But, he favoured Prasanna, as his father Mahadev supported him against their party leader Kumaraswamy. Prasanna was the unanimous choice of Devegowda faction. Thus, he was the only candidate in the fray. There are a total of 20 directors, including five nominated ones, in MyMUL. Out of five nominated directors, four are ex-officio members. With 12 elected directors, Devegowda faction had an upper hand. However, S C Ashok, nominated director, who had tried to become president in the election held on August 14, 2019, also, was an aspirant. He is a nephew of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. However, he too abstained from filing his nomination on Tuesday. Devegowda said, “Even though the term of the management board is five years, the new president has agreed to step down at an appropriate time, to share the responsibility with others. Following the allegation of Kumaraswamy, that there is a rampant corruption in MyMUL, the new team should function in a transparent manner.” It has to be recalled that the election of directors on March 16 had turned hi-decibel as Kumaraswamy had camped in Mysuru and toured across the district to garner support for the candidates supported by Mahesh. Thus, the president’s election was a prestigious one. But, given the support to Devegowda, it was a one-sided match. The directors of Devegowda faction are: B N Sadananda, C Omprakash, B Neelambike Mahesh Kurahatti and Leela (Nagaraj) in Mysuru sub-division and K S Kumar, A T Somasekhar, K Eregowda, Jagadish (Basappa), P M Prasanna, H D Rajendra, Dakshayani and A Shivagami of Hunsur sub-division. The directors of Kumaraswamy faction are: R Cheluvaraju, K G Mahesh and K Umashankar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cakewalk-for-gtd-faction-in-mymul-election-968408.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Ancient inscription discovered||A Jain inscription was found during the works of construction at the Government Engineering College near Kellangere Gate on the outskirts of Arsikere town, Hassan district, on Monday. Construction is under progress on the college premises. Earth movers were used to dig the place, when the historical inscription was discovered. The officials of Archaeology and Museums department visited the place and inspected it. According to the officials, it is a Jain inscription. Another team of experts will visit the place and provide the right information, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ancient-inscription-discovered-968409.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||‘Mysuru stay’ plan Vijayendra raises questions in the region||The statement of Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, last fortnight (March 21), at Sindhanur in Raichur district, that his son B Y Vijayendra would camp in Mysuru, after the bypolls, to strengthen the party base, is not a surprise. But, it has raised some questions among party leaders and workers, in the Old Mysuru region. It is election time. Even as the five states are all set to elect new legislatures, byelections are held in two Assembly and one Lok Sabha constituencies in Karnataka. General elections are over two years away. But, strategies are already in the making. “Seniors expect that Vijayendra should go to Mysuru and reside there, to cover four to five districts in the Old Mysuru region,” Yediyurappa said. It looks like a bigger role is charted out for Vijayendra, also BJP state vice-president, to make a dent into the Congress and the JD(S) citadel of Old Mysuru region. “If he works in five to six districts around Mysuru, in a manner that we get at least 13 to 14 more seats there, we can achieve our target of winning over 135 seats in the next Assembly elections,” Yediyurappa had said. However, the BJP leaders in Mysuru, who have failed to either rise to lead the party or to groom a leader to lead them, said, “We do not know yet what ‘reside in Mysuru’ mean. Will he rent a house and visits it, during his occasional visits to Mysuru? Will he live in Mysuru, along with family members, and send his children to school in Mysuru? We have already seen Mandya MPs, M H Ambareesh, Ramya and A Sumalatha ‘residing’ in Mandya.” “It has to be recalled that Vijayendra had rented a house in Varuna town, in 2018, when he intended to contest the Assembly polls. When he was denied a ticket, he vacated it. Since his role in the 2019 bypoll victory, in his native KR Pet segment, Vijayendra is touted to lead the BJP in the Old Mysuru region. Subsequently, he was elevated as state BJP vice-president, from state BJP youth wing general secretary,” said a senior BJP leader. Another senior BJP leader said, “Traditional rivals in the Old Mysuru region are the Congress and the JD(S). The BJP has failed in providing an alternative, since the past few decades despite a few significant victories.” “The BJP failed to nurture a Vokkaliga leader, despite the fact that the Old Mysuru region is a Vokkaliga bastion. Imported leaders like Shobha Karandlaje, V Somanna and S T Somashekar have not made a mark. The second largest voter base is of the Veerashaiva Lingayats. The imposition of Vijayendra seems to tap this potential,” added the leader. He said, “Even MP Pratap Simha is an import from Hassan district, to Mysuru. He is a leader in media and has good links with the high command. S A Ramadass, who was the only BJP minister from the region, is limited to his Krishnaraja Assembly segment. New entrant, Minister K C Narayana Gowda from KR Pet is yet to prove his charisma.” A state BJP office-bearer said, “Vijayendra is like any other vice-president of the state BJP. What makes him special is his relationship with Yediyurappa. He has charisma and other ‘resources’. But, will he be able to understand the problems of the party here? Will he nurture candidates to the segments? Will he organise the party, taking all leaders and workers into confidence? Will his coterie allow him to strive for the success of the party? Let us see.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-stay-plan-vijayendra-raises-questions-in-the-region-968410.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||MLA seeks Rs 2,000 crore for higher education department||MLA H D Revanna on Tuesday, demanded the state government to immediately release Rs 2,000 crore to the Higher Education department, for providing buildings and educational infrastructure. Addressing media persons here, he said, there are 431 government first grade colleges, 85 government polytechnics, 14 engineering colleges under the Higher Education department. In all, there are 4.70 lakh students in 528 educational institutions. But, the institutions lack basic infrastructure like own building, classrooms, laboratories, toilets, libraries and computer labs. Out of 525 principal posts sanctioned in the state, only 70 posts are filled. Out of 15,318 teaching posts, only 12,302 have been filled and out of 19,030 non-teaching posts only 7,572 have been filled, he said. The government has allocated Rs 483 crore in the 2021-22 budget. As the lecturers have not been recruited, there are 14,682 guest faculties in the department of Collegiate Education, 1,209 lecturers in technical education, and 2,074 lecturers in universities as guest lecturers. Under the New Education Policy 2020, the state government should give priority to higher education and provide infrastructure to government educational institutions and fill vacant posts, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mla-seeks-rs-2000-crore-for-higher-education-department-968414.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||BJP's Mallikarjun Khuba raises banner of revolt, files nomination as independent for Basavakalyan bypolls||MLA Mallikarjun Khuba raised a banner of revolt against the saffron party despite efforts by the BJP leaders to assuage him. Khuba filed his nomination as an independent candidate for the by-election to Basavakalyan seat on Tuesday.   Housing Minister V Somanna, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, district in-charge minister Prabhu Chauhan, and BJP leader Eshwarsingh Rathod met a miffed Khuba at his house and made a futile bid to convince him to remain in the party but he did not budge. Khuba held a convention of his supporters under the banner of Swabhimani Balaga. "There has been a faux paus in the BJP high command and ‘suitcase’ has worked there. BJP and chief minister Yediyurappa cheated me. I have faith even now in Prime Minister Narendra Modi. I am contesting as an independent candidate being in BJP. The people of the constituency will get me justice", Khuba said at the convention. Speaking at the Congress workers' convention, Leader of Opposition in Siddaramaiah said the BJP is likely to spend about Rs 50 crore in the by-election to Basavakalyan seat. No one should sell their votes to save the State and democracy, he appealed. Sindhia joins Congress JD(S) leader and former minister PGR Sindhia on Tuesday joined the Congress in the presence of KPPC president D K Shivakumar at the Congress workers' convention held in Basavakalyan. He was welcomed to the party by giving him a Congress flag. Sindhia said "B Narayanrao who elected from Basavakalyan in the last assembly polls came to my home and took my blessings besides seeking advise. But I had then committed a mistake by contesting against him. Hence, I came here to campaign for his wife Mala Narayanrao", he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bjps-mallikarjun-khuba-raises-banner-of-revolt-files-nomination-as-independent-for-basavakalyan-bypolls-968416.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Belagavi bypolls: BJP candidate Mangala Angadi files nomination papers||Mangala Angadi, the BJP candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency, filed four sets of nomination papers for the byelections, here on Tuesday. She submitted her nomination papers to the District Election Officer and Deputy Commissioner Dr K Harish Kumar. Accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Govind Karjol and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa, Angadi submitted the first set of nomination papers. The second set was submitted in the presence of Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi and Legislative Assembly Deputy Speaker Anand Mamani. And the third set was submitted in the presence of MLAs Abhay Patil and Anil Benake. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and BJP State President Nalin Kumar Kateel accompanied Angadi while submitting the fourth set of nomination papers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/belagavi-bypolls-bjp-candidate-mangala-angadi-files-nomination-papers-968439.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||'HDK took Rs 10 crore from BJP for Basavakalyan nominee'||Former minister B Z Zameer Ahmed alleged on Monday that former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy had taken Rs 10 crore from the BJP, so as to put up a candidate from the JD(S) for the byelection to the Basavakalyan Assembly seat.  Of the Rs 10 crore, Kumaraswamy had given Rs 2 crore to the candidate, the Chamarajpet Congress MLA said at a party campaign meeting in Basavakalyan.  Zameer said Kumaraswamy had become an agent of the BJP.  He said the JD(S) had taken Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri, who was with the Congress, into its fold and fielded him for the byelection, in a bid to split the Muslim votes and thus help the BJP.   The former minister sought to know as to how the party fielded a bypoll candidate only for the Basavakalyan seat, while leaving out the Maski Assembly constituency and the Belgaum Lok Sabha seat.  "Kumaraswamy had earlier announced that his party was not going to field candidates for the byelections, saying the party had no money. Where has the money come from, suddenly?" Zameer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/hdk-took-rs-10-crore-from-bjp-for-basavakalyan-nominee-968418.html
30-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||SIT probing CD case impartially, says Karnataka CM||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, in his first response to the alleged CD scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, said that the Special Investigating Team (SIT) has been probing the case impartially. Yediyurappa told reporters here on Tuesday that the police officials have been investigating the case within the legal framework through Congress leaders have resorted to politicising the issue. Responding to allegations by former chief minister Siddaramaiah that he has been maintaining silence on the issue, Yediyurappa said, “I have been obtaining information about the case from Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on a daily basis and investigations have been going on impartially. Siddaramaiah too was in a responsible post and should speak in accordance with the decorum.” Yediyurappa said Jarkiholi will come out of the case unscathed. “We have asked him to campaign for the Belgaum Lok Sabha Constituency by-election. Our candidate Mangala Angadi will win by a margin of over two lakh votes," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/sit-probing-cd-case-impartially-says-karnataka-cm-968419.html
30-03-2021||National||Jaishankar, President Ghani exchange views on peace process in Afghanistan||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Monday called on Afghan President Ashraf Ghani here and shared India's perspectives on the peace process in the war-torn country. Jaishankar is here in the capital of Tajikistan for the 9th Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process (HoA-IP) ministerial conference to be held on Tuesday. "Honour to call on President @ashrafghani before the commencement of @HeartofAsia_IP Conference. Shared our perspectives on the peace process," Jaishankar tweeted. Last week, Jaishankar said that India would like to clearly see a sovereign democratic and inclusive Afghanistan that takes into account the interests of its minorities. "There is something called the peace and reconciliation process and everybody else is saying that the Taliban is reaching out and changing etc. Let us wait and watch," he had said. The Taliban and the Afghan government are holding direct talks to end 19 years of war that has killed tens of thousands of people and ravaged various parts of the country. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested USD two billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. The HoA-IP ministerial conference is part of the Istanbul Process -- a regional initiative on security and cooperation for a stable and peaceful Afghanistan -- that was launched on November 2, 2011 in Turkey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-president-ghani-exchange-views-on-peace-process-in-afghanistan-968124.html
30-03-2021||National||DH Toon | 'The real virus is winning'||Eight states including Maharashtra, Karnataka and Punjab have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and account for 84.5 per cent of the 68,020 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-the-real-virus-is-winning-968166.html
30-03-2021||National||OCI cardholders no longer required to carry old passports for India travel||People of Indian origin and Indian diaspora having overseas citizens of India (OCI) card are now not required to carry their old, expired passports for travel to India, as required earlier, according to a statement. "The requirement of carrying old and new passports, along with the OCI card, has been done away with," the Indian embassy said on its website on Monday, referring to a notification issued in this regard by the Centre, addressing one of the major concerns of overseas Indians. "Henceforth, an OCI cardholder travelling on the strength of an existing OCI card bearing old passport number is not required to carry the old passport. However, carrying the new (current) passport is mandatory," the embassy said. According to the embassy, the Indian government has also decided to grant further extension of time till December 31, 2021, to get the OCI cards re-issued for those below the age of 20 years and above 50 years. As per the current OCI guidelines that have been in force since 2005, an OCI card is required to be re-issued each time a new passport is acquired by the cardholder up to the age of 20 years or after completing 50 years of age. The Indian government has relaxed the second provisions since last year due to the coronavirus pandemic. The timeline has been extended multiple times so far. However, this is for the first time that the guidelines has been relaxed for carrying old passports and the new passports along with the OCI cards for overseas Indians. This has caused a lot of inconvenience among the Indian diaspora as normally the old passport is discarded after the issue of new ones. But the old OCI rules desired that the overseas Indians carry the old passport as well along with the new passports and the OCI card.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oci-cardholders-no-longer-required-to-carry-old-passports-for-india-travel-968172.html
30-03-2021||National||Indian-Americans donate over Rs 1 cr for health sector in Bihar, Jharkhand||An Indian American couple has donated over Rs 1 for crore healthcare works in Bihar and Jharkhand, the Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA) announced on Monday. The generous donation of USD 150,000 by the Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia Family Foundation to the BJANA would be used for healthcare efforts in the rural areas of the two states through the PRAN-BJANA clinic initiative. The Pravasi Alumni Nisshulk (PRAN) is an initiative by like-minded Indian-American physicians who are working to provide healthcare to the underprivileged and underserved in Bihar and Jharkhand. These doctors has set up a PRAN clinic in Ranchi, providing free healthcare services to the needy. Their endeavour is to provide free healthcare services across the states. "With the generous donation of Ramesh and Kalpana Bhatia, this became possible. BJANA getting a large donation is a testament to its ongoing philanthropic activities both here and back home," BJANA president Avinash Gupta said. Alok Kumar, former FIA president, said this kind of donation would help the BJANA carry out its healthcare works in the region. Bhatia came from NIT, Patna, and runs a successful business in Texas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-americans-donate-over-rs-1-cr-for-health-sector-in-bihar-jharkhand-968178.html
30-03-2021||National||India's Covid-19 vaccination drive picks up pace; follow-up doses not far away with new centres||Asli Bai Sayat, 72, had to travel for two hours on a camel cart to get her first coronavirus vaccine shot in Rajasthan but she may not have to go so far for the follow-up dose. After a slow start, India is picking up the pace of its immunisation campaign, simplifying the process, opening more vaccination centres and turning to social media as it tries to head off a new surge in infections that has brought the highest tallies of daily cases and deaths in months. More than 3.2 million people got vaccinations on a single day last week, one of the world's highest rates, and health authorities around the country are calling for more doses as demand picks up and supplies in some places dwindle. "I came with my husband from about 30 kilometres to get the first dose," Sayat, wearing a red-and-beige traditional dress with a walking stick by her side, told Reuters in the town of Shri Dungargarh. "It's hard to travel each time at this age but we have no choice." A health official said Sayat and her husband might not have to come all the way back for their follow-up shots with chances a new vaccination centre would be set up close to their home as part of the drive to expand and speed up the campaign. A senior health official in Jharkhand said he was hoping to more than double daily vaccinations from about 35,000, partly with more centres. "We're trying to decentralise the process so people don't have to travel more than two kilometres from their residence," said Ravi Shankar Shukla, There's a lot at stake and not just for India. With a population of 1.35 billion, India is home to nearly 15% of humanity and struggling with the third-highest overall infection tally in the world at 11.8 million cases. In all, about 1,61,000 people have died. A successful immunisation campaign in India, where health workers have to contend with difficult terrain, poor internet connectivity and patchy transport, should set an example for anyone. Authorities initially wanted people to log on to the internet to make a vaccination appointment but that's not so easy for many so the rule was dropped and now many people can simply walk into an inoculation centre. 'Easy' Grassroots healthcare workers are also out in communities across the country, explaining the facts and cajoling people, like 56-year old sugarcane grower Kamal Sanas, to get their shots. Sanas was convinced and so went with her husband to a village office in Satara district and asked a worker to fix an appointment for them with his smartphone. "It was quite easy," Sanas told Reuters at a nearby health centre where she got her shot. "Health-care workers cleared up all our doubts about the vaccine and explained why elderly people should get it." At more than 53 million, India has administered the most doses after the United States and China. But per-capita, India, the world's biggest vaccine maker, ranks much lower. India wants to immunize at least 300 million people by August. From April 1, it will expand the campaign from the elderly and vulnerable to everyone over the age of 45. It helps that the vaccines being given — Indian-made doses of the AstraZeneca shot and a home-grown one from Bharat Biotech — can be stored in normal fridge temperatures so ice boxes are a must in places with unreliable power. Health workers struggling with internet outages now set aside data and upload it all in one go rather than holding up vaccinations as they wait for the connection to be restored. To fire up enthusiasm, health centres are setting up selfie booths and urging people getting shots to spread the message on social media. State officials are confident they can speed things up as long as they have the doses to hand. To help with that, India has put a temporary hold on all major exports of the AstraZeneca shot made by the Serum Institute of India and it may soon add Russia's Sputnik V vaccine to its arsenal. But India's restriction on exports is putting a squeeze on supplies in places like Papua New Guinea, where the government says the virus has "broken loose" and there's little immediate hope of help from vaccines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-follow-up-doses-not-far-away-with-new-centres-968183.html
30-03-2021||National||The Lead: What's the legislation on Delhi government all about?||In this episode of the Lead, research scholar from JNU's Centre for Law and Governance, Pranav Menon explains the various aspects of the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021; the previous version of the Bill and the Supreme Court decision vis-a-vis the power distribution between the Delhi government and the Lieutenant Governor of the national capital.  Ahmed Shariff: Recently, the Parliament had passed the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 and a lot many Opposition party members have raised issues about the Bill and what does the Bill exactly mean, to know more about that we are joined by Pranav Menon, a research scholar at the Centre for Law and Governance at JNU. Hi Pranav, welcome to DH Radio. Pranav Menon: Hi Ahmed. Ahmed: This is an amendment Ac, can you tell us about the earlier version before we get into the details of the amendment? Pranav: Before we speak about the original legislation we need to understand why such legislations exist...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-whats-the-legislation-on-delhi-government-all-about-968184.html
30-03-2021||National||India reports 56,211 new Covid-19 cases, 271 deaths||India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,20,95,855 with 56,211 more people testing positive for the infection in a span of 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry's data updated on Tuesday. With 271 more fatalities, the death toll rose to 1,62,114, the data updated at 8 am showed. Registering a steady increase for the 20th day in row, active cases have increased to 5,40,720 comprising 4.47 per cent of the total infections, while the recovery rate has further dropped to 94.19  per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,13,93,021, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past  60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29,  90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 24,26,50,025 samples have been tested up to March 29 with 7,85,864 samples being tested on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-56211-new-covid-19-cases-271-deaths-968193.html
30-03-2021||National||NC president Farooq Abdullah tests positive for Covid-19||Regional National Conference (NC) president and former chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir, Farooq Abdullah has tested positive for Covid-19. His son Omar Abdullah said that he along with his family members will be self-isolating till they get tested. “My father has tested positive for Covid-19 and is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions,” Omar Tweeted. My father has tested positive for COVID-19 & is showing some symptoms. I will be self-isolating along with other family members until we get ourselves tested. I request anyone who has come in to contact with us over the last few days to take all the mandated precautions. The former chief minister was administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine earlier this month. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nc-president-farooq-abdullah-tests-positive-for-covid-19-968194.html
30-03-2021||National||Health Minister Vardhan takes second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his wife took the second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the  Delhi Heart and Lung Institute on Tuesday. India opened up vaccination for those over 60 years and within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified co-morbidities from March 1. His wife Nutan Goel first took the jab of Covaxin after which Vardhan also took the vaccine shot. They had taken the 1st dose of indigenously developed Covaxin by Bharat Biotech on March 2. Vardhan has been appealing to all those aged 60 and above and aged 45 and above having specified co-morbidities to immediately take the vaccine. He had asked people not to keep any doubts about the vaccine underlining both Covaxin and Covishield are safe and immunogenic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-minister-vardhan-takes-second-dose-of-covid-19-vaccine-968237.html
30-03-2021||National||Indian Ambassador shares clip of US Navy members singing 'Swades' song||India's Ambassador to the United States, Taranjit Singh Sandhu, tweeted a video on March 28 that won the hearts of netizens. In the video, members of the US Navy can be seen singing the popular AR Rahman-composed song Ye jo desh hai tera from Shah Rukh Khan-starrer Swades.   'ये वो बंधन है जो कभी टूट नहीं सकता! This is a friendship bond that cannot be broken ever.' 🇮🇳🇺🇸 Sandhu said the gesture symbolised the 'unbreakable friendship' between India and the United States. The tweet, made on the occasion of Holi, was shared by the US Navy Band page as well, calling it "a song of happiness and love".  Currently, the Tweet boasts of having more than 3 lakh views. Here are some reactions from netizens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-ambassador-shares-clip-of-us-navy-members-singing-swades-song-968245.html
30-03-2021||National||Mehbooba Mufti's mother's passport rejected following adverse police report||The passport application of Gulshan Nazir, wife of former Union home minister and two-time Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mufti Mohammed Sayeed, has been rejected following an adverse police report. Her daughter Mehbooba Mufti's application for a passport was also rejected and the PDP president had approached the Jammu and Kashmir High Court for the document but her petition was dismissed on Monday. The mother and daughter, who had applied for fresh passports in December last year, wanted to perform 'Umrah', a pilgrimage to Mecca which can be undertaken at any time of the year, according to some People's Democratic Party (PDP) leaders. According to a letter sent to Nazir, the Regional Passport Office informed her that the Jammu and Kashmir Police's CID department has not cleared her passport application under section 6 (2) (c) of the Passports Act. Under this section, a passport is rejected by authorities if they feel that the applicant may engage outside India in activities prejudicial to the sovereignty and integrity of India or the departure of the applicant from India may, or is likely to, be detrimental to the security of the country. A passport can also be rejected, under the section, if the presence of the applicant outside India may, or is likely to, prejudice the friendly relations of India with any foreign country. This section can also reject an application if the central government is of the opinion that issuing a passport or a travel document to the applicant will not be in public interest. There are other reasons in this section which bars processing any application where an applicant has been convicted or is facing criminal proceedings or has a pending summon, according to the Act. But this is not attracted in the case of Nazir, whose husband Mohammed Sayeed had served as Union home minister in the 1990s and later as chief minister twice of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. "...your application for issuance of passport is refused," said the letter issued by the passport officer to Nazir. Mehbooba, a former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, tweeted that the passport office has rejected her mother's passport application. "CID (Criminal Investigation Department) claims that my mother who is well into her seventies is a 'threat to national security' and therefore doesn't deserve a passport. GoI (Government of India) is employing absurd methods to harass and punish me for not toeing their line," she said. Mehbooba's passport was also rejected under the same section of the Act and her petition in the Jammu and Kashmir High Court was also dismissed. Dismissing the petition, Justice Ali Mohammad Magray had observed that Mehbooba's application for a passport was rejected by the passport officer, Srinagar, as the police verification report recommended against the issuance of the document to her. "In such circumstances, I am of the considered view that no direction can be issued by this court for issuance of passport in favour of the petitioner," the judge said in his order "Even otherwise, the scope of this court in the matter of grant or otherwise of passport in favour of an individual is very limited in as much as the court, in this behalf, can only direct the concerned authorities to expeditiously consider the case of an individual in the light of the mandate of the scheme of law governing the subject," the order read. In a letter to Mehbooba, the Regional Passport Office here had informed the PDP president on March 26 that her application for a passport was rejected on the basis of the "adverse" police verification report. The passport officer also informed her that the CID of the Union Territory had recommended against granting a passport to her. The letter said Mehbooba can appeal against the decision at a higher forum provided by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Commenting on the rejection of her application, the PDP president had said it shows the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir. "The Passport Office refused to issue my passport based on CID's report citing it as 'detrimental' to the security of India. This is the level of normalcy achieved in Kashmir since Aug 2019 that an ex-chief minister holding a passport is a threat to the sovereignty of a mighty nation," she had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mehbooba-muftis-mothers-passport-rejected-following-adverse-police-report-968252.html
30-03-2021||National||Discontent brews in BJP over candidate selection in Bengal's Kharagpur Sadar seat||Known for its cosmopolitan population, the Kharagpur Sadar Assembly constituency in West Bengal’s West Medinipur district has turned out to be a prestige fight for both the BJP and the Trinamool Congress (TMC).  It was with his surprise victory over 10-time-Congress MLA Gyan Singh Sohanpal in the 2016 Assembly elections, BJP State President Dilip Ghosh stormed into the political scene of West Bengal.  After Ghosh became an MP from the Medinipur seat in the last Lok Sabha elections, TMC wrested the seat from the BJP in the 2019 Assembly by-elections even as the BJP had a lead of 45,132 votes in the last Lok Sabha elections. However, this time despite demands from within the party, the BJP leadership chose to field actor and TMC turncoat Hiran Chatterjee from Kharagpur Sadar. BJP sources said that the decision has not gone down well with a significant section of local party leaders and workers. “They feel that if Ghosh was fielded from Kharagpur Sadar, then it would have been a major boost for the State BJP. A section of party workers and leaders are also wondering if four sitting MPs have been fielded in the Assembly elections, then why not Ghosh and are worried that the decision may cost the party dearly in Kharagpur Sadar,” a senior State BJP leader said. Speaking under conditions of anonymity, a local resident of the Rail Colony of Kharagpur said that the BJP candidate has very little ground-level connection in the constituency contrary to the TMC candidate Pradip Sarkar, who is a familiar face among voters. “It would have been different if the BJP fielded Ghosh. I think the TMC candidate has an edge this time,” he told DH. According to State BJP sources, party leaders close to Ghosh are of the opinion that since he is not contesting in the Assembly elections, he would not be a direct candidate for the Chief Minister’s post in case BJP comes to power in Bengal. “Like the last Lok Sabha elections I never expressed any desire to be a candidate this time to the party leadership,” said Ghosh. The BJP leadership is heavily banking on the support of nearly 50% of non-Bengali voters in the constituency. “There may be some discontent regarding the candidate selection. But it is nothing major. People will still vote for the BJP. The support of non-Bengali voters for BJP here can never be ignored,” said BJP leader Tushar Mukhopadhyay. TMC, on the other hand, has made development and discontent against the Centre over fuel price hike its main poll plank.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/discontent-brews-in-bjp-over-candidate-selection-in-bengals-kharagpur-sadar-seat-968256.html
30-03-2021||National||60-year-old woman beaten to death by drunk Holi revellers in Uttar Pradesh||Drunk Holi revellers allegedly beat a 60-year-old woman to death in Uttar Pradesh's Eatawah town after she asked them not to drink outside her house. According to the police sources, the victim was attacked with bricks and sticks by seven people, who were in an inebriated state, in Mewati Tola locality in the town on Monday evening. The woman, who sustained serious injuries on her head, face and arms, was rushed to the hospital, where the doctors declared her brought dead, sources said. Police officials said that the seven accused hailed from the victim's neighbourhood and were drinking liquor outside the residence of the old woman. They were enraged when she objected to it and asked them to go elsewhere. Five members of the woman's family were also injured when they tried to intervene and save her from the attackers, sources said. One of the alleged culprits was arrested, while the others managed to flee from the spot after perpetrating the crime, police said adding that a case was registered in this regard and efforts were on to nab the remaining. Meanwhile, seven people, mostly youngsters, were drowned while taking bath in rivers after celebrating Holi in different parts of the state on Monday. While five youths were drowned in Gandak river in Deoria district, two others drowned in the Ganga in Fatehpur district, police sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/60-year-old-woman-beaten-to-death-by-drunk-holi-revellers-in-uttar-pradesh-968260.html
30-03-2021||National||Flight tickets will be dearer from April 1 as DGCA hikes security fee||Airline tickets are set to get costlier from Thursday as the civil aviation regulator has increased the aviation security fee payable for services such as screening of passengers and baggage and deployment of paramilitary forces at airports. “Aviation Security Fee for the domestic passengers will be levied at the rate of Rs 200 per embarking passengers. For international passengers, it will be levied at the rate of $12 or equivalent Indian Rupees per embarking passenger,” the Directorate General of Civil Aviation said in an order. The increase in ASF for domestic passengers is of Rs 40, over the existing rate of Rs 160. For international passengers, the charge has more than doubled from the earlier $5.20. The new rates of ASF will be effective on tickets issued on or after April 1, 2021 at 00:01 hours, the civil aviation regulator said. The ASF was last increased in September 2020. Children below the age of two years, diplomatic passport holders, airlines crew on duty, including sky marshals, personnel traveling on official duty on aircraft operated by the IAF, persons traveling for UN Peacekeeping Missions, transit passengers with onward journey within 24 hours and passengers departing from any airport due to involuntary rerouting are exempt from paying the ASF. In India, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) is tasked with the security of airports across the country under the regulatory framework of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security. As per International Civil Aviation Organisation policies, only the following security services can be included in the cost base for security charges: screening of passengers and baggage, security control of cargo, airport and airline personnel, monitoring of restricted areas and training. The ICAO guidelines also state that passengers should not be charged for general security functions performed by states such as national intelligence, counter-terrorism and baseline policing activities that are over and above the level of security required at airports for normal business purposes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flight-tickets-will-be-dearer-from-april-1-as-dgca-hikes-security-fee-968261.html
30-03-2021||National||Don't deploy security from BJP-ruled states: TMC tells Election Commission||With West Bengal all set to go to the second phase of polling on April 1, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) has urged the Election Commission to not deploy security forces from the states headed by the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) or the National Democratic Alliance. “The delegation also requested the official to immediately round up any and all anti-social elements in East Midnapore and take them in preventive custody to ensure free and fair elections,” Indian Express quoted TMC leader Sashi Panja. Recently, the TMC lodged a complaint with the Election Commission, alleging that Nandigram BJP candidate Suvendu Adhikari is harbouring criminals and putting them up in different hotels and guest houses of West Bengal. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who is also the TMC boss, is locked in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-adversary Adhikari in Nandigram in the East Midnapore district, which goes to polls in the second phase on April 1.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dont-deploy-security-from-bjp-ruled-states-tmc-tells-election-commission-968264.html
30-03-2021||National||6 states account for over 78% of India's fresh Covid-19 cases||Six states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases and account for 78.56 per cent of the 56,211 fresh cases recorded in the country in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Tuesday. India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,20,95,855, while 271 more fatalities have pushed the death toll to 1,62,114, according to the ministry's date updated at 8 am. Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat, continue to report a high surge in daily cases accounting for 78.56 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, it said. The ministry said that Maharashtra has reported the highest number of daily cases at 31,643. It is followed by Punjab with 2,868 cases and Karnataka with 2,792 cases. Ten states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Haryana and Rajasthan — are displaying an upward trajectory in daily cases, it said. India's total active cases has reached 5,40,720 with a net rise of 18,912 cases in a span of 24 hours. "Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh cumulatively account for 79.64 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra leads with more than 62 per cent of the active caseload of the country," the ministry said. On the national inoculation drive against Covid-19, it said more than 6.11 crore (6,11,13,354) vaccine doses have been administered through 10,07,091 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am. These include 81,74,916 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 51,88,747 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 89,44,742 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 37,11,221 FLWs who have taken the second dose, it said. The ministry said besides them, 68,72,483 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years with specific co-morbidities have received the first dose and 405 the second dose. In the category of beneficiaries aged more than 60 years, 2,82,19,257 have got the first dose and 1,583 the second dose, it said. On March 29, which was day-73 of the national vaccination drive, a total of 5,82,919 vaccine doses were given. Out of these, 5,51,164 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 14,608 sessions for the first dose and 31,755 beneficiaries received the second dose. India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,13,93,021 with 37,028 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/6-states-account-for-over-78-of-indias-fresh-covid-19-cases-968275.html
30-03-2021||National||BJP supporters greet Mamata with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans in Nandigram||TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee, who is contesting the assembly elections from Nandigram, was greeted with 'Jai Shri Ram' slogans by BJP supporters on Tuesday at Reyapara here, where she had been camping for the past two days. The chief minister, moments before she was about to leave for her programme at Bhangabera in the constituency - set to go to polls on April 1 -- was seen sitting calmly inside the vehicle, as police personnel deputed for her safety made sure that the saffron camp supporters got out of her way. Banerjee, who is scheduled to address multiple rallies on the last day of the campaigning here, had strongly reacted to 'Jai Sri Ram' slogans in the past. A senior BJP leader here said raising the 'Jai Shri Ram' slogan was not a crime, as people across the country revere the Hindu deity. Local TMC members, however, claimed that the "BJP, sensing defeat, is resorting to cheap tactics" to inconvenience others. The TMC chief, an MLA from Bhawanipore, this time decided to fight the elections from Nandigram, where her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari has been fielded by the BJP. The two had engaged in a bitter war of words over the past few days, with Adhikari accusing Banerjee of practising appeasement politics, and the TMC boss alleging that the saffron camp had been trying to polarise voters on religious lines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bjp-supporters-greet-mamata-with-jai-shri-ram-slogans-in-nandigram-968279.html
30-03-2021||National||16 airports in Tier 2, 3, 4 towns surpass pre-Covid-19 passenger traffic||In March 2020, the Government of India announced a lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In order to curtail the spread of the virus, all domestic flights were halted. It has now been 10 months since domestic travel resumed in India. According to the Airports Authority of India (AAI), 5.35 crore people have travelled on about 5 lakh flights since the resumption of flight operations, pegging traffic back at pre-Covid-19 levels However, since February 2021, the country has seen a resurgence in Covid-19 cases and this has impacted passenger traffic, according to data shared by the AAI. Although metro cities have seen reduced amounts of passengers, tier 2, 3 and 4 cities have been outliers. In January, 14 cities and now in March, 16 cities have surpassed their pre-Covid-19 passenger traffic. Cities such as Dibrugarh, Rajkot, Dimapur and Kishangarh saw passenger traffic back at pre-Covid levels. Alongside passenger traffic, cargo movement has also significantly improved at airports such as Srinagar, Dibrugarh, Port Blair, Coimbatore and Trivandrum, according to the data. Fourteen of the 16 airports on the list, improved upon their performance from January 2021. These included Srinagar, Jharsguda, Kalaburagi and Leh. The two airports that did not make it to the list was Pathankot and Gorakhpur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-airports-in-tier-2-3-4-towns-surpass-pre-covid-19-passenger-traffic-968282.html
30-03-2021||National||India, US to revamp energy ties||India and the United States have agreed to revamp their strategic energy partnership with a greater focus on cleaner energy sectors, an official statement said. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Monday held an "introductory meeting" with US Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm. The two leaders reviewed the India-US Strategic Energy Cooperation (SEP). The two nations will intensify efforts to take advantage of advanced US technologies and India's rapidly growing energy market, the statement said. "Both leaders agreed to revamp the India-US SEP to reflect the new priorities of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Joe Biden with focus on promoting clean energy with low-carbon pathways and accelerating green energy cooperation," it said. They agreed to prioritise greater collaboration in the cleaner energy sectors of biofuels, CCUS (carbon capture, utilisation and storage), hydrogen production and carbon sequestration through technology exchange, joint R&D through Partnership to Advance Clean Energy Research (PACE-R), among other initiatives. "Both sides agreed to convene the third meeting of a revamped India-US Strategic Energy Partnership at an early date," the statement said. "They decided to intensify the efforts to take advantage of the complementarities of both the countries - advanced US technologies and rapidly growing India’s energy market, for a win-win situation through a cleaner energy route with low carbon pathways." Granholm became US Secretary of Energy in February this year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-us-to-revamp-energy-ties-968283.html
30-03-2021||National||Consider imposing fines on passengers not wearing masks properly, DGCA tells airports||Cracking the whip, the civil aviation regulator on Tuesday asked airport operators to impose spot fines on air travellers not following Covid-19 protocols at airports. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) wrote to airport operators to step up surveillance to ensure that its instructions on wearing face masks covering mouth and nose as well as social distancing norms were followed scrupulously at airports. “During the surveillance of airports, it has come to notice that compliance is not satisfactory,” the DGCA said in a circular to airport operators. The civil aviation regulator asked airport operators to enhance surveillance for implementation of Covid-19 protocol at airport premises. “The possibility of taking punitive action, such as levy of spot fines in accordance with the law, shall also be explored with local police authorities so as to serve a deterrent for violation of Covid-19 protocol,” the DGCA said. On March 13, the DGCA asked airlines to put air travellers refusing to wear masks and follow Covid-19 protocol during a flight on the 'no-fly list'. The stringent order came in the wake of observations by the Delhi High Court to the effect after a judge found rampant violations of Covid-19 protocol on a Kolkata-Delhi flight earlier in March. “In case any passenger does not adhere to wearing a mask properly even after repeated warnings, he/she should be deboarded, if need be, before departure,” the DGCA order said. It had also asked airport directors and terminal managers to ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol at airports and hand over violators to security agencies after proper warnings.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/consider-imposing-fines-on-passengers-not-wearing-masks-properly-dgca-tells-airports-968287.html
30-03-2021||National||Biggest share of Indian-made vaccines for poor country programme stays in India||India itself has received more than a third of the nearly 28 million Indian-made AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine doses delivered so far by the global programme for poor countries, according to data from UNICEF and a source. The revelation that the largest allocation of doses India has supplied to the Covax programme never actually left the country could add to criticism of India and Covax, after New Delhi decided this month to delay big exports of vaccines that poor countries around the world had been counting on. Data on UNICEF's website shows that India had received 10 million doses of vaccine from Covax, the most of any country. Nigeria is second with about 4 million doses. Many poor nations entirely reliant on the programme have so far received little or no vaccine. Hundreds of millions of AstraZeneca doses made under license by the Serum Institute of India form the vast bulk of the initial order for Covax, the global system set up to vaccinate people mainly in poor countries. Fifty million doses were meant to be delivered in April, but much of that order is likely to be delayed by India's new export restrictions. Covax, led by the World Health Organization and the Gavi alliance of countries, charities and companies, aims to provide 2 billion vaccine doses this year. UN children's agency UNICEF distributes the shots. But the programme has so far gotten off to a slow start, with officials complaining that rich countries have hoarded most early doses of vaccines. The source, who had direct knowledge of the matter but was not authorised to speak on it publicly, said India had received its 10 million doses early, as Covax had to wait for the vaccine to be approved for emergency use by the World Health Organization before it could start to distribute doses globally. The WHO authorisation came through in mid-February, while India approved the vaccine in January and rolled out its own inoculation campaign on Jan. 16. The source did not specify precisely when India received the doses from Covax. India, the world's biggest maker of vaccines, has reported 12 million Covid-19 cases, the most after the United States and Brazil. So far it has exported 64 million vaccine doses, more than the 60.4 million inoculations conducted at home. The government is under pressure to step up the domestic vaccine programme. India's health ministry, Gavi and UNICEF did not immediately respond to requests for comment for this story. The SII has an agreement with Covax to supply its licensed version of the AstraZeneca drug, which it sells as Covishield, to 64 countries. India's move to suspend major vaccine exports has alarmed many countries, mainly in Africa and Asia. The head of the Africa Centres for Disease Control, a continent-wide body, said last week he felt "helpless".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/biggest-share-of-indian-made-vaccines-for-poor-country-programme-stays-in-india-968288.html
30-03-2021||National||Sanjay Raut should be careful before making comments, says Balasaheb Thorat||Days after Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut suggested that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson, Maharashtra Revenue Minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat on Tuesday said Raut should be careful before making any comments. The Shiv Sena shares power with the Congress and NCP in Maharashtra, but it is not part of the Congress-led UPA. On March 20, Raut said the need of the hour is to strengthen the United Progressive Alliance so that it emerges as a strong alternative to the BJP, and Pawar should take over as UPA chairperson. Talking to reporters, Thorat said Sonia Gandhi will "remain head of the UPA for a long time". Asked about Raut's comments, the minister said, "Raut is a senior leader. He should be careful before making any comments." The Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', of which Raut is executive editor, had also recently created a flutter by stating in an editorial that if Pawar became the UPA chief, it will benefit the alliance. Parties such as Shiv Sena and Akali Dal should also come under the UPA umbrella to take on the BJP, it had said. Maharashtra Congress leaders recently asked the Shiv Sena leader to desist from making such comments as his party is not even part of the UPA. State Congress chief Nana Patole had also asked if Raut was the spokesperson of Pawar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sanjay-raut-should-be-careful-before-making-comments-says-balasaheb-thorat-968290.html
30-03-2021||National||Durable peace in Afghanistan requires peace within, around it, says External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar||Amid speculation of the possibility of an India-Pakistan détente, New Delhi has underlined that durable peace in Afghanistan would require peace within and around the conflict-ravaged country. Though New Delhi has, in the past, always blamed Islamabad for supporting terrorism in Afghanistan, it refrained from doing so when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar made a statement on behalf of the Government of India at a meeting of the “Heart of Asia – Istanbul Process” in Dushanbe on Tuesday. “For a durable peace in Afghanistan, what we need is a genuine ‘double peace’, that is, peace within Afghanistan and peace around Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said. Spoke at the 9th Heart of Asia Ministerial Conference in Dushanbe.  “It requires harmonizing the interests of all, both within and around that country,” he added. Jaishankar said India would welcome any move towards a genuine political settlement and a comprehensive and permanent ceasefire in Afghanistan. He also extended New Delhi’s support to a regional process under the aegis of the United Nations to end the conflict in Afghanistan. “(The) UN stewardship would help to take into account all relevant UN resolutions and improve the odds for a lasting outcome.” The External Affair Minister flew from Delhi to Dushanbe on Monday to take part in the ninth ministerial meeting of the “Heart of Asia – Istanbul Process”, a multilateral initiative to end the conflict in Afghanistan. Pakistani Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi too participated in the multilateral conclave hosted by the Government of Tajikistan and so did ministers or representatives from Russia, China, Afghanistan, Iran, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan and Turkey. Islamabad did send informal messages to New Delhi through backchannels, exploring the possibility of a bilateral meeting between Jaishankar and Qureshi on the sideline of the “Heart of Asia” meeting in Dushanbe. But as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government has decided to tread cautiously, no such meeting took place. Jaishankar noted that India has been supportive of all the efforts being made to accelerate the dialogue between the Afghan government and the Taliban. “If the peace process is to be successful, then it is necessary to ensure that the negotiating parties continue to engage in good faith, with a serious commitment towards reaching a political solution,” said the External Affairs Minister, who had, on September 12, virtually participated in the ceremony held in Doha to mark the beginning of the formal negotiations between the Ghani government in Kabul and the Taliban. He, however, conveyed “grave concern” over the continued “violence and bloodshed” in Afghanistan. “The last few months have also witnessed an escalation in targeted killings of civil society. 2020 sadly marked a 45 per cent increase in civilian casualties in Afghanistan over 2019. 2021 does not look very much better.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/durable-peace-in-afghanistan-requires-peace-within-around-it-says-external-affairs-minister-s-jaishankar-968317.html
30-03-2021||National||India extends shelf life of AstraZeneca vaccine||India's drug regulator has allowed the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to be used for up to nine months from its manufacture date, as opposed to the prescribed six months, according to a document reviewed by Reuters and a source. The approval, given to a licensed version of the drug made by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and exported to dozens of countries, could help health authorities minimise vaccine wastage and better plan their inoculation programmes. Some African countries have only until the middle of next month to use up more than a million doses of the vaccine - branded Covishield by SII - if the shelf life is not extended. "You are permitted to apply the shelf-life of 9 month to unlabelled vials available on hand," India's drugs controller-general, V.G. Somani, wrote late last month in reply to a request from the SII. AstraZeneca said in a statement last week that its product could be stored, transported and handled at normal refrigerated conditions for at least six months. The World Health Organization website also gives the shelf-life of Covishield and the South Korean-made AstraZeneca shot as six months. Reuters has reviewed Somani's approval, which has been communicated to some African countries, but could not determine if his recommendation applied to unused vials. Each vial typically contains 5 millilitre of vaccine, or 10 doses. The source, with direct knowledge of the matter but not authorised to discuss it publicly, said the approval was given based on data submitted by the SII. The source did not specify what kind of data was shared by the company, the world's biggest vaccine maker. Somani, the SII and AstraZeneca did not immediately respond to requests for comment. India has so far administered 55 million Covishield doses at home and exported nearly 64 million. India is also using another vaccine developed domestically by Bharat Biotech.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-extends-shelf-life-of-astrazeneca-vaccine-968325.html
30-03-2021||National||India baulks at carbon neutral target as pressure grows||India is unlikely to bind itself to a net-zero greenhouse gas emissions goal by 2050, government sources told Reuters, despite diplomatic pressure from the United States and Britain to do so to help slow global warming. India is the world's third-biggest carbon emitter after China and the United States and thus is vital in the fight against climate change currently focused on reaching zero emissions by mid century or thereabouts. China has pledged to become carbon neutral by 2060 while US President Joe Biden's administration is expected to announce a 2030 target for reducing emissions at a summit next month, and later possibly set a target date for becoming carbon neutral. But India's energy demand is projected to grow by more than any other nation over the next two decades and the worry is that it may have to cut back on consumption if it were to tie itself to a hard emissions deadline, two sources involved in the discussions told Reuters. "We may not be able to commit ourselves to net zero emissions, it is a delicate problem," said one of the sources, who did not wish to be identified. India will instead stick to the Paris pledge to reduce its carbon footprint by 33-35% from its 2005 levels by 2030 and is aiming to outperform those goals, the source said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has set a target of generating 450 gigawatts of renewable energy by 2030 which is five times current capacity and two and half times the Paris pledge. "That's a significant transformation of the energy mix. So in that sense we are already ahead of the curve, no point making exaggerated claims," the source said. Growing Pressure But international pressure is growing in the run-up to an Earth Day summit that Biden is due to host on April 22 for leaders of 40 countries including India and China, followed by a G7 meeting in Britain to which India has been invited and culminating in a global climate conference in Scotland in November. US Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry told an Indian conference last month that striving towards carbon neutrality by mid-century was a critical commitment. British politician Alok Sharma, who is organising the COP 26 climate conference in Scotland, met Indian government leaders including Modi in Delhi last month to push for greater commitments. Powerful action by India would encourage other countries to follow suit, Sharma said. The Indian environment ministry did not respond to a Reuters request for comment on government policy on carbon neutrality. But officials have debated the net zero target and whether it was realistic and in line with the country's development needs, a second source privy to the discussions said. Jayant Sinha, an MP from the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, submitted a private bill in parliament this month for a legally binding net zero commitment, arguing it would help India draw investments worth billions of dollars. "There have been two schools of thought within government. One is if you go for zero emissions, you will become a sort of a global icon," said the second source. "The other is a more pragmatic view. Let's stick to the commitments we have already made, meet our energy needs. Our energy needs are much higher than many of these countries," the source said. India's per capita emissions are an eighth of those of the United States and less than a third of China's. "The scale of transition is going to be enormous for India, and there is a risk that in trying to reach net zero by 2050, we will end up constraining energy needs for the poor," said Navroz K Dubash, a professor at Delhi's Centre for Policy Research.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-baulks-at-carbon-neutral-target-as-pressure-grows-968327.html
30-03-2021||National||From the Newsroom: Manipur withdraws 'no food' order on Myanmar refugees||In your evening news brief, the Manipur government withdraws an order that barred the district administration and civil society organisations from providing food and shelter to Myanmarese; Sensex rallies 1,128 points and India underlines that durable peace in Afghanistan would require peace within and around the conflict-ravaged country.  Here is the top news of March 30, 2021: Manipur government has withdrawn its order, issued on March 26, that barred the district administration and civil society organisations from providing food and shelter to Myanmarese nationals fleeing the neighbouring country and seeking refuge in the state. H Gyan Prakash, Special Secretary (Home Department, Manipur), issued a fresh letter on Monday which conveyed to the five district administration officials about the BJP-led state government's decision to withdraw the earlier order. Extending its gains to the second consecutive session, equity benchmark Sensex rallied 1,128 points on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC twins, Infosys and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 1,128.08 points or 2.30 per cent higher at 50,136.58, and the broader NSE Nifty surged 337.80 points or 2.33 per cent to 14,845.10. Amid speculation of the possibility of an India-Pakistan détente, New Delhi has underlined that durable peace in Afghanistan would require peace within and around the conflict-ravaged country. Though New Delhi has, in the past, always blamed Islamabad for supporting terrorism in Afghanistan, it refrained from doing so when External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar made a statement on behalf of the Government of India at a meeting of the “Heart of Asia – Istanbul Process” in Dushanbe on Tuesday. “For a durable peace in Afghanistan, what we need is a genuine ‘double peace’, that is, peace within Afghanistan and peace around Afghanistan,” Jaishankar said. (Inputs from DHNS/ PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-manipur-withdraws-no-food-order-on-myanmar-refugees-968335.html
30-03-2021||National||Centre asks states to restore containment zones, quarantines as Covid-19 situation worsens||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday asked the states to create “containment zones” for stringent Covid-19 control as it blamed them for inadequate testing and failure to isolate the Covid-19 positive patients, which had led to a spiraling of new cases driving the ongoing second wave of the epidemic. In addition, the states have been asked to complete 100% vaccination of the 45 plus age group in the next two weeks in those districts that report high case load and fast growth of the epidemic. Bangalore Urban is the lone district from Karnataka in the list of 46 such districts. This deadline – set by the Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all the states – puts a stiff deadline for the Karnataka government to complete the Covid-19 vaccination in Bangalore Urban, which currently has more than 16,000 active cases and the daily caseload is way above the rest of the districts. "The virus is still very active. It penetrates our defences and strikes back just when we think we can control it. The battle is on in every states,” V K Paul, NITI Aayog member and chairman of the National Expert Group on Vaccination said here on Tuesday. India on Tuesday reported 56,211 new cases and 271 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. While the disease grows in most of the states, Maharashtra and Punjab are leading the pack The officials asked the states to create containment zones with clear cut boundaries and the institutional quarantine systems if they were unable to ensure that Covid-19 positive patients stayed in isolation inside their homes rather than mingling in the society. "Where there are clusters of cases, simply quarantining individuals or families will not help. In that case, larger containment zones with clear boundaries and stringent controls must be implemented,” Bhushan wrote. In a containment zone, the effort would be on containing as many cases as possible for 14 days to break the chain of transmission. The functioning of each zone needs to be reviewed daily to see if there are more cases outside than inside the zones. In such a case, the zone area has to be expanded. Bhushan also pulled up the states for inadequate testing. While the positivity rate for the country was 5.65% last week, it was a whooping 23% for Maharashtra, nearly 9% for Punjab, 8% for Chhattisgarh and close to 8% in Madhya Pradesh. “With such a high positivity, testing must be up. The RT-PCR should be the preferred way of testing whereas rapid antigen tests are to be used as screening tools only in densely populated areas,” he said. On people’s lax attitude in following the Covid-appropriate behaviour, the senior official said the states must use the Police Act or powers given to the district magistrates to ensure that people wear the masks properly and follow the social distancing norms. The situation was "turning from bad to worse" and remained a huge cause of worry especially for some states, the officials said, stressing that nobody should be complacent. Bhushan said while the government has no plans for door-to-door vaccination, more active participation from the private sector was needed as the vaccination drive opens up for all 45 plus people from April 1. For India only 16.5% of vaccine doses were administered at private facilities and the number rose up to 26% for Karnataka.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-asks-states-to-restore-containment-zones-quarantines-as-covid-19-situation-worsens-968345.html
30-03-2021||National||18 unit members of reality show 'Dance Deewane' test positive for Covid-19||As many as 18 crew members of Madhuri Dixit Nene-judged popular dance reality show "Dance Deewane" have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, a film industry worker's union said on Tuesday. A spokesperson of Colors channel confirmed that a few members on the third season of "Dance Deewane" had contracted the virus without disclosing the actual number. According to Ashok Dubey, General Secretary, Federation of Western India Cine Employees (FWICE), 18 members of the show's crew tested positive before the start of the shoot this week. "They have a provision of undergoing Covid-19 test every week before starting the shoot. If someone tests positive, then they are home quarantined and another member replaces them. If the result is negative, only then the shooting starts. "Two days ago, 18 unit members tested positive for Covid-19. They were asked to undergo home quarantine and were replaced with others after which the shoot was completed," Dubey told PTI. He further said that Dixit and the other judges of the show are "fine". "Madhuri and other judges are all fine. The crew members who have tested positive for Covid-19 include set workers, lightmen, camera attendants, assistant directors, assistant art directors, few contestants too, among others,” Dubey said. He added that the show has another shoot planned for April 5, which will go-ahead as per the schedule. The third season of the show, which features Dixit as a judge along with choreographers Tushar Kalia and Dharmesh Yelande, started airing on Colors from February 27. On Monday, Mumbai reported 5,890 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths, taking the tally to 4,04,614 and the toll to 11,665.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/18-unit-members-of-reality-show-dance-deewane-test-positive-for-covid-19-968357.html
30-03-2021||National||'Have known him for last 16 years': Attorney General recuses from dealing with request for contempt action against Justice Katju||Attorney General K K Venugopal has recused himself from dealing with a plea for his consent to initiate contempt proceedings against former Supreme Court Judge Justice Markandey Katju in connection with his observations against the judiciary in the case of fugitive diamond merchant Nirav Modi. Advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava had made a request to the A-G for his nod for action against Justice Katju for his remark that 50% judiciary was corrupt in India. In response, Venugopal said, “I have known Justice Katju for last about 16 years and we have been interacting with each other ever since. In this background, it is not appropriate that I deal with the matter." He, however, cited Explanation (a) Section 15 (3), which allowed seeking such consent from the Attorney General or Solicitor General. "If advised, you may file your application for consent before Solicitor General Tushar Mehta," he told Srivastava. In his deposition as an expert witness before a court in the United Kingdom in September 2020, Justice Katju said 50% judiciary is corrupt in India and therefore, a fair justice is not possible for the fugitive accused Nirav Modi. Modi is accused of duping banks of Rs 13,000 crore along with Mehul Choksi. The UK court, which allowed India's request for extradition of Modi, termed Justice Katju's deposition "astonishing, inappropriate and grossly insensitive", besides being "less than objective and reliable".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/have-known-him-for-last-16-years-attorney-general-recuses-from-dealing-with-request-for-contempt-action-against-justice-katju-968358.html
30-03-2021||National||Education Ministry to release Urdu version of RSS Chief Mohan Bhagwat's book||The National Council For Promotion Of Urdu Language (NCPUL) will release an Urdu version of RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat's book Bhavishya Ka Bharat on April 5, its director Aquil Ahmed said on Tuesday. The NCPUL is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Education. The book, which will be titled Msutaqbil Ka Bharat, has been translated by Ahmed himself, and it will be unveiled by RSS joint general secretary Krishan Gopal in the presence of Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank'. The NCPUL has published the book and it will be available at its centres and allied institutions, Ahmed said. 'Bhavishya Ka Bharat' is based on a three-day lecture series of Bhagwat held at the Vigyan Bhawan here, he said. The lecture series was organised by the Sangh to clear and state its views on various contemporary issues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/education-ministry-to-release-urdu-version-of-rss-chief-mohan-bhagwats-book-968360.html
30-03-2021||National||Indian seafaring community watches Ever Given closely||The Indian seafaring community and stakeholders are closely watching the developments vis-à-vis the giant container ship Ever Given that was stuck in Egypt’s Suez Canal. The ship, which got stuck in the canal connecting Europe to Asia on 23 March, is now afloat. However, the fact that the Panama-flagged golden-class container ship has a 25-member Indian crew onboard is a matter of concern. The mammoth 400-metre-long 2,00,000-tonne vessel owned by Japan's Shoei Kisen Kaisha Ltd. and operated by the Taiwanese firm Evergreen Marine Corp., ran aground reportedly due to strong winds and a sandstorm. National Union of Seafarers of India General Secretary Abdulgani Serang spoke to the Indian seafarers onboard the ship and expressed solidarity with them. “I spoke to them and expressed solidarity….we are with them…they should not feel alone,” Serang told DH on Tuesday. "I got in touch with them. The seafarers are fine but stressed out. They are not alone and we will support them whenever required in whatever manner required…we are constantly watching the situation…we are on a wait-and-watch mode,” he said. Serang said that investigations are on and the reasons behind the ship running around are awaited. According to Bernhard Schulte Ship Management (BSM), the technical managers of the container ship, the crew is safe. The Mumbai-based Directorate General of Shipping said that the Indian crew was okay. Serang said that the NUSI is also in touch with International Transport Workers’ Federation (ITF) and other agencies and stakeholders. “We express our solidarity with the seafarers, both on the Ever Given, and on the cargo ships who have been queued on either side of it. Seafarers have been expected to keep the world moving during this pandemic by getting all of us the supplies, food, and medicines we need, and then they have had this major blockage to add to their worries,” ITF  general secretary Stephen Cotton said. Cotton said that the ITF could confirm the crew was “not yet over-contract”, and all were onboard for less than six months. “If ships were required to round the Cape of Good Hope, circumnavigating the African continent, the route would have added at least 26 days on to the typical cargo vessel’s journey, and more than $800,000 in fuel costs. However, the blockage of the Suez Canal for a week had delayed the movement of ships and many companies may seek damages which could create problems for the ship owners and crew…the probe will pinpoint the reason for the incident – whether it was because of winds, technical issues or human error,” a shipping industry source said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-seafaring-community-watches-ever-given-closely-968369.html
30-03-2021||National||President Ram Nath Kovind underwent successful bypass surgery, says Rashtrapati Bhavan||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday underwent successful bypass surgery at the AIIMS here, five days after he had complained of chest discomfort. “The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind underwent cardiac bypass surgery today morning (March 30, 2021) at AIIMS, New Delhi. Surgery was successful,” Rashtrapati Bhavan Press Secretary Ajay Kumar Singh said in a statement here. Singh said the President was stable and being closely monitored by a team of senior doctors. Earlier, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh took to Twitter to inform about the “successful” bypass surgery and wished the 75-year-old President a speedy recovery. “The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind, has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi. I congratulate the team of doctors for the successful operation,” Singh said. The President of India, Shri Ramnath Kovind has undergone a successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, Delhi. I congratulate the team of Doctors for successful operation. Spoke to Director AIIMS to enquire about Rashtrapatiji’s health. Praying for his well-being and speedy recovery. The defence minister said he had also spoken to AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria to enquire about the President’s health. On Friday last, the President had complained of “chest discomfort” and was taken to the Army Hospital (Research & Referral) for health check-up. Kovind underwent a routine check-up on Friday and was referred to AIIMS for bypass surgery on Saturday, May 27. “I wish for a speedy recovery and wellness to President of India H.E. Shri Ram Nath Kovind after a successful bypass surgery today,” Nepal Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli said. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge, Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and senior Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad wished Kovind a speedy recovery. “May each day bring him renewed strength. My good wishes and prayers for his speedy recovery,” Shah said. Glad to learn about Rashtrapati Shri Ram Nath Kovind Ji’s successful bypass surgery at AIIMS, New Delhi. “Wishing the President of India, Sri. Ram Nath Kovind a speedy recovery,” Kharge said. “I wish speedy recovery to President Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji, who has undergone bypass surgery. Praying for his good health & well-being. May he get well soon,” Gehlot said. I wish speedy recovery to President Shri Ram Nath Kovind ji, who has undergone bypass surgery. Praying for his good health & well-being. May he get well soon. "Praying for his speedy recovery," said Gadkari.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-underwent-successful-bypass-surgery-says-rashtrapati-bhavan-968377.html
30-03-2021||National||Govt approves issuance of electoral bonds from April 1-10||Amidst assembly elections in four states and a Union territory, the government on Tuesday approved issuance of the 16th tranche of electoral bonds which will be open for sale from April 1 to 10. Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding. However, Opposition parties have been raising concerns about alleged opaqueness in funding through such bonds. The Election Commission of India (ECI) has accorded 'no objection' from the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) angle on March 17 with certain conditions, including that no political functionary would make any reference in this regard during any public speech or communication to the press or public in the constituencies going for polls, the finance ministry said in a statement. "The State Bank of India (SBI), in the XVI Phase of sale, has been authorised to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 authorised branches w.e.f. 01.04.2021 to 10.04.2021," it said. The 29 specified SBI branches are in cities such as Kolkata, Guwahati, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Patna, New Delhi, Chandigarh, Shimla, Srinagar, Dehradun, Gandhinagar, Bhopal, Raipur, Mumbai, and Lucknow. The sale of the first batch of electoral bonds took place from March 1-10, 2018. The 15th tranche of bond sale took place from January 1 to January 10, 2021. Last week, Supreme Court refused to stay the sale of these bonds during the assembly elections in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam, Kerala, and the Union Territory of Puducherry. According to provisions of the scheme, electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or entities incorporated or established in India. Registered political parties that have secured not less than 1 per cent of the votes polled in the last election of Lok Sabha or legislative assembly are eligible to receive electoral bonds. SBI is the only authorised bank to issue such bonds. An electoral bond will be valid for 15 days from the date of issue. No payment would be made to any payee political party if the bond is deposited after expiry of the validity period, as per the statement. The bond deposited by any eligible political party into its account would be credited on the same day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-issuance-of-electoral-bonds-from-april-1-10-968379.html
30-03-2021||National||Reporting of Covid-19 cases post vaccination rare: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, who along with his wife took the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday, said cases of individuals reporting coronavirus infection post vaccination are “extremely rare" and the disease among them would be “very mild and not progress to an advanced stage". Vardhan and his wife Nutan Goel were administered the second dose of the vaccine at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute. They had taken the first dose of the indigenously developed ‘Covaxin’ by Bharat Biotech, on March 2. “We are yet to feel the slightest discomfort since our first dose of the vaccine,” the minister said as he appealed to every eligible person to get vaccinated, especially in light of the government’s recent decision to extend the inoculation programme to all those above 45 years of age. Vardhan talked about the provisions for AEFI (Adverse Events Following Immunisation) monitoring incorporated in the protocol and the abysmally low proportion of beneficiaries reporting AEFI, the health ministry said in a statement. "All vaccines are absolutely safe, immunogenic and effective," he underlined. The health minister also addressed concerns about individuals reporting coronavirus infection post-vaccination. “These cases are extremely rare. Antibodies take two weeks to be fully developed after the second dose of the vaccine which provides a window for the infection. This takes us to our earlier appeal of strict adherence to Covid Appropriate Behaviour (CAB) regardless of the vaccination exercise," he was quoted as saying in the statement. Vardhan noted that Covid-19 infection among those vaccinated would be very mild and not progress to an advanced stage. Calling the various vaccine-related rumours being circulated on social media a “nuisance to society”, he strongly made the case to trust Science over WhatsApp forward messages, the statement stated. On the second wave of Covid-19 cases being reported across the country, the minister said, “This situation is a grim reflection of the callous attitude of people in following the Covid Appropriate Behaviour. Following these norms along with participation in the vaccination programme are the key pillars of our ‘Jan Andolan’ against the pandemic.” He, however, said the essentials in controlling the disease trajectory like the “Test, Track and Treat” strategy are now well-known along with the clinical procedures to treat patients of severe Covid. The Union minister also spoke about the highest level of engagement in monitoring the Covid-19 situation in the country, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interactions with chief ministers of various states, and frequent video-conferencing (VCs) by Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan with his colleagues in states/UTs. He noted that the country's Covid fatality rate stands at just 1.34 per cent, while the recovery rate is the highest in the world, the statement said. He also mentioned that for 46 districts reporting coronavirus cases, around 400 districts are now free of the disease (187 districts with no fresh cases in seven days, 84 districts in 14 days, 20 districts in 21 days and 139 districts in 28 days), it stated. The minister also informed that India has sent over 6 crore vaccine doses to 84 nations across the globe, while seven more vaccines are in the pipeline undergoing clinical trials. He stressed that the principle of “none of us are safe until everybody is safe” is at the heart of the ‘Vaccine Maitri programme’ and is applicable in vaccinating one's near and dear ones. He added that 7 lakh trained vaccinators, seamless registration in Co-WIN portal for over 10 lakh vaccination sessions, government and private facilities administering the vaccines, are some of the steps taken to make the vaccination drive a success.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reporting-of-covid-19-cases-post-vaccination-rare-harsh-vardhan-968396.html
30-03-2021||National||Trace 25-30 contacts of each Covid-19 case: Centre to states||Tracing 25 to 30 contacts of each Covid-19 case, proper isolation and creating larger containment zones were among steps the Centre has asked states to adopt for tackling the surge in Covid-19 cases. Calling for a district-centric approach to fight the upward swing in cases, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said on Tuesday that each district, irrespective of whether it is seeing a surge or is with low burden, should formulate an action plan with clear timelines and responsibilities. Bhushan said the virus can be contained by quarantining and testing individuals suspected to be Covid-19 positive as well as 25 to 30 close contacts of positive persons, isolating, quarantining and testing them. "Where there are clusters of cases, simply quarantining individuals or families will not help. In that case, larger containment zones with clear boundaries and stringent controls must be implemented," he said. In a letter to all chief secretaries, Bhushan said Covid-appropriate behaviour must be enforced using the Police Act, or powers under the Disaster Management Act. The states have also been asked to map cases based on surveillance activities and focused testing in areas, reviewing sub-areawise indicators like case positivity rate, rate of growth of cases, case fatality, doubling rate of cases, on a real-time basis. They have also been asked to review the proportion of Rapid Antigen Tests and RT-PCR tests. "All districts with high caseload and fast growth of cases must ensure saturation vaccination of priority age groups of 45 years and above in the coming two weeks," Bhushan said in the letter. He said many districts in the country are seeing emergence of clusters of cases because of specific events and crowding, or where a large number of people are in close physical contact coupled with lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour. Efficient implementation of the 'Test Track and Treat' strategy remains the only proven strategy for controlling transmission, Bhushan said. The states were asked to identify localities and hospitals where deaths are high. "Do an analysis (death analysis) to understand the system-related issues of why the death happened whether it was due to late detection (surveillance failure) or late admission in hospitals (delay in referral), or due to clinical care at hospitals (non-adherence to clinical management protocols, lack of oxygen lack of beds, non-transparent procedure of bed allocation). Such issues must be promptly redressed," he said. Bhushan said some districts that saw a high number of cases in August-November are again seeing a high growth rate of cases. "Additionally, a number of new districts that saw a limited prevalence earlier are worryingly showing a surge in cases. States and UTs that currently have low levels of cases, however, cannot be complacent," the health secretary said. He said a lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour and laxity in public health effort can lead to a sudden surge. "If immediate, proactive and focused action is taken by your teams right now, it will be possible to ensure that the infection does not spread into currently low prevalence districts," Bhushan told the chief secretaries. Any complacency at this stage and at any level, will have heavy costs, he warned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trace-25-30-contacts-of-each-covid-19-case-centre-to-states-968406.html
30-03-2021||National||Ever Given ship: Shipping Ministry says in touch with concerned authorities over crew safety||With an all-Indian 25-member crew working on the Ever Given container ship that had blocked Suez Canal, Union Ministry of Shipping on Tuesday said it is in touch with concerned authorities about the safety of the crews. “The Ministry is monitoring the situation. The Director General of Shipping is in touch with concerned authorities regarding the well being of Indian crews. However there is nothing to comment on this issue as of now,” said an official in the Shipping Ministry. Dismissing apprehension about the possibility of Indian crew facing legal issues including criminal charges, the official said “investigation is going to find out the cause for the incident. It is too early to speculate.” Apart from the Indian crew, the ship had two pilots from Egypt's Suez Canal Authority board the vessel to guide it when the grounding happened, said the official. An investigation has already started. Experts have boarded the ship as it idled Tuesday in Egypt's Great Bitter Lake, near blocking the canal, said the official. “So far no criminal charges were put on the crew. Let us not speculate. Let investigation take place to find out what caused the mishap,” Captain Sanjay Parashar, Member, National Shipping Board told DH. “We expect issues should be resolved early and ship should be allowed to further voyage at the earliest,” he said.   The vessel being owned by a Japanese firm, operated by a Taiwanese shipper, flagged in Panama.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ever-given-ship-shipping-ministry-says-in-touch-with-concerned-authorities-over-crew-safety-968412.html
30-03-2021||National||China-US tensions can boost India’s tech dreams, report says||Friction between the US and China could give India the boost it needs to become a global tech hub, as long as the South Asian nation addresses longstanding roadblocks including excessive red tape and government inefficiency. “Washington’s technology cold war with Beijing has resulted in strategic decoupling, prompting manufacturing supply chains to shift to new locations,” according to a report released Tuesday from the Asia-based Hinrich Foundation set up by US entrepreneur Merle Hinrich. “India finds itself well-positioned to absorb these supply chains.” A number of factors are working in India’s favour right now, according to the foundation, which cited US President Joe Biden’s call for “China-free” supply chains in certain sectors, as well as India’s membership in the Quad grouping with the US, Australia and Japan. Leaders from those four nations held their first summit earlier this month, partly to address concerns about Beijing’s growing economic and military heft. India and China engaged in violent clashes along their disputed Himalayan border in 2020, though efforts to cool tensions this year led to both armies pulling back troops in February. Tech giants like Apple Inc., Amazon.com Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co. that have relied on China for years are shifting production to India and Southeast Asia, a move that accelerated as tensions between Washington and Beijing mounted. The pandemic is hastening the shift as companies take advantage of India’s new productivity incentive programs, enormous labour base, and rapidly growing domestic market for devices and internet services. “Everybody that I talk to in the tech sector is moving stuff out of China, anything that they consider sensitive,” said Alex Capri, a Singapore-based research fellow who authored the report. India is also looking to reduce its own dependence on China, he said. New Delhi will also have to address issues that have hampered growth of manufacturing, the report said, adding that excessive regulations, taxes and a lack of coordination between the central and state levels of government have deterred investors. India’s path to tech hub status will depend on its ability to develop smartphone manufacturing, the report said, noting that China still has a large lead in the industry. India could lobby Washington to persuade top chipmakers like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. to open certain plants in the South Asian country, the Hinrich Foundation said. India faces a lot of scepticism it can deliver, Capri said, “but more than ever people are saying if India is going to do it, they’ve got to do it now.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-us-tensions-can-boost-india-s-tech-dreams-report-says-968413.html
30-03-2021||National||Madhya Pradesh govt notifies law against religious conversion||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh has notified the law against religious conversion through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, that stipulates a jail term of up to 10 years for violators, after Governor Anandiben Patel gave her assent. "The Madhya Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act 2021 has been promulgated and published in the gazette notification on March 27 after the approval given by the Governor a day earlier (on March 26)," Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Madhya Pradesh, Rajesh Rajora, said on Tuesday. The new Act replaced the Freedom of Religion bill, which has provisions of 10 years imprisonment in some cases and hefty fine for violators, which was passed on March 8 by the state Legislative Assembly. The Act has replaced the ordinance passed by the state cabinet in December last year and promulgated in January, 2021. As per the notification, this Act penalises religious conversions through fraudulent means, including those for the sake of marriage, besides the religious conversions by misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion, marriage or by any other fraudulent means, reads the document. The Act stated that no person shall convert or attempt to convert, either directly or otherwise, any other person by use of misrepresentation, allurement, use of threat of force, undue influence, coercion or marriage or by any other fraudulent means. Any conversion in contravention of these provisions shall be deemed null and void, it said. Any marriage solemnised in violation of this law will also be considered null and void, as per the Act. The Act has a provision of three to 10 years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs 50,000 in cases of marriage carried out by hiding one's religion. In the cases involving religious conversion of members of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and minors, a provision has been made for imprisonment of two to 10 years and a fine of Rs 50,000. The law allows parents, legal guardian or custodian and brothers and sisters of the converted person to lodge a complaint in this regard. As per the Act, those willing to convert will need to apply to the district administration 60 days in advance. The victim women will be entitled to get maintenance under the law. The children born out of such marriages would be entitled to inherit the father's properties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-govt-notifies-law-against-religious-conversion-968415.html
30-03-2021||National||New excise policy in Delhi aimed at increasing AAP's political funding: BJP||Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta on Tuesday hit out at the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government over the new excise policy and alleged that it was only meant to increase political funding to the Aam Aadmi Party. In a statement, Gupta said the BJP will not allow Delhi to become "the capital of alcohol" and added the Kejriwal government is "hell bent upon drowning the youngsters of Delhi into alcoholism". Rejecting the charge, the AAP alleged involvement of BJP leaders in the alcohol business and added "they know that the recently initiated excise policy will destroy their business, and hence they are fretting over it." "They are millionaires because of nothing but their involvement in the alcohol business. The new policy will act as a deterrent for illicit liquor operations as, under the new policy, no new stores will be opened and existing shops will be improved. This is how the illicit liquor business will come to an end," the AAP said. The Delhi government had approved on March 23 a new excise policy which had lowered the legal drinking age to 21 from 25 years. It had also withdrawn the government from running liquor vends in Delhi. According to the government, the move is expected to lead to an annual revenue growth of 20 per cent. Gupta said, "The BJP will oppose it tooth and nail and not allow any new shop to come up. The new policy is aimed more at pushing Delhiites into alcoholism rather than at increasing its revenue." "The new excise policy is only meant to increase political funding to the AAP and revenue of the government. In one go, the state government has raised commission on liquor to 10 per cent and this way they have ensured the party gets Rs 1,000 crore fund in its coffers," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/new-excise-policy-in-delhi-aimed-at-increasing-aaps-political-funding-bjp-968436.html
30-03-2021||National||No charging of electronic devices on board trains at night: Railways as precaution against fire||The Railways has decided to disallow passengers from using mobile charging stations onboard trains between 11 pm and 5 am as a precautionary measure against spread of fire, senior officials said on Tuesday. The Western Railway has already put things in motion on March 16 by cutting off supply to these charging ports between this period. "It is a Railway Board instruction for all railways. We have started implementing it from March 16," CPRO of Western Railway, Sumit Thakur, told PTI. Southern Railway CPRO B Guganesan told PTI that these instructions are not new, but a reiteration of earlier orders of the Railway Board. In 2014, the Commissioner of Railway Safety had recommended that charging stations be switched off between 11 pm and 5 am, soon after a fire incident in the Bangalore-Hazur Sahib Nanded Express. The Railway Board had eventually issued such orders to all rail zones. "In view of the recent incidents of fire, we have done the needful. It is a precautionary measure and even earlier the Railway Board had issued such orders. The power from the main switchboard for these points will be switched off from 11 pm to 5 am," Guganesan said. This comes after recent incidents of fire reported in some trains. According to railway officials, the decision to restrict the use of the charging ports was taken as a precautionary measure. In a report on the fires, officials suggested that the points used for charging mobile phones and other electronic devices should be switched off at night. Many incidents of minor fires, reported onboard long-distance trains, were caused due to overcharging of electronic devices, officials said. Recently a coach of the Dehradun-bound Shatabdi Express caught fire in a suspected case of a short circuit on March 13. Barely six days later, a fire broke out in the engine of a static goods train at the Ranchi station. The Railways has also announced a slew of initiatives against smoking and carrying inflammable items, which were apparently also the cause behind some of the recent fires onboard trains. The national transporter has instructed zonal railways to initiate an intensive awareness drive of seven days to educate all the stakeholders, including railway users and employees, about precautions to be taken against fire incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-charging-of-electronic-devices-on-board-trains-at-night-railways-as-precaution-against-fire-968449.html
30-03-2021||National||India has several human rights issues, says US report||India has several significant human rights issues, including unlawful and arbitrary killings, restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, corruption and tolerance of violations of religious freedom, a US report said on Tuesday. In its ‘2020 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices’ to the US Congress, the Department of State noted the improvement in the human rights situation in Jammu and Kashmir. "The government continued taking steps to restore normalcy in Jammu and Kashmir by gradually lifting some security and communications restrictions," said the State Department in its India section of the report. The government released most political activists from detention, it added. In January, the government partially restored internet access; however, high-speed 4G mobile internet remained restricted in most parts of Jammu and Kashmir. The government began a process to redraw electoral constituencies but did not announce a timeline for local assembly elections. Local district development council elections took place in December in which a coalition of Kashmiri opposition parties won the majority of seats, the report said. Separatist insurgents and terrorists in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, the Northeast, and Maoist-affected areas committed serious abuses, including killings and torture of armed forces personnel, police, government officials, and civilians, and recruitment and use of child soldiers, it said. The State Department in its report listed more than a dozen significant human rights issues for India. Prominent among them are unlawful and arbitrary killings, including extrajudicial killings perpetrated by police; torture and cases of cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment by some police and prison officials; arbitrary arrest and detention by government authorities; harsh and life-threatening prison conditions; political and prisoners or detainees in certain states. India in the past rejected similar reports. The US report mentioned restrictions on freedom of expression and the press, including violence, threats of violence, or unjustified arrests or prosecutions against journalists, use of criminal libel laws to prosecute social media speech, censorship, and site blocking. "The government generally respected this right, although there were several instances in which the government or actors considered close to the government allegedly pressured or harassed media outlets critical of the government, including through online trolling. "There were also reports of extremists perpetrating acts of killing, violence, and intimidation against journalists critical of the government,” the State Department said. "In certain cases local authorities arrested or filed cases against individuals under laws against hate speech for expressions of political views. The harassment and detainment of journalists critical of the government in their reporting or social media messaging continued,” the report said. The report also mentioned the conviction of lawyer Prashant Bhushan for criminal contempt of court for two tweets that criticised the chief justice and the role played by the Supreme Court in the past six years, and a complaint filed against news website 'The Wire' editor Siddharth Varadarajan for his tweet referencing a news report on Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Among other human rights issues by the State Department include overly restrictive rules on nongovernmental organisations; restrictions on political participation; widespread corruption at all levels in the government and lack of investigation of and accountability for violence against women. In its report, the State Department also talks about tolerance of violations of religious freedom; crimes involving violence and discrimination targeting members of minority groups including women based on religious affiliation or social status; and forced and compulsory child labour, as well as bonded labour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-has-several-human-rights-issues-says-us-report-968467.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||PM Modi to address rallies in Kerala, TN and Puducherry today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address three public rallies in Kerala, Puducherry and Tamil Nadu today to campaign for NDA candidates in the poll-bound states. PM Modi will address a public meeting at Palakkad in Kerala, a rally at Dharapuram in Tamil Nadu in the afternoon. Modi is also scheduled to address a meeting in Puducherry. This is the Prime Minister's second visit to Puducherry to campaign for the NDA candidates after having addressed a poll rally on February 25 after unveiling several Centre-sponsored development projects that day. He will speak at the AFT Thidal, Puducherry. The AINRC, which heads the NDA, is contesting from 16 of the total 30 constituencies, while BJP is seeking election from nine seats and the AIADMK from five.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-to-address-rallies-in-kerala-tn-and-puducherry-today-968188.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||What is this match-fixing?: PM Modi attacks LDF at a rally in Kerala's Palakkad||PM Modi in a campaign rally for the BJP in Kerala appealed to voters saying that the saffron party has an aspirational vision for the state. "The BJP’s vision for Kerala is forward-looking and aspirational. That is why, the youth of the state, the professional communities across the state, are openly supporting the BJP. Across India too, this trend is being seen," he said at the rally. "Today I have come among you to seek your blessings for the BJP in the upcoming state elections. I have come here with a vision that is refreshingly different from the current situation in Kerala," said PM Modi at a rally in Palakkad. "For many years, the worst kept secret of Kerala politics was the friendly agreement of UDF and LDF. Now, the first-time voter of Kerala is asking- what is this match-fixing?" PM Modi asked at the rally in an attack on the two alliances led by CPI(M) and Congress. "Metro Man E Sreedharan is a son of Kerala," said PM Modi adding that Sreedharan has made major contributions to society and is not hungry for power. "I've drawn up a master plan for this constituency which includes 24-hour water supply, efficient solid waste management scheme. I also want to have green cover for the area by planting 25 lakh trees in the next 5 years," E Sreedharan, BJP's candidate from Palakkad, said earlier at the rally where he felicitated PM Modi. Training guns on the LDF and the UDF over the Sabarimala temple issue, Modi said, "LDF government should be ashamed of showering Lathis on innocent devotees. UDF should be ashamed of remaining silent when this was happening. I am proud to belong to a party that has, is and will always defend the culture of our land." "I want to tell the LDF and UDF: If you abuse our culture, we will not be mute spectators," he said, referring to the agitation led by party's state unit chief K Surendran to protect faith in the state. "Our state unit President Surendran Ji was arrested and ill-treated by the Kerala government. What was his crime? That he spoke for Kerala's traditions?" Modi asked. Taking on the Left parties on political violence in the state, Modi said they have been in power many times in Kerala but their leaders still behave like junior level goons or party leaders. "Under their eyes and with their blessings, political rivals are killed, hacked, beaten," Modi said. He promised that if voted to power, the BJP government will stop the culture of violence in the southern state. "In a democracy, we can have political differences. But, violence is not acceptable. So many of our young BJP Karyakartas have lost their lives. A BJP government in Kerala will stop this culture of violence", Modi said. (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/what-is-this-match-fixing-pm-modi-attacks-ldf-at-a-rally-in-keralas-palakkad-968230.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||DMK-Congress' outdated 2G missile targets 'Nari Shakti' of Tamil Nadu, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is on a tour of the South addressing rallies to support the BJP's bid to make headway in the region. The PM on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the opposition. "The Congress and DMK hardly talk about their vision. They only demean others. They have launched their outdated 2G missile. This 2G missile has a clear target: Women of Tamil Nadu. They want to attack the Nari Shakti of Tamil Nadu," PM Modi said slamming the DMK-Congress alliance. "Few days from now, Tamil Nadu will elect a new Assembly. The NDA family seeks your blessings to serve the people of this state. We seek your vote on the solid agenda of all-round development, inspired by ideals of MGR and Amma Jayalalithaa," PM Modi said at a rally in Tamil Nadu's Dharapuram. "We want to promote Tamil language and culture, which is why we are enabling education in the local language," PM Modi said adding that he was in a land whose proud sons and daughters never compromised on their ideals and fought against injustice. He further said that BJP wants to empower the farmers, poor, youngsters and women of Tamil Nadu. "We want to boost connectivity and create opportunities here," the PM said. "A vote for NDA is a vote to solve long-standing issues. A prime example is the way the decades-old demand of the Devendra Kula Vellalar community was solved by our alliance," PM Modi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/dmk-congress-outdated-2g-missile-targets-nari-shakti-of-tamil-nadu-says-pm-modi-968259.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||Manipur withdraws order that prohibited food and shelter to fleeing Myanmarese nationals||Manipur government has withdrawn its order, issued on March 26, that barred the district administration and civil society organisations from providing food and shelter to Myanmarese nationals fleeing the neighbouring country and seeking refuge in the state. H Gyan Prakash, Special Secretary (Home Department, Manipur), issued a fresh letter on Monday which conveyed to the five district administration officials about the BJP-led state government's decision to withdraw the earlier order. "It appears that the content of the letter has been misconstrued and interpreted differently. The state government has been taking all humanitarian steps, including taking the injured Myanmarese nationals to Imphal for treatment. The state government continues to provide all aid," said Monday's letter. DH on Monday reported that Gyan Prakash asked Chandel, Tengnoupal, Kamjong, Ukhrul and Churachandpur districts not to operate any camp and also not to allow the civil society organisations to operate such camp to provide food and shelter to such people.  But the letter asked the districts to allow medical attention to the seriously injured persons from Myanmar on humanitarian consideration. "People trying to enter/seek refuge should be politely turned away," said the letter. The letter was issued a day after three Myanmarese nationals, who were injured in firing by the army on pro-democracy protesters at Tamu in Myanmar reached Moreh border in Manipur and "begged" Indian officials to save their lives. The injured men, aged between 29 and 31, were allowed in and admitted to a hospital at Moreh first. They were later rushed to a hospital in Manipur capital Imphal on March 26. Tamu is about five km away from Moreh, India's border point with Myanmar. Manipur shares about a 400-km border with Myanmar. A local leader at Moreh told DH on Monday that a group of Myanmarese nationals, including women and children, was "turned away" into Myanmar on March 26 following the Home Department's order. The Centre recently asked Manipur, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh to step up vigil on the unfenced Indo-Mynamar border in order to prevent influx from the coup-hit Myanmar. But Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi stating that the directive was not acceptable to Mizoram as people on both sides of the border belonged to the Chin community and Mizoram could not give a "blind eye" to the humanitarian crisis in Myanmar and people on both sides are same Chin community, Zoramthanga said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/manipur-withdraws-order-that-prohibited-food-and-shelter-to-fleeing-myanmarese-nationals-968297.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||Kerala polls: After widespread criticism, Joice George withdraws remarks against Rahul||After coming under fire for his sexually coloured remarks against Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, former MP Joice George on Tuesday withdrew his comments and expressed regret publicly, even as the national party demanded his arrest while the ruling CPI(M) distanced itself from the slur. "I hereby unconditionally withdraw the inappropriate remarks made by me while addressing an election rally in Irattayar here on Monday. I also express regret over that," he said while speaking at a meeting in Kumaly in this high range district. George had won as the CPI(M) supported independent during 2014 Parliament election from Idukki but lost to Congress's Dean Kuriakose in 2019 Lok Sabha polls. As TV channels started airing the visuals of his speech in Irattayar here this morning, sharp reactions poured in from various quarters especially from the Congress-UDF fold which strongly condemned the remarks and described it as "misogynistic". Sensing that the objectionable remarks would give the opposition ammunition to target them during campaigns in the poll-bound state, the CPI(M) was quick to reject George's comments. Distancing himself from the derogatory comments, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan made it clear that attacking Gandhi personally was not the LDF's stand. "We will oppose him politically not personally', Vijayan told reporters in Kasaragod. Soon after that, the CPI(M) state secretariat here issued a press statement stating that the Left party does not agree with the remarks made by their ex-MP. "The CPI(M) is opposing the political stand taken by the Congress party and Rahul Gandhi. Such remarks will only help to deviate attention from the political criticism. Nobody should make such comments," it said. Attacking the opposition Congress-led UDF and Rahul Gandhi in particular, George, during his Irattayar speech, had said Gandhi would visit only women's colleges and the girls should be 'careful' while dealing with the former Congress President. "Rahul Gandhi is a bachelor and troublemaker.. so girls should be wary of him..do no bent down in front of him," he had said while campaigning for Power Minister M M Mani.  The former Left independent MP's remarks came days after Gandhi had given Aikido lessons at the famed St Teresa's college in Kochi based on the request of a student. The Congress leader had visited the women's college for interaction with students after he arrived at the state for election campaigning. Meanwhile, the Congress leaders were up in arm against George's obscene statements against Gandhi. Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala termed the sexually coloured remarks against Gandhi as 'unfortunate and unacceptable.' A case should be registered against the former MP and he should be arrested, he said. KPCC chief Mullappally Ramachandran and former chief minister Oommen Chandy lashed out at the ex-MP and said the remarks were "high deplorable" and "unacceptable". Member of Parliament and Youth Congress leader Dean Kuriakose said George might have spoken about his own character. "The vulgarity within him has come out now. What is his merit to criticise Rahul Gandhi? He is trying to follow the footsteps of power minister M M Mani, known for making such derogatory comments," he said. Kuriakose said through the comments, the former MP had not only insulted Gandhi but also the girl students. He also said he would soon lodge a complaint with the Election Commission against George in this connection. Criticising George, Kerala Congress leader P J Joseph said the remarks were 'immature' and wanted to know whether it was the opinion of the entire LDF. However, minister M M Mani justified George and said he had not made any anti-women remarks and only criticised Rahul Gandhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/kerala-polls-after-widespread-criticism-joice-george-withdraws-remarks-against-rahul-968328.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||Congress suffering from 'mental bankruptcy': Nadda||BJP President J P Nadda on Tuesday alleged that the Congress is suffering from "mental bankruptcy" as it has aligned with political parties on religious lines in the current round of elections in the states. The Congress has joined hands with the political parties on religious lines be it Kerala, West Bengal or Assam, Nadda said while addressing election ralles in Assam. "At the same time it has entered into alliances with the Left parties in Bengal and Assam but in Kerala, it is fighting against them. This exposes the party's mental bankruptcy", he said at a poll rally. He alleged that the Congress has divided the society on diffierent criterion, including religion, but Prime Minister Narendra Modi has ensured that all people get benefits of various schemes on the basis of their need and not on any other considerations. The Prime Minister has always insisted on inclusion of all sections by emphasising on "Sabka saath, sabka vikash aur sabka vishwas" unlike the Congress which had divided society on the basis of caste, class and religion for nearly seventy years after Independence. "Congress todne ka kaam karta hain, aur Modiji jodne ka (Congress divides but Modiji unifies)", he added. The BJP president further that Congress leaders claim that there have been no development during the last five years in Assam, but "actually they cannot see it, as they have not developed themselves."  "Rahul Gandhi accuses us of 'Jumlebaji' (hypocrisy) but keeps silent about the 'jumlebaji' by his grandmother, father and mother who only gave slogans and did nothing to solve the problems of the country. "We are here to work but they only gave slogans", he said. He also accused the grand old party for asking for votes from the people as former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had represented them. "What did he do for the people that they should vote for the party, instead the party should thank them for giving him the opportunity to become the Prime Minister," Nadda said. Referring to the visit of Congress leaders to the tea gardens in the state, the BJP president accused them of being "political tourists" who visit the gardens for photo sessions but the party did nothing when it was in power for the welfare of the tea garden workers. "It was the Prime Minister who directed me to take a decision regarding the health facilities of the tea garden workers and I followed it up by ensuring 130 mobile medical units and a separate allocation of Rs 1000 crore has been made in this year's Union budget for the health, education and roads of the tea gardens", he said. He also accused the Congress for supporting forces that had conspired to bring out a toolkit to defame tea and Yoga before the world and "if tea, which is Assam's pride, is defamed, then the state is insulted and we will not allow it". "The Congress remains quiet when Assam tea is defamed but on the other hand, it sings praises of Badruddin Ajmal whom Rahul Gandhi describes as Assam's identity. "Vaishnav saint Srimanta Sankardeva, Bharat Ratnas Gopinath Bordoloi and Bhupen Hazarika are linked with Assam's identity and how can Ajmal represent that"? he asked. The BJP president further asserted that it was the Prime Minister who ensured that road for permanent peace was paved in the state with the signing of the Bodo Accord which the Congress had failed to solve for the last 50 years, leading to the killing of thousands of people, including security personnel. "It was Modiji's will, Union Home Minister Amit Shah's planning and Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal's execution that led to peace in the state and solution of a long-pending problem", he asserted. The BJP president further said that the commitments made in the party manifesto for Assam will be implemented in letter and spirit as the party makes promises and fulfils them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-suffering-from-mental-bankruptcy-nadda-968378.html
30-03-2021||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi launches attack on LDF, BJP governments||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi on Tuesday launched a scathing attack on the CPI(M)-LDF government, describing it as a dispensation of "frauds and scams", which was following a "corporate" manifesto instead of the communist manifesto. She said the Left Democratic Front government had sworn allegiance to the communist manifesto, but was actually following a "corporate manifesto" like the Modi government at the Centre. Addressing a series of public meetings and road shows, she embarked on her hectic two-day campaign across southern Kerala for the April 6 assembly polls on a day when Prime Minister Narendra Modi was also in the state to address a public meeting at Palakkad, the constituency where BJP has fielded 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan. "You have struggled in the last five years..you have suffered. Many central government policies have hurt you and several LDF policies hurt you even more," she said, lashing out at the ruling CPI(M)-LDF and BJP governments in her rallies. "Demonetisation...faulty GST, the Corona pandemic and then the lockdown was imposed without any planning." Gandhi said there is an unprecedented price rise and essential commodities are unaffordable. Gas cylinders may have been distributed free of cost at some point of time, "but today, you cannot fill them," she said and alleged that both the central and state governments are focusing only on handing over the assets to corporates. The Congress leader also explained the various promises listed in the UDF manifesto and the 'Nyay Scheme', the minimum income guarantee scheme of the party. Speaking at nearby Poonthura, a fishing hamlet, Gandhi urged voters to repose faith in the UDF. "What you do in Kerala will show the way for the rest of the country. It is a big responsibility and I am confident you will discharge it fully", she said. Former Union minister and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor and former state minister V S Sivakumar were among those present at the Poonthura rally. In a packed schedule, Gandhi addressed party workers in various constituencies in Alappuzha, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts, attacking the LDF in Kerala and the BJP-NDA government at the Centre, winding it up with a road show at Valiyathura, another fishing hamlet. Taking a dig at the state government in the gold smuggling case, she said it has failed to recognise that the people of the state are the "real gold". The gold scam relates to the seizure of about 30 kg of gold worth Rs 14.82 crore through diplomatic channels in July last year. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's former Principal secretary M Sivasankar was among those arrested, along with key accused Swapna Suresh. The case is being probed by various central agencies, including the Enforcement Directorate. The Congress general secretary also lashed out at the government over the inking of an MoU with a US based company for the manufacture of 400 deep sea fishing trawlers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-launches-attack-on-ldf-bjp-governments-968459.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||First evening flight lands at Srinagar Airport from Bengaluru||The first evening flight landed at Srinagar International Airport from Bengaluru on Monday evening much to the delight of frequent flyers. The airport officials said that the IndiGo flight departed from Bengaluru at 3:35 pm and arrived in Srinagar at 7 pm on Monday. “The commencement of night flights has made the airport abuzz with activity and it will be beneficial for both locals as well as tourists,” Director, Airports Authority of India (AAI), Srinagar, Santosh Dhoke said. He said that the Bengaluru-Srinagar direct flight will operate on a daily basis adding that various airlines have started direct flights between Srinagar and several other cities such as Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. It may be mentioned that the Srinagar-Bengaluru direct flight has been resumed after a hiatus of more than one year due to Covid-19. Earlier on Sunday, regular evening flight operations started at the Srinagar Airport while on Friday, the first-ever night flight by a commercial operator took off. With the start of night operations of flights, the summer schedule will see a substantial increase in flights to J&K. According to Dhoke number of daily flights has increased from 25 to 30 in February to almost 40 flights now. “As of now we have three evening daily flights which are likely to increase to almost five in the next few days,” he said and added they expect almost 50 flight arrivals by the end of June. Kashmiris, residing in Bengaluru, Mumbai, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and other cities have welcomed the direct night flight operations. “Earlier one had to wait for hours at Delhi airport to catch a connecting flight It was a time-consuming process, but now travelling to and fro Kashmir would become easier,” said Nayeem, a businessman. Srinagar Airport is under the direct operational control of the Indian Air Force (IAF), which controls its air traffic and landing strip and also the facilities of fire-fighting and crash activities, apart from the airspace. Starting post-sunset flight operations is mainly coming together of two factors - technical feasibility and permissions from authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/first-evening-flight-lands-at-srinagar-airport-from-bengaluru-968236.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||J&K police admit security lapse in Sopore militant attack||Jammu and Kashmir police on Monday admitted a security lapse in Sopore militant attack in which two municipal councillors and a cop were killed on Sunday. “There has been some security lapse in the Sopore attack. There were four PSOs (personal security officers) present and had they retaliated, the militants would not have succeeded in their efforts,” Inspector General of Police (IGP) Kashmir Vijay Kumar told reporters, here. He said that all the four PSOs have been suspended while an over ground worker (OGW) of militants has been arrested. “The OGW has revealed that the plan to carry out the attack was hatched by one Lashkar-e-Toiba militant Mudasir and a foreigner at his home,” Kumar revealed. The Kashmir police chief said that the Municipal Committee chairman of Sopore had not informed the police about the meeting. “So there was no additional deployment. But still, four PSOs were enough to retaliate which they didn’t,” he added. The IGP said that police and security forces will intensify the anti-militancy operations and those involved in the Sopore attack will either be killed or arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-admit-security-lapse-in-sopore-militant-attack-968244.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh man kills 'lover' after she wanted to marry someone else||A 19-year-old woman was killed allegedly by a man after she decided to marry someone else at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Ballia, police said on Tuesday. Annu Rajbhar, the accused, met the woman on Monday morning and killed her by slitting her throat, Additional Superintendent of Police Sanjay Yadav said. Sindhu Rajbhar's body was found in an agricultural field in the village later in the day, Yadav said. Based on a complaint lodged at Bansdeeh Road police station by the brother of the deceased, a case was registered against Annu Rajbhar and he was arrested. Yadav said Annu Rajbhar was having an affair with Sindhu Rajbhar for the last few years. He wanted to marry her but Sindhu Rajbhar's family was not ready for it and had fixed her marriage elsewhere. The body has been sent for postmortem, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-kills-lover-after-she-wanted-to-marry-someone-else-968246.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||Coal mining case: CBI questions suspected mastermind||The CBI on Tuesday questioned Anup Majhi, the alleged mastermind of illegal coal mining in Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in West Bengal's Asansol, in connection with the coal pilferage scam, officials said. The Supreme Court had restrained the agency from arresting Majhi till April 6. "The petitioner shall not be arrested until April 6. This order has been passed without going into the merit of the case. We clarify that this order will not restrain the investigation," a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had said. The bench, also comprising Justices M R Shah and Sanjiv Khanna, directed that Majhi shall cooperate in the probe in the case.  The multi-crore coal pilferage scam is related to the Eastern Coalfields Ltd mines in the state's Kunustoria and Kajora areas. The CBI had registered an FIR in November last year against the alleged kingpin of the pilferage racket, Manjhi alias Lala, ECL general managers Amit Kumar Dhar and Jayesh Chandra Rai, ECL security chief Tanmay Das, Kunustoria area security inspector Dhananjay Rai and Kajor area security in-charge Debashish Mukherjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coal-mining-case-cbi-questions-suspected-mastermind-968253.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab extends Covid curbs till April 10; weekly RT-PCR for those not opting for vaccine||As Covid cases and deaths continue to rise, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered extension of curbs in the state till April 10 and directed officials to increase the number of vaccination sites to target the priority categories on an urgent basis. Reviewing the Covid situation with top officials, the Chief Minister said all restrictions that were in place till March 31 will now remain in force till April 10, after which they would be again reviewed. On March 19, Singh had ordered massive state-wide restrictions, including closure of educational institutions till March 31 and curbs on cinema hall and mall capacities. All districts have also been advised to motivate all healthcare and frontline workers to get themselves vaccinated and those who do not get vaccinated, should be strictly directed to undergo Covid testing every week. Singh noted that the latest data showed that the UK strain of the virus was the most prevalent in the state. The meeting was informed that the positive cases and deaths were rising rapidly in some of the districts and expected to peak around April 6. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said 90,360 persons had been challaned and tested for Covid after they were found to be violating the health protocols in place.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-extends-covid-curbs-till-april-10-weekly-rt-pcr-for-those-not-opting-for-vaccine-968361.html
30-03-2021||North and Central||Gehlot, Pilot show unity ahead of Rajasthan bypolls||The Assembly bypolls in Rajasthan have brought arch-rivals Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot to the same stage. Pilot, who had led an unsuccessful rebellion against Gehlot last year, shared the stage with the chief minister and the duo addressed three rallies for Congress candidates in Assembly bypolls of Sujangarh, Sahada and Rajsamand. Bye-elections in the three Assembly seats will be held on April 17 and the Congress candidates filed their nomination papers on Tuesday. Pilot, under whose leadership the Congress won the Rajasthan Assembly elections in 2018, was pipped to the post of the chief minister by Gehlot, leaving him as the deputy chief minister. After the failed coup last year, Pilot was stripped of the posts of the deputy chief minister and the president of the Rajasthan unit of Congress and awaiting reinstatement. Last month, Pilot had shared a helicopter ride with Gehlot to Bikaner and Chittorgarh to address farmers’ rallies, apparently at the instance of the central leadership. Pilot has been meeting his supporters and touring parts of the state in a bid to send signals to the party leadership about his popularity among the party workers. He had also addressed large gatherings of farmers – ‘kisan mahapanchayats’ in the state. The Congress has deployed Pilot as a star campaigner in Assam and West Bengal elections. The former Rajasthan deputy chief minister drew huge crowds in Silchar in Assam where he addressed rallies last week. The three Assembly seats fell vacant after the deaths of Congress MLAs Bhanwarlal Meghwal (Sujangarh) and Kailash Trivedi (Sahada), and BJP MLA Kiran Maheshwari (Rajasamand). While Meghwal, a minister in the Gehlot government died of brain stroke, Trivedi and Maheshwari fell victim to Covid-19. Congress has fielded Meghwal’s son Manoj Meghwal from Sujangarh, Trivedi’s widow Gayatri Devi from Sahada and social worker Tansukh Bohara from Rajasmand.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gehlot-pilot-show-unity-ahead-of-rajasthan-bypolls-968447.html
30-03-2021||Opinion||Assamese sub-nationalism a key factor once again||One of the unique and rather unfair characteristics of the first-past-the-post system that India inherited from its colonisers is that to win a seat, a party does not need to win the popular vote i.e secure 50% of the votes polled. Theoretically, only in a two-party system, does a candidate need to win more than 50% of the votes. In a multiparty system like India, the only requirement to clinch a seat is to get more votes than the second-largest party or the closest competitor. Over the years, parties have split, new outfits have been floated and elections have become multi-cornered affairs. The consequence- elections are being won not by winning the popular vote but by dividing the opposition. In other words, the mantra to win elections is Divide and Rule. It is easier to win by dividing the opposition than by capturing the additional votes/trying to win the popular vote. Simply put - the more the opposition is divided, the fewer votes are needed to win. An increasingly fragmented opposition has influenced electoral verdicts over time- helping the leading, mostly the ruling party or alliance. The division of Opposition votes has predictably given an edge to the ruling party/alliance enabling them to win lots of seats by small margins. In the first few years, it was the Congress which benefited from a large number of parties dividing the anti-Congress or opposition votes. In recent times, the BJP has gained due to a split in the opposition votes. A divided opposition thus makes it possible for the leading party to get a huge advantage in seats-a small percentage of votes helps them win a major chunk of the seats. The first-past-the-post-system combined with the fragmentation of the Opposition vote has resulted in seats being won by candidates who have secured less than 30 or 25% of the votes polled. The average winning-vote threshold in assembly elections has sharply declined over the years. In 78 assembly elections held in big and medium-sized states between 1952 to 1977, the average votes secured by the winning party/ alliance was 44%. This means, to win an election a party or an alliance had to win (on an average) 44% of the votes polled. Fifty years later, this number has dropped to 40%- the popular vote needed to win an assembly election has thus fallen. The dramatic fall in the average winning-vote threshold is directly linked to the Index of Opposition Unity (IOU). To study and analyse the changing patterns of Opposition unity and disunity, Prannoy Roy and Ashok Lahiri developed the concept of IOU in the 1980s. IOU can vary from 0 to 100. It is calculated by dividing the vote (per cent) of the single largest opposition party/alliance by the sum of vote (per cent) of all Opposition parties. As IOU falls down more and more from 100, it implies an increasingly fragmented opposition. Recent elections Between 1952-1977, the average IOU (data analysed for 78 assembly polls) was 69. In the most recent phase (2002-2019) of India’s elections, called the fifty-fifty phase, by Prannoy Roy and Dorab Sopariwala in their book The Verdict: Decoding India’s Elections, the average IOU has fallen to 64. The state of Assam has been an outlier. The average IOU in the state during 2002-2019 was 37, way below the national average of 64. The most significant ramification of falling IOU in recent years is that seats are now being won, not by winning the popular vote but by dividing the opposition. Between 1952-1977, 36% of the seats were won due to a low IOU i.e opposition being divided as against 64% seats which were won by winning the popular vote- getting more than 50% of the votes cast. The situation has completely changed now. More seats (55%) are now won due to a lower IOU- by ensuring the Opposition is divided than due to a high popular vote. Yet, again the state of Assam stands out. During 2002-2019, Assam has witnessed three assembly polls-2006, 2011 and 2016. 71% of seats in these three Assam polls were won because of a lower IOU -as against the national average of 45% during the same phase. In other words, in only 29% of the seats, did the winning candidate secure more than 50% of the votes polled. Given the historical significance of the IOU in deciding electoral verdicts in Assam, it is likely to be an important factor in the 2021 assembly polls. By stitching together a grand alliance of anti-BJP parties including the CPI, CPM, AGM, BPF, AIUDF and RJD; the Congress has ensured a higher IOU against the BJP. The coming together of opposition forces- resulting in a higher IOU gives the Congress led Mahajot a reasonably good chance of unseating the BJP government in the state.  Though the IOU against the BJP (dominant party) in this election is quite high- unlike past assembly polls in Assam, the regional front comprising of the newly floated Raijor Dal and Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) born out of the anti-CAA protests in the state may end up helping the NDA by splitting the anti-BJP votes. The repeated requests made by the Congress to the AJP and Raijor Dal to join the Mahajot to defeat the BJP did not yield any results. Assamese sub-nationalism has always been a part and parcel of the state’s electoral politics. The AJP-Raijor Dal combine are aiming to fill the vacuum left by the Asom Gana Parishad which is now being accused of whittling down Assamese ethno-nationalism by becoming a puppet of the BJP. The regional front is therefore setting its eye on the 70-odd seats in Upper Assam and North Assam, where the Assamese speaking population is heavily concentrated. Smart strategy Learning from the recent assembly polls of Assam, the Congress crafted a smart strategy of cobbling together anti-BJP forces to make sure that a lower IOU did not help the BJP win a majority of seats with a lesser vote share. But despite the grand-old party’s attempts to avoid a fragmentation of the Opposition votes, the regional front of AJP-Raijor Dal is likely to hurt the Congress-led Mahajot. While the alliance with the AIUDF will help the Congress in avoiding a division of minority votes, on the flip side the anti-CAA votes in the Upper Assam and Barak valley are now likely to shift to the AJP-Raijor Dal combine, thus denting the prospects of the Congress. To make matters worse for the Congress alliance, the AJP-Raijor Dal combine may even eat into a section of Congress-AIUDF’s Muslim vote-bank. In an apparent move to minimise the damage caused by the division of minority votes between the Congress alliance and the regional front, AIUDF chief Badruddin Ajmal recently lashed out at the newcomers, accusing them of helping the BJP. The BJP and its ally the AGP-the once dominant regional force of Assam, have reasons to worry too. The AJP-Raijor alliance is being backed by the All Assam Students Union (AASU) and Asom Jatiytabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP), which spearheaded the anti-foreigner Assam agitation of 1979-85 and also played a key role in founding the AGP. Thus, the AJP-Raijor coalition may also end up denting the prospects of the NDA-the AGP in particular by eating into the AGP’s base. In a state where the IOU has been historically low, a relatively higher IOU in this election may result in a fiercely contested poll battle. The AJP-Raijor combine is miles away from coming to power but it is likely to hurt both the NDA and the Mahajot. The alliance which is able to minimise the damage caused by the AJP-Raijor Dal may emerge victorious on May 2. (The writer is a Mumbai-based freelance journalist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/assamese-sub-nationalism-a-key-factor-once-again-968457.html
30-03-2021||Panorama||BJP, AIADMK are conjoined twins, says M K Stalin||The BJP wants to uproot social justice from Tamil Nadu and the party is hell-bent on targeting Tamil language, its rich heritage and culture, said Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M K Stalin. In an interview with DH’s ETB Sivapriyan, Stalin spoke on the AIADMK government’s performance, BJP, and his reading of people’s mood in the state. Excerpts: You have been among the people for the past few months. What do you think is people's mindset now? People are very eager for a regime change in Tamil Nadu and that is the sense I get after looking at the huge crowds that come to my meetings. People who come to my road shows look at me as a caring leader who has come to solve their problems. The reason for this is the careless attitude of (Chief Minister Edappadi K) Palaniswami who ran his government for four years without solving people's problems. People of Tamil Nadu not just hate the AIADMK Government but are also very angry with it and that is the reason they flock to my meetings. This is the mood of the people. What do you think is the biggest issue this election? Corruption from top to bottom, unemployment, price rise, set back in industrial growth, complete collapse of Tamil Nadu's economy, unprecedented debt, and gifting of jobs to people from other states. These are the problems that Tamil Nadu faces today, and by failing to address them properly, the inefficient AIADMK government has taken the state 50 years backwards. The biggest issue this election is to reclaim Tamil Nadu and its people from the AIADMK that has mortgaged the sovereignty of the Assembly and state's rights with the BJP. What is your assessment of people's mind during your election campaign? Your campaign is drawing huge crowds and does it say anything specific? People are very firm and decisive on removing the AIADMK government from power. People hate this government for refusing to provide livelihood assistance to poor and the middle class during Covid-19 outbreak. People firmly believe Palaniswami's administration denigrates the pride of Tamil Nadu. So, people want the DMK to come to power. The biggest message they send by attending my rallies in unprecedented numbers is that the DMK has to come to power to save Tamil Nadu. What is your opinion on Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. How has he performed in the past four years? He is an accidental Chief Minister. He came to occupy the post only because (V K) Sasikala went to prison following J Jayalalithaa's death. He did not make use of the opportunity to serve the people. Rather, he belittled the sanctity attached with the post of Chief Minister by misusing his official position to award tenders to his close relatives. Likewise, he also gave a free hand to his cabinet colleagues to collect commission as they wish. Everyone knows the walkie-talkie scam that happened in the Home Department held by the Chief Minister himself. Palaniswami surrendered the rights of the state to the BJP Government by being its slave and nodding his head to every diktat that came from (Delhi). He did so only to escape action on corruption charges against him. Despite being in an alliance with the BJP for the past four years, Palaniswami has not been able to bring one mega project to Tamil Nadu. All that he did was to indulge in corruption. This is Palaniswami's functioning in the past four years. Which according to you is the biggest mistake of the EPS Government? Whatever Palaniswami did in the past four years is wrong. If you ask me to list some of the biggest mistakes, I would like to point a few. Police firing in the 100-day long peaceful protests (against the expansion of Sterlite Copper in Thoothukudi) that killed 13 innocent civilians, supporting GST and demonetisation, failing to protect the interests of Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in the state during Covid-19, and chasing away investors who came to Tamil Nadu to other states by demanding commission from them. And the list does not end here, I can point out 100 such mistakes. The alliance led by DMK says every vote that is cast for AIADMK goes to BJP. Is the DMK under compulsion to take the anti-BJP position even in assembly elections? AIADMK and BJP are conjoined twins who have destroyed Tamil Nadu in more ways than one. They cannot be looked at in isolation. BJP, particularly the Central government, knows every detail about the corruption that took place under the AIADMK Government. By showing the files and documents relating to corrupt deals, the BJP has blackmailed the AIADMK into turning a blind eye to its divisive politics in Tamil Nadu which is known for communal harmony. For the past four years, the ruling party wholeheartedly supported BJP's divisive politics. Palaniswami says he is being friendly with the BJP only in the interests of the state. What are the projects that he brought to Tamil Nadu in the last four years? Nothing at all. Only one AIIMS hospital and that too was announced by Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi when Jayalalithaa was Chief Minister. The Chief Minister has not been able to get funds allocated for construction of the institute. The tax revenues from Tamil Nadu are being spent on northern states, but the development and growth of the state are being overlooked and ignored. It is only because of the unstinting support that they received from BJP, the Chief Minister and his ministers indulged in Himalayan corruption. Hence both parties do not have any interest in the welfare of Tamil Nadu. What is wrong in opposing both? For the past five years, the DMK has emerged as a party that is vehemently opposed to BJP. Will this stand continue, or will the DMK ally with the BJP or work with the saffron party in the future? The BJP has been in power at the Centre for the past seven years. Has it given any special projects to Tamil Nadu? The answer is nothing. On the contrary, the BJP is working with a clear plan to uproot social justice from Tamil Nadu. Social justice is a matter of great pride for Tamil Nadu and that is the reason DMK is opposing the BJP's policies that target Tamil Nadu, Tamil language and its rich culture and heritage. The DMK will firmly oppose the BJP which is acting against the principles of social justice and the Constitution. BJP also finds prominence along with AIADMK in statements issued by the DMK and in your capacity as President of the party. Has the DMK begun to consider BJP as a strong party in Tamil Nadu? Tamil Nadu is Periyar's land. It is Anna's land. The land of Periyar and Anna has been refined by Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi). The BJP is not a strong force in Tamil Nadu and there is no second opinion on this. But how can we stay silent when the BJP ignores Tamil Nadu, snatches the state's rights, and forcibly takes away the jobs that are meant for the youth of Tamil Nadu? That is why we oppose the BJP which is ruling at the Centre. That's all. Who is the No.1 political enemy for DMK? BJP or AIADMK? AIADMK which spoiled Tamil Nadu's progress is our first enemy. The BJP is also DMK's enemy because it joined hands with the first enemy (AIADMK) in cheating Tamil Nadu and its people. DMK manifesto says 75 per cent of jobs will be reserved for Tamils. Is it necessary in a state that takes pride in welcoming people from other parts of the country? Youth in Tamil Nadu are losing jobs that are meant for them. The AIADMK has provided official sanction for this by recruiting youngsters from North Indian states to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB). Youth from Tamil Nadu are being ignored in jobs in Central government offices, public sector undertakings (PSUs), banks, and Railways, as people from north India are preferred for these positions. The BJP has been accommodating north Indian youngsters in jobs in Tamil Nadu only to impose Hindi on the state. Tamil youngsters do not get jobs that are due to them. This promise (75 per cent reservation) has been given keeping in mind the interests of Tamil youth and to keep unemployment under check. Is it not the duty of an elected government to save youngsters who are cheated in many ways? Is it possible to implement all promises made in the DMK manifesto in five years? Will the government have enough money to fund these projects or schemes? DMK is a party that fulfils promises it makes. That is the reason why the DMK's manifesto has been portrayed as a 'hero' of every election. Same is the case this time as well. We have made promises only on the basis of available financial resources. Rightful pay of Rs 1,000 to women heads of families, Corona livelihood assistance of Rs 4,000, waiving off educational loans, loans availed by self-help groups, and farmers, reducing the price of milk, petrol, and diesel and a subsidy of Rs 100 for LPG cylinders. These promises will be implemented gradually. The DMK manifesto does not have many free schemes, unlike the past. Is there a special reason for it? Tamil Nadu's growth has witnessed a slump under the AIADMK regime. The economy has collapsed, while financial management has become a butt of ridicule. There were no infrastructure projects, new industries, or generation of jobs during the AIADMK regime. The DMK government which is to be elected has a huge responsibility of reclaiming Tamil Nadu. That is why we have given promises that will rejuvenate the lives of every single person in the state. The AIADMK has promised free washing machines and free solar gas stove. Will this affect your party's prospects? Chief Minister Palaniswami never mustered the courage to condemn the hike in the price of LPG cylinders. He never bothered to reduce the price of cylinders or provide subsidy. Only after the DMK announced a subsidy of Rs 100 for a cylinder, he came up with this “free cylinder” promise. Not just the “free cylinder” promise, people are not ready to believe any of the promises made in the AIADMK manifesto. It is the DMK's manifesto which is the talk of the town.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/bjp-aiadmk-are-conjoined-twins-says-m-k-stalin-968081.html
30-03-2021||South||Secret understanding between BJP, CPI(M): Ramesh Chennithala||Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala claimed there has been an unholy nexus between the CPI(M) and BJP for long. "There's a secret understanding between BJP and CPI(M). CPI(M) wants another five years while BJP wants 10 seats, everybody knows about it. People are not fools..." Chennithala reportedly said. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/secret-understanding-between-bjp-cpim-ramesh-chennithala-968167.html
30-03-2021||South||Special TNSTC buses to ferry Tamil Nadu voters for polls||As around 6,28,23,749 people get ready for the 16th Tamil Nadu Assembly polls, the Tamil Nadu government has announced special bus services to facilitate easier voter-transportation. Under this special service, buses operated by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) will carry voters to the voting venues two days prior to the elections on April 6. Once voting is over, the special buses will carry the voters back to their locations of work on April 7 and 8. Tamil Nadu will vote in a single phase on April 6, and vote counting will take place on May 2.  Congress-DMK and BJP-AIADMK will be the alliances to watch out for as they compete for the 234 seats in the state. This election in Tamil Nadu is of particularly high significance since it is the first one after the passing away of the former chief minister and political icon J Jayalalithaa and DMK leader M Karunanidhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/special-tnstc-buses-to-ferry-tamil-nadu-voters-for-polls-968234.html
30-03-2021||South||Priyanka slams BJP, RSS for 'harrassment' of Nuns on train||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Tuesday slammed the BJP and RSS for the alleged harassment suffered by the Nuns belonging to a Kerala based congregation during a train journey in Uttar Pradesh and claimed that Home Minister Amit Shah had condemned it only because of assembly polls. Addressing a rally at Karunagapally in Kollam district, Vadra said, "It's election time. That's why when the sisters (nuns) were taken off a train in Jhansi and harassed by their own people, the union minister made a comment saying it's wrong. The rest of the time, they fully encouraged this sort of behaviour." "Who gave the men of the BJP youth wing permission and authority to harass women on a train? Who gave them the right to check the identity papers of the Nuns and two girls with them. Who allowed them to ask what their religion was? Are we to believe that in our country women cannot take a train without being harassed by someone and she is answerable to some goons about what she stands for and what she believes in?" she asked. The Congress leader said she had spoken on the phone to the Nuns and they told her that they were worried. They were pulled out of the train, they were afraid and there was nobody to protect them, shesaid adding when the BJP and the RSS make "hollow" statements about protecting women, it's a "farce because they don't respect women". Except during election time, when they want women's votes, they spend all their time telling women what to wear, how to dress, how to work, where to go and how to go there. "Their ministers comment on women's jeans. One of their ministers said there should be a law that when women leave their districts, they should register with the police. So that they will be safe as if women are not capable of looking after their own safety," said Vadra, who is on a two day tour of Kerala, where assembly polls are to be held on April 6. Urging the women voters not to allow any politician to take them for granted, she said BJP does not respect a woman's identity. "They will only call you mother,sister, daughter. They do not respect your identity as a woman. We are proud to be mothers, we are proud to be wives, we are proud to be sisters, daughters. But over and above it all, we are proud to be women. You are the strengthof this country, you are the strength of Kerala, you are the strength of this society. You carry it on your shoulders." Describing the BJP government at the Centre as "weak", Vadra said they cannot even tolerate a joke and get a comedian arrested even before he has lampooned them. "They cannot tolerate dissent, argument. They cannot tolerate you standing up for yourself," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/priyanka-slams-bjp-rss-for-harrassment-of-nuns-on-train-968324.html
30-03-2021||South||LDF govt 'betrayed' people of Kerala just as Judas did to Jesus: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday targeted Kerala's ruling LDF over the gold smuggling scam, saying the CPI(M)-led government "betrayed" the people of the state just as Judas did to Jesus for a few pieces of silver. He also slammed the LDF government on the manner in which it dealt with the agitation against the decision to implement a Supreme Court verdict allowing entry of women in all age groups into Sabarimala temple, saying the Left dispensation should be ashamed of showering lathis on innocent devotees. "About LDF it can be said:Judas. Judas betrayed Lord Christ for a few pieces of silver.LDF has betrayed Kerala for a few pieces of gold," the PM said while attacking the Left government on the gold smuggling case allegedly involving the former principal secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Modi sought to link the betrayal of Jesus by Judas Iscariot in exchange for money to the Kerala gold smuggling case in the poll rally held during the Holy Week being observed by the Christian community. During Holy Week, Christians recall the events leading up to Jesus death by crucifixion, his betrayal by Judas during the week in exchange for money, and, according to their faith, Jesus' Resurrection. Judas was one of the 12 Apostles of Jesus. Addressing his first election rally in Palakkad where 'Metroman' E Sreedharan is contesting as the BJP candidate, Modi also flayed the Congress-led UDF over corruption, saying during its rule, the then government did not even spare the rays of sun, a reference to the solar panel scam when senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy was Chief Minister in 2013. The veteran BJP leader claimed that the politics of the southern state was seeing a major shift driven by aspirations of the youth who have questioned the 'match-fixing' politics of the LDF and the opposition UDF. "Over the last few years, the politics of Kerala is seeing a major shift.This shift is being driven by the aspirations of the youth, especially the first time voter in the state." "For many years, the worst kept secret of Kerala politics was the friendly agreement of UDF and LDF.Now, the first time voters of Kerala are asking- what is this match fixing?" Modi said. He said these voters were disappointed with the LDF and UDF, claiming that for many years the politics in Kerala had been friendly agreement between two friends. "Five years one loots, five years the other loots. People are seeing how the UDF and LDF misled the people," Modi said as he expressed hope that the chain of alternating power between two fronts will be broken this time. Hitting out at the UDF and LDF, he said the fronts raise corruption allegations against each other during the time of election but "after coming to power, they never act on it." "Their behind the scene games are now exposed," he said. Modi also criticised the alleged vote bank politics being practiced by the LDF and the UDF, describing it as a "super disease". "UDF and LDF are masters of vote bank politics... it is clear that the UDF and the LDF have two aims--further vote bank politics, fill pockets," Modi said, asking people to reject this type of politics. Attacking both the fronts on the Sabarimala temple issue, Modi said "LDF government should be ashamed of showering Lathis on innocent devotees.UDF should be ashamed of remaining silent when this was happening." "I am proud to belong to a party that has, is and will always defend the culture of our land.I want to tell the LDF and UDF: If you abuse our culture, we will not be mute spectators," he said, referring to the agitation led by party state unit chief K Surendran to protect faith in the state. "Our state unit President Surendran Ji was arrested and ill-treated by the Kerala government.What was his crime? That he spoke for Kerala's traditions?" Modi asked. Taking on the Left parties on political violence in the state, Modi said they have been in power many times in Kerala but their leaders still behave like junior level goons or party leaders. "Under their eyes and with their blessings, political rivals are killed, hacked, beaten," Modi said. He promised that if voted to power, the BJP government will stop the culture of violence in the southern state. "In a democracy we can have political differences. But, violence is not acceptable. So many of our young BJP Karyakartas have lost their lives. A BJP government in Kerala will stop this culture of violence," Modi said. The prime minister hailed Sreedharan's decision to join politics and fight elections as BJP candidate. He said people from all walks of life were able to connect with the BJP's vision for India's growth and the candidature of "Metroman" from Palakkad constituency is a great example for that. "Everyone wants well connected educated people to enter politics.But thanks to Metroman Sreedharan-ji.I am seeing something for the first time...a man who has done excellent work to make India modern and improve connectivity, a man admired by all sections of society, has devoted himself to Kerala's progress," Modi said. The prime minister said if Sreedharan wanted only power, he would have got it 20 years ago. "Yet as a true son of Kerala, he thought beyond power.He knew he will be attacked but stayed firm on his commitment for Kerala," Modi said. The prime minister alleged the high number of "road-blocks" by UDF and LDF has made speed of development slower. "That is why, the time has come for FAST development in Kerala, which BJP promises.By FAST, what I mean is: F for Fisheries and Fertilizers.A for Agriculture and Ayurveda.S for Skill development and Social justice.T for Tourism and Technology," Modi said. Earlier, addressing the rally, Sreedharan said he has drawn up a master plan for Palakkad which includes 24-hour water supply, efficient solid waste management scheme and green cover for the area by planting 25 lakh trees in the next five years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ldf-govt-betrayed-people-of-kerala-just-as-judas-did-to-jesus-pm-modi-968353.html
30-03-2021||South||Narayanasamy-led Congress govt in Puducherry was a disaster, says Modi||Targeting senior Congress leader V Narayanasamy, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said the previous party government headed by him was a 'disaster' that failed on all fronts and underlined the NDA's commitment to ensure its growth. Addressing an election rally of the NDA, attended by AINRC founder and former chief minister N Rangasamy, AIADMK and BJP leaders, Modi said he saw a "huge wave" in support of the National Democratic Alliance in the poll-bound states of Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and this union territory. Single phase polling is scheduled here on April 6. Training his guns against Narayansamy, who resigned as chief minister last month after his government was reduced to a minority following a spate of resignations, Modi pointed out that the senior Congress leader was not contesting the polls this time. "In the long list of non-performing Congress governments over the years, the previous Puducherry government has a special place. The high command government, Delhi high command government of Puducherry failed on all fronts," he said. The Narayanasamy-led dispensation failed in all sectors like education, filling of medical seats, welfare of SC/ST communities and "there was loot and only loot," Modi alleged. He alleged Congress MLAs were "openly talking" about corruption "directly linked to the family of the former chief minister." He had a "resonably long experience in politics," Modi said, adding he has seen many elections but held that this year's polls here were 'unique.' "Because the sitting chief minister has not been given a ticket. So many years of loyalty, lifting slippers of leader, doing wrong translation to impress his leader (Rahul Gandhi)-- still no ticket-- this clearly shows how much of a disaster his government has turned out to be," Modi said about Narayanasamy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/narayanasamy-led-congress-govt-in-puducherry-was-a-disaster-says-modi-968356.html
30-03-2021||South||SWR employees' 'Messiah' Ajay Kumar Singh all set to retire tomorrow||There will be some moist-eyed staff, especially Group-D employees, at South Western Railway (SWR) headquarters on March 31 as their ‘Messiah’, SWR General Manager Ajay Kumar Singh, retires from the office. After completing a successful tenure of two-and-half years, where the SWR scaled new heights, including putting its’ name into the Limca Book of records for completion of an underpass at Londa in Belagavi district in record time, Singh is retiring on superannuation. The eighth general manager of SWR is very popular among his staff for his 'lead by example' approach and keeping open his office doors open for all the staff to pour-in their grief. Even on Tuesday, which was his penultimate day at the office, there were hundreds of employees standing outside his office either to get their work done or felicitate him for finding a solution to their problems. Of the 36,000 odd employees of different grades working in SWR, Singh is said to have personally interacted with 11,000 employees, especially the trackmen, gang men, sweepers and others, at their workplace and resolved their issues. Prabhu, an office-bearer of the Group-D employees' union, said for many of us he was like a God. In spite of being the topmost officer at the SWR, his doors were open for us, he listened to our problem and in genuine cases he solved them. Speaking to media persons at his office on Tuesday, Singh said in any organisation there are 80% of fence-sitters, 10% of good-men and 10% rotten eggs. If the top boss succeeds in ensuring assurance of standing with good employees, his work strength grows by 9 times. “That is what I did here. The bad employees were put to their place, even terminated if their crimes were proved. I used Saam Daam, Dand, Bhed, where ever it was required to implement the project,” he said. Apart from his staff management, Singh’s project implementation has also won his praises from elected representatives and the public in general. It was during his tenure that non-consequential accidents in SWR reduced to 5 in 2021 compared to 13 in 2018. None of those accidents were major, said SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya. SWR also improved its punctuality from 16th position in 2018 to 4th position among the 17 zones of the Indian Railway in 2021. SWR has achieved 96 per cent punctuality in last two years, she said. In the last five years, SWR has removed 1,300 unmanned railway crossing, majority of which were completed during Singh’s tenure. It has also built 112 subways and 12 roads over bridges in its jurisdiction, she said. Doubling and commissioning of new railway line also saw a record in last two years as 363 km of laying of the track was completed. Earlier, on average, 20kms of doubling or new railway lines were laid. However, during this year alone 207 km works were completed. In terms of electrification, SWR has completed 636 km route, double of what it had achieved till 2018. In the last two years, 26 pairs of new trains were introduced. SWR became the first zone in the country to provide free WiFi connection to passengers at all its stations. Hubballi railway station also added three more platforms, including one of the world’s longest platform, which was completed in record time. Bengaluru added another terminal (Sir M Visveswaraya terminal), the country’s only fully centralised AC terminal during his tenure. “This will reduce train congestion at KSR and Yeshwantpur railway stations and also help in adding new trains from Bengaluru,” Vijaya said and added that in spite of pandemic, SWR is running the highest number of express passenger trains (61 pairs) in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/swr-employees-messiah-ajay-kumar-singh-all-set-to-retire-tomorrow-968389.html
30-03-2021||South||Kerala polls: Modi triggers Sabarimala issue while Priyanka raises 'love jihad' row||Triggering the Sabarimala women’s entry issue as the electioneering is peaking in Kerala, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday accused the ruling CPM-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and Opposition party the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in Kerala of practising adjustment politics. Meanwhile, AICC General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra triggered the ‘love jihad’ and Hathras issue to allege similarities between the CPM and the BJP. Addressing an election campaign meeting at Palakkad in Kerala where ‘Metro Man’ E Sreedharan is contesting from BJP, Modi said that while the LDF government used lathis against the devotees over the Sabarimala issue, the UDF remained a mute spectator. The BJP only defended the culture of the land and he was proud of it. Party President K Surendran was arrested for protecting the traditions. The BJP would not remain a mute spectator if the LDF and the UDF abused the culture, Modi added. Modi alleged that Kerala has witnessed ‘match-fixing’ by the UDF and the LDF who were ruling Kerala successively. He alleged that the LDF government betrayed Kerala for a few pieces of gold like Judas betrayed Jesus. He also accused the LDF of political violence and killings in the state. Meanwhile, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra who attended a series of roadshows and public meetings in South Kerala said that the LDF and the BJP were on the same lines with regard to their stand on ‘love jihad’. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath is raising issues like ‘love jihad’ during his speeches in Kerala and now a coalition partner of CPM is also speaking on a similar line, she said, referring to a remark of Kerala Congress (Mani) leader Jose K Mani, a new entrant to the LDF, that concerns over ‘love jihad’ should be addressed. Priyanka added that the Kerala government was dealing with the sexual assault and death of two minor sisters at Walayar in Kerala, in the same manner, the UP government dealt with the Harthras case. She referred to the recent row over deal with a US firm for deep-sea trawler manufacturing as well as gold smuggling issue to attack the Pinarayi Vijayan government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-polls-modi-triggers-sabarimala-issue-while-priyanka-raises-love-jihad-row-968417.html
30-03-2021||South||After Dubbaka debacle, KCR focused on Nagarjuna Sagar, fields deceased TRS MLA's son||TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao has leaned on the sentiment factor again and picked Bagath, son of the deceased MLA Nomula Narasimhaiah, as the party's candidate for the Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll. Tuesday was the last date of filing nominations for the April 17 election, necessitated by the death of sitting TRS MLA Nomula (64) in December. A prominent Communist leader from the combined Nalgonda district, Nomula surprised the political circles by joining the TRS in 2013. Nomula was elected to the united Andhra Pradesh assembly twice – in 1999 and 2004, from the CPI(M). Bagath, a management post graduate and an advocate, thanked KCR for reposing faith in him and expected that the Nagarjuna Sagar voters would support him too. In the November bypoll to Dubbaka, KCR had fielded deceased MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy's widow Sujatha as the TRS candidate to garner sympathy votes. But voters had instead empathised with BJP's Raghunandan Rao, who lost the previous two times and also the Medak Lok Sabha seat in 2019. However, compared to Dubbaka, the BJP has limited influence in the Nalgonda region, where the Nagarjuna Sagar segment is. The BJP's candidate is Dr P Ravi Kumar, a physician, while the Congress has placed its prominent leader Jana Reddy in the arena. Jana had represented Nagarjuna Sagar twice before. Though leaders from the powerful Reddy and other communities expected the ticket, the Telangana BJP favoured a doctor from the ST community, given the large presence of the tribals in the constituency. Unwilling to take any chance after the Dubbaka debacle, KCR is understood to have laid his focus on Nagarjuna Sagar now. Much ahead of the bypoll schedule announcement, the chief minister had on February 10 laid the foundation for few lift irrigation schemes in the Nalgonda region, to benefit the hitherto unirrigated farm lands. Addressing a TRS party rally later at Haliya, falling under Nagarjuna Sagar, KCR launched a political attack on the Congress and the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/after-dubbaka-debacle-kcr-focused-on-nagarjuna-sagar-fields-deceased-trs-mlas-son-968437.html
30-03-2021||South||Meet Aritha Babu, the youngest Congress candidate in Kerala||Aritha Babu stands apart in the electoral fray in Kerala not just because she is the youngest Congress candidate in the fray, but because of the hardships she has been facing in her life. Now, however, Aritha is literally stealing the limelight. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi stepped into her small house at Kayamkulam and was made to wait there as the 26-year-old candidate was busy with her campaigning. "I am so proud of Aritha and you should be also feeling proud of your daughter as has been facing many struggles in her life," Priyanka told the people of Kayamkulam while holding Aritha firmly towards her. Even when announcing Congress candidates for Kerala, state PCC president Mullappally Ramachandran had highlighted Aritha's candidature. She was believed to have been handpicked by Rahul Gandhi to contest against sitting MLA Prathibha Hari at Kayamkulam, which is in Alappuzha district. Aritha, who is a graduate in commerce and now pursuing post-graduate in social work, hails from a weak family background. She rears cow and sells their milk to support her family. She made her entry to politics through Kerala Students Union and was earlier elected to the Alappuzha district panchayat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meet-aritha-babu-the-youngest-congress-candidate-in-kerala-968441.html
30-03-2021||South||EC issues notice to A Raja for his controversial remark on Tamil Nadu CM Palaniswami's mother||Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday night issued a notice to former Union Telecom Minister A Raja for his controversial remarks on Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami's mother. Issuing the notice, the ECI asked Raja to respond by 6 pm on Wednesday. “The Commission is of the view that the content of the speech made by you are not only derogatory but also obscene and lower the dignity of motherhood of women, which seems to be a serious violation of the provisions of Model Code of Conduct,” the ECI said in its notice. The development comes two days after CCB registered a case under three sections of IPC. The speech, which was derogatory in nature, went viral on social media prompting DMK chief M K Stalin to appeal to his party leaders to ensure that their speeches are made in a dignified manner. Raja, in his response, said he never meant to disrespect Palaniswami or his mother but was only making a comparison on the political growth of the Chief Minister and Stalin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-issues-notice-to-a-raja-for-his-controversial-remark-on-tamil-nadu-cm-palaniswamis-mother-968455.html
30-03-2021||South||New EVMs will be used in coming Tamil Nadu polls, EC tells Madras High Court||The Election Commission on Tuesday informed the Madras High Court that it would use only new Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), manufactured three to four years ago, for the April 6 Assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. Following the submission, the court disposed of a petition from the DMK on the matter. The EC's submission was made in its counter-affidavit filed before the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy when the PIL from DMK Organising secretary R S Bharathy came up for further hearing today. In response to DMK's plea to not to use EVMs which are beyond the expiry of 15 years, the EC agreed to use only M3-EVMs, manufactured between 2017-2019. On another plea of the DMK for provision of jammers, the EC submitted that the same are not required as the strong rooms, where the loaded EVMs will be stored after polling, cannot be tampered with by wifi, radio waves or by any other methods. To ensure it, the entire power supply inside the strong rooms will be cut-off during pre and post elections, the poll body added. As directed by the bench on March 24, the EC convened a meeting with all political parties and submitted the minutes in a sealed cover, according to which there are 537 critical booths and 10,813 vulnerable ones in the state. The EC said webcasting will be done from 44,000 booths while VVPAT (paper trail) will be counted without reference to 5 per cent mandatory counting. The bench observed that the EC's counter-affidavit demonstrates a kind of clarity, not generally associated with affidavits filed by the officialdom. Several aspects of its March 24 order had been specifically dealt with, by referring to the applicable guidelines and the measures taken in such regard. It must be appreciated that given the logistics, the conditions on the ground, the second wave of the surging pandemic and the financial restraints, it may not be possible for a completely foolproof plan of action to be charted out, the court said. The EC would have done well if it reduces the scope of tampering or lessens the doubts in the minds of the participants and conveys a general sense of strict adherence to the guidelines. Towards such end, the counter-affidavit filed by the Commission and the specific replies to the queries raised by the Court, apropos the areas of concern expressed by the petitioner, indicate a satisfactory level of preparedness on the part of the EC that should dispel all apprehensions and even allay legitimate misgivings, the bench said. The several aspects that have been alluded to on behalf of the petitioner appear to have been satisfactorily addressed on behalf of the Election Commission. It was necessary to record the areas of apprehension in great detail and the manner in which the EC has gone about addressing the same to instill confidence of the people in the system that is in place and to allay the apprehension and the misgivings harboured in certain quarters. In the light of the work done by the Election Commission, it is granted permission not to circulate the details pertaining to the vulnerable or critical booths for the districts other than the two referred to earlier. At the end of the day, the elections must not only have been conducted in an fair and transparent manner, but it also must be seen to have been so done, the judges added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/new-evms-will-be-used-in-coming-tamil-nadu-polls-ec-tells-madras-high-court-968456.html
30-03-2021||South||Sympathy for Congress-DMK has negated anti-incumbency factor: Narayanasamy||Toppling of the Congress government by BJP and its allies through “unethical” methods has resulted in sympathy for the Congress-DMK alliance in the April 6 Assembly poll, former Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy told DH's ETB Sivapriyan in an interview.  Q: The Congress seems to be fighting a tough battle in Puducherry after being in power for five years. How difficult is the fight? A: As far as the situation is concerned, the power used by the Central government to topple the Congress government with the support of nominated MLAs has created sympathy among the people of Puducherry in favour of DMK and Congress. On one side, (former L-G) Dr Kiran Bedi was blocking welfare schemes and on the other side, the Centre was supporting her fully. In spite of the difficulties faced, our government delivered on its promises to the people. We registered a growth rate of 11 per cent. People have sympathy for our government because of misuse of power by the Centre. And moreover, Puducherry being a secular state, people here will not accept BJP, and NR Congress being a part of the alliance will also pay a price for its decision. Q: Is the Congress-DMK alliance relying only on the sympathy factor this election? A: People know pretty well the kind of obstruction that the L-G and Centre created for our government. The opposition was also in collaboration, and people of Puducherry fear that if the BJP comes to power, electricity supply will be given to private firms, and all state PSUs will be privatised. Above all, they also believe that the BJP will import people from other states for employment. The people feel the separate identity of Puducherry will be lost if the BJP gets a share in power. Q: Do you mean to say there is no anti-incumbency against your government that last majority at the fag end of its tenure? A: There was a certain amount of anti-incumbency but that has now been negated by the unethical and unconstitutional toppling of our elected government using nominated MLAs as a tool. People now understand the problems we had to encounter while getting files cleared from the L-G. Q: You said people of Puducherry will not accept BJP. Why is that and how do you say so? A: People's main demand here is statehood. Since the Centre has now enhanced the powers of L-G in Delhi, there is an apprehension that it will be replicated here too. That is one of the reasons for people to be against BJP other than for its divisive politics. Moreover, people fear the BJP will impose Hindi and not allot funds to elected governments. People of Puducherry fear that their unique identity will be lost if the BJP is part of a coalition government in the UT. Q: The NR Congress has stitched up a formidable alliance, with BJP and AIADMK. Some of your former legislators are also contesting on BJP tickets. Your comments. A: The same alliance fought the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and lost the election. Though some ministers and legislators left us, they have shifted constituencies as they fear defeat. People do not want to vote for BJP because they are secular. Q: Why did you opt out of the contest? Is it because of fear of loss? A: Nothing of that sort. Our PCC President is contesting, and we wanted someone to coordinate the campaign. Myself and our Puducherry MP V Vaithilingam are coordinating the campaign.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sympathy-for-congress-dmk-has-negated-anti-incumbency-factor-narayanasamy-968463.html
30-03-2021||South||Kamal Haasan seeks win in blockbuster Coimbatore (South) battle||Tamil film icon Kamal Haasan loved performing diverse roles in his six-decade-long cinema career. And now, as he makes his debut in electoral politics, the constituency he has chosen is also diverse in every sense. The electoral contest to choose the next legislator for Coimbatore (South), the most prestigious seat in the Manchester of South India for it includes the business district and the upscale areas, is nothing short of a blockbuster that Kamal Haasan is familiar with.  Kamal Haasan's entry has certainly created ripples in the constituency – which has a sizeable chunk of Gounders, Naickers, Chettiars, Mukulathors, Muslims, Christians, and North Indians – where he is being primarily challenged by Vanathi Srinivasan of BJP and Congress' Mayura S Jayakumar. Ironically, the man who projects his party, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM), as an alternative to DMK and AIADMK is not taking them on directly but their alliance partners. AMMK has fielded Duraisamy (a) Challenger Durai, while Abdul Wahab is the NTK candidate. The MNM chief has a reason to pick the constituency – the Lok Sabha constituency of Coimbatore is where the then one-year-old party received maximum support with its candidate R Mahendran polling over 1.45 lakh votes. Besides his own popularity as film star, Kamal Haasan is hoping Mahendran, who is contesting in near-by Singanallur, will help him win the seat and enter the Tamil Nadu assembly. The MNM feels a chunk of minority votes would come his way. The opinion is split in the urban constituency that houses showrooms of almost all popular apparel and jewellery brands. Kamal Haasan appears the No. 1 choice for many first-time voters and youngsters as they feel his “change agent” plank is the need of the hour for Tamil Nadu. “I think Kamal Haasan is a better candidate. He talks sense, and his ideas are fresh. And his contesting from my own constituency makes me very excited. I am sure he will be better than the existing politicians,” 24-year-old Ashraf told DH. A few meters away, sitting outside a shop in upscale R S Puram, Krishna Kumar too believes Kamal Haasan can deliver and he should win from here, before being interrupted by Sreenivasan, in his late 50s. “I would like someone who is from Coimbatore to represent the constituency. It is easy to approach a local politician than a film star,” he argued. Both Srinivasan and Jayakumar are known to the voters of Coimbatore (South) as they contested the 2016 elections as candidates of their respective parties and lost. That they are approachable and live within the city is an advantage for both, but no one is willing to take a guess on who has the edge. Vanathi is banking on the “strong” organisational structure of the AIADMK and BJP in the constituency, besides hoping that the Gounders will consolidate behind her. She has also set eyes on votes from the north Indian community which has a mix of Rajasthanis, Gujaratis, and Punjabis. Jayakumar is hoping that the alliance strength and consolidation of minorities will help him scrape through this time, at least. However, MNM says Kamal Haasan will receive support from all communities – the actor is campaigning extensively in the constituency. “It is a very diverse and complex constituency. It is very difficult to predict what will happen. And no community votes en masse for any particular party. Even Muslims are divided here. One section had almost stopped voting for DMK after the 1998 blasts during which several youngsters were arrested and some are still languishing in jail. We do not know how they will vote this time,” Senthilnathan, a voter in the constituency, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kamal-haasan-seeks-win-in-blockbuster-coimbatore-south-battle-968466.html
30-03-2021||State||NGT directs Karnataka govt to revisit policy on easing green nod for some projects||The National Green Tribunal directed the Karnataka government to revisit within one month its policy on exempting projects of less than 20 flats or 2,000 sq mt from taking permission from the state pollution control board under the Water (Prevention & Control Pollution) Act 1974. “Preventing damage to the environment is an inalienable obligation of the state and good governance requires review of policies that result in unchecked and unregulated violation of environmental norms,” the principal bench of the tribunal, headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, said while passing an order on a plea against illegal constructions in the buffer zone of Kudlu Chikka Kere Lake in Sarjapur, Bengaluru South taluk. KSPCB said that only buildings with less than 20 flats or 2,000 sq mt built-up-area are covered under the consent mechanism from the board under the Water Act. Objecting to it, the NGT said, “The policy of exemption of projects from consent mechanism when they endanger the environment must be revisited.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/ngt-directs-karnataka-govt-to-revisit-policy-on-easing-green-nod-for-some-projects-968116.html
30-03-2021||State||Covid duty medicos refusing vaccination may have to sign declaration||One of the recommendations made by the state Covid-19 Technical Advisory Committee is to get signed declarations, with witnesses, from medicos posted to Covid duties and who refuse to get vaccinated. While some students say they don't mind giving such declarations as long as it is not used to penalise them, others say, this will help the government in shrugging off responsibility in treating these medicos in case they contract Covid after their ward duties tending to Covid patients. 'Don't penalise us' Dr Surya B N, an MBBS intern from Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences, who has finished one year as a house surgeon and is awaiting rural posting for the past two months said, "Earlier, we had no choice, but to take the vaccine offered. I have taken Covaxin, when it was being offered during clinical trial mode. Students don't have a problem in signing such a declaration as far as it is not used to penalise them later." Dr Kiran N C, vice president, SIMS (Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences) Junior Doctors' and Medical Students' Association, told DH, "The government, instead of taking signed declaration form, should honour the service of healthcare workers who work in Covid wards and take responsibility in treating them. The government is trying to escape from the responsibility of treating those who get infected after Covid duty." Asked how such declaration forms help the government, TAC member Dr C N Manjunath said, "Some doctors and staff have backed out of taking the vaccine. It is very difficult to tackle this actually. In case they contract Covid and develop complications, they will not be reimbursable. Hence, the declaration forms."   Dr P G Girish, director, Department of Medical Education, said, "We want frontline workers coming in contact with Covid patients whether in the ward or ICU, to take the vaccine, so that they're safer. In the last 10 days, the cases have increased and so has doctors' involvement in treating them. If they don't take the vaccine and get infected, their treatment charges won't be borne by the government. If they're adamant about not taking the vaccine, they or their parents cannot question us if they get infected after working in Covid ward." Anil Kumar, principal secretary, medical education, told DH, "We are yet to issue a circular to this effect. We have to look at the TAC report and take a call on this. As far as vaccine uptake is concerned, it remains voluntary."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/covid-duty-medicos-refusing-vaccination-may-have-to-sign-declaration-968210.html
30-03-2021||State||Give wide publicity to crop Insurance scheme: HC tells govt||The High Court on Monday directed the state government to ensure that wide publicity of crop insurance schemes is given to farmers in all the districts. A division bench, headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said that the farmers may not be aware of the insurance scheme and its benefits. The bench was hearing a PIL filed by Akhanda Karnataka Raitha Sangha on the issues of farmers’ suicides and implementation of the crop insurance scheme. Perusing the affidavit filed by the government on the meetings of the state and district level grievance redressal committees, the bench observed that frequent meetings have not been held. Going through the minutes of the meeting, the bench said that the last meeting held was on March 16, 2019 in Yadgir district. “However, we find from the minutes of the meeting in Yadgir district that there were no enquiries made in the villages to ascertain whether there are any farmers who have been denied the benefit of the crop insurance scheme,” the bench said. Yadgir district committee has been directed to consider the specific grievances made in complaints in January and February 2021. The committee has also been directed to depute an appropriate officer to visit the villages with a view to find out whether any farmers are deprived of the benefit of the scheme. “We direct the state government to ensure that wide publicity is given to the crop insurance scheme and to the fact that any farmer deprived of the scheme has the right to approach the district grievance redressal committee. Steps shall be taken to give wide publicity in terms of Clause 26 on the availability of crop insurance scheme,” the bench said.   The government advocate informed the court that because of the code of conduct due to by-election, the state is not in a position to take a decision regarding the payment of compensation to those farmers who ended their lives by suicide after availing loans from private money lenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/give-wide-publicity-to-crop-insurance-scheme-hc-tells-govt-968215.html
30-03-2021||State||Bypolls: Satish Jarkiholi is richest crorepati among candidates||Congress’ Belgaum Lok Sabha bypoll candidate Satish Jarkiholi’s net worth has gone up nearly 250% in the last three years, according to his affidavit filed with the Election Commission. Satish and his family own assets worth Rs 148 crore, which is up from Rs 42 crore when compared with what he declared during the 2018 Assembly elections. Satish and family have liabilities of Rs 15 crore.  The Yamkanmaradi legislator owns many agricultural and non-agricultural lands and owns jewellery worth Rs 1.38 crore, according to his affidavit. He has declared agriculture and business as the source of income.  Satish will be up against Mangal Suresh Angadi of the BJP. She is the wife of former union minister Suresh Angadi who died in September last.  According to her affidavit, Mangal’s net worth is Rs 14.77 crore whereas Suresh is worth Rs 15.94 crore. Her husband’s assets and liabilities are under the process of being transferred, the affidavit stated. They have liabilities worth Rs 7.55 crore. The total assets of the Suresh Angadi Education Foundation, Shri Vijayalakshmi Real Estates Pvt Ltd and Angadi Sugars and Power Ltd where Mangal is involved stands at Rs 106 crore. However, these institutions have loans worth Rs 91 crore. She owns 30 vehicles, including commercial vehicles, worth Rs 64 lakh and 1,600 gm of jewellery also priced at Rs 64 lakh.  BJP’s Maski bypoll candidate Pratapgouda Patil, a disqualified MLA, also saw his net worth go up from Rs 4.92 crore in 2018 to Rs 5.92 crore now. His liabilities have dropped from Rs 46 lakh to Rs 33 lakh.  His opponent Basanagouda Turvihal, who was the BJP’s 2018 defeated candidate now with the Congress, saw his net worth go down to Rs 1.92 crore from Rs 2.12 crore, making him the poorest of the lot.  Congress’ Basavakalyan candidate Mallamma, the wife of late MLA B Narayan Rao, is worth Rs 7.02 crore. Her opponent, BJP’s Sharanu Salagar, who holds an M.Ed degree, has two criminal cases pending against him, which includes charges of assault. His net worth is Rs 5.3 crore with liabilities of Rs 65 lakh, according to his affidavit. The lone JD(S) candidate in the bypolls, Syed Yasrab Ali Quadri from Basavakalyan has a net worth of Rs 2.37 crore.  47 candidates file papers A total of 47 candidates have filed their nomination papers for the April 17 bypolls, including five women. The Belgaum Lok Sabha seat has received the highest nominations at 23, followed by Basavakalyan (14) and Maski (10). The nominations will be scrutinized on Wednesday and April 3 is the last day for candidates to withdraw from the fray.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/bypolls-satish-jarkiholi-is-richest-crorepati-among-candidates-968383.html
30-03-2021||State||Karnataka govt to recruit 2,000 doctors in a month||Health and Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar has said that more than 2,000 doctors and 700 paramedical, nursing staff would be recruited directly in a month. Speaking at a virtual foundation-laying ceremony for library, lecture and examination auditorium and other infrastructure facilities at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), the minister said that it had been decided to amend certain laws for encouraging doctors serving in rural areas. "It has been decided to increase the salary of doctors serving in rural areas and promote them also," he said. Sudhakar said that it had been proposed to develop VIMS on the lines of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). People from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Telangana too come to the institute for treatment, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-govt-to-recruit-2000-doctors-in-a-month-968397.html
30-03-2021||State||Decide on starting midday meals from April 15, HC tells Karnataka govt||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the state government to take a decision on restoring midday meals from April 15 so long as the schools from classes 6-10 are kept open. A division bench headed by Justice B V Nagarathna passed this order after the state government submitted that midday meals may not be restored in view of the second wave of Covid-19. The petition was filed by one Radha M seeking directions to the state government to restore midday meals to students attending the schools physically. In the previous hearing, the bench had asked the government to take instructions as to whether midday meals will be provided to the children for Class 6-10. The Department of Education (Primary and Secondary) submitted a status report on Tuesday. It said that in view of the second wave of Covid-19, it had been decided to continue providing the food security allowance in the form of food grains. The affidavit also added that cooking hot meals and serving the midday day meals on the school premises may lead to more infections. The report also said that an action plan had been placed before the government seeking financial assistance to provide food security allowance for 47 days, from April 10 to June 10. After going through the report, the bench observed that providing food security allowance cannot be continued when schools are open. “State government has to take a decision to reintroduce midday meals from April 15, 2021, so long as schools from Class 6 to 10 are kept open and students are attending the classes physically. State has to make a decision and the same shall be placed before the court on or before April 8,” the court said. As regards providing meals at Anganwadi centres, the government stated that the decision will be taken based on the advice of the technical advisory committee of the Health and Family Welfare department. The report said that in order to maintain social distance only five children were allowed to attend Anganwadi centres in rotation, based on the total number of children enrolled. Supplementary nutrition programme food was being supplied at the doorsteps of Anganwadi beneficiaries, the report added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decide-on-starting-midday-meals-from-april-15-hc-tells-karnataka-govt-968398.html
30-03-2021||State||The not-so-ideal case of idle local area funds of legislators||The saga of unspent funds seems never-ending, as around Rs 672.55 crore of the Karnataka Legislators Local Area Development Scheme (KLLADS) was left unused in personal deposit (PD) accounts of deputy commissioners at the end of 2019-20 fiscal, shows government data. The trend continues in 2020-21 fiscal, after which the government has issued directions to use the funds, by clearing action plans submitted by legislators. According to MLAs, money for several works completed under KLLADS is yet to be released, due to which funds remain unused in PD accounts. KLLADS has an annual budget of Rs 2 crore for each constituency, to take up infrastructure projects. The funds are released to PD accounts of DCs, based on the action plan submitted by the legislators. The third and fourth instalments of KLLADS were not released in 2019-20 as earlier funds remained unspent. At the end of 2018-19, Rs 948.97 crore was not spent and the figure for 2017-18 was Rs 939.74 crore. JD(S) legislator Bandeppa Kashempur said release of KLLADS funds was irregular. "They released Rs 2 crore in 2018-19, Rs 67 lakh in 2019-20 and around Rs 1.5 crore this year," he said. There are also technical issues which delay the release of funds, even for projects that are already complete. "Borewells were dug in Bidar South constituency at a cost of Rs 65 lakh for drinking water purposes due to drought last summer. Only Rs 20 lakh was released, while the remaining amount is yet to be given," he said.   Former MLA and chairman of Karnataka State Agricultural Produce and Processing Corporation U B Banakar said that the delay in release of funds was the prime reason why it remained unspent in DC accounts. "This has remained a problem for long," he said. Delay in completion of third-party inspection of various projects taken up under the scheme is also one of the causes, sources said. "Moreover, new rules are being introduced for spending KLLADS funds. For instance, a recent circular prohibits legislators from granting KLLADs funds for community halls, if a community hall is already sanctioned to a village or town. As a result, funds allotted for the hall under the action scheme of the MLAs is not released, leaving it unspent," sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/the-not-so-ideal-case-of-idle-local-area-funds-of-legislators-968420.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD case: Woman to appear in court||A local court on Monday permitted the woman allegedly involved in the CD scandal to give her statement before the magistrate, after she requested for it through her advocate. K N Jagadesh Kumar, the woman's advocate, filed a petition before the registrar of the court in the morning, seeking permission for the woman to come before the magistrate and give her statement. The court granted the permission in the evening, but the woman didn't appear as the court's working hours were over before Jagadesh collected the order. Jagadesh told DH that the woman would appear before the magistrate by 4.30 pm on Tuesday. In a related development, the Special Investigation Team (SIT) has communicated to the advocate in writing, assuring appropriate security to the woman so that she can give her statement before a magistrate. Several policemen had been deployed on the premises of the court till evening as part of the security measures. A senior officer part of the security said, "We didn't know whether the court would permit the woman. She was mainly concerned about her security in her video clip statement, so we had deployed the force."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-case-woman-to-appear-in-court-968113.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex Scandal: Karnataka govt standing behind Jarkiholi, alleges D K Shivakumar||Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Tuesday alleged that the BJP government in the state was supporting and standing behind former Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who has been accused of involvement in the sex scandal that has rocked the state politics. "I have nothing to say on this, it is honourable Minister (former Minister) who is involved, which all of you have seen through your eyes, the government is supporting him.. I don't know why the government is behind him, this also shows police's inability," Shivakumar told reporters in Kalaburagi to a question. Asked whether SIT has issued any notice to him as he has been named by the woman's parents, he said, "why will it? (SIT issue notice to me).. even if it gives, most welcome, if they call me, whatever I know I will answer. I will cooperate." The family of the woman in the purported sex video has repeatedly blamed Shivakumar for the sex scandal, accusing him of playing "dirty politics" by using their daughter. They have accused Shivakumar of keeping their daughter at an undisclosed location and pressuring her to issue statements. Noting that he doesn't want to comment much on the issue and the law will take its own course, Shivakumar said he wants to focus on the April 17 by-election. Asked whether there was any pressure on the woman's parents to name him, he said, "let them do whatever they want for their convenience, investigation will happen, I don't want to speak much." Jarkiholi, who was Water Resources Minister in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa-led cabinet, resigned on March 3, a day after news channels aired videos of the alleged sex scandal. While Jarkiholi has repeatedly claimed his innocence and that the video was fake, the woman has accused him of sexually using her, cheating and threatening her after promising a government job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-karnataka-govt-standing-behind-jarkiholi-alleges-d-k-shivakumar-968286.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||No impact of sex scandal on Karnataka bypolls: B S Yediyurappa||The 'sex CD scandal' allegedly involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi will not have any impact on the coming bypolls, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said on Tuesday as he asked him to join the campaigning. He also said an impartial probe was on, in connection with the scandal to bring out the truth. "Our Law Minister Basavaraj Bommai is getting the case inquired impartially...it is known that unnecessary allegations have been made against Ramesh Jarkiholi, it is also being discussed that the allegations have been made with a malicious intent..let's wait and see," Yediyurappa said. "We are ready to face everything within the framework of law.."It (scandal) will not have any impact on the bypolls. I will ask Ramesh Jarkiholi to come and take part in the campaigning," he added. Yediyurappa was in Belagavi to take part in the filing of nominations of BJP's Belgaum Lok Sabha candidate Mangala Suresh Angadi. Jarkiholi, who was Water Resources Minister, resigned on March 3, a day after news channels aired a video clip purportedly showing him getting intimate with a woman. While Jarkiholi has repeatedly claimed his innocence and that the video was "fake", the woman,said to be featured in the clip, has accused him of sexually "using" her, cheating and threatening her after promising a government job. Belgaum Lok Sabha seat in Belagavi, which is the home district of Ramesh Jarkiholi, is going to the bypolls along with Maski and Basavakalyan assembly segments on April 17. Mangala Suresh Angadi is the wife of late Union Minister Suresh Angadi, whose death due to COVID-19 in September last year, has necessitated the by-election.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/no-impact-of-sex-scandal-on-karnataka-bypolls-b-s-yediyurappa-968339.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reports 2,975 fresh Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths||Karnataka reported over 2,975 new cases of Covid-19 and 21-related fatalities, taking the caseload to 9,92,779 and the death toll to 12,541, on Tuesday. The day also saw 1,262 patients getting discharged after recovery, taking the discharge tally to 9,54,678. A total of over 2,13,02,658 samples have been tested so far, out of which 1,06,917 were tested on Tuesday alone. Bengaluru Urban alone accounted for 1,984 fresh cases today. Out of 25,541 active cases, 240 are in the ICU. Among the 21 deaths reported on Tuesday, 11 are from Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru 3, Bengaluru Rural 2, and one each from Bidar, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Kalaburagi and Mandya. Kalaburagi accounted for 156 cases on Tuesday, Mysuru 111, Bidar 102, and Bengaluru Rural 66, followed by others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reports-2975-fresh-covid-19-cases-21-deaths-968370.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex CD case: Woman records statement before magistrate||Days after the sleaze CD surfaced and created a political storm, the woman allegedly involved in the scandal appeared before the magistrate in a remand court hall in Vasanth Nagar on Tuesday afternoon and gave her statement. According to K N Jagadesh Kumar, the advocate representing the woman, she reportedly told the magistrate that Ramesh Jarkiholi promised her a job and abused her.   The woman gave her statement before the judge for more than two hours before going with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) for further procedures. Jagadesh Kumar said she had been taken by SIT officials upon agreeing to appear before them to give her statement. The advocate demanded officials arrest the accused immediately and show their impartiality. The woman's statement before the court is yet to be known as no one was allowed inside the court hall. Her statement was recorded from 3 pm to 5 pm, according to sources. SIT officials are questioning the woman and recording her statement at the Adugodi Technical Cell.  Police had deployed around 100 men at the remand court in Guru Nanak Bhavan, Vasanth Nagar, for security. The woman arrived in a private vehicle escorted by a female police officer.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-cd-case-woman-records-statement-before-magistrate-968403.html
30-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Ragging reported at Chamarajanagar medical college||A first-year medical student was allegedly ragged by second and third-year students at Chamarajanagar Medical College hostel. A complaint was lodged in this regard with Chamarajanagar Rural Police station. The incident happened around three days ago. However, the police had not filed a FIR. The police, who inquired seven students involved in the alleged ragging incident, obtained an undertaking from them. Additional Superintendent of Police Anitha B Haddannavar visited the college and interacted with first and second year students. The college administration board has summoned the parents of all the seven students and has decided to give a strict warning to the students. It is alleged that the seven students in second and third years of the medical course ragged the first-year student from Tumakuru. They came to his hostel room, slapped him and forced him to remove his clothes and harassed him, it is alleged.  The victim called his parents and informed about the ragging. The student's father, who came to Chamarajanagar, lodged a complaint with the dean and also with the police. The police had summoned the students on Sunday night and inquired them. The ASP said that FIR had not been filed. "The college management has warned the students. I too visited the college and tried to create awareness among the students on the ill-effects of ragging," she said. Speaking to DH, College Dean Dr Sanjeev said, "We have taken action immediately after receiving the complaint. The students have been issued strict warning. We have summoned the parents. We will hold a meeting with them and will give them a warning."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/ragging-reported-at-chamarajanagar-medical-college-968446.html
30-03-2021||West||Maharashtra: Elderly Covid-19 patient commits suicide in hospital||An 81-year-old Covid-19 patient allegedly died by suicide at the Government Medical College and Hospital in Maharashtra's Nagpur city, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday evening when the patient, identified as Purushottam Aappaji Gajbhiye, went to the bathroom in the Covid-19 ward of the medical facility, an official from Ajni police station said. He allegedly hanged himself there from an exhaust fan with an oxygen pipe, the official said. Around 5.30 pm, a sanitation worker found the bathroom door locked from inside and knocked. When there was no response for some time, the hospital staff members broke open the door and found the patient hanging inside, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone-4) Akshay Shinde said. The man was a resident of Rambagh area and was admitted to the hospital's Covid-19 ward on March 26 after he tested positive for the viral infection, the official said. The reason behind the extreme step was not yet known, another official said. The Ajni police have registered a case of accidental death, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-elderly-covid-19-patient-commits-suicide-in-hospital-968238.html
30-03-2021||West||Police make five men walk like chickens for trying to enter sea in Mumbai||At least five men were punished and made to do the "murga walk" for allegedly trying to enter the sea at Marine Drive in south Mumbai, police said on Tuesday. The incident took place on Monday afternoon on the promenade by the sea, where a group of men tried to enter the water, an official said. A team of police personnel on patrolling duty at the sea face asked the men to do the "murga walk" (chicken walk) as punishment, he said, adding that the men were allowed to go after a warning about safety. A video of the incident was widely circulated on social media with a mention that the men had been punished for not wearing masks. Replying on the video on Twitter, the Mumbai police through their official handle said, "There is a legal provision for action on every violation and that's the only punitive action that can be taken." Meanwhile, senior inspector Vishwanath Kolekar of Marine Drive police station clarified that the men were punished for trying to enter the water from the promenade and endangering themselves and not for violating the mask rule. The matter is being probed by senior officers and necessary action will be taken, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/police-make-five-men-walk-like-chickens-for-trying-to-enter-sea-in-mumbai-968273.html
30-03-2021||West||Bombay High Court to hear Param Bir Singh's PIL against Anil Deshmukh on March 31||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday said it would hear on Wednesday the PIL filed by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh seeking a CBI probe against Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh, who he claimed asked police officer Sachin Waze to collect Rs 100 crore from bars and restaurants. Singh filed the criminal Public Interest Litigation (PIL) in the HC on March 25. He claimed Deshmukh had asked police officers, including suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the NIA in the case of bomb scare near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai, to collect Rs 100 crore each month from bars and restaurants. The PIL also raised the issue of alleged corruption in police transfers and postings in the state. On Tuesday, senior counsel Vikram Nankani, appearing for Singh, mentioned the petition before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni and sought urgent hearing. Chief Justice Datta asked Nankani about the prayers sought in the petition and if the PIL is maintainable. Nankani said the main prayer sought in the petition is for a CBI probe into the serious allegations levelled by a senior IPS officer against a state minister. "We will satisfy the court with arguments on the maintainability of the petition," Nankani said. The HC then posted the PIL for hearing on Wednesday. Singh had initially approached the Supreme Court, alleging he was transferred from the post of Commissioner Police of Mumbai on March 17 and shunted to the Home Guards department after he complained to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and other senior leaders about the "corrupt malpractices" of Deshmukh. The apex court had termed the matter as quite serious, but asked Singh to approach the high court. Singh then filed the PIL in the HC, reiterating his allegations against Deshmukh and seeking an "immediate, unbiased, impartial" probe by the CBI against Deshmukh, who is an NCP leader. In his PIL, Singh also accused Deshmukh of routinely interfering in police investigations and putting pressure on him to implicate BJP leaders in the case of suicide of Dadra and Nagar Haveli MP Mohan Delkar. Singh also sought a direction from the HC to the CBI to secure CCTV footage of Deshmukh's residence from earlier this year before it was "destroyed", and a direction to the state government to produce all records of communication received from IPS officer Rashmi Shukla in March 2020. In February last year, Shukla levelled allegations of malpractices in police postings and transfers against Deshmukh and also informed her superiors about it, but soon afterwards she was transferred, the PIL alleged. The court should pass directions to ensure that in future police officials are not transferred on account of "pecuniary benefits to any politician", it said. Deshmukh has denied the allegations against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bombay-high-court-to-hear-param-bir-singhs-pil-against-anil-deshmukh-on-march-31-968307.html
30-03-2021||West||Sachin Vaze was present at meeting where Hiren's murder was planned, NIA says||Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze and former policeman Vinayak Shinde were present at the meeting where the murder of Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiren was planned, the NIA told the court on Tuesday and added Vaze had used a mobile phone to contact a "conspirator". The NIA, however, didn't name the conspirator. The investigating agency also said that it was close to unravelling the conspiracy and the motive behind the crime. The special court judge P R Sitre has extended till April 7 the NIA custody of Shinde and another accused Naresh Gor, a cricket bookie, in the murder case. Hiren, a Thane resident, had been in possession of an SUV which was later found with explosives near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in south Mumbai on February 25. The body of Hiren was found in the Mumbra creek in Thane on March 5. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad had arrested suspended constable Shinde and Gor in this connection earlier this month. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) took the duo into its custody last week. They were presented before the special NIA court on the expiry of their remand on Tuesday. The NIA told the court that its probe revealed that Vaze and Shinde were present at the meeting where the murder of Hiren was planned. The agency said it needs to question the accused duo regarding the recovery of seven SIM cards, some mobile phones and a CPU during the probe. These SIM cards and mobile phones were recovered from Shinde, the court was told. Special public prosecutor for NIA Sunil Gonsalves told the court that the probe team found a piece of paper during the probe listing 14 mobile phone numbers, of which five numbers were given to Vaze. One of the mobile phones was also given to Vaze, which he used for contacting "conspirator" to kill Hiren, the agency told the court. The NIA further said the agency is closer to unravel the conspiracy and the motive behind killing Hiren. Shinde's lawyer Gautam Jain submitted that no role in the crime has been attributed to the accused other than the delivery of the SIM cards. He said Shinde's further remand is not required as he has been in the custody of the probe agencies (first the ATS and then the NIA) for almost nine days. Gor's lawyer Aftab Diamondwale told the court that his client's role was restricted to providing the SIM cards and that he is not connected to the (murder) case. Diamondwale told the court that Gor has been falsely implicated in the case. The Hiren murder case was initially probed by the Maharashtra ATS, but it was later taken over by the NIA. The NIA is also probing the case of the bomb scare outside Ambani's residence and arrested Vaze. The central probe agency earlier told the court that both the cases were connected. Vaze is in the NIA's custody till April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sachin-vaze-was-present-at-meeting-where-hirens-murder-was-planned-nia-says-968365.html
30-03-2021||West||Bhoomi-poojan of Balasaheb Thackeray memorial on March 31||The bhoomi-poojan of the grand memorial in honour of late Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray will be performed on Wednesday coinciding with the birth anniversary of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj, the legendary Maratha warrior. Maharashtra chief minister and Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray will perform the bhoomi-poojan of ‘Balasaheb Thackeray Rashtriya Smarak’ at the Arabian Sea-facing Mayor’s Bungalow at Dadar in Mumbai. Among those present would be deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar and revenue minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat would be present. Thackeray’s son and state’s tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray and industries minister Subhash Desai, who were president and secretary, respectively, of the ‘Balasaheb Thackeray Rashtriya Smarak’ would also be present. It may be recalled a few years ago, the Mayor’s official residence was shifted to the heritage bungalow at the Veermata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan-Zoo at Byculla by the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to pave way for the memorial. The erstwhile Mayor’s Bungalow, a Grade II-B heritage structure, will not be touched.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bhoomi-poojan-of-balasaheb-thackeray-memorial-on-march-31-968381.html
30-03-2021||West||Maharashtra govt appoints retired judge to probe allegations against home minister Anil Deshmukh||After days of deliberations, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi government on Tuesday announced a "high-level inquiry committee" into the allegations levelled by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh. Justice Kailash Chandiwal, a retired judge of the Bombay High Court, would be the one-man inquiry panel. The panel would submit its report in six months’ time. Singh has alleged that Deshmukh demanded Rs 100 crore per month from assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency in the twin cases involving planting of a Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near India’s top businssman Mukesh Ambani's house in Mumbai and murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiren, a Thane-based automobile spareparts show-room owner. Singh was earlier transferred as commandant general of Home Guards. The development comes ahead of the hearing of two petitions in the Bombay High Court. Singh had moved the Supreme Court challenging his transfer and seeking a CBI probe against Deshmukh. However, the apex court had asked him to move the Bombay High Court, which he did last week. State’s seniormost IPS officer Sanjay Pandey too has moved the Bombay High Court saying that he was bypassed and junior officer Rajneesh Seth was made acting director general of police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-appoints-retired-judge-to-probe-allegations-against-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-968388.html
30-03-2021||West||Goa budget session cut short in wake of municipal poll code of conduct||In an unusual development, the Speaker of the Goa legislative assembly was on Tuesday forced to cut short the budget session midway, after Opposition MLAs said that discussions related to announcements made by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant in his budget speech could not be held in wake of an election code of conduct coming into force in the state ahead of polls to five municipal councils. The enforcement of the Code of conduct for the polls to municipalities in Mapusa, Mormugao, Margao, Sanguem and Quepem was announced by State Election Commissioner W V Ramanamurthy earlier on Tuesday. The polls are scheduled to be held on April 23. Soon after the announcement, Opposition MLAs wrote to the Speaker, urging him to cut short the ongoing proceedings and postpone discussion related to the budget at a subsequent date. “Considering their (opposition) request, we have prorogued the assembly,” Chief Minister Pramod Sawant told the legislative assembly, after a meeting of the business advisory committee of the state legislative assembly. The assembly will be reconvened again in July this year, he said. In a letter to the Speaker Opposition MLAs including Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat had said: "During the election process and especially when the election code of conduct is in force, it is important that the government in power should not make any announcements, declare any schemes and give any assurances which may directly or indirectly influence the minds of the people and have an impact on elections". The budget session which started earlier this month was scheduled to be held till April 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-budget-session-cut-short-in-wake-of-municipal-poll-code-of-conduct-968391.html
30-03-2021||West||Covid-19: Maharashtra parties, leaders divided over lockdown||As the Covid-19 pandemic sweeps Maharashtra, the political parties and leaders seem to be divided over the lockdown even as the business community has slammed the move. The emerging situation and the lockdown roadmap prepared by the various departments – as asked by Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray – would be discussed in the next weekly Cabinet meeting. On Sunday, Thackeray has asked various departments of the government to strategically plan for a lockdown as people are still not following the Covid-appropriate behaviour of wearing masks, sanitizing and washing hands and maintaining social/physical distancing. The BJP has vehemently opposed the lockdown. “We are going to oppose lockdown tooth and nail…if the government wants to go in for a lockdown, they may, but people should be given a relief package first,” said state BJP President Chandrakant Patil. The ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi too seems to have divergent opinions on the lockdown. “We can’t afford another lockdown. We have asked the chief minister to consider other options. If people follow rules, it can be avoided,” said NCP chief spokesperson and state’s Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik, a close aide of party supremo Sharad Pawar. However, state Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope said, “Lockdown is the last option. Over the last one month, the CM has been appealing to people to follow norms and SOPs, however, if needed we may have to go for it.” The business community too is divided which was evident after Mahindra Group chief Anand Mahindra’s tweet, in which he said: “The problem is that the people, a lockdown hurts most are the poor, migrant workers & small businesses. The original lockdowns were essential to buy time to build up hospital/health infrastructure. Let’s focus on resurrecting that and on avoiding mortality.”  The hospitality sector too is up in arms. “The 8 pm to 7 am closure deadline for restaurants, which are already operating with 50% seating capacity, is nothing but a death knell for many restaurants which have somehow survived last year’s lockdown. We don’t see any logic in this latest time restrictions as there has been no proven research on the increase in the spread of Covid-19 during the night,” Shivanand Shetty, President, AHAR said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-maharashtra-parties-leaders-divided-over-lockdown-968411.html
30-03-2021||West||Sharad Pawar undergoes endoscopy in hospital before schedule||India’s seniormost politician and NCP supremo Sharad Pawar underwent successful surgery for a gallbladder problem in the wee hours of Wednesday. The Pawar-family and the NCP have confirmed that the operation was performed at the Breach Candy Hospital and the leader was doing fine. Pawar (80) was to be admitted on Wednesday morning for the surgery, but he had the procedure done on Tuesday evening instead. Following pain in his abdomen on Sunday evening, Pawar was taken to the hospital. The surgical team was led by Dr Amit Maydeo, a leading gastroenterologist and endoscopy expert. Pawar’s daughter and Baramati MP Supriya Sule, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and grand-nephew Rohit Pawar were at the hospital when the surgery was done. “Pawar saheb is doing well after the operation. Stone has been removed from the gallbladder successfully. It was done through endoscopy,” senior NCP leader and state’s public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope said. “Thanking Dr Maydeo, Dr Golwala, Dr Pradhan, Dr Daftary, Dr Samdani, Dr Tibrewala and Breach Candy Hospital team,” Sule tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sharad-pawar-undergoes-endoscopy-in-hospital-before-schedule-968426.html
30-03-2021||West||NCB detains actor Ajaz Khan in drugs case||Bollywood actor and former Bigg Boss contestant Ajaz Khan was detained by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday in connection with a drug case, an official said. Khan's name had cropped up during interrogation of drug peddler Shadab Batata, he said. The probe team also conducted searches at Andheri and Lokhandwala areas along with Khan in connection with the case. Khan was taken into custody after he visited the NCB office. Khan's statement was being recorded by NCB officials and he is not arrested yet, the official said. Khan landed in Mumbai only on Tuesday. While speaking to media persons outside the NCB office in south Mumbai, Khan claimed he was not detained but himself came to meet the officers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-detains-actor-ajaz-khan-in-drugs-case-968452.html
30-03-2021||West||Maharashtra CM's wife Rashmi Thackeray admitted in hospital for Covid-19 treatment||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s wife Rashmi Thackeray, who had tested positive for Covid-19 and was in home quarantine, was shifted to a private hospital on Tuesday midnight. Rashmi Thackeray is being treated at the Sir H N Reliance Foundation Hospital and Research Centre in south Mumbai. Along with Rashmi, the editor of party mouthpieces Saamana, Dophar ka Saamna and Marmik, the CM's son Aaditya Thackeray, state’s tourism, environment and protocol minister, had also tested positive. Aaditya had tested positive on March 19, while Rashmi on 23 March. They were following strict home-quarantine norms. On March 11, the Thackeray-couple had taken the Covaxin vaccine at the Sir JJ Hospital at Byculla in Mumbai. “Yes, she has been admitted to our hospital and being treated,” sources in the Reliance Foundation Hospital told DH, declining to go into details.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cms-wife-rashmi-thackeray-admitted-in-hospital-for-covid-19-treatment-968464.html
