31-03-2021||First Edit||SC's order on women in army one more step towards equal treatment||The Supreme Court’s latest directive on the grant of permanent commission in the armed forces to Short Service Commission (SSC) women officers and the observations made by the court in that context are reminders of the difficulties that women still face in getting equal treatment in the forces. The matter before the court was a petition filed by 86 senior women officers who had a genuine grievance about the arbitrary and unequal evaluation standards that they were judged with. The court found that the benchmarking of women officers with the officers lowest in merit in the corresponding male batch is arbitrary and irrational. It also found that the methodology adopted for evaluation of the annual confidential reports of women was unfair, and the application of “…rigorous medical standard at an advanced stage of their careers… disproportionately impacted them vis-à-vis their male counterparts”. The court not only granted relief to those who were adversely affected but also directed a review of the method of evaluation of annual reports for future batches. The importance of the judgement goes beyond the orders passed in the cases of the petitioners. The court’s call to rectify the discriminatory system which ensured the rejection of women on medical grounds will help many lady officers to move forward in their careers. The court’s important ruling of February 2020, which allowed full integration of SSC women into the defence services, including in combat positions, has not been implemented in letter and spirit. Women have done very well ever since they were allowed entry into the three services. They have worked in difficult terrains, done hazardous assignments and proved that they are no less than men. In the last six years, the strength of women officers in the three services has tripled to over 6,000 but their progress in the forces is still not a great and bright story.  Women had to battle at every stage of their progress and but for court orders it would have been much slower. This is because, as the court said, there is structural discrimination in the  society "created by males and for males’’. Entrenched mindsets and attitudes hardly change in society and women have to fight for recognition as equals and for positions that are rightly their due. The court noted that as a result, certain structures that may seem to be the ‘norm’ and may appear to be harmless, are a reflection of the insidious patriarchal system. While this is so in society, it is much worse in the armed forces which have traditionally been totally dominated by men. The court’s call to practice a real sense of equality in the true spirit of the Constitution is therefore very relevant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/scs-order-on-women-in-army-one-more-step-towards-equal-treatment-968493.html
31-03-2021||In Perspective||The quest for quality education||India is home to the world’s largest number of young people. As per the United Nation’s report, India has 356 million youth between the age group of 10 and 24 years. A Bloomberg News analysis says India is likely to have the world’s largest workforce by 2027, with a billion people aged between 15 and 64. Unfortunately, India’s abundant youth energy is being wasted due to lack of proper environment to groom physically, morally and intellectually-strong youth. The poor mental and physical development is reflected in different fields. So far, no Indian film has got an Oscar; only Indian scientist Sir C V Raman, who worked for an Indian university, won the Nobel Prize in physics in 1930; India’s performance in the Olympic games has been consistently dismal and our football team has not yet qualified for the FIFA World Cup for many decades. Though the National Education Policy aims to develop a wide range of advanced skills among children, like artificial intelligence, robotics, coding, film making, electronics, graphic designing and media study etc, the NEP is taking the second step instead of putting a safe and practical first step forward. Teaching advanced skills and new subjects are useful if the schools are capable of teaching the basic math, science, literature, history and social studies in equal proportion to children along with patriotism, physical and moral courage, compassion, love and fellow feeling. Those things will help our youth to be their master and not part of the cheap global labour force. The NEP also found “severe learning crisis” among young children. It points out that close to five crore children currently in elementary school do not have foundational literacy and numeracy skills. A recent survey found that only a little over 50% of children enrolled in schools in India make it to Class XII. A Pratham survey found that between 25-30% of children in most states can’t read a sentence in a Class II book and can’t do two-digit subtraction. Though the Right to Education Act 2009 guarantees free and compulsory education to children for the age group six to 14, the Act misses the words: an inclusive, quality education to all children which has deluded the country for decades. Lack of adequate number of quality schools, aggressive commercialisation of education and lack of interest among bright students to choose teaching as a career etc make inclusive quality education a distant dream. A large number of private schools thrive on the ignorance and agony of millions of parents who want to send their wards to English medium schools for quality education and better facilities. As per the District Information System for Education (DISE) data, only 53% of total government schools, which form the majority of schools in rural India, have electricity connection. Only 28% schools have a computer and 9% have an internet connection. The much-talked-about video conference-based teaching is not possible unless the ground reality changes. Nutritional needs Like quality education, the moral and physical development of children needs attention. According to an analysis of the country’s Food and Nutrition Security, almost one in three children under five years will still be stunted by 2022 due to chronic malnutrition. As per the National Family Health Survey, the proportion of underweight and stunted children was as high as 35.8% and 38.4%, respectively. The National Nutrition Mission (NNM) aims to reduce stunting, underweight and low birth weight each by 2% per annum, and anaemia among children, adolescent girls and women by 3% per annum by 2022. The increase in cost of living compels people to prioritise their expenditure on housing, education and health; food expenditure takes a back seat. Crop diversity loss is the root cause of nutrition shortage. Marie Haga, Executive Director, Crop Trust, an international organisation working to safeguard crop diversity, said India has lost 90% of rice varieties since 1900. Restoring diversity in each crop will meet the gap in the nutrition needs of people. Lack of sanitation in schools, particularly for girl children, leads to harmful infections. The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has found that 75% of the toilets constructed by the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) in government schools were not maintained hygienically; 72% had no running water and 30% were not in use due to damages and other reasons. There is an urgent need for a strong law to protect surface and ground water. The CAG has also found 40% of schools do not have playgrounds and 43% do not have boundary walls. The NEP has provision for playground and boundary walls in schools. Playgrounds should be mandatory for schools as the majority of children develop sedentary habits due to smartphones and computer games. Physical, moral and intellectual growth among children automatically paves the way for healthy democracy, good governance and social safety. Politicians, conscious citizens and the media must work for this common goal — an inclusive, quality school education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/the-quest-for-quality-education-968495.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Newborn made to undergo RT-PCR test at Mangalore International Airport||Officials from Health Department immediately swung into action after reports emerged about a two-month-old made to undergo RT-PCR test at Mangalore International Airport (MIA) on Tuesday. As the video clip on the incident went viral on social media, health officials took to task the authorities of the private lab at the airport, which had collected the swab of the newborn. Covid-19 Nodal Officer Dr Ashok said that children below two years should not be made to undergo tests for Covid-19. “When I received information, I immediately contacted airport authorities and sought clarification. They have done it without the knowledge of regulations. I have instructed them not to make children below two years undergo any tests for Covid-19,” he said. According to sources at the Airport, the baby had arrived at Mangalore International Airport from Abu Dhabi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/newborn-made-to-undergo-rt-pcr-test-at-mangalore-international-airport-968479.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Congress loses one seat to BJP in Davangere corporation bypolls||The bypolls to two wards of Davangere city corporation proved beneficial for BJP as it won ward 22 (Yallamma Nagar), which is considered as strong forte of Congress, while Congress retained ward number 20 (Bharath colony). Shivananda of BJP emerged victorious in ward 22 by gaining 1,844 votes, while Ravi Swamy of Congress managed to get 1,374 votes. Congress' rebel candidate Mohammed Mujahid Pasha gained 978 votes in the same ward and thus, helped BJP to win it.  Meenakshi M Jagadish of Congress emerged victorious in ward 20 with 2,392 votes and BJP candidate Renuka M managed to get 2,024 votes.  It may be mentioned here that the bypolls were necessitated as corporators of both the wards resigned after emerging victorious on Congress ticket. Both later joined BJP.  With this, of the 45-member strength, 18 wards are represented by BJP,  21 by Congress and one by JD(S). BJP has the suppport of four independents, while Congress has the support of one independent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/congress-loses-one-seat-to-bjp-in-davangere-corporation-bypolls-968659.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||'Private hospitals told to refund excess money collected under Ayushman Bharat'||Dakshina Kannada District Health Officer (DHO) Dr Ramachandra Bairy said a district-level grievance committee, headed by Deputy Commissioner Dr Rajendra K V, has taken measures to get private hospitals reimburse the excess amount collected from patients under the Ayushman Bharat Arogya Karnataka scheme (AB-ArK). “The DC has already disposed of 12 cases by directing hospitals to reimburse the excess amount to the patients on Monday,” DHO Dr Bairy said at DK Zilla Panchayat (DKZP) monthly meeting organised at Nethravathi Hall on the premises of the ZP on Tuesday. ZP members alleged that the private hospitals had been looting patients in the name of the Ayushman Bharat scheme. The DHO said if the private hospitals had collected money in excess from patients under the AB-ArK scheme, then a complaint should be submitted to the grievance committee headed by the DC. The members also urged Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigodu to bring the issue of private hospitals collecting money in excess from patients to the notice of Health Minister Dr Sudhakar, who will be visiting the district on Wednesday. Vaccination drive When the members sought to know about the vaccination drive, the DHO said that vaccinations are administered at all PHCs, taluk hospitals, Urban Health Centres and district hospitals for free. With the government announcing that citizens above the age of 45, irrespective of co-morbidities, will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, about 26.05% of the population in the district will be eligible for the vaccination. He appealed to the ZP members to motivate people to get vaccinated in the nearest PHC. People should not heed to rumours that are being spread on social media platforms against the Covid-19 vaccines, he said. The government is also mulling on administering vaccinations in all the sub-centres. As the sub-centres have no doctors, the government is planning to depute junior PG doctors at the centres, he added. The DHO further clarified that there is no shortage of vaccines in the district. When the members raised the issue of upgradation of the PHCs to Community Health Centres, the DHO said that proposals to upgrade 9 PHCs, including those at Mani and Panaje, was sent to the government for approval. ZP member Janardhan Gowda suspected foul play in the death of Anitha Madhava, a resident of Mucchur. The DHO said that experts had found no medical negligence in her death. As the member was not satisfied with the answer, ZP Chief Executive Officer Dr Kumar said that the case will be re-investigated by the experts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/private-hospitals-told-to-refund-excess-money-collected-under-ayushman-bharat-968682.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Alliance Air reconnects Hyderabad-Hubballi||Fifty-seven passengers commuted between Hyderabad-Hubballi-Hyderabad in the inaugural flight of Alliance Air, which restarted its flight service between the two cities on Wednesday. Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi received the 70 seater ATR 72 600 flight, which arrived at Hubballi Airport from Hyderabad (9I 879) at 8:00 am. And the return flight (9I 880) with 28 passengers took off from Hubballi at 8:25 am and reached Hyderabad at 9:55 am. Currently, Alliance Air, a subsidiary of Air India, is providing three days in a week service: Monday, Wednesday and Friday. Speaking on the occasion, Joshi said that the flight service between these two cities was a long pending demand, which has been fulfilled after the intervention of Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri. Based on the response received for the flight and seat occupancy, Alliance Airways is ready to operate a daily flight between Hubballi and Hyderabad, he said. The union minister also said that there is also demand for establishing air connectivity between Hubballi and Mangaluru, which will be soon fulfilled. Hubballi currently has flight services to Hindon (Delhi), Bengaluru, Tirupati, Kannur, Ahmedabad, Cochin, Mumbai, Chennai and Goa. Nearly 13 flights operate from here and on average 25,000 passengers either take off or land here in a month. Joshi said Hubballi Airport has the facilities to operate flights at night. By extending the runway and setting up the required infrastructure the Hubballi Airport director can send a proposal to the Union government to upgrade the airport to handle international flights, especially those from Middle East countries. Alliance Air Chief Executive Officer Harpreet A De Singh said Hubballi is one of the important airports for us. The flight between Hubballi and Hyderabad will bring business and commerce between Karnataka and Telangana closer. She said currently, Alliance Air is operating flight service from Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Mangaluru in Karnataka. And soon we wish to connect Karnataka with the North Eastern States. She said that under the ‘Make-in India’ we have signed a memorandum of understanding with Hindustan Aeronautics Limited to purchase passenger aircraft. Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil, Hubballi Airport Director Pramod Kumar Thakre, Airport Security Officer Jagadish Hanchinal, and others were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/alliance-air-reconnects-hyderabad-hubballi-968760.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Unscientific transportation of waste irks Mysureans||Though the authorities concerned are setting new standards in managing solid waste, the ‘Heritage City’ is unable to transport garbage without annoying people. Heavy trucks and tractors, carrying waste and construction debris, move around the city without covering. The stench from the garbage vehicles is unbearable. Over-loaded trucks spill the garbage all over the roads. In addition, tractors carrying construction debris to dumping yards and clay bricks too create nuisance to motorists by spreading dust. Chandrakala Prasanna, a resident of Vijayanagar Third Stage, said that every day a truck or a compactor carries waste near her residence. “The vehicles move uncovered and many times they are overloaded, with trash spilling over the sides. Despite repeated complaints to cover the waste, while transporting, no driver or loader is bothered,” she said. Even two-wheeler riders are affected due to unscientific transportation. Sakshath, a rider, said that it is disgusting to move behind a truck or other vehicle carrying waste. “They are not in a good condition. There will be leakage of water from the trucks, emitting foul smell and makes streets dirty. Not all vehicles are in bad condition. But, no transport vehicle abides by the norms,” he said. Pushkar of Gokulam said, “Several tractors transport debris and clay bricks without covering them. It is difficult to go behind such vehicles due to thick dust particles. If we wear helmet, the mask gets covered with dust.” He recommended strict action against such cases. The authorities have warned against dumping of debris at non-designated places. Similarly, vehicle owners and drivers must be warned with legal consequences, if they transport debris uncovered, he said. An officer, assuring of taking action, said, “As per norms, waste must be covered with a tarpaulin during transportation. The city generates more than 450 tonne of garbage every day and a major portion of it is handled at the sewage plant in Vidyaranyapuram. The drivers, loaders, contractors will be warned against violating the norms.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/unscientific-transportation-of-waste-irks-mysureans-968785.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Family under social boycott since 13 years||Two families in Hosakote village in Nanjangud taluk have been allegedly facing a social boycott for more than a decade. The family of Nanjashetty and Revamma of the village are facing a social boycott since 2011. The families depend on daily wage for meals, she said Revamma. According to Revamma, sites were sanctioned to these families in 2011 under Ashraya Scheme, but the leader in the village Kenchashetty managed to give these sites to his relatives. The families were social boycotted for questioning Kenchashetty, she said. The relatives of the leader have constructed houses on the sites sanctioned for Revamma and Nanjashetty family and residing in the houses. “Following the social boycott, no villagers are providing job and we are not allowed to attend any functions in the village. Despite police complaint, nothing has happened. We had approached previous superintendent of police in this regard,” she said. Nanjashetty, Mahadevu and Mahadevamma were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/family-under-social-boycott-since-13-years-968788.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Wild elephant passes through railway tunnel||A wild elephant passed through railway tunnel has reported at Aaluvalli in Sakleshpur taluk in the district. A major mishap averted as there was no train movement during day time. The video of the elephant has gone viral on social media. The authorities confirmed about the movement of the wild elephant and the video of the elephant moving on the track has gone viral. It has to be noted that two elephant calves had died as a train hit them while moving on the track, two years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wild-elephant-passes-through-railway-tunnel-968789.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Villagers suspect student's death at school||The villagers of Kolipalaya near Chamarajanagar raised suspicion over the death of a 7th standard student, who died on Monday and demanded a thorough investigation. Lakshmikanth of Kolipalaya Government School reportedly died after falling from a compound wall, which measures 2.5 feet, during lunch break. The villagers raising suspicion over the death said that the student developed a wound on his neck and the chances of death after falling from 2.5 ft is highly impossible. The parent of the deceased is economically poor and they must get justice, the villagers demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/villagers-suspect-students-death-at-school-968790.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru to be malnutrition-free by 2023: Rohini Sindhuri||Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Wednesday said that Mysuru district would be free from malnutrition by 2023. The DC was addressing the gathering of ‘Poshan Pakhwada’ valedictory ceremony at Zilla Panchayat, here. She said, "The district should be made as malnutrition free by creating awareness and by providing healthy nutritious food for every pregnant woman." In the district, 135 children are suffering severe malnutrition and 12% are malnourished. According to the report, anaemia is on the rise in the district and girl children often suffer from anaemia, she informed and added, practising traditional food habits would solve the malnutrition issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-to-be-malnutrition-free-by-2023-rohini-sindhuri-968791.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Financially stable families told to surrender priority ration cards||Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi said that those who are financially stable are ineligible for priority ration cards — Below Poverty Line (BPL) and Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) — should surrender them. In a press note issued here, on Wednesday, the DC said, “Action would be initiated against those illegally possessing priority ration cards, under the provisions of Essential Commodities Act, 1955; National Food Security Act, 2013; Karnataka Essential Commodities Public Distribution System (Control) Order, 2016; and relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The families whose members are permanent employees of government and government-aided departments and agencies; whose members are Income Tax assesses; whose members pay Service Tax, Value Added Tax or Goods and Services Tax; are ineligible to posses priority ration cards, he said. In rural places, families in possession of three hectares of dry lands or equivalent irrigated lands are ineligible for the priority ration cards. In urban areas, families possessing a proper house on a land measuring more than 1,000 square feet are ineligible. Families possessing four-wheelers and above, except for those who operate only one vehicle — such as tractor, maxicabs or taxi — for a livelihood, are ineligible. If the annual income of a family is above Rs 1.2 lakh, it is ineligible for the priority ration cards. The DC said that as per the 2011 Census, there are 2,44,874 families in Chamarajanagar district. “Up to March 2021, a total of 2,91,740 priority ration cards, including 35,770 Antyodaya Anna Yojana cards have been issued. Besides, 4,355 non-priority or Above Poverty Line (APL) cards have been issued. Several appeals have been made to ineligible families, to surrender priority ration cards. Some of them have surrendered the BPL and AAY ration cards and have availed APL ration cards, states the press note. Ineligible ration card holders can surrender their cards to their respective tahsildar and get APL ration cards. Otherwise, action will be initiated against such families and the cost of the ration items provided to them, over the years, will be recovered, says the press note from the DC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/financially-stable-families-told-to-surrender-priority-ration-cards-968792.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Districts||Mangaluru city streets to switch to LED lights||All 65,000 streetlights in 60 wards of Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) will be converted into LED lights with a centralised automatic switching point system under Smart City Mission (SCM) through PPP (public-private partnership) mode. A survey of the streetlights in the wards has already begun and is expected to be completed by April 20. Installation of specially designed LEDs, manufactured by Crompton, will begin after the survey, said Suresh Rathod of the private firm engaged in installing the LED lights and carrying out the survey of the streetlights. "Already, 8,250 streetlights have been surveyed in the wards," he said during a presentation on maintenance of the LED streetlights and the centralised control and monitoring system through PPP, at the council meeting of MCC. According to the contract, the LED streetlights should be installed within eight months (barring the rainy season) from the issue of work orders and should be maintained for seven years. The installation works will be completed by December-end. He added that the LED bulbs have an advantage compared to traditional tube light, fluorescent and sodium-vapour lights. The LEDs are energy efficient and consume 60% less power than traditional lighting. Already, demonstrations on the LED bulbs have been carried out in Shivabhagh, in front of a mall in the city. “It will take four weeks for the arrival of the first batch of the LED lights. Wherever the survey is completed, the LED lights will be installed,” he said. Under the smart city mission, all the city corporations in Karnataka - Tumakuru, Shivamogga, Mangaluru, Davangere, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad, Mysuru, Ballari, Vijayapura and Kalaburagi - have been asked to replace the conventional streetlights with the LEDs under PPP mode. When corporators sought information about the fate of the existing tubelight and other lights, Suresh Rathod informed the council that they will be crushed and sent to scrap. "If any dark spots are identified during the survey, then LEDs should be installed on a priority basis in such areas," Mayor Premanand Shetty stressed||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mangaluru-city-streets-to-switch-to-led-lights-968834.html
31-03-2021||Karnataka Politics||Congress has a field day with Eshwarappa's complaint against B S Yediyurappa||The Opposition Congress demanded Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa's resignation Wednesday after Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister KS Eshwarappa approached Raj Bhavan with a formal complaint against him.  In a 5-page complaint submitted to Governor Vajubhai R Vala, Eshwarappa accused Yediyurappa of “serious lapses" and being authoritarian. "A senior BJP minister has made very serious accusations against CM Yediyurappa in a letter to the Governor. The CM must either immediately submit his resignation or must sack the minister if the accusations aren't true. Karnataka's BJP government has become a den of corruption," Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar said in a tweet. AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka Randeep Singh Surjewala said that the allegations of corruption against the Yediyurappa-led government were now verified by its own minister. "It’s an illegitimate government born through stolen mandate. It is mired in corruption. It is run in an authoritarian fashion to serve one man only. It should be shown the door," Surjewala tweeted. Former Congress minister Priyank Kharge said that the complaint showed that all was not well with the government. "MLAs dont have trust in ministers. Ministers don't have trust in the CM and the CM doesn't trust the high command," he said. Eshwarappa, it can be recalled, has crossed swords with Yediyurappa several times in the past. In 2016, the BJP central leadership had to intervene to patch the rift between them. The animosity between the duo was buried temporarily by the high command ahead of the 2018 Assembly polls in Karnataka. They were also on opposite sides of the table when DV Sadananda Gowda was made CM in 2011. Yediyurappa lobbied for his Gowda's ouster in favour of Jagadish Shettar, whereas the then state BJP president Eshwarappa had stood firmly behind Gowda.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/congress-has-a-field-day-with-eshwarappas-complaint-against-b-s-yediyurappa-968776.html
31-03-2021||Main Article||Finance Commission deserves commendation for focusing on public debt reform||The 15th Finance Commission (FC) report was tabled in Parliament along with the Union Budget. The report covers the period 2021-22 to 2025-26. The report is aptly titled ‘Finance Commission in Covid Times,’ pointing to the overarching constraints under which the FC’s recommendations must be seen. It may be recalled that the FC had earlier presented its interim report for 2020-21. The FC report — in addition to covering the usual topics of vertical devolution of resources between the Centre and states, horizontal distribution amongst states, grants to rural and urban local bodies and so on — has made certain path-breaking recommendations for improving the overall public finance architecture of the country. A prominent theme running across the FC’s recommendations is the urgent need to address issues in public debt management – its definition, recording, management and disclosure. Both the FC report and the Economic Survey 2020-21, which were released a day apart, seem to vindicate the government’s stand that an increased public expenditure is essential to pulling back the economy out of doldrums. The Economic Survey, in Chapter 2 titled, “Does Growth Lead to Debt Sustainability? Yes, but Not Vice-Versa!”, makes out a case for higher public spending, albeit with a commitment to fiscal prudence. Increased government spending would, of course, result in high levels of debt not seen in the recent past. It is in this context that the FC’s recommendations on public debt assume significance. The FC believes that the public debt to GDP ratio should continue to guide fiscal policy in the medium-term, with fiscal deficit as the near-term target. The report, accordingly, targets a declining trajectory for the ratio towards the later part of the award period. Successive governments have been accused of using creative methods to mask fiscal deficit and debt numbers – routing borrowings through state-owned entities like the Food Corporation of India and postponing payments to the next financial year being two such methods. The FC report highlights the urgent need to identify and record all extra-budgetary outstanding liabilities and liquidate them in a time-bound manner. The expanded definition of Central government debt adopted in the 2018 amendment to the FRBM Act includes such extra-budgetary debt. The 2021-22 Budget has taken a significant step by taking into account a large chunk of such borrowings. The FC Report recommends that state governments must also amend their Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Acts to expand the definition of debt along the lines of the Central FRBM Act. Arguing that the enhanced borrowing limits recommended take care of the expenditure requirements of the Centre and states, the report, in strong words, discourages the use of “off-budget or any non-transparent means of financing for any expenditure”. The message seems to be loud and clear – stay away from creative methods to camouflage debt. Governance reforms The report recommends administrative and governance reforms that can release scarce resources for discharging debt. It elaborates a few potential areas such as rationalisation of GST rates, increasing professional tax, property valuation reforms, better targeting of Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) and many others. The report recommends a tapering down of the net borrowing limits for state governments, starting from 4% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) in 2021-22 to 3% for the years 2023-24 to 2025-26. This excludes any additional borrowing on account of the shortfall in GST compensation and incentive-based additional borrowing space linked to power sector reforms. By allowing the option for states to carry over the unutilised borrowing space to subsequent years within the award period, the FC has provided the much-needed flexibility for states to plan their expenditure and debt levels. Even in its recommendation on amendments to state FRBM Acts, the FC’s focus on a more inclusive definition of “debt” and on time-bound achievement of debt sustainability is apparent. A further set of public debt-related recommendations relate to market-based borrowing by state governments. Citing international best practices, the report urges states to go for credit ratings, which can open up avenues of short-term market borrowings and eventually reduce the cost of debt. Public disclosure of financial position, more importantly, contingent liabilities, is another measure which the FC feels can help states prepare to access market-based debt instruments. On the institutional front, the report encourages the formation of Public Debt Management Cells (PDMCs) in states on the lines of the one in the central government and constitution of a High Powered Inter-Governmental Group for anchoring the restructuring of the FRBM Acts. It would be worthwhile for states to extend the mandate of the PDMCs to include cash management as well, since government cash and debt management go hand-in-hand and need to be managed in conjunction. The report calls for adopting standards for government financial reporting, again emphasising on disclosures on public debt and contingent liabilities and risks accompanying such liabilities. Overall, the FC must be commended for focusing on public debt reform when we are on the cusp of a debt explosion as the Centre and states scramble for resources to fund their spending plans to jumpstart the economy. Full marks for acknowledging the role of states in making the reforms happen. In FC Chairman N K Singh’s own words in an interview, “The important thing I realised is that there is no point in any debt framework which doesn’t involve the partnership of the states.” The FC also makes certain broader recommendations for improving the overall public finance architecture of the country such as a public financial management framework, independent fiscal councils with an advisory role, and the need to transition to accrual accounting in the long run. (The writer is a chartered accountant and public finance expert)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/finance-commission-deserves-commendation-for-focusing-on-public-debt-reform-968494.html
31-03-2021||National||Covid-19 crisis demonstrated that rise of India is good for world: Shringla||Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla on Tuesday said India will need to calibrate its external supplies of coronavirus vaccines keeping in mind its domestic needs as the rise in Covid-19 cases highlighted the need for an accelerated vaccination programme.  In an address at the Ananta Aspen Centre, Shringla also said that the coronavirus crisis has demonstrated that the rise of India as a "self-reliant" partner is good for the world. Delving into various aspects of vaccine supplies, the foreign secretary said that India is working with some of its partner countries to create secure, resilient and sustainable supply chains for itself and the world at large. Shringla said that the number of vaccine doses shared with India's partner countries so far is about the same as the number India itself used in its domestic immunisation programme. "The resurgence of Covid-19 cases has highlighted the need for an accelerated vaccination programme in our country, and from 1st April, we will be extending this facility to all our citizens above the age of 45 years," he said. "Naturally, we will need to calibrate our external supplies keeping in mind our domestic production and domestic needs," he added. India has supplied more than 60 million doses of Made-in-India vaccines to over 75 countries, including through COVAX which is a global initiative aimed at equitable access to Covid-19 vaccines.   The foreign secretary said that as health security and health supply chains move up on the priority lists of the world, the Indian pharmaceutical industry is perfectly poised to embrace the emerging opportunities. "The Covid-19 crisis has demonstrated that the rise of India as an Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) partner is good for the world. In this environment, we expect to see more global players cooperating with their Indian counterparts in the pharma and healthcare sectors," he said. "This is likely to go beyond shifting parts of supply chains to India. We expect to see collaborations, manufacturing and research and development tie-ups in this field," Shringla added. He was speaking on the launch of a paper, titled 'India: The World's Pharmacy Expands Its Reach in Global Health'. The foreign secretary also noted that India has the unique advantage of a robust IT and IT services sector to back up the delivery of health services. In his address, the foreign secretary also referred to a proposal by the Quad member nations to use Indian manufacturing capacity, financed and supported by the other members of the grouping, to supply vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region. "There is every expectation that the two current manufacturers will rapidly expand their manufacturing capacities to cater to the increasing domestic and external demand," he said. "Some of the vaccine candidates may also conclude their trial process and become available," he added. Shringla said supply of coronavirus vaccines to the Indo-Pacific region as proposed by the summit of the Quad leaders will involve the creation of new capacities and it will not impact on India's current vaccine production or roll-out. Shringla also said the global role played by India in responding to the pandemic and addressing the demand for pharmaceuticals, diagnostics and vaccines is an excellent demonstration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's broader vision of 'Atmanirbhar Bharat' (self-reliant India). He said India took the lead in initiating and participating in regional and multilateral consultations to emphasise the need for countries to come together to collectively deal with the pandemic. "India received the credit for ensuring supply of essential medicines during the critical phase of the pandemic. Delivery of these medicines cemented our reputation as the 'Pharmacy of the World' and as a responsible stakeholder in global health supply chains," he added. India provided medical assistance, like essential drugs, test kits, protection gear etc, to over 150 countries as part of efforts to extend help to them in dealing with the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-demonstrated-that-rise-of-india-is-good-for-world-shringla-968476.html
31-03-2021||National||DH Toon | Humans are capable of producing venom? We know!||The poll campaigning at Nandigram reached its crescendo and there was a bitter war of words Monday between the main rivals - Trinamool Congress' Mamata Banerjee and BJP's Suvendu Adhikari, her close follower-turned-political foe. "Without the knowledge of the father-son duo, police could not have entered Nandigram on that day," she said. "It is my fault that I had showered so much love on them," said the TMC supremo, who has in her campaign meetings branded the Adhikari family without naming them as "traitors" after Suvendu, his father Sisir and brother Soumendu Adhikari quit her party to join BJP. "I had given at least 10 plum postings to a single family and this is how they reciprocated, this is how they betrayed as venomous traitors," she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-humans-are-capable-of-producing-venom-we-know-968556.html
31-03-2021||National||India reports 53,480 new Covid-19 cases, 354 deaths||As many as 53,480 fresh infections pushed India's Covid-19 tally to 1,21,49,335, while 354 new fatalities, the highest single-day spike so far this year, took the death toll to 1,62,468, according to Union health ministry data updated on Wednesday. The country had recorded 355 deaths on December 17. The active caseload increased to 5,52,566 and accounts for 4.55 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate further dropped to 94.11 per cent, the ministry data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,14,34,301, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, it stated. India's Covid-19 tally crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 24,36,72,940 samples had been tested up to March 30 with 10,22,915 being tested on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-53480-new-covid-19-cases-354-deaths-968570.html
31-03-2021||National||Fire breaks out at Safdarjung Hospital; none injured||A fire broke out on Wednesday morning in the ICU of the Safdarjung Hospital here following which 50 patients were evacuated, fire officials said. No casualty has been reported in the blaze that broke out around 6:30 am, they said. Nine fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Around 50 patients were immediately shifted to other wards with the help of hospital staff, the officials said. The hospital said that the fire probably broke out due to high voltage fluctuation and a short circuit. "There was a minor fire incident in medicine ward 11 (HDU) in Safdarjung Hospital on Wednesday probably due to high voltage fluctuation and short circuit. All the patients admitted in HDU and the ward was evacuated immediately to other wards by our nursing staff and security personnel. "There was no loss of life. The fire was controlled immediately by our hospital fire safety team. Regular fire drills in the hospital with cooperation from Fire Department helped in managing the situation in time," the spokesperson of the hospital said. A senior police officer said that prima facie, it looks like the fire broke out due to a short circuit which was brought under control in time by the hospital staff. Last week, ten patients died after a fire broke out at a Mumbai mall hospital where coronavirus patients were being treated. The fire broke out at the Sunrise Hospital in the Dreams Mall building in the Bhandup area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fire-breaks-out-at-safdarjung-hospital-none-injured-968578.html
31-03-2021||National||India narrowing differences in UNSC, helped shape discussions on Afghanistan, Myanmar: Amb Tirumurti||India has "been a bridge" in a polarised UN Security Council, narrowing differences and helping shape the Council's statements, discussions on Afghanistan and Myanmar, pushing for a greater meeting of minds to address the humanitarian crisis in Syria and focusing on terrorism, India’s envoy to the UN said. With India completing three months as an elected non-permanent member of the 15-nation Security Council, the country’s Permanent Representative to the UN Ambassador T S Tirumurti said India has been able to bring a “unique perspective” to discussions in the Council. “You can call this an Indian perspective if you like. It has been an intensive period,” Tirumurti told PTI. He noted that India got into a Security Council which had been polarised sharply in the recent past. “While such polarisation is still quite visible, India has certainly been a bridge narrowing down the differences in the Council. We have worked constructively with other members in the Council on all issues. Our voice is deeply respected and our contribution has been acknowledged,” he said. “There is a greater effort in the Council now with countries like India coming in to have a more collaborative approach to issues.” Tirumurti stressed that “it is more important for the Council to speak in one voice rather than not speak at all.” Outlining instances where India helped an outcome in the Council, Tirumurti said the country has brought in its own perspective on specific issues. Citing the UNSC Press Statements on Myanmar, a "country with which we have strong links and strong interests," Tirumurti said India has been able to “bring together differing viewpoints and make these statements more constructive and helpful in furthering the process to resolve the issues.” Just days after the February 1 military coup in Myanmar in which top political leaders, including State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi, were detained, the Council issued a Press Statement emphasising the need for the continued support of the democratic transition in Myanmar and stressed the need to uphold democratic institutions and processes, refrain from violence, fully respect human rights, fundamental freedoms and rule of law. India, Chair of the Taliban Sanctions Committee, also helped shape the Council’s statement on Afghanistan to “voice our concern on the rising violence and targeted killings and keep the focus on, inter alia, women, minorities and on terrorism and its impact on Afghanistan and the region. “We have an important stake in Afghanistan and its stability and peace. As Chair of the Taliban Sanctions Committee, our role in contributing to the process will be important,” Tirumurti said. In a March 12 press statement, the Council strongly condemned the alarming number of attacks deliberately targeting civilians in Afghanistan and "recognised that a sustainable peace can be achieved only through a comprehensive and inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned peace process that aims at a permanent and comprehensive ceasefire, as well as an inclusive political settlement to end the conflict in Afghanistan.” Tirumurti said India “has also been pushing for greater meeting of the minds in the Council on addressing the humanitarian crisis in Syria and Yemen.” From Ethiopia, Sudan, South Sudan to the Central African Republic and Democratic Republic of Congo, India’s diplomatic presence in these countries and historical ties with them has also enabled New Delhi to bring unique ground-level understanding to Council debates, he said adding that as Chair of the Libyan Sanctions Committee, India’s contribution to resolving some granular issues has been appreciated. India also spoke out in the Council in a strong voice against the scourge of terrorism, with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar outlining an eight-point action plan at a UNSC Ministerial Meeting in February. The action plan had called on the international community to summon the political will and not justify terrorism and not glorify terrorists, there should be no double standards as “terrorists are terrorists” and no good or bad distinction should be made. Tirumurti pointed out that India’s participation in the activities of the UN has increased rather than coming down, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi addressing the UN Economic and Social Council and the General Assembly. Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani, Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Minister of State for Power and New and Renewable Energy Raj Kumar Singh have also addressed high-level events at the UN, with Tirumurti terming this participation “quite unprecedented.” As the world continues to grapple with Covid-19, Tirumurti said India’s ‘Vaccine Maitri’ initiative is “perhaps the best example for the world to witness how India addressed the concerns of global vaccine inequity or as they say vaccine nationalism. “On the vaccine front for instance, India has been probably the largest partner of the UN,” he said adding that the COVAX Facility itself has been a huge beneficiary of Indian vaccines which in turn has benefitted numerous developing countries.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-narrowing-differences-in-unsc-helped-shape-discussions-on-afghanistan-myanmar-amb-tirumurti-968595.html
31-03-2021||National||Indian Army to induct first batch of women in its rank and file soon||The Indian Army will soon induct the first batch of women in its rank and file. A total of 1,700 Women Military Police will be inducted over a period of 17 years. The first batch of 100 Women Military Police trainees is undergoing training at the Corps of Military Police Centre and School, in Bengaluru. The training of this first batch had started on January 6, 2020. The trainees have been undergoing 61 weeks of training, comprising of Basic Military Training and Advanced Provost Training. Adequate training and administrative infrastructure are already in place. The Army said that due diligence has been attributed while developing administrative infrastructure for Women Recruits accommodation based on interactions with Officers Training Academy Chennai, Assam Rifles and National Cadet Corps, Officers Training Academy Gwalior where presently training of women soldiers is being imparted. The women soldiers will have the same terms and conditions as applicable to their male counterparts. On completion of training, the Women Military Police will perform similar duties as Male Military Police personnel.  "The Women Military Police, besides being employed on mandatory operational and peacetime duties, will be an asset for the investigation of gender-specific crimes," the Indian Army said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-army-to-induct-first-batch-of-women-in-its-rank-and-file-soon-968597.html
31-03-2021||National||How to link PAN card with Aadhaar number||Earlier, the last date for linking the Permanent Account Number (PAN) with Aadhaar was March 31, 2021, which has been extended to June 30. If you do not link your PAN with your Aadhaar number, you will have to pay a penalty of up to Rs 1,000 to get the two documents linked. If you are a PAN cardholder and have an Aadhaar number, as per the law, you are required to intimate it to the Income Tax Department.  If you fail to link your PAN card with Aadhaar, your PAN will become ‘inoperative’ after March 31, 2021. Here's a lowdown on how to link Aadhaar with PAN. Linking PAN with Aadhaar can done through income tax e-filing portal or via SMS. Here's how:   1. Link PAN with Aadhaar on income tax e-filing portal website  Enter the following details: After entering the details click on submit. Linking will be confirmed after verification from UIDAI.  Please note that the Aadhaar OTP will be required in case of discrepancies of provided Aadhaar name. The date of birth and gender in PAN and Aadhaar should match.  2. Logging in to your account    Verify the details such as name, date of birth and gender on the screen with the ones mentioned on your Aadhaar card. If the details match, enter your Aadhaar number and captcha code and click on the “Link now” button.  A pop-up message will inform you that your Aadhaar number has been successfully linked to your PAN card. 3. Linking Aadhaar and PAN via SMS  To link your Aadhaar and PAN through SMS, send an SMS to either 567678 or 56161 from your registered mobile number using the following format: UIDPAN<SPACE><12 digit Aadhaar><Space><10 digit PAN> Example: UIDPAN 123456789123 AKPLM2124M||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/how-to-link-pan-card-with-aadhaar-number-968602.html
31-03-2021||National||Ishrat Jahan Encounter: Case against three remaining accused cops dropped||A special CBI court on Wednesday ordered to drop the case against the three remaining accused policemen including Inspector General of Police G L Singhal in the Ishrat Jahan encounter case on the ground that the Gujarat government refused to grant sanction for prosecution as required in cases of government servants facing criminal charges. The court also held that accused policemen were "discharging their duty and there was enough evidence suggesting that Ishrat Jahan and three others, killed in the encounter, were "terrorists". The court also read out observation stating that "there is no question of fake encounter as accused policemen were acting on a sound and genuine intelligence input". With this order, all six accused policemen, who were arrested and chargesheeted by CBI, have been let off by the special CBI court without trial. The seventh accused ex-Deputy Superintendent of Police JG Parmar was abetted after he passed away last year. The order also means that the Gujarat High Court-monitored probe into the case, first conducted by Special Investigation Team and then CBI, will most likely be over as these orders are set to attain finality since neither CBI nor the victims' families have challenged them in a higher court. As a matter of fact, CBI has said in writing that it has accepted these orders and would not challenge them. The case against four Intelligence Bureau officials, who are co-accused, is pending in the magisterial court which is also likely to be decided soon. In case their pleas are entertained, the case will come to an end for good. The accused officers have challenged summons issued to them on grounds that the Centre refused sanction to prosecute them. On Wednesday, the CBI special judge Vipul R Raval relieved Inspector General of Police G L Singhal, ex-Deputy Superintendent of Police Tarun Barot and Assistant Sub-Inspector Anaju Chaudhary from the case. Ex-Director General of Police PP Pandey was the first accused to be discharged from the trial. The proceedings against ex IPS officer D G Vanzara and ex Superintendent of Police N K Amin were dropped for want of sanction under section 197 of code of criminal procedure (CrPC). Interestingly, the court had rejected their discharge pleas while holding that there was a prima facie case against them. "All the police officers were to be more cautious and alert to maintain peace in the public at large. In the past, at a number of places in Ahmedabad, there were bomb blasting. Therefore, seriousness and gravity of information cannot be ignored by high-rank police officers. They are always dedicated to their duties. Looking to the material found from the Indica Car, it isestablished that the information was correct, sound and there was a substantial force in the information. Therefore, these 4 persons were required to be prevented from all these aforesaid activities. It is pertinent to note that even the complainant has also found this information sound and correct," special judge Raval has observed in the order while granting relief to the accused policemen.  While rejecting their pleas, the court had asked CBI to "either obtain sanction for prosecution from the concerned authority or declare in writing the legal position as per the law, with regard to sanction for prosecution against the accused so that further trial can be held in accordance with law."  The CBI had made its stand clear since the beginning that there was no need for a sanction. But it chose to seek permission and wrote a letter to the Gujarat government. The government rejected it on the ground of "larger public interest". Subsequently, CBI submitted the letter to a special court and based on the rejection of sanction, case against Vanzara and Amin were dropped. In case of Singhal, Barot and Chaudhary, the same "process" was followed. The court refused to entertain their discharge plea and directed the CBI "to place on record prosecution sanction as required under section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure by the concerned competent authority..., so that trial can proceed further in accordance with the law." The CBI again wrote to the state government which refused the sanction, based on which the three of them were relieved from the case. In 2013, CBI had filed a chargesheet alleging that 19-year-old Mumbai college girl Ishrat, her friend Javed Sheikh alias Pranesh Pillai and two alleged Pakistani nationals-Zishan Johar and Amjadali Rana, were killed in a fake encounter in a "joint operation" conducted by Gujarat policemen and IB officers. The chargesheet claimed that the accused policemen had apprehended the four days before the encounter, kept them in illegal confinement and later shot them dead in cold blood. After killing them, the police branded them as "Lashkar-e-Taiba" operatives who wanted to kill the then chief minister Narendra Modi to avenge atrocities on Muslims to avenge 2002 post-Godhra riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ishrat-jahan-encounter-case-against-three-remaining-accused-cops-dropped-968604.html
31-03-2021||National||PAN-Aadhaar link: Income Tax Department website crashes due to rush; restored now||The Income Tax Department website crashed briefly as people rushed to link their PAN cards with Aadhaar on the last day. The official website of the income tax department http://www.incometaxindiaefiling.gov.in was opening, however, the site to link PAN card with Aadhaar was not working.  The last date for linking the Permanent Account Number (PAN) with Aadhaar is today (March 31, 2021). If you do not link your PAN with your Aadhaar number by the end of the day today, you will have a pay a penalty of up to Rs 1,000 starting tomorrow to get the two documents linked. If you are a PAN cardholder and have an Aadhaar number, as per the law, you are required to intimate it to the Income Tax Department.  If you fail to link your PAN card with Aadhaar, your PAN will become ‘inoperative’ after March 31, 2021.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-aadhaar-link-income-tax-department-website-crashes-due-to-rush-restored-now-968616.html
31-03-2021||National||Prohibitory orders in Nandigram ahead of high-stake polls||The Election Commission (EC) on Wednesday imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC in Nandigram assembly constituency in West Bengal's Purba Medinipur district, a day ahead of the high-stakes elections here, a senior official said. Besides, the EC has also started air surveillance in the area with the help of a helicopter, he said. People who are not voters of Nandigram are not being allowed to enter the constituency in view of the sensitivity, he added. "Nandigram is a sensitive constituency with high-profile candidates like Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikary. We want to ensure that the law and order situation is not compromised and people can vote freely without fear," the official told PTI. "That is the reason for imposing the prohibitory orders, which will be in place till Friday midnight. A person who is not a voter of Nandigram will not be allowed to enter the area till the polling is over," he said. The order prohibits the assembly of five or more persons, besides imposing other restrictions, he said. Twenty-two companies of central forces are being deployed in the constituency, which has a total of 355 polling booths and 75 per cent of them will have a webcasting facility, the official said. Central forces along with the state police have already started naka checkings at crucial junctions in the area, he said. "Vehicles are being thoroughly checked before they are allowed to enter Nandigram. No outside vehicles are being allowed in," the official said, adding that anybody found trying to create a disturbance "will be handled strictly". The EC has also decided to deploy a 22-personnel quick response team (QRT) in the area on the election day, the official said. The EC has also constituted a team of officials who will supervise the proceedings in Nandigram on the poll day, he said.  The local authorities were also asked by the EC to execute all the pending arrest warrants by Wednesday night and take people, accused in various cases, into custody, he said. Nandigram wore a deserted look during the day with only a few shops open. Vehicles such as e-rickshaws and autos were mostly unavailable with people choosing to stay indoors. "We want peaceful polling and no disturbance here on April 1. People should get a peaceful environment so that they can cast their votes without any fear," a resident of Sonachura said. All eyes are on battleground Nandigram that is going to the polls on Thursday with the chief minister engaged in a fierce contest with her protege-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prohibitory-orders-in-nandigram-ahead-of-high-stake-polls-968625.html
31-03-2021||National||SC-appointed committee on farm laws submits report||The Supreme Court-appointed panel on three farm laws has submitted its report to the apex court in a sealed envelope after consultations with farmers’ organisations, legal experts, industry representatives among others. The report was submitted to the apex court on March 19 after 12 rounds of meetings with various stakeholders and 11 internal meetings of the Committee to deliberate the suggestions made. The Supreme Court had constituted a four-member committee comprising farm experts Anil Ghanvat, Pramod Joshi, Ashok Gulati and Bhupinder Singh Mann on January 11 to listen to the grievances of the farmers on the three farm laws, the views of the government and make recommendations. Mann, the President of the Bhartiya Kisan Union had opted out of the Committee soon after it was constituted. The committee had also sought comments, views, and suggestions of the public through a public notice published in major newspapers. The Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three farm laws after constituting the Committee. Farmers, mostly from Punjab and Haryana, have been protesting at the borders of the national capital since November 26 demanding repeal of the three farm laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-appointed-committee-on-farm-laws-submits-report-968628.html
31-03-2021||National||Facebook to curb hate speech as Indian states go to polls||Facebook Inc said it was taking steps to combat hate speech and misinformation in India as the world's biggest democracy started its months-long multi-phase elections in four big states. "We recognize that there are certain types of content, such as hate speech, that could lead to imminent, offline harm," the social networking giant said in a blog post dated March 30. India is Facebook's biggest market by users. Its WhatsApp chat service is among the most popular in the country, counting around 500 million users alone. Facebook has been under fire globally for alleged lapses in controlling hate speech. In the United States, the social media giant put a months-long freeze on political, electoral and social ads to crack down on misinformation and abuses around the Nov. 3 presidential elections. In India, the company's top lobbyist quit last year after a Wall Street Journal report suggested the way the social media network regulated political content in the country favoured Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ruling party. Opposition parties questioned the company's policy following the report, but the Menlo Park, California-based company maintained it "remains committed to be an open and transparent platform." Elections in the states of Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and union territory Puducherry are a test of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's popularity amid a raging protest by farmers against new agricultural laws that have sparked outcry at home and abroad. "To decrease the risk of problematic content going viral in these states and potentially inciting violence ahead of or during the election, we will significantly reduce the distribution of content that our proactive detection technology identifies as likely hate speech or violence and incitement," Facebook said. It has also designed Election Day reminders to give voters accurate information and encourage them to share it with friends on Facebook and WhatsApp, the company said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/facebook-to-curb-hate-speech-as-indian-states-go-to-polls-968629.html
31-03-2021||National||20% RTIs filed with MHA rejected in 2019-20: CIC annual report||One in every five RTI applications filed with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) is rejected, according to the latest annual report of the Central Information Commission. The MHA tops the list when it comes to the proportion of RTIs rejected while in absolute numbers, the Ministry of Finance is on the top. According to the CIC's annual report for 2019-20 released recently, the MHA received 44,453 RTI applications of which it rejected 9,095 queries citing various sections of the Right to Information Act, 2005. This comes to 20.46% of the total queries it received in 2019-20. Among the central ministries and independent public authorities, the MHA is ranked tenth when it comes to the number of RTIs it received. The Ministry of Finance received the highest number of 1.92 lakh RTI requests in the previous fiscal of which it rejected 23,995 or 12.48% of the total applications. The Ministry of Railways (1.41 lakh) and the Ministry of Communications (1.22 lakh) were second and third when it comes to the receipt of RTI applications but their rejection rate was very low at 1.18% (1,663) and 1.69% (2,078). Delhi government received 1.08 lakh RTI queries while its rejection rate was just 1.40% (1,513). Altogether, there was 13.74 lakh RTIs filed in 2019-20 compared to 13.70 lakh in 2018-19. Of this, 58,634 were rejected, which is 4.27% of the total requests -- the lowest proportion of rejection since RTI's inception in 2005. Section 8 (1), which allows denial of information if such matters are prejudicial to the country's interest, impedes investigation and third party information, of the RTI Act, is the most used provision to deny information -- it has been cited 28,585 times. Section 24, which exempts intelligence and security organisations, has been cited 8,504 times. Altogether, around 56% of RTI applications in 2019-20 were rejected citing provisions exempting disclosure of personal information and exemption given to security and intelligence agencies.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/20-rtis-filed-with-mha-rejected-in-2019-20-cic-annual-report-968638.html
31-03-2021||National||Jaishankar calls on Tajikistan Speaker; discusses parliamentary support for Indo-Tajik cooperation||External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar on Wednesday met Tajikistan Speaker Zokirzoda Mahmadtohir Zoir and appreciated the strong parliamentary support for Indo-Tajik cooperation. Jaishankar, who is in Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe, attended the 9th Heart of Asia Ministerial Conference in Afghanistan on Tuesday. Earlier in the day, the minister paid his respects at the monument of the founder of the first Tajik state. “At Dusti Square in Dushanbe. Paying respects at the monument of Ismoili Somoni, founder of the first Tajik state,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. After visiting the Dusti Square, he called on the Speaker. “Glad to meet Speaker Zokirzoda Mahmadtohir Zoir of Tajikistan. Appreciated the strong parliamentary support for Indo-Tajik cooperation,” Jaishankar said on Twitter. On Tuesday, the minister called on Tajikistan President Emomali Rahmon and discussed expanding bilateral economic and development cooperation. Jaishankar also conveyed the greetings of President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to President Rahmon. "Thank President @EmomaliRahmon of Tajikistan for receiving me. Conveyed the greetings of President Kovind & PM Modi. Discussed expanding our bilateral economic and development cooperation. Appreciated his assessment of the Afghan situation," he tweeted. Talking to reporters, Jaishankar said he discussed with President Rahmon bilateral cooperation and also the situation in Afghanistan. "We discussed how to expand our economic, trade and investment cooperation. How to expand more in terms of capacity building, how to strengthen our political cooperation and how to work more closely on Afghanistan," he said. He also expressed India’s strong solidarity with Tajikistan in the fight against Covid-19. Later, Jaishankar met Tajikistan's Defence Minister Colonel General Sherali Mirzo and discussed ways to further strengthen defence and security cooperation. "Productive discussions with Defence Minister Colonel General Sherali Mirzo of Tajikistan. Focused on further strengthening our defence & security cooperation," Jaishankar tweeted. Tajikistan shares a 1,400-km-long porus border with Afghanistan and has immense geo-strategic significance for India which has been providing military assistance to the key Central Asian country as part of counter-terrorism cooperation. India has also developed the Ayni airbase near the Tajik capital Dushanbe.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jaishankar-calls-on-tajikistan-speaker-discusses-parliamentary-support-for-indo-tajik-cooperation-968640.html
31-03-2021||National||NIA court jails Pakistani LeT terrorist for 10 years for conspiring to attack India||A special NIA court here has sentenced a Pakistani LeT terrorist to 10 years' imprisonment for conspiring to carry out terrorist attacks at different places in India, including Delhi, after crossing over to Jammu and Kashmir following instructions from his handlers across the border, an official said on Wednesday. Bahadur Ali, the Pakistani Lashkar-e-Taiba terrorist, was convicted by the special judge for NIA cases in Patiala House Court on Friday under sections of the IPC, the UA(P) Act, the Arms Act, the Explosives Act, the Explosive Substances Act, the Foreigners Act and the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act. The court sentenced him to 10 years' rigorous imprisonment and also imposed a fine. The case, registered in July 2016, pertains to a larger conspiracy hatched by the LeT, a proscribed terrorist organisation based in Pakistan, to commit terror attacks in India, according to the NIA official. As part of the conspiracy, Ali along with his two associates, Abu Saad and Abu Darda, all trained terrorists of the LeT, had illegally infiltrated into Jammu and Kashmir with the intention to carry out terrorist attacks at different places in India, including Delhi, according to instructions by their LeT handlers based in Pakistan and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), the official said. Ali was arrested from Kupwara and a large number of arms such as AK-47 rifle, Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL), ammunition, hand grenades, UBGL shells, military map, wireless set, GPS, compass, Indian currency, Fake Indian Currency Notes were seized from him, he said. During investigation, Ali revealed details about recruitment, various LeT training camps, training to terrorists for handling weapons, explosives and modus operandi for motivating newly-recruited cadres for Jihad and terror acts in India by LeT leaders and also the details of LeT launching pads in PoK, the NIA official said. The NIA had filed a chargesheet against Ali in January 2017. Later, two other Pakistani LeT terrorists, Saad and Darda, were killed in an encounter in February 2017 in Kupwara. During investigation, two associates/supporters of Ali, Zahoor Ahmad Peer and Nazir Ahmad Peer, both residents of Jammu and Kashmir, were also arrested, the NIA official said, adding that further trial in the case against other charge-sheeted accused was underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-court-jails-pakistani-let-terrorist-for-10-years-for-conspiring-to-attack-india-968642.html
31-03-2021||National||Five states account for over 79% of active Covid-19 cases in India||Five states cumulatively account for over 79 per cent of the total Covid-19 active cases in the country with Maharashtra alone accounting for more than 61 per cent of the active caseload, the Union Health Ministry said on Wednesday. Apart from Maharashtra, the four other states accounting for the majority of the active cases are Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. “Five states namely Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Punjab and Chhattisgarh cumulatively account for 79.30% of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra leads with more than 61% of the active caseload of the country,” the ministry said in a statement. Eight states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh have also reported a surge in the Covid daily new cases with 84.73 per cent of the new cases reported from these states, the Union Health ministry said. “A net incline of 11,846 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours,” the ministry said. India's total Active Caseload has reached 5,52,566. It now comprises 4.55 per cent of the country's total positive cases. Fourteen States/UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Rajasthan, Assam, Odisha, Ladakh (UT), Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh. On the vaccination front, the ministry said that more than 6.30 crore (6,30,54,353) vaccine doses have been administered through 10,46,757 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. These include 82,16,239 healthcare workers (first dose), 52,19,525 HCWs (2nd dose), 90,48,417 frontline workers (first dose) and 37,90,467 FLWs (2nd Dose), 73,52,957 (1st Dose) and 6,824 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities and 2,93,71,422 (1st Dose) and 48,502 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged more than 60 years. “As on Day-74 of the vaccination drive (30th March), total 19,40,999 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 17,77,637 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 39,666 sessions for 1st dose and 1,63,632 beneficiaries received 2nd dose of vaccine,” it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/five-states-account-for-over-79-of-active-covid-19-cases-in-india-968645.html
31-03-2021||National||India slips 28 ranks to 140 in Global Gender Gap index||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021, falling behind five neighbours, including Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka. The dip was mainly due to the decline in the political empowerment subindex -- a significant decline in the number of women ministers from 23.1 per cent in 2019 to 9.1 per cent in 2021 -- and economic participation and opportunity subindex, albeit to a lesser extent. India has closed 62.5 per cent of its gender gap till date, the report said. It had ranked 112th among 153 countries in the index last year. On the political empowerment subindex, the report also said the share of women in Parliament remained stagnant at 14.4 per cent and the share of the last 50 years in which a woman has been head of state is 15.5 years. India’s gender gap on economic participation and opportunity dimension widened by 3 per cent this year, leading to a 32.6 per cent gap closed to date. Among the drivers of this decline are a decrease in women’s labour force participation rate, which fell from 24.8 per cent to 22.3 per cent, the report said. When it comes to neighbours, Bangladesh ranked 65, Nepal 106, Sri Lanka 116, Maldives 128 and Bhutan 130, which were above India. Pakistan was ranked 153, while Afghanistan ranked last at 156. The report highlighted that only 29.2 per cent of technical roles are held by women in India, while it was 25.3 per cent in Pakistan and 19.3 per cent in Afghanistan. "The presence of women in senior roles is even more rare: women make up just 4.1 per cent in Afghanistan, 4.9 per cent in Pakistan, 10.7 per cent in Bangladesh and 14.6 per cent in India," it said. In India, there are only 8.9 per cent of firms with female top managers. In the labour market in India, only 22.3 per cent of women participate in the labour market, translating to a gender gap of 72 per cent. The disparity in income between men and women is also huge -- in Pakistan and Afghanistan, the income of an average woman is below 16 per cent of that of an average man, while in India it is 20.7 per cent. Only in Nepal and Bhutan is the gap lower than 50 per cent, as the income earned by a woman is 74 per cent and 58 per cent, respectively, of that of a man. The income disparity between men and women goes further as women’s estimated earned income is only one-fifth of men’s, which puts India among the bottom 10 globally. India also ranks among the bottom five countries in health and survival subindex . According to the report, China and India together account for about 90%-95% of the estimated 1.2-1.5 million missing female births annually worldwide due to gender-biased prenatal sex selective practices. Further, China, India and Pakistan register excess female mortality rates (below age 5) related to neglect and gender-biased postnatal sex selection practices.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-slips-28-ranks-to-140-in-global-gender-gap-index-968648.html
31-03-2021||National||Mamata Banerjee promises action against 'attackers', claims has videos||A day ahead of the high stakes electoral battle in the Nandigram Assembly constituency, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said that she has photos and videos of those who allegedly attacked her in Nandigram. Speaking at a rally at Goghat in Hooghly district, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo threatened to “drag out” the attackers no matter which State they are hiding in. An enraged Mamata said that no matter which “gaddar” (traitor) was giving shelter to the attackers, she would find them and take action. “I kept quiet only because the Assembly elections are going on. Otherwise, I would have taught them (the attackers) a lesson. How dare they attack my vehicle,” said Mamata. “I have photos and videos of the attackers. Let the elections be over and then I will take action. It doesn’t matter which ‘gaddar’ is sheltering you. Where will you hide? Delhi, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan? I will drag you out and bring you back to Bengal,” she said. The TMC supremo alleged that she was heckled by BJP cadres while visiting a TMC worker who was undergoing treatment after being assaulted. She further alleged that her vehicle was chased by some people holding placards. She said that the BJP has hired goons who used to work for the CPI(M). “You (BJP) are so scared to fight a woman. BJP has no cadres of its own. They are depending on goons borrowed from the CPI(M) whom they have given tickets to contest elections,” said Mamata. Speaking at a rally in Singur later in the day the Chief Minister alleged that BJP leaders were distributing crores of Rupees to influence voters and urged the Election Commission to take action. She further alleged that the BJP was bringing hired anti-socials from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh to create trouble in Bengal. “Several BJP leaders are sitting in hotels and distributing crores of rupees from there. What is the Election Commission doing? Where is their Naka checking? BJP is bringing goons from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in Bengal. Several outsiders have entered the state,” said Mamata. She urged the Election Commission not to act only on the basis of BJP’s claims. Mamata will face off against her former protegee Suvendu Adhikari in the Nandigram seat on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-banerjee-promises-action-against-attackers-claims-has-videos-968661.html
31-03-2021||National||PM Modi calls up Deve Gowda to enquire about his health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to former PM H D Deve Gowda on Wednesday to enquire about his and his wife's health after the elderly couple tested positive for Covid-19.  Modi tweeted, "Spoke to former PM Shri @H_D_Devegowda Ji and enquired about his and his wife's health. Praying for their quick recovery."   Deve Gowda had earlier said that he and his wife, Chennamma, have tested positive for Covid-19.  Later in a tweet, he said he was grateful to Modi for calling and enquiring after his health.   "I am also deeply moved by his offer to get me treated in any hospital of my choice in any city. I assured him that I am being looked after well in Bangalore, but will keep him informed," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-calls-up-deve-gowda-to-enquire-about-his-health-968669.html
31-03-2021||National||Opposition's claims on coal block allocation baseless: Goa minister||A day after the Opposition stalled the question hour in the Goa legislative Assembly over the allocation of a coal block, State Industries Minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said they were "barking up the wrong tree". The allegations of corruption levelled against the state government are "baseless", as the coal block is yet to be allotted to any company. The Central government has allocated a coal block in Madhya Pradesh to Goa. The Opposition on Tuesday stalled the question hour and alleged that the state government was involved in Rs 1,000 crore coal block scam and had roped in a tainted company as a consultant for the project. Responding to the allegations, Rane told reporters that the consultant chosen for the project has worked with 20 public sector undertakings in the past and has experience in coal blocks. "The company has already clarified that the cases against it are either withdrawn or yet to be charge-sheeted," Rane said. The allocation of the coal block has been delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country, he said, adding that the state government is yet to float a request for qualification (RFQ) for the block. The Opposition should refrain from making such allegations, he said. The previous governments are under scanner, as 22 files created during their time on the coal block have been confiscated by the Central Bureau of Investigation, the minister claimed. "We are yet to get back those 22 files," he said, adding that the opposition was "barking up the wrong tree."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/oppositions-claims-on-coal-block-allocation-baseless-goa-minister-968679.html
31-03-2021||National||Govt approves Rs 10,900 cr PLI scheme for food processing sector||Centre on Wednesday rolled out a Rs 10,900 crore scheme to promote food processing, including ready-to-cook/eat products from millets, marine produce and step up production of mozzarella cheese. The production-linked incentive scheme, approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, is seen as part of efforts to push India’s food processing industry to meet the rising global demand for Indian ready to eat foods, organic products, processed fruits and vegetables. The incentives will be paid out over a period of six years ending 2026-27, Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal told reporters here. He said the scheme will help create 2.5 lakh jobs by 2026-27, boost exports and facilitate expansion of food processing capacity to generate processed food output worth Rs 33,494 crore. The scheme was aimed at supporting food manufacturing entities with stipulated minimum sales and that are willing to make minimum stipulated investment for expansion of processing capacity and branding abroad to incentivise emergence of strong Indian brands. Earlier, the Centre had PLI schemes for six sectors, including to boost domestic manufacturing of pharmaceuticals and of laptops, tablet computers, all-in-one personal computers and servers in the country. The first component under the scheme relates to incentivising manufacturing of four major food product segments: ready-to-cook/ready-to-eat foods, processed fruits and vegetables, marine products and mozzarella cheese, an official statement said. Innovative and organic products of small-to-medium enterprises (SMEs), including eggs, poultry meat, egg products in these segments, are also covered under the first component. The second component relates to support for branding and marketing abroad to incentivise emergence of strong Indian brands. The scheme aims to support creation of global food manufacturing champions, strengthen select Indian brand of food products for global visibility and wider acceptance in the international markets besides increasing employment opportunities of off-farm jobs as well as ensuring remunerative prices of farm produce and higher income to farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-approves-rs-10900-cr-pli-scheme-for-food-processing-sector-968711.html
31-03-2021||National||From The Newsroom: India ranks 140 in World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021||In your evening news brief, World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021; BioNTech-Pfizer says its vaccine showed 100% efficacy against the coronavirus in 12 to 15-year-olds and former Prime Minister H.D Devegowda admitted to hospital for evaluation of fever.  Hi, this is Ahmed Shariff and you are listening to, From The Newsroom— your daily evening news catch up show from Deccan Herald.  Here is the top news of March 31, 2021:   BioNTech-Pfizer said Wednesday their vaccine showed 100 per cent efficacy against the coronavirus in 12 to 15-year-olds, as they eye approval for adolescents to get the jabs before the next school year. Phase 3 trials carried out on 2,260 adolescents in the United States "demonstrated 100 per cent efficacy and robust antibody responses", the companies said in a statement. The BioNTech/Pfizer shot is based on novel mRNA technology and was the first Covid-19 vaccine to be approved in the West late last year.   Former Prime Minister Sri H.D Devegowda is admitted today at Manipal hospital old Airport Road for evaluation of fever. The former prime minister took to twitter to say that he and his wife tested positive for Covid-19. Sources told DH that he is being appropriately investigated and closely monitored by a team of medical experts. He is currently in a stable condition.   India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum's Global Gender Gap Report 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia According to the report, India has closed 62.5 per cent of its gender gap till date. The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in the Global Gender Gap Index 2020. According to the report, India has closed 62.5 per cent of its gender gap till date. The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in the Global Gender Gap Index 2020. Source: DHNS/ PTI/ AFP||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-india-ranks-140-in-world-economic-forums-global-gender-gap-report-2021-968721.html
31-03-2021||National||SC notice to Karnataka government on restrictions on mining in 'patta' land||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine a plea challenging the validity of 2016 amendment to the Karnataka Minor Minerals Concession Rules, 1994, which put restrictions on right of patta (private) landholders to undertake mining of granite in the state. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian issued notice to the Karnataka government on a batch of petitions filed by S Nagaraju and others. In the direction passed on March 26, the top court said that interim relief granted to Patta landowners by the High Court for a period of four months would continue until further orders. The petitioners led by senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, advocate Sanjay Nuli and others contended that the amendment was against the fundamental rights to equality and to carry on one's trade, business and occupation. They challenged the Karnataka High Court's June 1, 2020, judgement saying it had failed to consider that the restrictions put through the amendment were unreasonable. They claimed the 2016 amendment was made with a mala fide intention. "The authorities' intention is not to conserve the environment, but to make undue monetary gains," their plea alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-karnataka-government-on-restrictions-on-mining-in-patta-land-968729.html
31-03-2021||National||Cost of domestic LPG to reduce by Rs 10 per cylinder from April 1||After raising cooking gas prices by Rs 125 per cylinder last month, state-owned oil firms on Wednesday announced a Rs 10 per cylinder cut in LPG rates on softening international oil prices. A 14.2-kg LPG cylinder -- both for subsidised and market price users -- will cost Rs 809 from April 1 as against Rs 819 currently, Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) said in a statement. The price cut, which traditionally is announced on the day the change is effective -- four times the rates went up in a span of one month -- was announced a day ahead of the second phase of voting in West Bengal. The politically-crucial Nandigram constituency from where state Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is taking on her once-trusted aide Suvendu Adhikari, who is contesting on BJP ticket, is also going for polls on Thursday. "Prices of crude oil and petroleum products in the international market have been on a constant uptrend since November 2020. As India is largely import-dependent on crude oil and the prices are market-linked, the increase in international prices resulted in an increase in the domestic price of petroleum products," IOC said. However, due to growing worries about rising COVID cases in Europe and Asia and concerns over the side effects of the vaccine, prices of crude oil and petroleum products in the international market softened in the second fortnight of March 2021. "Accordingly, oil companies have reduced the retail selling price of diesel and petrol by 60 paise per litre and 61 paise per litre, respectively, at Delhi market over the past few days. There was a corresponding reduction in prices at other markets during this period," it said. This reduction has come as a relief to motorists and transporters across India. "Further, with a view to give relief to domestic LPG consumers, the price of domestic LPG cylinder has been reduced by Rs 10 per cylinder from Rs 819 to Rs 809 per cylinder at Delhi effective April 1, 2021. The same reduction has been carried out in other markets," it said. LPG prices had gone up by Rs 125 per 14.2-kg cylinder since the beginning of February, price data from state-owned oil marketing companies showed. LPG is available only at one rate, market price, across the country. The government, however, gives a small subsidy to select customers. However, this subsidy has been eliminated in metros and major cities through successive price increases over the past couple of years. So, in places like Delhi, there is no subsidy paid to customers since May 2020 and all LPG users pay the market price, which has now been reduced to Rs 809. An oil company official said a small subsidy is paid to customers in remote and far-flung areas to make up for the higher price arising from freight charges. LPG prices were hiked first by Rs 25 per cylinder on February 4, followed by a Rs 50 per cylinder increase on February 15 and a Rs 25 raise on February 25 and March 1. After three reductions in one week, petrol now costs Rs 90.56 per litre in Delhi, down from a record high of Rs 91.17, and a litre of diesel comes for Rs 80.87. Despite bouts of rate freeze, prices had gone up by a record Rs 21.58 per litre for petrol since the government raised excise duty in March last year. Diesel prices had increased by Rs 19.18 a litre. "Driven by the vigorous thrust of the government on making accessible clean energy to all Indians, LPG has emerged as the preferred kitchen partner for almost every Indian. LPG penetration in India has improved from 55 per cent in 2014 to more than 99 per cent today," IOC said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cost-of-domestic-lpg-to-reduce-by-rs-10-per-cylinder-from-april-1-968738.html
31-03-2021||National||Centre holds meet with states, UTs ahead of opening up Covid-19 vaccination to people above 45||As India prepares to open up its Covid-19 vaccination drive to people above 45 from April 1, the Centre on Wednesday asked states and union territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. National Health Authority CEO and Empowered Group on Covid Vaccination chairperson Dr R S Sharma and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries, mission directors of NHM and immunisation officers of all states and UTs during the day, a statement said. The status and pace of the inoculation drive across the country were reviewed at the meeting held through video-conferencing, as were the preparations for April 2021, when vaccination would be extended to cover everybody above the age of 45, the ministry said. "A key theme underlying the meet was the identification of low vaccine coverage pockets particularly in districts showing Covid-19 surge and for taking corrective actions there," it said in the statement. On vaccination coverage of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs), the states and the UTs were advised to ensure that only eligible beneficiaries were registered and inoculated under the respective categories. They were also advised to archive incorrect and duplicate entries on the Co-WIN platform, identify pockets of low vaccination coverage – health facility, professional association, blocks, districts – for taking corrective action, and ensure saturation of vaccination of these groups on priority. States and UTs were asked to conduct regular reviews of capacity utilisation at private Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs). They were also asked to undertake GIS analysis of CVCs to identify the need for more such facilities, and address apprehensions of private CVCs regarding vaccine supply and guidelines, the statement said. The states and UTs were also advised to ensure that there was no sedimentation of vaccine stocks at any level of storage, and that their distribution was based on consumption to avoid overstocking or under-stocking at cold chain points and CVCs. They were asked to conduct regular reviews of vaccine stocks and consumption to identify gap areas and address the same, the ministry said in its statement. The Centre also advised the states and UTs to maintain vaccine wastage at less than one per cent (current National Wastage Percentage being six per cent). They were asked to ensure timely utilisation of available stock to avoid expiry of vaccines and update the vaccine consumption data on Co-WIN and eVIN portals. Dr Sharma assured that there was no problem in storage and logistics of the vaccines. He re-emphasized that there was no value in conserving vaccines for the second dose and that states must promptly supply vaccines to all government and private hospitals where there is a demand, the statement stated. A countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated first, and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2. The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced on March 1 to cover people above 60 and those in the age group of 45-59 but with specified co-morbid conditions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-holds-meet-with-states-uts-ahead-of-opening-up-covid-19-vaccination-to-people-above-45-968756.html
31-03-2021||National||Madras HC asks parents of same-sex partners to undergo counselling||The Madras High Court has asked the parents of two women, who were in a live-in relationship, to subject themselves to counselling by a specialist in the field, to face the matter wisely. Justice N Anand Venkatesh, who gave an interim order on Tuesday, hoped that the parties will work towards a peaceful resolution. "What is required for the present is an understanding of the issue in hand," the judge said. He was passing orders on a petition from the women, seeking protection for their living together without any disturbance from their respective parents. While one of them was 22 and pursuing MBA, the other woman, 20, was an undergraduate student. They were natives of Madurai district and were in a relationship for about two years. They told the judge their friendship blossomed into love and that they were very clear that both of them will be a partner to each other for life. But, their parents did not like this. They exerted pressure on them to separate. The women left Madurai and were presently under the care of a city-based NGO. Before passing the interim order, the judge said he personally spent time doing some research and collected materials to arrive at a proper understanding of this issue. It would have been possible for him to pack his order with a lot of research material and get applauded by the outside world for rendering a scholarly order. "But, there was a call from inside which kept reminding me that if I venture into such an exercise at this stage, it will only be hypocritical of me since the order will not reveal my true and honest feeling about this very important issue." "To be open, I am also trying to break my own preconceived notions about this issue and I am in the process of evolving and sincerely attempting to understand the feelings of the petitioners and their parents, thereafter proceed to write a detailed order on this issue," the judge said. That is the reason he was trying to develop this case brick by brick and ultimately, construct something purposeful on the issue, the judge added. He directed well-known psychologist Vidya Dinakaran to counsel the parents some time in April and submit a report on April 26.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madras-hc-asks-parents-of-same-sex-partners-to-undergo-counselling-968762.html
31-03-2021||National||PAN-Aadhaar linking deadline extended to June 30, 2021||The government on Wednesday extended the deadline for linking PAN with Aadhaar by three months till June 30. The income tax department said it has received representations from taxpayers that the last date for intimating the Aadhaar number may further be extended in the wake of the on-going Covid-19 pandemic. “Keeping in view the difficulties faced by the taxpayers, the Central Government has issued notification today extending the last date for the intimation of Aadhaar number and linking thereof with PAN to 30th June, 2021,” the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pan-aadhaar-linking-deadline-extended-to-june-30-2021-968764.html
31-03-2021||National||Modi govt cuts interest rates on PPF, KVP and other small savings schemes from April 1||The government on Wednesday cut interest rates on small savings schemes, including NSC and PPF, by up to 1.1 per cent for the first quarter of 2021-22 in line with falling fixed deposit rates of banks. Interest rate on Public Provident Fund (PPF) has been reduced by 0.7 per cent to 6.4 per cent while National Savings Certificate (NSC) will now earn 0.9 per cent less at 5.9 per cent. The new interest rate on PPF will be the lowest since 1974. According to reports, the PPF interest rate was 7 per cent between August 1974 and March 1975. Prior to that, the rate was 5.8 per cent. Interest rates for small savings schemes are notified on a quarterly basis. The rates of interest on various small savings schemes for the first quarter of the financial year 2021-22 starting from April 1 and ending on June 30, 2021, has been revised, the finance ministry said in a notification. The interest rate for the five-year Senior Citizens Savings Scheme has also been reduced steeply by 0.9 per cent to 6.5 per cent. The interest on the senior citizens' scheme is paid quarterly. For the first time interest rate on savings deposits has been reduced by 0.5 per cent to 3.5 per cent from the existing 4 per cent annually. The steepest fall of 1.1 per cent has been effected in the one-year term deposit. The new rate will be 4.4 per cent as compared to 5.5 per cent at the moment. Similarly, two-year fixed deposit will earn 0.5 per cent less at 5 per cent, three-year term deposit rate will be down by 0.4 per cent and five- year term deposit rate will be lower by 0.9 per cent at 5.8 per cent. The girl child savings scheme Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account will offer 0.7 per cent lower rate at 6.9 per cent rate during the first quarter of the next fiscal. The annual interest rate on Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) has been reduced by 0.7 per cent to 6.2 per cent from 6.9 per cent. While announcing the quarterly setting of interest rates in 2016, the finance ministry had said that rates of small savings schemes would be linked to government bond yields. Last month, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept interest rates static for the fourth time in a row at 4 per cent on inflationary concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/modi-govt-cuts-interest-rates-on-ppf-kvp-and-other-small-savings-schemes-from-april-1-968768.html
31-03-2021||National||Railways to reintroduce unreserved train services in phased manner||The Indian Railways has said it has decided to reintroduce unreserved train services in a phased manner to facilitate the movement of passengers. The railway zonal officers are in touch with state governments. Based on the requirement of the states, the railways will resume the operations of unreserved trains, officials here said. Some of the major railway routes on which these unreserved special trains are currently running include Baramulla Junction – Banihal section (Jammu & Kashmir), Baramulla Junction – Badgam section (Jammu & Kashmir), Delhi – Tundla section (Uttar Pradesh), Kanpur Central – Tundla section (Uttar Pradesh), and Kanpur Central – Phaphund section (Uttar Pradesh). Earlier, the railways had reactivated the facility to book unreserved tickets through the UTS ON MOBILE app. "In order to avoid any inconvenience to passengers in booking unreserved tickets and to ensure norms of social distancing at booking counters while purchasing the tickets, it has been decided that in addition to UTS on mobile App facility available on suburban sections, this facility may also be reintroduced on non-suburban sections of zonal Railways,"  the Railway Ministry said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-to-reintroduce-unreserved-train-services-in-phased-manner-968771.html
31-03-2021||National||All eyes on Nandigram in the second phase of West Bengal polls||All eyes will be on the Nandigram Assembly constituency when voting for the second phase of the West Bengal Assembly elections will take place on Thursday. Thirty seats including Nandigram in four districts will go to the polls in the second phase. The fate of 171 candidates will be decided by about 75 lakh voters in the second phase where 652 companies of the Central force have been deployed to prevent any untoward incident. The contest at Nandigram will be an all or nothing battle for both the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee and her former protegee Suvendu Adhikari, who is the BJP candidate. If Mamata fails to secure a victory in Nandigram, then not only will she be unable to be the Chief Minister for the third time but her political stature will also suffer a severe blow. However, if the TMC supremo is able to beat Adhikari, then her former lieutenant’s political career will be in jeopardy as a defeat in Nandigram will put a question mark on his position in the BJP. Apart from Mamata and Adhikari, the fate of several other celebrity candidates will be decided in the second phase. The TMC has fielded Bengali film star Soham Chakraborty from the Chandipur Assembly seat in the East Medinipur district. BJP’s celebrity candidate actor Sayantika Bandyopadhyay will make her debut this time from the Bankura Assembly seat in Bankura district. Another celebrity candidate of the saffron party actor and TMC turncoat Hiran Chatterjee will be contesting from the Kharagpur Sadar seat in the West Medinipur district. The seat was won by BJP State President Dilip Ghosh in the 2016 Assembly elections but was wrested by TMC in the 2019 by-elections. BJP candidate and former cricketer Ashok Dinda will make his electoral debut from the Moyna in the East Medinipur district. Although in the 2016 Assembly elections, the TMC won 21 out of the 30 seats which will go to polls in the second phase and the BJP only won one, the political scenario changed in the last Lok Sabha elections when the saffron party got a lead in 12 seats. The TMC led in 18 seats in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. BJP’s vote share in the 30 seats shot up from 7.38% in the 2016 Assembly elections to 42.40% in the last Lok Sabha elections. TMC’s vote share came down from 47.88% in the 2016 Assembly elections to 45.89% in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Infographics for phase II of West Bengal Assembly elections: Total seats: 30Number of candidates: 171Total voters: 7594549Male voters: 3880955Female voters:3713508Polling stations: 10620||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-eyes-on-nandigram-in-the-second-phase-of-west-bengal-polls-968777.html
31-03-2021||National||India, Australia sharpened policies against China over aggressive behaviour: US think-tank||China's behaviour towards Australia and India has spurred both the countries to sharpen their policies against Beijing, an influential American think-tank has observed, saying that restoring US alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific is critical to compete more effectively against the Communist giant. Beijing’s growing economic might, military modernisation, and aggressive diplomatic efforts were already eroding America’s competitive advantage and shifting the regional balance of power in the Indo-Pacific before the Covid-19 crisis began, said the Center for a New American Security (CNAS) in its latest report. The report titled "Positive Visions, Powerful Partnerships: The Keys to Competing with China in a Post-Pandemic Indo-Pacific" said that the pandemic has accelerated trends in the diplomatic, economic, and defence realms in ways that reinforce structural challenges for the United States, but also create opportunities for it to compete more effectively against China. “Restoring US alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific is critical to competing more effectively against China,” said the report authored jointly by a group of experts, including Stephen Tankel, Adjunct Senior Fellow, Indo-Pacific Security Programme at CNAS and Lisa Curtis, Senior Fellow and Director, Indo-Pacific Security Programme at CNAS among others. Under the Trump administration, Curtis was deputy assistant to US president Donald Trump, and Senior Director for South and Central Asia on the National Security Council (NSC). Noting that the US-Japan alliance remains a linchpin for any such effort, the CNAS report notes that Tokyo’s diplomatic warming with Beijing has cooled since the Covid-19 crisis began. “Aggressive Chinese behaviour toward Australia and India in the wake of the pandemic has spurred both countries to sharpen their policies toward China,” it said. “Together, these four democracies are enhancing their diplomatic, economic, and defence cooperation bilaterally, trilaterally, and through the Quad, which promises to be a core component of the US approach to the Indo-Pacific,” it said. The report said that another key factor that will influence the geopolitical dynamics of the Indo-Pacific moving forward is the extent to which the United States and its fellow Quad democracies can help Southeast Asia recover from the Covid-19 crisis. On March 12, US President Joe Biden hosted the first-ever summit of the Quad grouping. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison and Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga participated in the meeting. The US-China competition for influence is intense in Southeast Asia, and so the ability of the United States to deliver on a positive agenda for regional recovery will be a key test of its competence, commitment, and credibility in meeting challenges of the Indo-Pacific. Done correctly, such efforts also provide an opportunity to build ties between the Quad and ASEAN, and to reinforce a web of networked relationships among their respective members, the CNAS said. In its sets of recommendations, CNAS recommends swiftly following through with plans to work with Japan and Australia to fund the Indian production of at least one billion vaccine doses and their distribution in the Indo-Pacific. “Consider additional vaccine diplomacy options to pursue unilaterally or in concert with the Quad and other countries,” it said. The CNAS also recommended increasing defence integration with Japan and Australia. “Adapt exercises to account for potential reductions in presence and possible future disruptions to training cycles. Seize opportunities to expand the US-India defence relationship. Seek opportunities to reinforce and expand defence ties between all four Quad countries,” it said. The report recommends prioritising helping Indo-Pacific countries, especially those in Southeast Asia, deal with debt problems resulting from or exacerbated by the COVID-19 crisis. “Accelerate implementation of existing assistance programmes for infrastructure and human capital development in the region and enhance coordination with other Quad countries on the delivery of assistance,” it says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-sharpened-policies-against-china-over-aggressive-behaviour-us-think-tank-968783.html
31-03-2021||National||Mansukh Mandaviya launches cruise service from Surat to Diu||Union Minister of State for Ports, Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya on Wednesday flagged off the cruise service from Hazira Port of Surat to Diu via video conferencing.  Addressing the event, the Minister said, “I feel very happy to announce that before 2014, there were 139 cruise calls at the Indian Ports but today we have 450 cruise calls in the country despite the Covid-19 pandemic. There has been a steady growth in the number of tourists traveling by Cruise Services since 2014. The number before 2014 was one lakh and the number of tourists in 2019-20 was 4.5 lakhs.” "Under the Maritime Vision 2030, we are aiming for more than 350 cruise ships, 3,000 plus cruise calls per annum, more than 3 cruise training academies, and 5 million cruise passengers by 2030. We are taking all-round steps to create perfect ecosystem for the cruise industry,' the Minister said. The Minister said 6 international cruise terminals are being planned on both the West coast (Mumbai, Goa, Kochi) and East coast (Visakhapatnam, Kolkata, Chennai, the statement said. One side voyage time of the cruise service is approximately 13 to 14 hours. The cruise has a capacity of 300 passengers and has 16 cabins. This cruise will sail two round trips in a week. The cruise has a gaming lounge, VIP lounge, entertainment on deck, and other modern amenities. One side journey will cost Rs.900+taxes(per head), the statement added. In November 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated the ‘Hazira-Ghogha’ RoPAX service and within four months, One lakh passengers and thousands of vehicles utilised the ferry service to save journey time and the cost to travel from Hazira (Surat) to Ghogha (Bhavanagar).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mansukh-mandaviya-launches-cruise-service-from-surat-to-diu-968786.html
31-03-2021||National||RBI orders forensic audit of Mobikwik systems after data breach allegations||The Reserve Bank has asked troubled digital wallet firm Mobikwik, which is facing data breach allegations, to get a forensic audit done without any delay. Though the Gurugram-based firm has been claiming that its systems are secure and that there is no basis to the allegations of data breach, a group of hackers on Tuesday said that they accessed personal and financial data of nearly 10 crore Mobikwik customers. On Wednesday, sources in the know of the development told PTI that the RBI has ordered an immediate forensic audit of the company's systems by a certified auditor. When contacted, an RBI spokesperson refused to comment. Mobikwik refused to give a direct answer to a query on whether the RBI has ordered a forensic audit. "We take privacy and security of our user data seriously and are working with authorities to conduct an independent forensic audit," it said. However, the sources said the RBI has asked Mobikwik to get the forensic audit done without any delay to ascertain whether there was a data breach or not. "The RBI has asked Mobikwik to get a third-party forensic audit carried out at the earliest by a CERT-IN-(Indian Computer Emergency Response Team)-empanelled auditor and submit the report without any delay," one of the sources said quoting a letter from the regulator. The regulatory diktat comes after Mobikwik contacted CERT-IN on the issue, the sources said, adding that CERT-IN had shared a data leak sample with the company, which concluded that the sample didn't belong to them. However, Mobikwik had admitted to CERT-IN that on March 1, there was an unauthorised attempt to access its user-facing application programming interface associated with a payment link generated through its platform. But the attempt was scuttled, Mobikwik claimed, leaving CERT-IN unconvinced, and later recommended to RBI for a forensic audit, as per the sources. On Tuesday, PTI received an email from the hacker group named Jordandaven which had the link of the database of around  9.9 crore Mobikwik users' personal information such as mobile numbers, bank account details, emails, and credit card numbers. Jordandaven has also shared that the data of Mobikwik founder Bipin Preet Singh and chief executive Upasana Taku from the database. Mobikwik, on Tuesday, denied the allegations saying they take data security very seriously and are fully compliant with all applicable data security laws. "We are subjected to stringent compliance measures under its PCI-DSS and ISO certifications which include annual security audits and quarterly penetration tests to ensure security of its platform. "As soon this matter was reported, we undertook a thorough investigation with the help of external security experts and did not find any evidence of a data breach," Mobikwik had said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rbi-orders-forensic-audit-of-mobikwik-systems-after-data-breach-allegations-968793.html
31-03-2021||National||India, Mauritius FTA to come into effect from April 1||Several Indian products will enjoy the benefit of greater market access at concessional duties in Mauritius as the free trade agreement signed between the two countries will come into effect from April 1, the commerce ministry said on Wednesday. India and Mauritius signed the Comprehensive Economic Cooperation and Partnership Agreement (CECPA), a kind of free trade pact, on February 22. "Both sides have completed their internal legal procedures and the India-Mauritius CECPA will enter into force on Thursday, 01 April 2021," the ministry said. The pact covers 310 export items for India, including food and beverages, agricultural products, textile and textile articles, base metals, electricals and electronic item, plastics and chemicals, and wood. It said that Mauritius will benefit from preferential market access into India for its 615 products, including frozen fish, speciality sugar, biscuits, fresh fruits, juices, mineral water, beer, alcoholic drinks, soaps, bags, medical and surgical equipment, and apparel. As regards trade in services, Indian service providers will have access to around 115 subsectors such as professional services, computer related services, research and development, telecommunication, construction, education, environmental, financial, tourism, yoga, and audio-visual. On the other hand, India has offered around 95 sub-sectors from the 11 broad services sectors, including R&D, telecommunication, financial, distribution, higher education, environmental, health, and transport services. It added that Indian exporters have to obtain a Certificate of Origin (CoO) from the authorised Indian agencies to avail the preferential benefits under the agreement. An exporter has to submit this certificate at the landing port of the importing country. The document is important to claim duty concessions under a free-trade agreement. It is essential to prove where their goods come from. "The online application for CoO for the India-Mauritius CECPA can be made from 01 April 2021 through the common digital platform for issuance of certificate of origin of the Directorate General of Foreign Trade (DGFT)," the ministry said. In such an agreement, two trading partners cut or eliminate duties on a host of products besides liberalising norms to promote services trade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-mauritius-fta-to-come-into-effect-from-april-1-968814.html
31-03-2021||National||Joint Committee says no excess sand mining in Devadurga taluk||A joint committee, which inspected sand mines in Devadurga Taluk in the Raichur district, has said that there is no excess sand mining in both the sand mines. The committee in its report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has said that it has inspected two sand mining leases at Joladahadegi in Devadurga taluk, which faced allegations of excess removal of sand. However there were no such cases and imposition of environmental compensation does not arise, the report said. After complaints on excess sand mining in mining leases at Joladahadegi in Devadurga taluk, the NGT Southern Bench has constituted a joint committee comprising Raichur Sub-division,  Assistant Commissioner, officials of Mines and Geology and Pollution Control Board.   The committee also said that “in view of the least importance given by the lease owners on Environment Clearances (EC) compliances and to bring attention and importance on EC, the committee felt that a lump sum amount, say Rs 5 lakh may be imposed on all mines as Environmental compensation.” The Committee also noted that the Director of Mines and Geology has imposed a penalty of Rs 35,35,000 on three other mines and collected Rs 16.11,200 for mining in encroachment areas outside the lease area.  The District Sand Committee has taken various actions on the defaulters including collecting penalty for using heavy machinery and filing FIR, The Directorate of Mines and Geology to take necessary action to collect the balance penalty, the report said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/joint-committee-says-no-excess-sand-mining-in-devadurga-taluk-968824.html
31-03-2021||National||Don’t waste Covid-19 vaccines, Centre tells states||The Union Health Ministry on Wednesday asked the states to reduce wastage of Covid-19 vaccines while assuring there would be no vaccine shortage as the gates to vaccinate anyone above 45 years are set to open up. “Maintain vaccine wastage at less than 1% as against the present vaccine wastage of 6% and regularly review vaccine wastage across all levels to minimise the same,” top officials said. This was conveyed to the states at a high-level review meeting in which Rajesh Bhushan, Union Health Secretary and R S Sharma, chairperson, empowered group on Covid-19 vaccination spoke to state health secretaries, mission directors of National Health Mission and state immunization officers. In addition, state officials have been asked to identify pockets with low vaccination coverage particularly in districts showing Covid-19 surge so that the pace of inoculation in such areas can be accelerated to cover the eligible persons with the first dose in the next two weeks. On the issue of vaccine supply, the states have been told since there is no issue in vaccine supply, they should not hold over the vaccine stocks for the second dose and promptly supply vaccines to all government and private hospitals where there is a demand. “There is no sedimentation of vaccine stocks at any level of storage. The distribution (to the states) is based on consumption to avoid overstocking as well as under-stocking at cold chain points and Covid vaccination centres,” the ministry said in a statement. But the states should be careful in selecting the batches to minimise the loss.  The issue of vaccine wastage had figured in a review meeting that Prime Minister Narendra Modi held with the Chief Ministers two weeks ago in which Modi flagged the instances of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh as the states where nearly 10% of the Covid-19 vaccine is wasted. The Prime Minister told the Chief Ministers to utilise the vaccine in accordance with the expiry date on the vial. So far 91 lakh individuals – mostly healthcare and front line workers – received two doses of the vaccine whereas more than 6 crore got at least one dose. From April 1, the eligible beneficiaries can get the vaccines either through registration on the Co-WIN platform or walking to a vaccination centre for a spot registration and the shot. But those who would prefer to walk in, have to go after 3 pm, as per the central government policy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/don-t-waste-covid-19-vaccines-centre-tells-states-968833.html
31-03-2021||National Politics||AAP, BJP spar over ‘mosquito menace’ in Delhi||The AAP on Tuesday claimed that the BJP has transformed Delhi into a "mosquito capital" by not undertaking fogging exercise this year, with the BJP rejecting the charges as "vague". Addressing a press conference here, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said the national capital was facing mosquito menace due to the failure of the BJP-ruled civic bodies. "The BJP has transformed Delhi into a mosquito capital. The party-ruled Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD) has transformed the city into a garbage capital. They have also not done fogging this year…,” he said. He said AAP demands that the BJP-ruled MCD should begin fogging within 48 hours or else Delhiites will take to streets. "It costs around Rs 100 crore to do fogging across the city. The BJP knows that it will never return to power so the party has spent this money elsewhere," Pathak claimed. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said fogging was not undertaken due to DDMA guidelines amid Covid-19 outbreak. “In his political compulsion to level allegations against the MCDs, the AAP leader (Pathak) seems to have intentionally chosen to ignore the fact that the DDMA has asked to stop fogging amid the pandemic outbreak as it can cause breathing problems among people. "The allegation levelled by Pathak that the MCDs have not started fogging in Delhi, hence, they have pilfered the fogging budget of Rs 100 crore, is totally vague. The fact is that before Covid, normal fogging in wards was a routine work which went on round-the-year, while special extensive campaigns were launched during pre-monsoon and post-monsoon phases which witnessed high mosquito breeding," Kapoor said. Rejecting the corruption charges, he added that the annual budget of fogging of the three MCDs is not even Rs 50 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aap-bjp-spar-over-mosquito-menace-in-delhi-968481.html
31-03-2021||National Politics||West Bengal phase 2 polls on April 1: Key battles to watch out for||West Bengal is set to go to the second phase of polling in the 2021 Assembly election amid strong rhetoric and vitriolic election campaigns in the state. This phase is set to witness a high-stake battle in Nandigram between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her protege turned bete noire Suvendu Adhikari. South 24 Parganas, Bankura and Purba Medinipur are among the 30 constituencies that are set to go to polls in which 171 candidates are contesting. Nandigram is the constituency that is set to be in focus this time around as it will witness a high-profile contest between Mamata Banerjee and Suvendu Adhikari. The location is not new to pitchforks being set up. In 2007, the anti-land acquisition protest in Nandigram played a key role in Trinamool Congress's victory in the 2011 Assembly election, in which the TMC handed the Left govt a humiliating defeat. Another important district in this phase is the South 24 Parganas which houses 31 Assembly constituencies. The district is a TMC bastion and in the previous election, the party won 29 out of 31 seats. The Muslim population in the district is said to majorly support the TMC. Voters of Purba Medinipur and Paschim Medinipur, once considered a bastion of the Left Front, have voted for TMC in the 2011 and 2016 Assembly elections. However, these districts are now in the limelight because the BJP won both these districts in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Purba Medinipur is known to be the home turf of the Adhikari family, however, they are also known to have organisational control of neighbouring districts Bankura and Paschim Medinipur. Haldia in Paschim Medinipur is an important constituency because it is one of the key seats that the TMC lost to the CPI(M) in 2016. Tamluk in Purba Medinipur district has a distinct ethnic mix with migrants from various parts of east and North East India. The Adhikaris are said to have influence in this district as well Suvendhu's brother Dibyendu Adhikari, who followed him to the BJP managed to hold on to the seat for TMC in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-phase-2-polls-on-april-1-key-battles-to-watch-out-for-968610.html
31-03-2021||National Politics||Assembly polls results to mark beginning of Congress's comeback to Delhi in 2024||The Kerala poll results along with those of other states will mark the beginning of the Congress' comeback nationally and its return to Delhi in 2024, former Kerala chief minister Oommen Chandy said on Wednesday. Chandy, who is among the top contenders to be the chief minister if the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) gets a majority in the Kerala polls, said there would be "no problem" in the selection of the CM after the polls if voted to power and the high command's decision in the matter would be acceptable to all the leaders. In a telephonic interview with PTI, the former Kerala chief minister also asserted that the BJP would remain a marginal player in the polls like last time when it had won just one seat. Expressing confidence that the UDF would come to power, Chandy said the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the last assembly elections made so many promises but could not fulfil any of them, and asserted that the people can see the difference between the LDF and the UDF. "The slogan of UDF is development and care, development of state and care stands for special attention to the weaker sections. We fulfilled our promises (when in government)," said Chandy, who was the chief minister from August 2004 to May 2006 and then from May 2011 to May 2016. The LDF made so many allegations against the previous UDF government, claiming that there was a lot of corruption, but in the last five years they could not do anything or proceed in a single case, he asserted. Chandy said the UDF was not afraid of the BJP and was fighting it with full might. Pointing to an alleged Left-BJP collusion, he said they are fighting each other in front of the public but their fight is with the common aim of defeating the Congress. "There is a strong rumour that they have a secret arrangement to defeat the Congress," said Chandy. On the entry of 'Metroman' E Sreedharan on the side of the BJP, he said Sreedharan is a "good person and a very good technocrat", but his decision to enter the political fray was "not correct". Asked about the importance of the Kerala polls from the national perspective, Chandy said this election along with assembly polls in other states will mark the beginning of the Congress' return to Delhi in 2024. "We expect encouraging results (from all the states)," he said, asserting that this would be the beginning of the "coming back of the Congress in India". Campaigning for assembly polls are on in Kerala, Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. Counting of votes for all of them would take place on May 2. The next general election is scheduled in 2024. On the UDF not announcing a chief ministerial face, Chandy said as a practise, the Congress does not announce a CM face in advance. "The high command has its own way to decide (after the polls), that is not a problem at all," said the 77-year-old veteran Congress leader, who is himself contesting from Puthuppally and is also on the campaign trail holding rallies and road shows in support of UDF candidates. "That is the procedure, the high command decides after the polls in consultation with the elected member," the Congress general secretary said. Asked if he was ready to be chief minister again, Chandy said, "I cannot say anything about that, it is upto the high command to decide. One thing I can say is that there will not be any problem regarding the selection of the CM after the elections" if the UDF gets a majority. On whether the decision of the high command will be acceptable to all Congress leaders in the state, Chandy said everybody will accept it and reiterated that there will not be any problem. Chandy also said there was no political significance of the 10-member election management committee, whose chairman he was appointed recently, and asserted that it was not connected with what happens after elections. The committee is for the joint management of the election by a collective leadership, he asserted. Chandy's remarks come days after veteran Congress leader and former Defence Minister A K Antony had said that no assurance had been given to anyone regarding the top post of CM and a unanimous decision would be taken in this regard post elections. Ahead of Chandy's appointment as chairman of the election management panel, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and RSP, both coalition partners of the front, had, after the UDF's lacklustre performance during the recent local body polls, come out openly to suggest that Chandy should be brought back to the forefront and given more responsibility. Speculations were high when Chandy was projected as the face of the party and front though senior leader Ramesh Chennithala had been leading it in the state Assembly in the last five years as the leader of opposition. However, the party leadership had set aside all rumours and said its present focus was on ensuring the UDF's victory in the polls and any other decision would be taken after the elections. Kerala goes to polls to elect members of its 140-member assembly on April 6. Counting of votes will take place on May 2 along with that of Tamil Nadu, Assam, West Bengal and Puducherry polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/assembly-polls-results-to-mark-beginning-of-congresss-comeback-to-delhi-in-2024-968693.html
31-03-2021||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi says he's not like PM Modi who 'lies to India 24/7'||Upping the ante against the BJP, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asserted that he is not like Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who "lies to India 24/7". Gandhi, while addressing an election rally in Chaygaon constituency in Assam's Kamrup district, urged people to listen to him if they want to hear the truth. "I haven't come here to lie to you. My name is not Narendra Modi. If you wish to hear him lie about Assam, farmers or any other issue, switch on the television. He lies to India 24/7. If you want to listen to the truth, hear me out," he said. As promised, Congress had waived farm loans within six hours of assuming power in Chhattisgarh, while the former UPA government had waived Rs 70,000 crore agricultural loans after the farmers had requested for it, he said. "People from different languages, ethnicities and ideologies are peacefully listening to me. This is Assam. But the BJP makes one brother fight another and spreads hatred. They give tea garden contracts to outsiders. "Assam will elect its own chief minister when the Congress comes to power. The state won't be governed by Nagpur (RSS headquarters) or Delhi," he said. He claimed that Congress has made its poll promise of five guarantees in consultation with tea garden workers, youth and women. "People want that Citizenship (Amendment) Act shouldn't be implemented, youth must get jobs, minimum wages of tea garden workers must be raised to Rs 365, each household should get 200 units of free electricity and housewives should get financial assistance of Rs 2,000. We have accepted your demands. Our chief minister will fulfil them," he said. Referring to Dipanjal Das, an anti-CAA protester from Chaygaon who was killed in police firing in Guwahati during the stir in December 2019, Gandhi said, "Dipanjal had stood peacefully for Assam but RSS-BJP shot him dead. For what he sacrificed his life, we will never allow that (CAA) to be implemented." In another rally in Barkhetri constituency in Nalbari district, Gandhi alleged that Modi has dried up employment avenues, particularly in Assam, through demonetisation and imposition of the GST and other taxes. "Modi has finished all employment avenues and handed over your airports, tea gardens and even oil to his two-three industrialist friends," he said. Voting in 39 assembly constituencies will be held in the second phase on Thursday. Forty seats will go to polls in the third and last phase on April 6. Around 79.97 per cent of 81.09 lakh voters had exercised their franchise in the first phase of voting in 47 seats on March 27.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-says-hes-not-like-pm-modi-who-lies-to-india-24/7-968698.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Fire breaks out at garment factory in Delhi's Gandhinagar||A fire broke out at a readymade garment factory in Raghupura Part-2 in Gandhinagar, Delhi. Fire engines have been dispatched to the scene.  More to follow...||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-garment-factory-in-delhis-gandhinagar-968579.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Man held with 9.75 kg of explosive material in Jammu and Kashmir’s Doda||Security forces arrested a person along with 9.75 kilograms of explosive material in the form of 78 gelatine sticks and 275 meters of wire in the hilly Doda district of Jammu on Wednesday. A defence spokesperson in a statement said that the explosive material was recovered during an operation conducted based on specific information at the Gunda area of Doda. “The recoveries include 78 gelatine sticks with explosives weighing 9.75 kgs and cordex – 275 metres,” he said and added one person has been arrested and further investigations were going on. Pertinently, a similar consignment of gelatine sticks and other explosive material was recovered from a hideout near a hydel power project in neighbouring Kishtwar district a few days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-held-with-975-kg-of-explosive-material-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-doda-968605.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Newlywed gang-raped in front of husband in Uttar Pradesh||In a shocking incident, a newly-wed was allegedly gang-raped by two youths in front of her husband in Uttar Pradesh's Agra district. The alleged culprits also looted the valuables and cash from the couple. According to the police sources here, the victim, who hailed from a particular community, was on the way to her parent's home with her husband when three motorcycle-borne youths intercepted them near Jharna Nullah on Agra-Kanpur National Highway. The couple was forcibly taken at a forested area, where they were allegedly made to strip, sources said. The youths allegedly took pictures of the couple and later two of them gang-raped the woman before looting cash and valuables from them. They threatened the couple to kill them if they reported the incident to the police.  Although the incident took place on Monday evening, the couple approached the police on Tuesday and lodged a compliant with them, sources said.  Police said that two of the three youths had been named in the complaint while the third one was unidentified. ''We have registered an FIR and are trying to nab the culprits,'' said a senior police official in Agra. Sources said that two of the culprits were known to the victim. Later, a large number of people gathered in the Etmaddaula area in Agra and held a demonstration demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. Police said that security personnel in strength had been deployed in the area as a precautionary measure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/newlywed-gang-raped-in-front-of-husband-in-uttar-pradesh-968667.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||For 8 months now, a father in J&K has been digging for son's body||For the past eight months, Manzoor Ahmad Wagay has been searching for the body of his son Shakir Manzoor, a rifleman with the 162 Battalion of Territorial Army (TA) abducted by militants, in the volatile Shopian district of south Kashmir. The TA soldier was abducted on August 2 when he was travelling between the Balpora and Bahibagh army camps in Shopian. Hours later that day, his burnt vehicle was recovered from a field in the neighbouring Kulgam district. And a week later, his family found his blood-stained clothes in a nearby orchard. A few days after Manzoor’s abduction, an unverified audio clip went viral on social media in which a militant who identified himself as Abu Talha took responsibility for his death. The voice in the clip sought to justify Manzoor’s killing and the decision to bury his body at an undisclosed location. Over the last year, bodies of militants killed in gunfights are not handed over to their families by the police, citing Covid-19 safety protocols. The bodies are buried in remote places, under tight security, in the presence of close family members. Justifying the denial of handing over the soldier’s body to his family, the voice says, “We did what the Indian forces have done by denying bodies of Mujahideen (militants) and burying them at unknown places.” Senior Wagay is convinced that his son was killed and is in search of the body of his son for months now. He spends hours digging land in and around his village in hopes that his son’s body may have been buried there. “My heart says he lies buried within a radius of seven-eight kilometres from home,” he believes. Of the militants suspected of having kidnapped Shakir, his desperate father has visited the families of some to seek their help in tracing the body of his son. “They just say that they are not in touch with their kids,” he says. Of the four militants suspected to have abducted Shakir, three have been killed in various encounters. “All of them hail from our neighbouring villages. Only one of them is alive now,” he added. The unending search has left the family in a severe financial crisis that has resulted in Shakir’s younger brother Shaan dropping out of college in Aligarh. However, Wagay is determined to find his son’s body so that they could give him a proper burial at their ancestral graveyard. “I will keep searching for him till the morning of the day of judgment,” Wagay vows.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/for-8-months-now-a-father-in-jk-has-been-digging-for-sons-body-968674.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Security in Srinagar hotels harboring protected persons put on 'extra alert'||In the backdrop of a recent attack by militants in which two municipal councillors and a cop were killed in north Kashmir’s Sopore, Jammu and Kashmir Police on Wednesday put the security personnel at hotels in Srinagar harbouring protected persons on “extra alert.” A police spokesperson said that Srinagar police chief Sandeep Chaudhary and other senior officers of the district conducted a tour of the hotels in the city where the deployment was told to “remain extra alert”. “More CCTV cameras and centralized surveillance of such guards is being enhanced to ensure the safety of protected persons,” he said and added the security personnel on guard were briefed to “stick to SOPs strictly and remain alert round the clock”. After years of relative calm, militancy in Srinagar is on the rise again. Even as militants fired gunshots or lobbed grenades at some places, there was no major militant strike for over 18 months in Srinagar till May 2020. However, since then over 10 encounters between militants and security forces have been reported in Srinagar in which 20 ultras were killed. The militants also carried several attacks on security forces, police and civilians in the city in the last year. Last year in July J&K police had claimed that no Srinagar resident was active in militancy after the killing of Lashkar-e-Toiba commander, Ishfaq Rashid Khan. However, later the police said that Srinagar can never be free of militants till militancy is there. “They (militants) keep on coming to the city for several purposes. At times they come for medical treatment, meeting with each other and sometimes to receive funds,” Inspector General Police (IGP) Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said last year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/security-in-srinagar-hotels-harboring-protected-persons-put-on-extra-alert-968692.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||DDMA to randomly test flyers coming from states where Covid-19 cases are rising||Passengers coming to the national capital, particularly from states witnessing a surge of Covid-19 cases, will be subjected to random tests at the airport here. The Covid-19 tests have been ordered by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) at airports, railway stations and inter-state bus terminals and other alighting points of private bus operators. As per the DDMA order, health authorities would conduct rapid antigen tests and RT-PCR tests on passengers coming from states where Covid-19 cases are surging. “As per the latest government mandate, DDMA shall conduct random COVID-19 testing of passengers coming from the states where cases are increasing,” the Delhi Airport said here on Wednesday. “After the collection of samples, the travellers would be allowed to exit. However, the passengers who were found to be positive shall be mandatorily quarantined as per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare protocol,” it added. On Tuesday, the Centre had said the Covid-19 situation was turning from “bad to worse” and was a huge cause for worry. It had warned that the whole country was at risk and any complacency at this stage will have “heavy costs”. Six states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh, have reported a high number of daily Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ddma-to-randomly-test-flyers-coming-from-states-where-covid-19-cases-are-rising-968703.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||North Indian plains to get some reprieve from heatwave; another heatwave likely from April 3||The north Indian plains which have been reeling under a heatwave are likely to get some relief over the next two days with temperatures expected to fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The relief will, however, be short. The IMD said another heatwave is likely over the plains by April 3. Over the last 4-5 days, the mercury has touched over 40 degrees Celsius in several parts of north India, especially Rajasthan. The national capital reeled under a "severe" heatwave on Monday as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years. IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohaptra said there was pressure variation between the area stretching from the Gujarat coast to Haryana. Plus, there was transfer of heat from Rajasthan which was already reeling under the heatwave. This led to the heating of plains. Naresh Kumar, senior scientist with the IMD who specialises in heatwaves, said the transfer of heat was also from Pakistan. He said one of the weather stations in Pakistan also recorded 45 degrees Celsius during the same time. There was also a western disturbance but it did not bring moisture to the plains, thus raising the temperatures, Kumar added. "Maximum temperatures are very likely to fall by 3-5 degrees Celsius over the plains of northwest India during the next 2 days leading to abatement of heat wave conditions over Rajasthan from today (March 31)," the IMD said in its forecast. Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely to prevail over Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, north Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during March 31 to April 1, the IMD said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/north-indian-plains-to-get-some-reprieve-from-heatwave-another-heatwave-likely-from-april-3-968735.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh rolls out free bus travel for women ahead of polls||Ahead of assembly elections next year, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has picked up a leaf from arch-rival Arvind Kejriwal and announced free travel for women on state transport buses. Singh made this announcement after a meeting of the cabinet ministers of the Punjab government and, like Kejriwal, claimed that the move would help reduce the female drop-out rate from schools and educational institutes. Singh said the scheme is expected to benefit over 1.31 crore women/girls across the state. Under the scheme, women residents of Punjab can avail free bus travel in Government-owned buses after furnishing documents like Aadhaar card, voter identification card or any other proof of residence in Punjab. However, the scheme will not be applicable to Government-owned AC Buses, Volvo Buses and HVAC Buses. The move is seen as an attempt by Singh to reach out to women voters who form nearly 50% of the 2.77 crore population of the state. Singh’s arch-rival and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had launched a similar scheme in the national capital in 2019, months before the assembly elections in February 2020. Kejriwal’s AAP is making inroads in the state and trying to emerge as the key opposition party in the state after the disastrous performance of the Akali Dal in the 2017 Assembly elections in the state. BJP is a fringe player in Punjab. While announcing the scheme, Singh said it was expected to reduce female drop-out in schools because of the high cost of daily transport. The initiative would also help working women, who have to travel considerable distances to their workplace. “The facility will thus ensure access to safe, cheap and reliable travel for women to engage in any economic activity,” a Punjab government statement said. Interestingly, political strategist Prashant Kishor, who worked with AAP for the Delhi assembly elections, has recently joined as an advisor to Punjab Chief Minister in the rank of a cabinet minister. Elections are scheduled in Punjab in February-March next year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-rolls-out-free-bus-travel-for-women-ahead-of-polls-968749.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Delhi saw hottest March since 2010: IMD||Delhi recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius this month, making it the "hottest" March in the last 11 years, the India Meteorological Department said on Wednesday. Normally, the mean maximum temperature for the month of March in Delhi is 29.6 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD. This is the highest mean maximum temperature in March since 2010 when it was 34.1 degrees Celsius, an official said. Such high temperatures in the month of March this year can be attributed to the absence of strong western disturbances, the official said. "Only one WD affected Delhi this time and the city recorded rainfall only on two days. The capital had registered 10 rain days in March last year," he said. The mean maximum temperature for the month of March was 28.2 degrees Celsius in 2020 and 2019. It was 32.8 degrees Celsius in 2018; 30.7 degrees Celsius in 2017; and 31.5 degrees Celsius in 2016, according to IMD data. On Monday, Delhi reeled under a "severe" heat wave as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years, the IMD had said. The city had recorded a maximum of 40.5 degrees Celsius on March 31, 1945 and 39.6 degrees Celsius on March 29, 1973, according to the IMD.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-saw-hottest-march-since-2010-imd-968761.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Mukhtar Ansari's wife says she fears for his life, writes to President||Mukhtar Ansari's wife has written to President Ram Nath Kovind, expressing fears that the jailed mafia don-turned-politician might be killed in a fake encounter while being transferred from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh following a Supreme Court direction. Her demand for security for the Bahujan Samaj Party legislator comes on a day the UP government accused the Congress of “shielding” mafia members. Ansari is involved in cases both in BJP-run Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, which has a Congress government. In its March 26 order, the Supreme Court said the MLA from Mau has to be transferred to Uttar Pradesh's Banda jail in two weeks. “The number one mafia (member) is being brought back to UP and all arrangements are being made for this," Uttar Pradesh minister and government spokesperson Siddharth Nath Singh said on Wednesday. "Mafia members like Ansari are being shielded by Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi and Capt Amarinder Singh's government in Punjab," he alleged. Afshan Ansari said she is frightened because of the past actions of some UP government officers and is deeply concerned about her husband’s safety. In the letter released to the media on Wednesday, she claimed that her husband is an eyewitness in a case and the accused BJP legislator is threatening to kill him in connivance with the government machinery. She said she fears that he might be killed "in the guise of a fake encounter" during his transfer from Ropar jail in Punjab to UP’s Banda prison. "If my husband is sent to Uttar Pradesh without fixing responsibility for the safety of his life, then surely he would be killed by creating a false story,” she wrote. "Therefore, it is a plea to the President to order that my husband is protected." She said if it is required to produce Ansari in court, the President should order the government to arrange central security force personnel to “accompany him from prison to court and back”. Mukhtar Ansari has been in judicial custody since October 25, 2005 in connection with several criminal cases. Alka Rai, the legislator wife of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai who was killed allegedly by the Mukhtar Ansari gang in 2005, had demanded his transfer to a jail in Uttar Pradesh. While asserting that the law will take its own course when Ansari is back in UP, Cabinet minister Siddharth Nath Singh accused the Punjab government of “shielding” Ansari. "But the Adityanath government will not spare any criminal. The erstwhile Samajwadi Party government had nurtured such elements and allowed them to proliferate, causing a headache for us," he said. He said the state government will take care of issues related to Ansari’s health. Earlier in the day, Ansari was brought in a wheelchair to be produced before a court in Punjab’s Mohali in connection with a 2019 extortion case. The Punjab court fixed April 12 as the next date in that case. In a related development, the Adityanath government has ordered the withdrawal of a case against former deputy superintendent of police Shailendra Singh who had slapped the Prevention of Terrorism Act (POTA) on Ansari during the term of the SP government, an aide to CM Yogi Adityanath said. A case of vandalism and assault was filed in 2004 against the former circle officer, who was allegedly made to resign under political pressure. Singh thanked Adityanath, lauding his government’s “zero tolerance” against crime. “My family and I shall forever remain indebted to CM Adityanath for his kindness. My heartfelt gratitude to all the well-wishers who have supported me during the struggle," the former police officer posted on social media. Last month, the apex court had noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases including attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy registered in Uttar Pradesh, and out of them 10 are the stage of trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mukhtar-ansaris-wife-says-she-fears-for-his-life-writes-to-president-968780.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Punjab cabinet clears amnesty scheme to allow residential, commercial plot allottees to pay up dues||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday gave its nod to an amnesty scheme to allow allottees of residential and commercial plots and flats to pay up outstanding instalments. Through the Punjab Urban Development Authorities Amnesty Scheme-2021, the state government aims to recover Rs 700 crore dues from the allottees of flats, residential, commercial, institutional and industrial plots, and chunk sites sold through draw of lots, auction or any other process. The allottees who have defaulted on payment of one or more installments due after December 31, 2013 may deposit the principal amount, along with scheme rate of interest, according to an official spokesperson of the Punjab Chief Minister's Office. The cases where allotments have been cancelled due to default on payment of installments due after December 31, 2013 or litigation on this count will also be covered under the scheme. These cases would be treated as if the cancellation was not done, and the forfeited amount would be treated as credited to the allottees' accounts on the date of forfeiture. In a virtual meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, the state cabinet also gave approval for establishment of an enforcement directorate to check illegal mining in the state. The directorate, to be headed by a senior police officer not below the rank of deputy inspector general (DIG), will be set up in the Mining and Geology Wing of the Water Resources Department. It will also help in ramping up the state's revenues by curbing the menace of illegal mining. The spokesperson said the directorate would help in checking and stopping unauthorised movement of minor minerals within the state and at the interstate borders of Punjab in conjunction with officials of the mining department. The directorate will also check that those involved in sand and gravel business do not charge over the sale price ceiling prescribed in the mining policy. The chief minister had announced earlier this month the constitution of an enforcement directorate to "completely eliminate the scourge of illegal mining" from the state. The state cabinet also gave its approval to the amended Remission Policy-2021 under which convicted prisoners in Punjab will now be eligible for remission from time to time, instead of just once. The amended policy makes remission applicable for prisoners sentenced to imprisonment for more than 10 years, including prisoners sentenced for life, instead of prisoners convicted for 10 to 20 years under the earlier policy. In March last year, a government panel considering premature release of prisoners found some ambiguities in the Remission Policy-2010. In another decision, the cabinet gave approval for running cattle sheds on public-private partnership (PPP) mode. The move is aimed at streamlining the functioning of cattle sheds run by the government in districts and effectively handling the menace of stray animals. Twenty cattle sheds have been established in Punjab that house as many as 10,024 head of stray cattle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjab-cabinet-clears-amnesty-scheme-to-allow-residential-commercial-plot-allottees-to-pay-up-dues-968782.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||Farmers to march to Parliament in May: Samyukt Kisan Morcha||After a violent tractor rally on Republic Day, farmers agitating against the three farm laws on Wednesday announced that they would soon march down to Parliament in May even as they released a protest calendar for the next two months. “Other than farmers and labourers, women, Dalit-Adivasi-Bahujans, unemployed youth and every section of the society will be part of this march,” Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leader Gurnam Singh Chaduni told reporters here. Besides the foot march to Parliament after the results of the five assembly elections, the farmers also announced sit-in protests at Food Corporation of India offices across the country on April 5, a 24-hour-blockade of the KMP Expressway on April 10, Baisakhi celebrations at the protest sites on Delhi borders on April 13, ‘Save Constitution Day’ on Babasaheb Amedkar’s birth anniversary on April 14 and programs to mark Labour Day on May 1. Chaduni said that the march to parliament would be carried out in a “peaceful” manner, and special care would be taken to avoid a repeat of the events of January 26. The SKM was also planning to form a committee to control protesters in case of police action during the march to Parliament. On Republic Day, farmers taking part in the tractor rally in the capital went berserk, vandalised the Red Fort and clashed with the police, events that left several security personnel and farmers injured. Farmers were also planning an event on May 6 to honour those who have lost their lives during the agitation that began on the borders of the national capital on November 26. “Soil from different parts of the country will be brought to these borders and a memorial will be created for all our brothers who have lost their lives while participating in this movement,” a farmer leader said. At the Ghazipur border, farmers issued a statement saying they would return home only after the repeal of the three farm laws and enactment of a law to ensure procurement of farm produce at minimum support price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/farmers-to-march-to-parliament-in-may-samyukt-kisan-morcha-968801.html
31-03-2021||North and Central||J&K Police chief Dilbag Singh, wife test positive for Covid-19||Director-General of Jammu and Kashmir Police Dilbag Singh and his wife tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, officials said. Confirming it, Singh told PTI over phone, "Yes, unfortunately it's true and we have started medication for the same." Both Singh and his wife were in self-isolation at home. The police chief has appealed to those who had come in contact with him recently to isolate themselves and, if necessary, undergo test. Singh, a 1987-batch IPS officer, and his wife had taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine and were scheduled to get their second dose soon, the officials said. Doctors were monitoring the health of the police chief and his family, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-police-chief-dilbag-singh-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-968827.html
31-03-2021||Oasis||An anatomy of life||Hardly anyone will assert that life is all smooth sailing. On the contrary, many will point out that expecting it to be easy and trouble-free is absurd. Life has always been a test and ups and downs are part and parcel of it. It is in facing obstacles with courage and calm that we learn and grow.  However, what is easy in theory is difficult to put into practice. More often than not, minor adversities succeed in throwing us out of gear. A traffic jam is a good example. A vehicle may suddenly stall and this causes nothing less than pandemonium. Horns bleat, people swear and soon all activity comes to a standstill. Normalcy can be restored with a little give and take, but often this does not happen until the police arrive on the scene. The same kind of problem can arise within the home. We expect our gadgets to work perfectly all the time. Any glitch, say a power outage or a computer breakdown, puts us on tenterhooks. We become anxious, ill-tempered and cannot rest until things are set right once more. Our relationships with others move on similar lines. As long as people are friendly and we meet with approval, all is well. Any criticism though is met with disappointment. This can linger and even cause resentment. Consider this incident that happened many years ago when I was working as a teacher. The day had begun badly with arguments and tears. I was still heavy at heart when I reached school. Sister M, the Principal, noticed this. Calling me aside, she asked me what the matter was. Under her kind gaze, I unburdened myself. After a brief silence, she said, “Do you think you are the only one facing this kind of situation? Perhaps God has sent you this suffering so that you do not become proud.” Certainly, they were not words designed to bring comfort, but I could see that she was sincere and well-meaning. Strangely, they brought me the consolation I needed. Sister M wanted me to understand that along with the gift of life come frustration and obstacles. The silver lining is that when you accept that life is fraught with difficulties, it becomes easier and begins to be more trouble-free!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/oasis/an-anatomy-of-life-968499.html
31-03-2021||Opinion||West Bengal Assembly election: The Matua story, a different narrative of assertion||Every community of the world has a story of its own to tell, and such stories can be narrated best in a democracy. At present, the Matua community of Bengal is demonstrating a unique example of such narration. Perhaps assertion is a better word for it. Many communities of India have earlier succeeded in inscribing an epigraph of such stories at the beginning of different chapters of our history. Recent examples are the assertion of the Dalits of Uttar Pradesh under the aegis of Kanshi Ram and Mayawati, the assertion of the Yadavs of Bihar and UP, and some other communities all over India. But the Matua story is different from them all. Reel back to 2005, and you will not find any mention of this community anywhere in the media. The ‘bhadralok’ Bengalis, a sobriquet for the upper castes (Brahmin, Vaishya and Kayastha), did not even know the existence of such a sect in Bengal. The name started surfacing in 2009, got some prominence in 2011, and has succeeded in establishing it as a major socio-political factor in Bengal by now.  So much so that Prime Minister Narendra Modi went to Orakandi, the Matua shrine in Bangladesh during his recent trip to that country, and said, “Who would have thought that someday an India’s Prime Minister will come to Orakandi!” Yes, no one could. Call it politics if you want. For the Matuas, however, this was their highest point of glory. An unknown Orakandi is now known to all.  Who are the Matuas The Matuas are a Dalit population and is quite a large one. They were organised as a sect named Matua by Harichand Thakur (1812-1871) who was a peasant like almost every one of his community and lived in Orakandi. His aim, it is claimed, was to empower the downtrodden.   For the record, Matuas were known as ‘Thakur’ community before emerging as a sect called Matua. Many of them lived in East Pakistan ever after the partition and were forced to take shelter in later decades, particularly during and after the Bangladesh war. Though there was no caste census in Bengal ever, it is believed that they comprise 20 to 30 per cent of Bengal’s population and is a factor in one-fourth of Bengal’s 294 assembly constituencies. This community is largely a downtrodden community still now, though some of them have jobs, mostly in the government sector. But, like the Muslim infiltrators from Bangladesh, a sizable part of them are not valid citizens of India according to Indian laws, though they have voter cards or Aadhar cards. For decades, the Matua community had tried to formalise their identity as Indian citizens, but got no response from anywhere, simply because they failed to assert themselves. The communists, who ruled Bengal from 1977 to 2011, did not attach much importance to caste identity. Mamata Banerjee succeeded in organising their en bloc vote in 2009, gave the descendants of Harichand Thakur important political positions, but failed to redress their concern about legal citizenship. The BJP promised them citizenship through Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), though it has not been implemented yet. But Mamata has opposed the CAA vehemently. When Narendra Modi visited Orakandi on the day of the first phase of polling in Bengal, Didi protested hoarsely, fearing the Matua vote shifting en bloc towards the BJP. For the records again, the Matua is a Vaishnav sect that worships Krishna (who, like Ram, is an avatar of Narayan).   The ‘recognition' factor Despite everything, till now the Matua community did not have ‘recognition’ in society. They remained a subaltern caste, and their guru Harichand Thakur was never mentioned in the mainstream narrative. But things have changed now. While in Orakandi, Modi dwelt on Harichand Thakur’s contribution time and again, and uttered his name along with other great religious figures of Bengal. This was the highest point of glory for the Matuas. No doubt, Narendra Modi was playing a political game. But that does not change history. Modi’s visit to Orakandi, and his heaping praise on Harichand Thakur is now part of history. And the Matuas have earned it. They have changed their political loyalty in search of their recognition as a sect. Earlier, most of them had voted for the Left. Then they shifted to the TMC. In 2019, they shifted towards the BJP. This community is using the political situation to the hilt for their advantage. This is a wonderful feat for a subaltern community. The rise of the Matua in less than 15 years is like a fairy tale. It is possible only in a democracy, and perhaps only in a country like India, where no caste, community or individual is really in charge forever, and where the only constant is the change. (The writer is a freelance journalist based in Kolkata)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/west-bengal-assembly-election-the-matua-story-a-different-narrative-of-assertion-968832.html
31-03-2021||Panorama||Ladder of excellence: How great varsities ace the climb||Until the beginning of the 20th century, there were a few universities both in India and abroad. Their subjective evaluation of eminence was based largely on hearsay, students’ impression and alumni experience. In those days, there was no objective analysis of their status, nor was there a stiff competition to excel. The current gradation of universities is different. There are now thousands of them across the world. We, in India, have about one thousand and the number keeps galloping to meet the phenomenal increase in demand. Considerable variation exists between universities in offering a spectrum of courses for graduate, post-graduate and doctorate studies and research. Prospective students and their educated parents are wary of the international ranking of a university as well as the academic credentials of its individual programme/department prior to taking a decision on admission. This segment of stakeholders wants to ensure that their heavy investments are cost-effective. International rankings are not granted but earned by universities on the strength of their distinctive practices and performances. Of several agencies involved in evaluation, the Times Higher Education (THE) world rankings is considered the most reliable. For instance, in the 2021 survey, THE covered over 1,500 universities across 93 countries for scanning 13 carefully calibrated performance indicators that measure an institution’s accomplishments across four broad areas — teaching, research, knowledge transfer and international outlook. Based on the perusal of 80 million citations from 13 million research publications and responses from 22,000 scholars, THE prepared the list of rankings in which the University of Oxford (UK), Stanford University (USA) and Harvard University (USA) emerged as the first, second and third best universities, respectively, of the world. Against this bewildering backdrop of eminence, here is a glimpse of the world’s three great universities to illustrate what it means to be a global leader or a brand name in higher education and research. Oxford University: Oxford is supposed to have been established in (exact year not known) 1096 as the oldest varsity in Europe. It has no separate campus as its buildings are scattered in and around the city. In fact, it is a university as well as a city, just like Singapore is a city-nation. As on July 31, 2019, the university had 14,478 staff of whom more than 40% were from other countries. At that point of time, Oxford had 22,000 students from 140 countries. It has the oldest museum and the largest library of the world. Until 2020, the university had 72 Nobel Laureates, three Fields Medallists and 160 Olympic champions. In 2019, the university’s income was £2.5 billion, with £625 million received as research grants. Oxford alumni include 26 prime ministers of the UK and many Heads of States including Bill Clinton and Indira Gandhi. It offers the prestigious Rhodes Scholarships. The university is indeed proud of its international character. It is astonishing that even after 900 years, it is in the forefront of research, as was recently justified by the production of Covishield vaccine in collaboration with AstraZeneca Pharma. Stanford University: Founded in 1885 as a private university with a campus of 1,626 acres, Stanford University has seven Schools, three of which comprise 40 academic departments at undergraduate level. The other four run more than 90 graduate programmes in law, medicine, education and business. In 2019, the university had 17,249 students from more than 76 countries, 2,180 faculty and 18 institutes for inter and multidisciplinary studies and research. Its alumni and students have won until October, 2020, 84 Nobel prizes, eight Fields Medals and over 270 Olympic medals including 137 golds. It also produced about 17 astronauts. The university’s alumni are known for entrepreneurship and have established multinational companies (MNCs) like Procter & Gamble, Yahoo and Google, yielding together an annual revenue exceeding $2.7 trillion. A large number of Fulbright, Marshall’s, Rhodes Scholars and US Congressmen have studied here. Its endowments exceed $25 billion and the annual budget is about $1.6 billion. The fact that former American president Bill Clinton, prior to demitting office, went to bid adieu to the president of Stanford University exemplifies its stature. Harvard University: Established in 1836 as a private university, Harvard is the oldest such institution in the US. Its three campuses have a total area of 5,400 acres. It has 10 faculties with an Endowment of $42 billion. It has the largest library with 20.4 million collections. In 2019-18, there were 16,000 staff (2,409 professors) and 36,000 students from 80 countries. It has produced 161 Nobel awardees and 18 Fields Medallists. Harvard faculty and students have won 10 Academy Awards, 48 Pulitzer prizes, 118 Olympic Medals (46 golds). Prominent alumni include many members of the US Congress, Macarthur Fellows, 375 Rhodes and Marshall’s Scholars and eight US presidents. Its faculty and students have also founded (like those of Stanford University) many MNCs. More than 480,000 of its alumni spread over 210 countries include 32 Heads of States (in addition to those of the US), Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, Ratan Tata, Al Gore and Henry Kissinger. The facts and figures mentioned above speak volumes of the distinctive accomplishments of the world’s top universities. They are academically robust, financially stable and managerially sound. Their research pursuits as well as teaching programmes are varied, vigorous and vibrant. Their reputation is not built on conjecture but from the visible uniqueness of a gamut of achievements in many fields, including athletics. The most striking and yet common feature of these ’jewels of higher learning and research’ is their large size and international outlook. In fact, the student faculty and alumni par excellence collectively contribute to their greatness. We are currently witnessing a shift in education with the National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020). The central government is fully seized of the need for large multi-faculty and multi-disciplinary universities with international character — an ambience that we were supposed to have had in our prehistoric universities of Takshashila and Nalanda. A priori, a university should have faculty and facilities for innovative research. We have to wait for 10-15 years to witness the transformation envisioned by the NEP-2020.         (The writer is former Vice Chancellor, University of Mysore, and President, Forum of Former Vice Chancellors of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/ladder-of-excellence-how-great-varsities-ace-the-climb-968497.html
31-03-2021||Panorama||Farmers’ agitations: A leaf from history||Distress in the farm sector has a long history in India. Historically, there have been a large number of farmers’ agitations and movements. This revisit to the agitations of farmers, commonly known as “Deccan riots”, felt necessary to track the philosophy of agrarian agitations and seek solutions before the situation spirals out of control. Many times an appropriate intervention at a critical time helps to ameliorate the impact of such agitations.  The farmers’ movements could be classified into three groups. The first category that of the land-based movement which includes tenants’ agitations against the landlords, where the issue is about snatching of tenants’ rights and making it difficult for them to survive. These movements were prominently seen in Telangana, West Bengal and Jharkhand. The second category of movements originates out of failure to get the appropriate price for the products that the farmers produce. Some of these began during the British Raj and continued in Independence India. Movements led by Sharad Joshi, Tikhait and Prof. Nanjundaswamy were of this kind. The third type of movements includes factor market imperfections viz. bank credit, water rights, provision of irrigation and facilitating distribution of irrigation water. These are generally focused on the failure of input markets and product markets. Farmers’ agitations are usually sparked by a sense of ‘injustice’ experienced by the farming community and the threat to their survival due to adverse impact on income flows. The agitations of farmers from Deccan Plateau, specifically in the Pune-Ahmednagar region of Maharashtra began due to usurious interest rates charged by the money lenders and the compulsions by officers with regard to the settlement of land revenue. The concerned administration did not notice the sufferings of the farmers, who were at the mercy of money lenders. Farmers had to borrow from money lenders under many compulsions that included the failure of crops on one side and payment of land revenue on the other. Money lenders played tricks to maximise their gains through the interlocking of credit-land –produce markets.  The money lenders ensured the enslavement of farmers by effecting written and oral agreements to serve the former in cases of defaults. Farmers’ agitation began in December 1874, with Babasaheb Deshmukh as its leader, as farmers were compelled to repay loans by handing over properties to moneylenders. Farmers not only refused to abide by the decree but also convinced everyone to boycott services to money lenders and refuse to pay usurious interests. On May 12, 1875, pandemonium broke out in the village of Supa. Agitators attacked houses and shops of the money lenders. With the administration taking decisive measures, the situation was brought under control. The British government took note of the brewing discontent among and appointed an enquiry commission headed by J B Richley to investigate the situation. The Commission recommended the exemption of land and property from being attached for purposes of debt recovery except with the authorisation of the judiciary. The limitation law was passed to check the exploitation of farmers, a time frame for returning loan and for executing the decree. The Commission also contemplated bringing usurious interest rates under control. The Act providing for land improvement was considered for the benefit of farmers. The commission also recommended quick steps to sort out the issues by strengthening the judiciary. Steps were taken to ensure the misuse of the decree. The administration was also advised to gradually implement reforms. It is a fact that farmers’ agitations are not new, but in Independent India, unlike in British India, the process of resolving agitations is not set. In the entire episode agitators as well as society suffer immensely. The Deccan farmers’ agitation was quite significant and fierce, although it was confined to a small region. Quick steps taken by the administration, however, could avoid the wildfire spread of the agitation. It is necessary to learn to control such situations by diffusing the conditions leading to such agitations and resolving issues at the root.  (Dhume is Professor (Economics), Alliance University and R S Deshpande is Former Director, Institute for Social and Economic Change)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/farmers-agitations-a-leaf-from-history-968498.html
31-03-2021||Right in the Middle||A mother’s homage||Right now, typing this piece seems an unfamiliar task for me --a person who  would spin middles at the drop of a hat. For three months now, from when I lost the light of my evening life, my golden daughter, my mind has become numb with nothingness. It seems like yesterday that we lit Deepavali lamps together. Taking her health upsets in her stride, Rukma, true to her name, was good gold, and resiliently marched ahead shining. A daughter enables a mother to don many avatars--a cute doll to cuddle and adorn in infancy, a puppeteer to whose strings a mother dances during her childhood, a questioning adolescent when the mother becomes her guide, her twenties where she breaks free from the nest as she becomes a career girl. Hereafter, a mother’s day is never replete without the story of the day from her full-of-life daughter. It would be as simple as how she co-ordinated a talk by a guest speaker or how she managed to swerve her car around a ditch to reach her college. The wedding bells soon come clinking and the darling daughter dons the mantle of a wife. The change from a mother to a confidante happens subtly and naturally. As the daughter gets involved in her role of a house maker, the calls may become less frequent but messages and emoticons take over. Even a simple thumbs up or a huggie begin to speak volumes. Sudden recipes are asked for and handed over as the young bride tries her hand at winning over the husband through the stomach. My daughter had a career to manage too, and multiple projects came her way. But her daily time for the mother was always sacrosanct, either through a mail, a WhatsApp message or a supposed brief call extending to long minutes. She happened to be my promoter too, sending my article link to her innumerable contacts. A girl who was in the communications line professionally had the natural flair to communicate with all. Now her WhatsApp ID is pinned on the top of my contacts list but the communication is one way. But I know that her presence is everywhere and I say a silent kudos to her for having lived her life the way she lived, never cowed down by her health setbacks, always cheerful and zealous in the pursuit of her work, with her dimpled smile indelible in the memory of any person who said even a simple hello to her. The bountiful shared memories may last a lifetime for her grieving soulmate, and the family. God gave her a short tenure but she utilized it to the fullest, and is it not all about how you live your life and not how long you live it? We are striving to emulate her— our golden girl!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-mother-s-homage-968496.html
31-03-2021||Second Edit||Treat para-athletes with dignity||Cricketers are a pampered lot in the country. While other sporting activities usually get the short shrift, the treatment meted to participants of the National Para Athletic Championship at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium, Bengaluru, recently, marked a new low. Over 1,000 athletes who reached the city at short notice as the event was shifted from Chennai to Bengaluru at the last moment, had to bear the brunt of total lack of planning and sub-standard facilities. Even basic requirements like proper wheelchair access were missing, while in the absence of floodlights, measurements for some events had to be taken using mobile phone torches or car headlights. Ironically, this was a qualification event for selection of participants for the Tokyo Paralympics. Given such official callousness and apathy, it is no surprise that our sportspersons perform poorly at international events. While people with disabilities require special attention, it is disgusting that they are treated as sub-humans by sports authorities. The mismanagement by the Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) is nothing short of criminal as it has become a norm over the years to treat para-athletes with contempt. A similar situation had arisen during the 2015 national event at Ghaziabad when there was a national outrage following complaints from athletes that they were deprived of basic facilities and were accommodated in unfurnished rooms with dirty toilets without water. During the 18th national championships in 2018 at Panchkula, a para-athlete Suvarna Raj,  had sent an emotional appeal to the Prime Minister about the insult meted by the organisers to participants with disabilities. One of the most heart-wrenching complaints is that the participants are unable to use the toilet as they are not wheelchair accessible. Each time the sports minister concerned and the PCI promise to take corrective steps, but at the next event it is a repeat of same old story. The Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act of 1995 mandates that all public places must provide access to the physically challenged, but this has remained only on paper. While it is a shame that a prestigious sporting arena like the Kanteerava stadium is not disabled-friendly for which the Karnataka government should take the rap, Union Minister for Youth Affairs and Sports Kiren Rejiju should ensure that specially-abled sportspersons are treated with dignity. The government would also do well to construct at least one stadium in the country which fully and exclusively caters to the needs of those with disabilities. But first, the PCI should pull up its socks and shed its monumental inefficiency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/treat-para-athletes-with-dignity-968492.html
31-03-2021||South||EC transfers Tamil Nadu police official to non-election post||The Election Commission on Tuesday shunted out Commissioner of Police, Tiruchirappalli district in Tamil Nadu to a non-election post at the state headquarters. In a directive to the state chief electoral officer (CEO), the Commission said "the matter of wide-scale bribery to government officials by some political representatives" has come to its notice. "Based on preliminary reports and inputs, the Commission has found a case of serious dereliction of duty by some police officials," the letter said. It said J Loganathan, IGP, Commissioner of Police, Tiruchirappalli district will be transferred from his present posting to a non-election post at the state headquarters. Tamilmaran, ACP, Golden Rock Range, Law and Order, will also be placed under suspension for serious dereliction of duties and be attached to DGP headquarters immediately. Tamil Nadu will go to polls on April 6. "Compliance of the above direction of the Commission may be done immediately and a compliance report may be sent by 1 pm on March 31," the letter to the CEO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/ec-transfers-tamil-nadu-police-official-to-non-election-post-968484.html
31-03-2021||South||Tamil Nadu Elections: Star vs doctor battle at Thousand Lights||This might be a battle between a popular star and a medical doctor known for his strong Dravidian ideology but BJP's Khushbu Sundar and DMK's Dr N Ezhilan have based their fight on development in the city's Thousand Lights constituency for the April 6 Assembly polls. As an interesting aside, the candidates of all major parties in the fray--DMK, BJP, AMMK, veteran star Kamal Haasan-led MNM and Naam Tamizhar Katchi (NTK), helmed by another actor Seeman, are all making their electoral debut from here, known as "Ayiram Vilakku" in Tamil. Although Sundar has been in active politics for long, initially in DMK and then in Congress before switching over to the saffron party recently, this is the first time she is taking the electoral plunge. More than the star power or ideological war, developmental issues dominate the keenly watched contest between Sundar and Ezhilan as both vie with each other in connecting with the people in the constituency promising more amenities and development. Despite its multicultural tag, the Thousand Lights assembly constituency, a segment of the Chennai Central Lok Sabha seat, is conspicuous by its rich poor divide. It accommodates swanky commercial buildings and residences of actors and political leaders and also has good number of slums and some decrepit housing board apartments. Civic amenities and pucca infrastructure continue to be a long pending demand of the people in this constituency. Sundar, whose presence in the electoral fray has transformed this segment into a 'star' constituency with the likes of Union Minister Smriti Irani campaigning for her, is hopeful of ensuring the smiles on the faces of the people of this constituency. During her intense campaign, she patiently listens to people's problems and assures to improve roads, provide drinking water and improve the drainage facility. Mixing of sewage water with drinking water is another problem confronting the people here. With the warm hugs from many women during her campaign trail, Sundar who also christens babies, assures that the people's voice, particularly those of the women and girls, will be heard in the assembly if she is elected as a legislator. The BJP is fighting the polls in alliance with the ruling AIADMK. Her rival candidate Ezhilan, who has a plan to provide playgrounds with turf and community halls, is keen on establishing libraries and eco-parks in Thousand Lights. Vaidhyanathan N, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam candidate contesting on pressure cooker symbol, blames both the Dravidian majors for neglecting development in the constituency. AMMK is led by TTV Dhinakaran. MNM candidate K M Shariff and NTK's Sherine A J, too, like Sundar, Ezhilan and Vaidhyanathan are making their electoral debut. Thousand Lights has been in the limelight as it was represented by DMK president M K Stalin in the 1989, 1996, 2001 and 2006 elections, before the former deputy Chief Minister shifted to the city's Kolathur constituency in 2011 which has elected him twice since then. He is contesting from there this time as well. In the 2011 election, AIADMK's former state minister B Valarmathi won the seat but lost it in the 2016 election to DMK's K K Selvam who has since joined the saffron party. The AIADMK had won the seat in the 1980, 1984 and 1991 elections too. Wondering if this was really the DMK fort as being claimed, Tamil Nadu chief minister K Palaniswami, campaigning for Sundar recently, sought to know what Stalin did when he was Chennai Mayor and Municipal Administration Minister or Deputy CM. "He didn't do anything. No proper roads, no sanitation programme, drainage facility or water storage system. Our government (AIADMK) built the storm water drains in Chennai and improved the infrastructure," he said.  A total of 2.42 lakh voters will decide the fate of 20 candidates in fray on April 6 with the battle lines clearly drawn between AIADMK-BJP combine and the opposition DMK. Royapettah, Gopalapuram, Choolaimedu, Chetpet, Nungambakkam, Kodambakkam and parts of T Nagar form the Thousand Lights constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-elections-star-vs-doctor-battle-at-thousand-lights-968618.html
31-03-2021||South||Restrictions back in Tirumala as Covid-19 cases rise in Andhra Pradesh||As the second wave intensity spreads, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams revisited its Covid-19 restrictions. The TTD management announced that the Sarva-darshan daily tokens are being reduced from the present 22,000 to 15,000 and that the number of online special darshan tickets (Rs 300) would also be cut depending on the developing situation. The Tirumala Tirupati temple board was letting over 50,000 footfalls into the Lord Venkateshwara temple till Tuesday, up from the 6000 pilgrims allowed when the temple had reopened in June. The celebrated shrine was closed for about three months last summer due to the rise in virus cases across the country. The Tirumala temple used to attract about 75,000 pilgrims, on average, daily. The easing of the Covid-19 rules is stated as the main reason for the new daily cases hovering above 50,000 lately in the country. Andhra Pradesh, where the fresh cases fell below the 100-mark for several days recently, has now been reporting about 1000 cases daily. The state had recorded such intensity in the virus spread last time in November. Chittoor district, where the famous pilgrimage centres like Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Kanipakkam are located is among the top contributors to the state's Covid-19 case tally. On Wednesday, TTD officials stated that devotees should wear masks compulsorily at all times in the Vaikuntam queue complex, Srivari temple, Anna prasadam building, Kalyanakatta and also maintain social distancing in other public places in Tirumala. A devotee with fever, cold and cough are advised to not visit Tirumala Thermal screening facilities were reset at entry points and places of gathering. Devotees will be allowed at the Alipiri Check Point only after 1 pm for their next day darshan and those trekking from Alipiri and from Srivarimettu will be allowed only after 9 am for their darshan slot the next day. All vehicles will be sanitized at Alipiri. Devotees will be allowed inside the Vaikuntham Complex only half an hour before their allotted darshan time. Only two persons allowed in each accommodation room at Tirumala and complete sanitation to be carried out after every stay. “Devotees from other states especially Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra should take note of the reduction in the Sarva Darshan tokens issued at Tirupati,” a senior official said. TTD is also reviewing its earlier decision to revive the arjita sevas from April 14 in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/restrictions-back-in-tirumala-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-andhra-pradesh-968657.html
31-03-2021||South||Lookalikes of political leaders bring amusement in Tamil Nadu poll campaigns||In Tamil Nadu elections, there are star campaigners and then there are campaigners who resemble the stars. Lookalikes of popular political leaders are bringing a new element of amusement in the election season often filled with aggression and vitriol.  The lookalike artists, unlike their political originals, often campaign across the political spectrum. These poll campaigns also provide a livelihood for the artists, many of who have been practising for decades.  Kamal Senthil is one such artist. In a video by India Today, he is seen applying make-up and setting his hair to resemble DMK's, M K Stalin. Senthil not only has to transform himself with aid from cosmetics, but also in terms of costume and body language.  According to the report, Senthil is booked for four days where he will campaign across several areas with DMK workers and candidates.  Senthil, however, is not a DMK loyalist. He has been a lookalike for Kamal Haasan for the past 32 years and is also a member of MNM, Haasan's party.  “It is a very difficult profession. When on stage, we can’t share our troubles. We can be in any party and can be in any character. We play the role we get. It is like how people are going on a religious trip to Sabarimala. Though they are supposed to not eat meat, meat sellers who are taking the pilgrimage continue to touch meat and sell them as it is their profession,” he told the publication. Lookalike artists of other leaders like MGR, Karunanidhi, and Jayalalithaa can be seen at election rallies.  Another artist Rajani Mani has been impersonating superstar Rajinikanth for over 25 years. He is involved in stage shows, acting and mimicking the actor. He and other such artists had high hopes but the superstar not contesting elections dampened them.  “Around 50 to 60 artists like me are actively involved in acting like Rajini but his announcement of not entering politics has caused a huge dent for us,” Mani told the publication.  Many stage artists were hit after the coronavirus lockdowns shut all kinds of events and people-gathering. Thus, the election season in Tamil Nadu cushions the troubles of artists. The lookalikes make up to Rs 5,000 depending on the hours. They often move locations and campaign for political parties without any exceptions of ideologies and beliefs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lookalikes-of-political-leaders-bring-amusement-in-tamil-nadu-poll-campaigns-968700.html
31-03-2021||South||Congress triggers row over duplication in electoral rolls||Having found that there were many duplicate entries in the electoral rolls for the April 6 Kerala Assembly polls, the Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the Election Commission to initiate a slew of measures to prevent double voting. Even as the HC disposed of the petition of opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala in this regard, the opposition leader was still objecting to the Election Commission's stand that there were only 38,000 double entries of voters. Chennithala said that he would soon publish a list of 4.34 lakh duplicate entries of voters in the electoral roll on portal www.operationtwins.com. The HC directed the Election Commission to insist on an affidavit from the voters having double entry stating that they would cast only one vote. The EC also informed the HC that adequate steps to prevent double-voting was being made.  However, Chennithala said that many voters were unaware of the duplicate entries in their names as those were aimed at facilitating bogus votes. Hence there would be practical difficulties in curbing duplicate voting unless the entries were deleted from the list. Meanwhile, there were also allegations that government officials distributing social welfare pensions to aged people at their door steps were also trying to woo the voters to cast votes for the LDF candidates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-triggers-row-over-duplication-in-electoral-rolls-968766.html
31-03-2021||South||Bengaluru blast case accused moves SC to relax bail conditions||Kerala's People Democratic Party leader Abdul Nazir Maudany has approached the Supreme Court to modify his bail conditions in the 2008 Bengaluru blasts case to allow him to visit and stay in his home state. In an application, 56-year-old Maudany through advocates Haris Beeran and R S Jena stated that on account of recent developments of the cases being dragged due to various reasons, including the Covid-19 pandemic, it was just and necessary to relax the bail conditions. While granting bail to him on July 11, 2014, the top court directed him not to leave the city of Bengaluru. He said the progress of the case was crawling at a snail's pace due to various reasons, including recall of witnesses and transfer of prosecutor and trial judges thrice and now on account of Covid-19. For the last year, recording of the statement of the accused was underway. At present, his presence in the trial was not required.  He also claimed there was no presiding officer at the trial court at present. He had already spent 11 years since arrest and seven years since bail in Bengaluru. Among other reasons, the applicant contended he was not able to avail Ayurveda treatment for his ill-health. For his various ailments, he was also not able to get proper treatment due to a high number of Covid-19 cases in the city. His father was also critical after having suffered a stroke. He also submitted that being in the city caused him an excessive financial burden due to high rent. Further, he said the top court had earlier three times relaxed the bail conditions to permit him to visit Kerala.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bengaluru-blast-case-accused-moves-sc-to-relax-bail-conditions-968770.html
31-03-2021||South||Congress calls AIADMK govt a 'puppet,' PM Modi 'toolkit'||The Congress on Wednesday levelled corruption charges against the ruling AIADMK and assured a fair probe if the alliance led by the DMK in Tamil Nadu, in which it is also a constituent, emerged victorious in the April 6 Assembly polls. Party general secretary Randeep Singh Surjewala claimed that the AIADMK government was a puppet of the Centre. "After five years of a puppet AIADMK government, which has become a Modi toolkit, nothing more and nothing less, it is a puppet Modi toolkit playing in the hands of Narendra Modi," he alleged and accused the AIADMK government of surrendering before the Centre. The time has come for Tamil Nadu to demand transparency, accountability and the state yearned for a change, he said, adding TN could surge ahead only by voting for the DMK- Congress Alliance. Surjewala, in a press conference here, levelled corruption charges against the AIADMK government, including those related to contracts, vis-a-vis road-building projects. Such allegations have been repeatedly made by the DMK and dismissed as lies and defamatory by the AIADMK and Chief Minister K Palaniswami. A 'campaign guide' was also released, targeting the AIADMK government and the National Democratic Alliance over several issues. Surjewala assured a free and fair probe over such allegations if the DMK-Congress alliance won the polls and said his party "will serve people as their servants." On Prime Minister Narendra Modi's allegation of anti-women mindset against parties, including the DMK and Congress, he asked if Modi describing a woman as a 'Rs 50 crore girlfriend' in a public meeting years ago showed respect for women. Such comments of Modi about women were 'shameful' and he should 'apologise' for it in the first place, he said. The Uttarakhand Chief Minister objects to women wearing ripped jeans, the Congress leader said and wondered if the BJP-RSS decides what India's daughters should wear. Hitting out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for allegedly commenting that "women cannot go out alone, they need protection...," he asked, "are we living in the 15th century." The PM should 'sack' such Chief Ministers, he said. On DMK leader A Raja remark, vis-a-vis Chief Minister K Palaniswami's birth, he said he has not gone into the matter in detail, adding Raja has, however, apologised for it. "We should all be careful...to maintain decorum in political discourse."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-calls-aiadmk-govt-a-puppet-pm-modi-toolkit-968823.html
31-03-2021||State||Researchers back ultrasound lung scans to tell severity of Covid infection||The state’s policy of discharging Covid-19 patients without lung scans and RT-PCR test means that there is no data on how many have suffered long-term effects from the virus or whether they are even cured of the disease. Researchers have now proposed using artificial intelligence (AI) and ultrasound machines to determine the severity of the disease in patients. As per the official government policy, Covid-19 patients are generally discharged without an RT-PCR test on the 10th day, if they have been asymptomatic for the previous three days. The assumption is that the patient would have passed the virus by that time frame. However, in May 2020, when 31-year-old Prasad (name changed), a native of Kolar district, was discharged from a week-long stint of quarantine at an isolation hospital in Yelahanka Zone, it was found that he was still an active carrier of the virus. This resulted in the infection of his parents, aged 62 and 72, plus a 21-year-old niece, when he travelled to his hometown of Kolar. While an RT-PCR exit test would have determined that Prasad still had the virus, researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc) said using ultrasound lung scans could have determined the severity of infection.  “An ultrasound scan of the lung provides a highly sensitised image of possible pleural surface infections of the type suffered by patients with respiratory diseases, including Covid-19. Therefore, patients can be checked for severity of the disease before discharge,” explained professor Phaneendra Yalavarthy of the Department of Computational and Data Sciences atIISc. It is a statement that Dr C N Manjunath, the state nodal officer for testing, concurs with. “Ultrasound scans can be used to understand the severity of the infection in hospitalised patients and to see whether there is any residual effect. You can also plan for the proper respiratory rehabilitation of Covid-19 survivors. Such scans should be widely used,” Dr Manjunath said. Dr Yalavarthy’s involvement in Covid-19 studies stems from his work on an AI programme called Mini-CovidNet, developed in concert with researchers in Norway, which can be installed in existing ultrasound machines to rapidly assess lung scans and provide data on infection severity. He cited using AI to compensate for the low number of pulmonologists in India. According to medical centres, an ultrasound scan costs about Rs 2,000, compared to about Rs 8,000 for CT-scans for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/researchers-back-ultrasound-lung-scans-to-tell-severity-of-covid-infection-968512.html
31-03-2021||State||H D Deve Gowda, his wife test positive for Covid-19||Former prime minister and JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda and his wife Chennamma got admitted to Manipal Hospital in Bengaluru for Covid-19 treatment on Wednesday. The octogenarian leader took to Twitter to ask everyone who came in contact with him over the last few days to get tested. "My wife Chennamma and I have tested positive for Covid-19. We are self-isolating along with other family members. We are self-isolating along with other family members," he said.   My wife Chennamma and I have tested positive for COVID-19. We are self-isolating along with other family members.I request all those who came in contact with us over the last few days to get themselves tested. I request party workers and well-wishers not to panic. The senior leader is set to celebrate his 90th birthday in May this year.  Speaking to DH, cardiologist and Gowda's son-in-law Dr CN Manjunath said, Chennamma, Gowda’s wife, had developed fever and tested positive. Even though Gowda's RT-PCR test showed negative, he was admitted on precautionary grounds, Dr Manjunath said.  “His chest CT showed early changes. Hence, he has been admitted as a precaution,” he said. While Chennamma has taken her first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, Gowda himself has not yet been vaccinated. “He had developed fever two weeks ago. So, his vaccination was deferred,” Dr Manjunath added.  Both of them are said to be in stable condition.  Meanwhile, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Gowda over the telephone wishing him a speedy recovery. "I am grateful to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for calling and enquiring after my health. I am also deeply moved by his offer to get me treated in any hospital of my choice in any city. I assured him that I am being looked after well in Bangalore, but will keep him informed," Gowda said in a tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/h-d-deve-gowda-his-wife-test-positive-for-covid-19-968611.html
31-03-2021||State||Four tiger poachers arrested in Karnataka||The officials of the Forest department arrested four persons for poaching tiger and leopard. The poachers also consumed leopard meat. Arun, Nanjunda, Ravi and Ramesh of Ambedkar Nagar in Nellur papaya in Hunsur taluk. The officials seized tiger and leopard skin from the accused. According to the officials, the accused were poaching animals using traps and snare. An officer said that the accused had consumed leopard meat.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/four-tiger-poachers-arrested-in-karnataka-968705.html
31-03-2021||State||Despite Covid-19, HAL records revenue of over Rs 22,700 crore in FY 2020-21||Even though the Covid-19 outbreak disrupted economic and industrial operations across the country, Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) said that it recorded revenue in excess of Rs 22,700 crore (provisional and unaudited) in the recently concluded fiscal year. The corresponding figure for the previous year stood at Rs 21,438 crore. The company has posted revenue growth of around 6% in the 2020-21 fiscal year. It cites improved productivity after suspending the operations for one month at the beginning of the year. The year 2020-21 was significant in terms of securing the largest ever defence contract of 83 LCA MK-IA by an Indian company. This helped the company surpass the order book position in excess of Rs 80,000 crore, said R Madhavan, CMD, HAL.   The record revenue achieved with the help of the production of 41 new helicopters/aircraft, 102 new engines, an overhaul of 198 aircraft/helicopters and 506 engines.  The company said that the cash flow position has improved significantly with improved budget allocation from defence customers and it stands in excess of Rs 34,000 cr, including advance payment of around Rs 5,400 crore for 83 LCA MK1A contract. This helped HAL to liquidate all its borrowings availed from the banks. The company has ended the year with a positive cash balance of around Rs 6,700 crore as against borrowings of Rs 5,775 crore. HAL said it has also taken various cost-cutting and austerity measures during the year that include indigenisation of various components, increasing outsourcing efforts and rationalisation of manpower which is expected to facilitate the company to register double-digit growth.  Considering the anticipated growth in profits, HAL paid an interim dividend of Rs 30 per share during the current financial year representing 300% on the face value of Rs 10 per share.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/despite-covid-19-hal-records-revenue-of-over-rs-22700-crore-in-fy-2020-21-968751.html
31-03-2021||State||Karnataka Mahila Congress president tests positive for Covid-19||Karnataka Mahila Congress president Pushpa Amarnath tested positive for Covid-19. She has urged the people with close contacts to get checked for the virus. Pushpa has toured Belagavi for the byelection campaign, recently. She was subject to the Covid-19 test and the report tested positive. Now, she is under quarantine, in a hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-mahila-congress-president-tests-positive-for-covid-19-968753.html
31-03-2021||State||Tragedy averted as elephant walks through railway tunnel in Sakleshpur||A wild elephant reportedly passed through a railway tunnel at Aaluvalli in Sakleshpur taluk in the district. A major mishap was averted as there was no train movement during day time. The video of the elephant's movement has gone viral on social media. The authorities confirmed the movement of the wild elephant. It has to be noted that two elephant calves had died as a train hit them while moving on the track, two years back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/tragedy-averted-as-elephant-walks-through-railway-tunnel-in-sakleshpur-968822.html
31-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||CD woman: A 28-day wild goose chase for police||Despite Karnataka police putting entire resources to trace the lady, allegedly found in the CD, for nearly a month, she succeeded in hoodwinking the investigating officers.   Ever since the sex scandal came in public on March 2, the Bengaluru City police including Special Investigative Team had virtually fanned out teams of police officers in almost all parts of the country, but they failed it, till she landed in Bengaluru international airport to reach court on Tuesday. Police found the woman and her accomplices' mobiles location starting with Goa, followed by Chennai, Hyderabad, Delhi, Lucknow, Gwalior, Bhopal, Jaipur, Ajmer, Ghaziabad and Chandigarh. "The lady used to switch on the mobile phone only once or twice a day. When police got her mobile location, the team rushed to the spot. By the time the team reached the spot, she would have left the place. After a few hours, the mobile location showed a different place. When the team was dispatched to that location, the lady would have shifted to another place," said a police officer.  "The police team used to take a minimum of six to eight hours to reach the destination where her last location was found. By that time we reached the location, she would have gone to another place," the police officer said. For the past nearly a month, the lady and her accomplices have been frequently changing their locations spread across the country, said the officer It was also found that to mislead the police, she used to switch on mobile just before shifting to another place from where she was staying, said the officer. “Taking the case as a challenge, the police put the entire system in active both technical and man power to trace the lady's location, but our efforts went in vain,” said the officer. It was found that during her stay in north India, she was staying in fairly good hotels used to travel in car and by air.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cd-woman-a-28-day-wild-goose-chase-for-police-968491.html
31-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Sex Scandal: SIT probing all angles, will bring truth out, says Bommai||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said the SIT, probing the alleged sex scandal involving former minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, was looking into all angles as per the set criminal procedures, and will bring out the truth without buckling under any political pressure. The Minister slammed the opposition Congress for criticising the probe and said it will not influence the investigation in any way as the Special Investigation Team (SIT) was functioning in accordance with law. "SIT will have to do in detail all round inquiry systematically. There is a set criminal procedure code for it and accordingly it has to be done and they are doing it. No one can intervene in it, so I will also not comment on it," Bommai said. Speaking to reporters here, he sought to know what locus standi does the Congress have to criticise the government regarding the investigation, while accusing it of hushing up the sex scam involving former minister H Y Meti, when the national party was in power. "They (Congress) will have to look back and see what they had done while in power. We are doing things in accordance with law because ultimately everything has to be established in the court of law," he added. Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar on Tuesday had alleged that the BJP government in the state was supporting and standing behind Ramesh Jarkiholi. The opposition party also through a tweet had questioned the Home Minister calling him "Buildup Bommai", that as to why the accused Ramesh Jarkiholi was still roaming freely and has not been arrested. Averring that such tweets, statements and protests from any side will not influence the SIT in any way, Bommai said SIT will function in accordance with law and will not buckle under any pressure. "Without favouring anyone, they are working towards bringing the truth out. There are efficient honest officers," he said, as he appealed that no one should try to cause any obstructions to the fair probe by making unnecessary comments or lowering its seriousness. Police are free to take all necessary action based on the case, he added. Meanwhile, the woman in the purported sex CD has been subjected to medical test on Wednesday and later the spot mahajar will take place, police sources said. She had on Tuesday appeared before the magistrate and recorded her statement, and later before the SIT. An FIR was registered against Jarkiholi on March 26 based on a written complaint by the woman through her lawyer. Jarkiholi, who was Water Resources Minister in Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa-led cabinet had resigned on March 3, a day after news channels aired videos of the alleged sex scandal. While Jarkiholi, an MLA from Gokak, has repeatedly claimed his innocence and that the video was fake, the woman in the purported sex video has accused him of sexually using her, cheating, and threatening her after promising a government job.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sex-scandal-sit-probing-all-angles-will-bring-truth-out-says-bommai-968647.html
31-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Eshwarappa alleges 'serious lapses' by B S Yediyurappa, approaches Governor||In an unprecedented show of discord within the administration, Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) Minister K S Eshwarappa on Wednesday approached Raj Bhavan with a formal complaint against Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa's "direct interference" in the affairs of his department. Eshwarappa met Governor Vajubhai R Vala with a 5-page letter describing Yediyurappa's “serious lapses and authoritarian way of running the administration”.  The minister has pointed out at least three instances where Yediyurappa is said to have usurped the affairs of the RDPR department.  One of them is the sanction of Rs 774 crore for road development on the request of MLAs. "The Chief Minister's Office is putting pressure on principal secretary to issue government order, which has been stayed by me on the advice of the state party president and other senior leaders of the party," Eshwarappa stated.  On March 4, Eshwarappa said Yediyurappa sanctioned another set of work worth Rs 460 crore without consulting him. In the third instance, Rs 65 crore was "directly sanctioned" on the basis of a letter by the Bengaluru Urban zilla panchayat president, who Eshwarappa said is a "close relative" of Yediyurappa's family. Apparently, the annual allocation for the Bengaluru Urban zilla panchayat is just Rs 1.17 crore. "...there is no logic and fairness in sanctioning Rs 65 crore for one district neglecting the remaining 29 districts," Eshwarappa stated.  Eshwarappa stated that he had kept the three sanction orders pending and that he had registered "strong objection...highlighting the indiscriminate sanction of funds to various MLAs/persons in violation of rules, but it was of no avail." Eshwarappa, who is known for his love-hate relationship with Yediyurappa, said he had brought these "lapses" to the notice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and other senior party leaders.  "The correct course for the CM would have been to allocate additional grants, if any, he desires, to the RDPR department and forward the request letters submitted by various MLAs/persons, to the concerned minister," he stated.   Eshwarappa has also written to BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, who is in charge of the party’s affairs in Karnataka, accusing Yediyurappa of sanctioning funds to constituencies represented by non-BJP MLAs. He said he was in an embarrassing situation "in the eyes of our party MLAs and party workers, who are very critical about the allocation of special grants to the constituencies belonging to opposition party MLAs."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/eshwarappa-alleges-serious-lapses-by-b-s-yediyurappa-approaches-governor-968722.html
31-03-2021||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka breaches 4000-mark to report highest daily Covid-19 cases in 2021||With over 4,000 new Covid-19 cases, Karnataka reported the highest daily infections this year with Bengaluru amounting to nearly 3,000 cases. The total number of infections stood at 9,97,004 and the death toll 12,567, the Health department said. On Wednesday, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 2,928 of the 4,225 cases reported in the state.  The day also saw 1,492 patients getting discharged after recovery. The state had recorded 2,975 new cases yesterday. As of March 31 evening, cumulatively 9,97,004 Covid-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which include 12,567 deaths and 9,56,170 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said there were a total of 28,248 active cases in the State, including 266 in ICU. Among 26 deaths reported on Wednesday, 18 are from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Kalaburagi and Tumakuru, and one each from Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Kolara and Chikkamagaluru. Bidar accounted for 159 cases today, Mysuru 142, Tumakuru 138 and Kalaburagi 137, followed by others. (With inputs from agencies)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-breaches-4000-mark-to-report-highest-daily-covid-19-cases-in-2021-968742.html
31-03-2021||West||Hospitality sector opposes lockdown proposal in Maharashtra||India’s apex hospitality sector association — the Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Associations of India (FHRAI) along with its regional body, the Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI), have vehemently opposed the proposed lockdown in Maharashtra. Amid rising Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government is contemplating a limited lockdown in the days to come. A night curfew between 8 pm to 7 am is in place across the state, which has affected eateries, restaurants, hotels and bars. In a letter to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the FHRAI and HRAWI have pointed out that due to the prevailing restrictions and work-from-home arrangements, restaurants have no significant business in the day. The FHRAI and HRAWI have also pointed out that all other businesses and sectors are entitled to get long business hours even under restricted timelines but restaurants are being singled out due to the specific nature of business and demand. “As of today, 30 per cent of hotels and restaurants in the country have shut down permanently due to financial losses. Over 20 per cent of hotels and restaurants haven’t opened fully after the lockdown and the remaining 50 per cent continue to run in losses, and revenues are below 50 per cent of the pre-Covid-19 levels,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, vice president, FHRAI. Tourism and hospitality account for close to 10 per cent of India’s GDP and support around 90 million jobs. “Under the present conditions, non-viability will lead to the closure of hotel and restaurant business in the state and massive job losses,” he added. It is only after October 2020, that restaurants in Maharashtra were allowed to operate at 50 per cent capacity with time restrictions. But the resurgence of the pandemic at regular intervals led to more restrictions disrupting all its revival efforts. The FHRAI & HRAWI have stated that the rental and salary expenses, servicing of debts taken earlier, negative cash flows and the statutory payment obligations have made hospitality the most unviable and unsustainable business in the present situation. “No government has taken notice of the specific nature of the Hospitality sector whose business is impacted by a host of external factors including the policy of WFH gaining popularity even post the lockdown relaxation, depressed customer sentiments, reduction in business travel and general reduction in discretionary spending on leisure and social spending, prevailing restrictions, uncertainties and protocols imposed by the Government with respect to issuance of tourist visa, quarantine norms and other Covid-19 protocols and more importantly disruption of international commercial airline operations,” says Pradeep Shetty, joint honorary secretary, FHRAI and senior vice president, HRAWI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/hospitality-sector-opposes-lockdown-proposal-in-maharashtra-968562.html
31-03-2021||West||NCB arrests actor Ajaz Khan in connection with drug case||After hours of grilling, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Mumbai-based actor Ajaz Khan for alleged links with drug traffickers. Khan, who is in his mid-forties, was picked up by NCB sleuths after he landed at the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport in Mumbai on Tuesday. He arrived here from Jaipur. A top NCB official confirmed to DH the arrest of Khan.  Khan has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and would be produced before a Magistrate’s court. Last week, the NCB arrested two notorious drug-traffickers Shahrukh Khan alias Shahrukh Bullet and Shadab Farooque Shaikh alias Shadab Batata – and the NCB has found them linked with Khan. It needs to be mentioned that the NCB has arrested over 30 peddlers, traffickers and couriers – after it started a probe into the drug angle behind the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput which triggered a larger probe into the Bollywood drug-mafia nexus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncb-arrests-actor-ajaz-khan-in-connection-with-drug-case-968573.html
31-03-2021||West||Nearly 3,000 caught without masks on North Goa beaches in 2021||The Pernem and Calangute police in North Goa district have so far this year caught 2,957 people without wearing masks on beaches and collected Rs 5.86 lakh as fine from them, officials said on Wednesday. The Goa police have intensified their drive to penalise visitors violating the Covid-19 protocols and not wearing face covers on beaches, they said. The coastal state has been witnessing huge crowds on its beaches, especially during extended weekends. On Tuesday, Goa reported 127 new cases of coronavirus on Tuesday, raising its tally to 57,839, as per the state health department. The police at Pernem, Anjuna and Calangute, which cover the entire beach belt in North Goa district, have been penalising people found without masks at the sea shore. Pernem's police inspector Jivba Dalvi said they have caught 957 people without masks so far this year and collected Rs 1.86 lakh as fine from them. The Pernem police station covers various beaches, including Arambol and Morjim, in North Goa. Last year, the Pernem police caught 2,600 people without masks and collected a fine of Rs 3.29 lakh from them, Dalvi said. Besides, the Calangute police caught 2,000 tourists and locals without masks in last three months and collected Rs 4 lakh as fine from them, another official said. The official said they are also making announcements at the beaches to create awareness among tourists about the importance social distancing and wearing masks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nearly-3000-caught-without-masks-on-north-goa-beaches-in-2021-968626.html
31-03-2021||West||Vaze procured explosives found in SUV near Ambani's house: NIA||The gelatin sticks found in an SUV near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai last month were procured by suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, NIA sources claimed on Wednesday. However, they did not elaborate on the source of the explosives. The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which is probing the case, has also found that Vaze along with his driver parked the SUV near Ambani's house, the sources said. "The gelatin sticks, which were placed in the SUV, were procured by Vaze," a source said. The NIA has CCTV footage that shows the presence of Vaze at the spot, the sources said. As a part of the probe into the case, the NIA team is going to collect CCTV footage of the compound of the Mumbai police commissioner's office and surrounding areas, they said, adding that this will establish Vaze's movements and other aspects. There were some attempts to tamper with the CCTV footage and digital video recorders (DVRs) of the police chief's office, but the majority of the footage is available, the sources said. The probe agency is verifying whether the accused person (Vaze) destroyed any DVR of the Mumbai police commissioner's office and the surrounding area, they said. Vaze allegedly tried to destroy the CCTV footage and DVRs of Saket society in neighbouring Thane, where he was staying, as well as of a shop making number plates in Thane by throwing them into some water bodies, the sources said. The NIA on Sunday recovered a laptop, a printer, two hard disks, two-vehicle number plates, two DVRs and two CPUs from the Mithi river here with the help of divers, they said. Vaze was arrested by the NIA on March 13. The agency is probing the alleged role of Vaze in parking the explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's residence on February 25 and in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiren. The body of Hiren, who was in possession of the SUV, was found in a creek in Mumbra town of Thane district on March 5.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/vaze-procured-explosives-found-in-suv-near-ambanis-house-nia-968651.html
31-03-2021||West||Why didn't you approach police against Anil Deshmukh? HC asks Param Bir Singh||Pulling up former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh, the Bombay High Court wanted to know why he did not file a police complaint against Home Minister Anil Deshmukh. A division bench of the Bombay High Court comprising chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice GS Kulkarni pointed out that as a police officer he is aware of the legal course to be followed but still he did not file a complaint. “The FIR is the first step into setting the criminal law into motion,” the court said. Earlier this month, Singh, in a complaint addressed to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with a copy to governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari had alleged that Deshmukh was demanding Rs 100 crore per month from assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze. Thereafter, he moved the Supreme Court for a CBI probe into the issue and also challenged his transfer as commandant general of Home Guards, however, he was asked to move to Bombay High Court, which he did subsequently. "You (Singh) are a senior police officer. You are not a layman. You were duty-bound to register a complaint against any wrongdoing. Despite knowing that an offence is being committed by your boss (Deshmukh), you remained silent the appropriate course of action would have been to lodge a police complaint, and, if that was denied you could have filed an application before a magistrate,” chief justice Datta said. After a full-day hearing, the bench has reserved the order on Singh’s plea. “In the absence of an FIR the high court cannot intervene or direct for an independent agency like the CBI to carry out an investigation,” the court pointed out while hearing arguments on the criminal PIL. Besides Singh’s criminal PIL, there were two other PILs and two complaints on the same issue, however, the court has reserved its order on maintainability. Singh's counsel Vikram Nankani said that his client wanted to avoid this "chakravyuh", however, chief justice Datta reacted sharply, "Are you saying that you are above the law?.” Nankani said that he did not have any other option as the complaint and allegations were against the "very head of the state administration". State’s advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni described Singh as a ‘disgruntled litigant’ and called the entire allegations of the extortion racket as hearsay made out of ‘personal vendetta’ against Deshmukh. “The plea itself was not maintainable, and it was affecting the morale of the entire force,” he said. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, appearing on behalf of the CBI, said submitted that the agency is ready to look into the allegations, considering their seriousness, if the high court deems fit. “If the court pleases, we are ready to carry out investigations,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/why-didnt-you-approach-police-against-anil-deshmukh-hc-asks-param-bir-singh-968665.html
31-03-2021||West||Rajesh Tope asks citizens to prepare for strict Covid restrictions in Maharashtra||With the political spectrum divided over lockdown, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday asked citizens to prepare themselves for strict restrictions amid the worsening Covid-19 pandemic situation. “There has not been any decision yet on lockdown and discussions are on at various levels. However, one thing is for sure that there are going to be strict restrictions,” public health and family welfare minister Rajesh Tope told reporters. According to him, the citizens should start preparing for strict norms. “People should be ready for it,” he warned. In the next weekly Cabinet meeting presided over by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray there would be a comprehensive review of the Covid-19 pandemic situation, the second wave, new strains and the vaccination programme. “Today, there is no shortage of beds, medicines, and doctors. If the number of cases keeps rising, then, we’ll have to make some decisions,” he said in the wake of the government's decision to beef up health infrastructure and increase bed strength including oxygen beds, ICU beds and ventilator beds.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajesh-tope-asks-citizens-to-prepare-for-strict-covid-restrictions-in-maharashtra-968707.html
31-03-2021||West||Eyewash, says BJP on probe panel against Anil Deshmukh||A day after the Maharashtra government announced a high-level inquiry committee to look into former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh’s allegations against state home minister Anil Deshmukh, the BJP described it as eyewash. The Uddhav Thackeray-led MVA government appointed Justice Kailash Chandiwal, a retired judge of the Bombay High Court, as the one-person panel and gave it six months’ time to submit its report. The state government has not formed a judicial commission under the Commission of Inquiry Act 1952, but it set up a “high-level inquiry committee” by an order issued by the General Administration Department, which has its own limitations. Meanwhile, the leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said it is just a committee and not a judicial commission. “Neither it is constituted nor has been given the powers under the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952, as was done in case of Justice Zoning Committee during our tenure,” the former chief minister said referring to the committee to probe into allegations against Eknath Khadse, who resigned as revenue minister. Khadse has not left BJP and joined NCP. “We are of the view that appointing such a committee is merely an eyewash and does not solve any purpose, looking at the gravity and severity of the allegations! Now the question remains how will a retired judge without power enquire against a sitting home minister,” said Fadnavis. Singh has alleged that Deshmukh has demanded Rs 100 crore per month of assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency in the twin cases involving planting of a Scorpio laden with 20-odd gelatin sticks and a threatening letter near Antlia, the Carmichael Road residence of India’s top businessman and Reliance Industries Ltd chairman Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai and murder of SUV owner Mansukh Hiran, a Thane-based automobile spare parts showroom owner. Singh has been transferred as commandant general of Home Guards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/eyewash-says-bjp-on-probe-panel-against-anil-deshmukh-968709.html
31-03-2021||West||Scared to step out due to flagrant Covid-19 SOP violations: Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane||Goa Health Minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said that he was scared of eating out in restaurants in the state because of flagrant violation of Covid-19 SOPs. Addressing a press conference in Panaji, Rane also said that in wake of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the state, restaurants should function at 50 per cent capacity. "You go and check some restaurants, you will feel Covid was never around in Goa. I feel scared, which is why I do not step out," Rane said. "I would suggest 50 per cent seating capacity in restaurants. People should come forward. We are not a police raj state. We have to see that there is sustainable tourism happening in Goa. We have to have that balance during Covid, where we are able to have our businessmen earn their livelihood (too)," the Health Minister said. The daily count of Covid-19 cases in Goa have been fluctuating in the mid-to-late 100s over the last few weeks, whereas in the previous months, the state used to report between 30 to 50 Covid-19 cases on an average. Rane said that Goa could afford to remain in isolation, especially when states like Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala were witnessing an increase in the rate of infection. "You must understand that there are states around us like Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra. They are at a very high level at the moment. As a result Goa cannot remain isolated and we are getting people from the neighbouring states," he said. On Wednesday, Goa recorded the highest daily tally of Covid-19 positive cases in months, with 200 persons testing positive for the deadly infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/scared-to-step-out-due-to-flagrant-covid-19-sop-violations-goa-health-minister-vishwajit-rane-968787.html
31-03-2021||West||Maharashtra sees a worrying trend of Covid-19 deaths||In a worrying trend, Covid-19 deaths in Maharashtra increased with three-figure casualty numbers for seven days in a row. On Wednesday, Maharashtra recorded 227 deaths, first time the state crossed the 200-mark since October, 2020. The dates/deaths were March 25 (111), March 26 (112), March 27 (166), March 28 (108), March 29 (102), March 30 (139) and March 31 (227). The case fatality rate in the state is 1.94 per cent. Meanwhile, after a drop in cases for couple of days, the 24-hour cases in Maharashtra went up to 39,544 on Wednesday. On Monday and Tuesday, the state recorded 31,643 and 27,918 cases, respectively. The progressive total cases and deaths now stand at 28,12,980 and 54,649, respectively. During the last 24 hours, Mumbai recorded 5,399 cases and 15 deaths, while the larger Mumbai metropolitan region reported 9,941 cases and 33 deaths. The total active cases in the state now stand at 3,56,243. During the day, 23,600 patients were discharged, taking the total recovered patients to 24,00,727.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sees-a-worrying-trend-of-covid-19-deaths-968795.html
