01-08-2021||India||Supreme Court to hear pleas for probe into Pegasus row on August 5||The Supreme Court will hear on August 5 a clutch of petitions that demand a court-monitored investigation into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware and to identify the entities responsible for this.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, will take up three public interest litigations on Thursday.The first petition has been filed by advocate ML Sharma, second by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, and the third by Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas.All these petitions have asked for an independent probe into the Pegasus scandal, preferably by a special investigation team under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge.On July 30, senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the PIL by the two journalists before the CJI, saying that the matter had huge ramifications on civil liberties as it involved surveillance of Opposition leaders, journalists and activists. CJI Ramana had agreed to list the matter in the coming week.The journalists have demanded an inquiry by a retired or sitting judge of the apex court to ascertain the extent of surveillance on Indian citizens and identify the entities responsible for it.In their plea, the two journalists said the government has not categorically denied obtaining Pegasus licences to conduct surveillance in the response given in Parliament by minister of electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw, and sought an exact response from the Centre in this regard. The plea also noted that the Centre has taken no steps to ensure a credible and independent investigation.Advocate Sharma demanded an SIT investigation, calling the incident a “serious attack” on Indian democracy, the judiciary and on the security of the country.Sharma earlier approached the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to register a first information report into the allegations but was turned down, the petition said. His petition has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a respondent along with CBI.Brittas, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP, has also asked for a court-monitored probe by SIT. This petition has referred to the statements by minister Vaishnaw in Parliament, complaining that the government has neither denied nor admitted to buying and using the spyware.“It is only an evasive statement from the government. The government has unequivocally accepted the statement of the company, NSO, which owns the alleged spyware technology and blindly accepted their version without any investigation,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-to-hear-pleas-for-probe-into-pegasus-row-on-august-5-101627842016792.html
01-08-2021||India||SC to hear pleas for probes into Pegasus row on Aug 5||The Supreme Court will hear on August 5 a clutch of petitions that demand a court-monitored investigation into the alleged surveillance of Indian citizens using Israeli Pegasus spyware and to identify the entities responsible for this.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, will take up three public interest litigations on Thursday.The first petition has been filed by advocate ML Sharma, second by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar, and the third by Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas.All these petitions have asked for an independent probe into the Pegasus scandal, preferably by a special investigation team under the supervision of a retired Supreme Court judge.On July 30, senior advocate Kapil Sibal mentioned the PIL by the two journalists before the CJI, saying that the matter had huge ramifications on civil liberties as it involved surveillance of Opposition leaders, journalists and activists. CJI Ramana had agreed to list the matter in the coming week.The journalists have demanded an inquiry by a retired or sitting judge of the apex court to ascertain the extent of surveillance on Indian citizens and identify the entities responsible for it.In their plea, the two journalists said the government has not categorically denied obtaining Pegasus licences to conduct surveillance in the response given in Parliament by minister of electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw, and sought an exact response from the Centre in this regard. The plea also noted that the Centre has taken no steps to ensure a credible and independent investigation.Advocate Sharma demanded an SIT investigation, calling the incident a “serious attack” on Indian democracy, the judiciary and on the security of the country.Sharma earlier approached the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to register a first information report into the allegations but was turned down, the petition said. His petition has named Prime Minister Narendra Modi as a respondent along with CBI.Brittas, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP, has also asked for a court-monitored probe by SIT. This petition has referred to the statements by minister Vaishnaw in Parliament, complaining that the government has neither denied nor admitted to buying and using the spyware.“It is only an evasive statement from the government. The government has unequivocally accepted the statement of the company, NSO, which owns the alleged spyware technology and blindly accepted their version without any investigation,” the plea added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-for-probes-into-pegasus-row-on-aug-5-101627842146088.html
01-08-2021||India||Sand mining: Experts remain wary as Bengal govt centralises auction||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had on July 22 announced that her government was coming up with a sand mining policy to put in place a centralised system for the auction of sand quarries. But pundits say it isn’t just an administrative move but a political one too to rein in local leaders to keep the party’s image clean at the grassroots level with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. The West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation (WBMDTC) will henceforth hold the auctions online that was earlier done by the district magistrates. But those earlier auctions only covered a tiny portion of the sand mining activity, according to Biswajit Mukherjee, the former chief law officer of West Bengal Pollution Control Board. “Illegal mining of sand from the riverbeds and riverbanks is rampant in several districts and the business runs into thousands of crores of rupees. There exists a nexus between local politicians, the mafia and the administration,” Mukherjee added. Clashes over the control of dry riverbeds, which form the bedrock of the thriving illegal sand-mining industry, are not uncommon in the districts such as Birbhum, Bankura, West Midnapore, Hooghly, Burdwan and Howrah among others. Sometimes these prove to be fatal. In June 2015, at least three people known to be close to a local Trinamool Congress leader were killed in clashes while in April 2017, two rival gangs with alleged links to the TMC clashed in Birbhum district with bombs and guns, killing at least eight people. The TMC had rubbished the allegations then. But CM Banerjee, while announcing the policy on July 22, acknowledged having received complaints about illegal sand mining and promised not to spare anyone, “even if he is an officer or a politician”. The CM had also complained about the state losing out on revenue due to the local mafia. A senior officer of the state irrigation department put this into perspective: in December 2015, when there was a crackdown on sand mafia, the state’s revenue earning from sand mining went up from around ₹25 crore to ₹300 crore. “There have been crackdowns in the past on illegal sand mining. But the menace goes on unabated with the help of local politicians, mafia and a section of the administration because huge money is involved. In an auction done legally, the bids can go as high as ₹2-3 crore. Imagine the profit from illegal sand mines,” the officer said on condition of anonymity. The TMC has tried to rein in local leaders. At Goghat in Hooghly district, TMC candidates had to sign a pledge before the 2018 panchayat polls that they would not indulge in the private contractor business, toll booths or sand mining. Stern warnings were also issued to the local leadership of the party but to no avail. “As much of the sand mining business is illegal, there is huge corruption involved in it. This has sometimes led to factional feuds. It was also taking a heavy toll on the party, as corruption among a section of the local leaders was ruining the party’s image. The party leader (CM Banerjee) had on many times warned such leaders. The decision was based on a year-long survey made by Prashant Kishor and his team,” said a TMC leader requesting anonymity. He also said that more than the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, the decision would affect the 2023 panchayat polls because those are contested on micro and very localised issues. In the 2021 assembly elections, TMC returned to power for a third time by bagging 213 of the 292 seats. “But it lost in some of the assembly constituencies where such illegal activities were rampant: Arambagh, Khanakul and Goghat in Hooghly; Indas, Kotulpur, Bishnupur and Onda in Bankura; Ghatal in West Midnapore; Kashipur and Balarampur in Purulia,” said Amal Mukhopadhyay, a political commentator. However, not all political watchers are pleased with the idea of centralised auctions. “Experience has shown that whenever such steps are taken to centralise an auction, the cost of the product increases because businessmen have to pay cut money at various levels instead of just the local politicians,” said Biswanath Chakraborty, another political commentator. The BJP, too, has targeted Mamata Banerjee, by saying that she wants to centralise corruption with this move. “Earlier, corruption was at the grassroots level. Now that is being centralised. If the TMC really wants to do away with corruption, then it has to go for a major rejig. Unless the local administration undergoes a major change, corruption will never go,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in West Bengal. “The TMC government will not tolerate any corruption or illegal activities. The Mamata Banerjee government has cracked down on illegal sand mining as not only natural resources were being depleted but the government was also not getting revenue. What has this to do with politics? Does the BJP want to say that the central government doesn’t come up with any policy or do they mean that every policy of the central government is intended to centralise corruption?” TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sand-mining-experts-remain-wary-as-bengal-govt-centralises-auction-101627841124020.html
01-08-2021||India||SC refuses to review its order on clearing Central Vista project||The Supreme Court has refused to revisit its judgment of January 5 granting clearance to the Central Vista Redevelopment Plan that envisages a new Parliament, Central Secretariat and offices of ministers at an estimated cost of ₹15,000 crore.The review petitions were dismissed by a bench of Justices AM Khanwilkar and Dinesh Maheshwari in separate orders passed on July 15 and July 20. The bench said, “Prayer for listing or hearing the review petitions in open court is rejected. The present review petitions have been filed against the final judgment and order dated January 5, 2021. We have perused the review petitions as well as the grounds in support thereof. In our opinion, no case for review is made out.”The review petitions are heard and decided in chambers by the judges who gave the verdict. In the event, the review petitions are allowed, the same are listed in open court for the hearing.The review petitions were filed by architect and urban planner AG Krishna Menon, activist Lieutenant Colonel (Retd) Anuj Srivastava and former bureaucrat Meena Gupta. Menon’s petition was decided on July 15 while the remaining two review petitions were decided on July 20 by the same bench.A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court by a 2:1 majority had approved all clearances for the Central Vista redevelopment project, including environmental clearance and change of land use by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA). The dissenting verdict was by Justice Sanjiv Khanna which held that the change of land use did not follow the process under the law for adequate consultation and public participation. The majority verdict, on the other hand, took the view that in a given case, it is for the legislature to decide by law whether a personal oral hearing is required, mere representation is to be invited, or the matter calls for public discussion and not the Court. It noted that the land use change was not of a “radical character” as it was meant for the similar purpose of having government offices, public and semi-public use and recreation. “The project does not involve any conversion into private ownership and has no element whatsoever of permitting commercial use of vital public resources. The proposed project is in line with the standards of public trust and the petitioners have failed to point out any circumstance which would suggest otherwise,” the majority judgment had stated.It did not agree with the petitioners that the entire Central Vista area was a heritage zone. However, the majority view held that the Government will have to take approvals from the Heritage Conservation Committee and municipal authorities before construction of the new Parliament begins. The Centre had appointed HCP Design, Planning and Management as the consultant for the Central Vista project in September 2019. This decision too was approved by the Court.The proposed new Parliament will have a built-up area of around 60,000 square metres with expanded seating for over 1,200 members of both Houses, along with 51 Union ministries in 10 buildings. On the environmental clearance front, the petitioners had argued that it was wrong on part of the project proponent Central Public Works Department (CPWD) to split the proposal and seek a green nod for the new Parliament building and not the entire redevelopment project. However, this challenge was rejected by the Court. The judgment required the Government to install smog towers at the site and laid down that in future construction projects, smog towers and smog guns shall be mandatory. The majority view said, “Time has come to advance the intent behind improving air quality as a mandatory feature for modern buildings and more particularly during the phase of construction of such major projects in the cities most affected by air pollution.” The court directed the Centre to issue directions in this regard.The order by the Court came on a clutch of petitions filed by Rajeev Suri, Anuj Srivastava, AG Krishna Menon and Meena Gupta who opposed the hurried manner in which the Centre went about giving approvals for the Central Vista Project. They claimed that the entire Parliament and surrounding structures enjoyed the “heritage building” tag and could not be destroyed. It was further apprehended by the petitioners that once the new structures are in place, the area would be marked as a “High-Security Zone” closing public access to Rajpath, lawns and water bodies adjoining it. It was in March 2020 that the Centre notified the change of land use of the Central Vista area comprising 86 acres of land. The petitions were heard for over five months and the challenge to the project was broadly classified under the change in land use, clearance by Central Vista Committee in April 2020, environmental clearance, violation of municipal laws and scope of development on heritage sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-refuses-to-review-its-order-on-clearing-central-vista-project-101627841122772.html
01-08-2021||India||Congress, AAP hold protests in Gujarat as state govt begins celebrations to mark CM Rupani’s 5 years in office||Even as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Gujarat kicked off a nine-day programme to celebrate the completion of five years in office by chief minister Vijay Rupani, the opposition Congress and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) in the state held protests against the government on Sunday. Particularly, the two parties attacked the government’s education policy in the state.Several Congress leaders in the state attacked the government over the education policy while some party leaders criticised the state government for “wasting taxpayers’ money” on such celebratory events. Also, some party workers were detained after they took out rallies with placards and by shouting slogans against the government as a part of the party's "save education programme."“In Gujarat, people are being looted in the name of privatisation of education. Instead of being ashamed of this, the BJP government is organising celebrations using taxpayers' money. We demand that the Gujarat government immediately stop this policy of privatisation of education, withdraw decisions to shut down primary schools and fill vacancies in all government schools and colleges,” news agency PTI quoted state Congress chief Amit Chavda as saying earlier on Sunday.Also read | PM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI tomorrowFurther, Chavda alleged that more than 10,000 classrooms in government schools in Gujarat were in dilapidated condition, while some colleges were facing staff crunch by as much as 40%, the PTI report further showed.Congress leaders, including Paresh Dhanani, Bharatsinh Solanki and Arjun Modhwadia, took part in the protests, according to a press release by the party. Also, Congress said that it would organise programmes at the same time as the government's nine-day celebrations.Meanwhile, the AAP held several events under the ‘agyaan divas’ programme, a name intended to mock the BJP’s ‘gyan shakti diwas.’The party further claimed that more than 6,000 government schools were shut because of "lack of students", while as many as 14,000 schools had students of different classes studying in the same classroom.In his reply, CM Rupani asked Chavda about what the Congress did when they were in power in the state and in the centre. He also said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had set up institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology (IITs), Indian Institute of Management (IIM) and the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in all states to further the reach of education.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-aap-hold-protests-in-gujarat-as-state-govt-begins-celebrations-to-mark-cm-rupani-s-5-years-in-office-101627840068033.html
01-08-2021||India||Already met party leadership on Saturday night, says Babul Supriyo, 'Theatrics', says Dilip Ghosh||Creating a flutter in West Bengal BJP by announcing his resignation on Facebook, former Union minister Babul Supriyo on Sunday said after the announcement on his social media account he met the top leadership of the party on Saturday night in Delhi. "I have already sought time from the Lok Sabha speaker as his consent is required before I make a decision. I have already met the top leadership of my party last night but only time will tell what is going to be my future move," the Asansol MP told a television channel, news agency PTI reported. Babul Supriyo met JP Nadda at around midnight on Saturday, the news agency said, citing sources. As Babul Supriyo has not yet tendered his resignation to Lok Sabha Speaker and only made announcements on social media, questions are being raised over his actual intention, while BJP insiders have said Babul Supriyo is still with the party.West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh, whom Babul Supriyo slammed in his Facebook post for doubting his resignation announcement, said, "The more my name is taken by people who want to be in news through theatrics, the more I become aware they tend to seek importance by doing that." He is still in the BJP, "as far as my knowledge", Ghosh said.Bengal BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar said the party needs Babul and that the senior leaders of the party will try to convince him. "Supriyo is an independent person. He left his banking job to be a singer and then eventually joined politics. There must be something going on in his mind. He had met some senior leaders in the party and discussed his issues with them. The senior leaders will talk to him," Sarkar said.After Saturday's social media announcement, Babul Supriyo clarified that he won't be joining any party. He said he wants to continue working for Asansol and for that he does not need to be a minister or an MP. He has also made it clear that his disagreement with Dilip Ghosh and his removal from the Union cabinet are some of the factors that have driven him to take the decision.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/already-met-party-leadership-on-saturday-night-says-babul-supriyo-theatrics-says-dilip-ghosh-101627836894385.html
01-08-2021||India||As Covid-19 cases gallop, neighbours shut door on Kerala||As Kerala is grappling with a high virus caseload, more than one lakh cases in the last five days, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have put restrictions on people travelling from the state. Tamil Nadu has made the RT-PCR test mandatory for people coming from the state from August 5 and Karnataka said only vaccinated people will be allowed to enter the state. Winding queues are visible outside border check-points as both states tightened measures and Karnataka has also blocked the entry of public transport from the state.On Sunday also daily cases crossed 20,728, for the last six days it has been reporting over 20,000 cases. It amounted to almost half of the country’s 41,0952 cases. Its test positivity rate (TPR) also remained high at 12.14 per cent while the national average is 2.34%. Active cases also rose to 1,67,379, more than one-third of the active cases of the country, statistics released by the state health ministry shows.In at least four districts, the reproduction number (R-value) is above 1.2 per cent. R value is an indicator of how quickly the infection is spreading and it gives a clear picture of how many persons, on average, get infected from a Covid-19 patient. Experts said for stabilization, R value should come down below one per cent. With no end in sight to its pandemic woes, the state government is also planning to redraw its strategies and health minister Veena George said the next three weeks are crucial for the state.“The latest sero survey shows at least 50 per cent of the population is vulnerable. We have noticed the presence of new Delta variant in different parts of the state,” she said, asking people not to lower their guard at a critical juncture. As many experts talk in terms of a third wave, the minister said the second wave is yet to conclude in the state. As frequent lockdown is crippling normal lives and failed to restrict TPR now, the government is planning to focus on micro-containment zones and allow shops and business establishments to function as usual. Now, the majority of shops are opening alternately and there is a complete lockdown on the weekends.The state has witnessed 17 suicides in the last 40 days, mostly due to pandemic-induced financial trouble. Meanwhile, an experts’ team from the Centre for Disease Control visited some of the worst-affected districts in north Kerala. It has asked health officials to ensure that in micro-containment zones restrictions are tightened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-covid-19-cases-gallop-neighbours-shut-door-on-kerala-101627834703415.html
01-08-2021||India||Kerala sees sixth straight day of over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload jumps by over 30,000 in 1 week||With 20,728 new infections of Covid-19 reported on Sunday, Kerala witnessed its sixth consecutive day of more than 20,000 single-day cases in the state. Also, 56 people succumbed to their illness in the last 24 hours. As of 2pm on Sunday, 3,411,489 people have tested positive for the disease and the death toll was recorded at 16,837, a bulletin from the state health department showed. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 12.14%, state health minister Veena George said on Sunday.Meanwhile, the active caseload ballooned by 30,565 in the week (between July 26 and August 1) and stood at 167,379 as of Sunday. On July 26, it was recorded at 136,814, according to the state government’s data. Data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday showed that Kerala was the only state with more than 100,000 active cases as of 8am on the day. The ministry also showed that Maharashtra with 80,138 active cases came at a distant second.The cumulative recoveries in Kerala climbed up to 3,226,761 after 17,792 more people were discharged from hospitals on the day.Also read | TN mandates negative RT-PCR certificate for arrivals from KeralaOver 22,000 new infections were reported on July 27, 28 and 29, while the daily cases remained above the 20,000-mark on July 30, 31 and August 1.Among the districts, Malappuram with 27,335 active cases contributed the most to the state’s active caseload, followed by Kozhikode with 24,841 cases, Ernakulam with 22,108 cases, Thrissur with 12,974 cases and Palakkad with 12,684 cases. Thiruvananthapuram is another district that has more than 10,000 active cases (10,646 cases exactly) of the disease currently. In Malappuram district, the active caseload has consistently been increasing over the last seven days, according to data.As cases continue to increase in Kerala, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have imposed restrictions on passengers from the state. TN has made a negative RT PCR report compulsory from August 5 for people from Kerala. A complete weekend lockdown has been enforced in Kerala, which the state has been doing for the past few weeks to curb the transmission. Experts including the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have asked the state to reconsider its lockdown system as it would lead to crowding in some places. A central team of experts from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has visited several districts in the state and discussed Covid-19 control measures with district officials, according to a report by news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-sees-sixth-straight-day-of-over-20-000-new-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-jumps-by-over-30-000-in-1-week-101627833962581.html
01-08-2021||India||Does Ashwagandha help in recovery from Covid? Study in 3 UK cities||Traditional herb Ashwagandha will be administered to 2,000 randomly selected people in Leicester, Birmingham and London to find out whether this herb helps in faster recovery from Covid-19. UK's London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine has entered into an agreement with the ministry of Ayush to conduct this study on Ashwagandha's impact on Covid recovery. There have been numerous researches on the medicinal properties of Ashwagandha but this is the first time the ministry has tied up with a foreign institution to investigate Ashwagandha's properties relating to Covid recovery.While Ashwagandha is available in India in juice, tablet and powder format as well, the participants in the trial will be given Ashwagandha tablets. They will have to take 500 mg tablets twice daily. Participants will be monitored for a month on various aspects including quality of life, mental health, adverse effects if any etc."For three months, one group of 1,000 participants will be administered Ashwagandha (AG) tablets while the second group of 1,000 participants will be assigned a placebo, which is indistinguishable from AG in looks and taste. Both patients and the doctors will be unaware of the group's treatment in a double-blind trial," All India Institute of Ayurveda director Dr Tanuja Nesari said in the statement.Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) is commonly known as 'Indian winter cherry' and is known for its energy-boosting, stress-busting properties. It is an easily accessible, over-the-counter nutritional supplement in the UK and has a proven safety profile, a statement issued by the ministry said.Recently, the minister of state for Ayush, Mahendrabhai Munjapara, informed the Rajya Sabha that the ministry is conducting wide research on the effectiveness of Ayush medicines to curb the Covid-19 outbreak. Scientific studies, as cited by the ministry, have found Ayush 64 useful in asymptomatic, mild and moderate Covid-19 infection as standalone and adjunct to standard care. AYUSH-64 is a an Ayurvedic formulation which was developed by the Central Council for Research in Ayurvedic Sciences for the management of Malaria. But it is a repurposed drug and the ministry recommended it for Covid-19 too.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/does-ashwagandha-help-in-recovery-from-covid-study-in-3-uk-cities-101627832177597.html
01-08-2021||India||As restrictions ease, Indian skies saw 44 additional flights in July||As restrictions ease down, airlines have begun to add more flights. In July, airlines added around 45 new flights across the country. Domestic carriers too that were forced to pause their network expansion due to the second wave of the pandemic, particularly in the peak summer season, are now looking to implement their plans, HT has learnt.SpiceJet alone launched 42 new flights on its domestic and international network, which commenced operations from July 10. The airline launched the industry’s first flights on Surat-Jabalpur and Surat-Pune routes. It also connected Surat with Jaipur, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, Gwalior with Ahmedabad, Mumbai and Pune. Non-stop return flights also commenced on Gwalior-Ahmedabad, Gwalior-Mumbai and Gwalior-Pune sectors along with flights on the Kolkata-Patna, Patna-Surat, Surat-Patna, Patna-Kolkata, Ahmedabad-Udaipur, Udaipur-Ahmedabad and Bengaluru-Kochi routes for the first time on its network. India continues to ban international flights from March 23 last year till August 31, 2021. However, flights under the air bubble agreement, Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) and cargo flights are being operated. Under the air bubble agreement, SpiceJet also commenced international flights on Kochi-Male-Kochi andMumbai-Male-Mumbai routes from July 22. Shilpa Bhatia, chief commercial officer, SpiceJet, said, “As travel demand picks up and leisure travellers step out for those much-awaited short breaks, we are ensuring that multiple convenient flight options are available to some of the most sought after holiday destinations like Male. We see a great opportunity in connecting unserved markets to more cities with direct flights on our network.”IndiGo also announced to operate direct flights from Jabalpur to Mumbai, Delhi, Hyderabad and Indore from August 20. The airline is also set to operate non stop flights to Bairelly from Mumbai, Delhi and Bangalore from August 20. ...||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-restrictions-ease-indian-skies-saw-44-additional-flights-in-july-101627832184337.html
01-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Tripura health workers' hurdles in vaccinating people in remote areas and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Tripura health workers cross hurdles to vaccinate people in remote areasSanjay Urang, a multipurpose worker, covers long distances every day on foot, including crossing a rivulet, to reach the remote areas in Tripura carrying vaccines to vaccinate the people who are still unaware of the necessity of the vaccination. Read more'Plan to instigate and defame': SKM cautions farmers against Haryana BJP's Tiranga YatraSanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) on Sunday urged farmers of Haryana to not oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) "Tiranga Yatra," which, the body claimed, is a "devious plan to instigate and defame farmers." Read moreWill nasal vaccines offer maximum protection against Covid-19? What we knowNasal vaccines, which are under trial across the world, are believed to be more effective than intramuscular vaccines as nasal vaccines are supposed to provide mucosal immunity in the nose -- one of the entry points of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Read moreWill US see more lockdowns in future? Dr Anthony Fauci says no but warns ‘things are going to get worse’US President Joe Biden’s top medical advisor Dr Anthony Fauci on Sunday said that while the US is not likely to see more lockdowns, “some pain and suffering” still lie ahead due to the growing number of infections. Read moreTokyo Olympics: India men's hockey team enters semifinal with 3-1 win over Great BritainIndia defeated Great Britain 3-1 in the men's hockey quarter-final to earn a spot in the semi-finals at the Tokyo Olympics. The Manpreet Singh-led side will face off against the 2018 world champions Belgium. Read moreAnushka Sharma makes Virat Kohli go ‘wow’, break into song and dance as he praises her beauty. WatchActor Anushka Sharma left her husband, cricketer Virat Kohli, smitten in a new advertisement for a soap brand that they featured in together. In the video, he was awestruck by her and broke into an impromptu song about her beauty as he danced with her. Read moreRoyal Enfield sells 39,290 units in domestic market in JulyRoyal Enfield on Sunday informed it had sold a total of 44,038 motorcycles in the month of July, up around nine per cent from the same period in 2020. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-tripura-health-workers-hurdles-in-vaccinating-people-in-remote-areas-and-all-the-latest-news-101627831393823.html
01-08-2021||India||More curbs likely in Karnataka after 15 days, many Bengaluru apartments are now Covid containment zones||Karnataka, one of the 10 states that have been warned because of their Covid-19 situation, on Sunday reported 1,875 new infections, higher than the number of people (1,502) who recovered from the disease in the last 24-hours. The Centre on Saturday alerted 10 states as they are reporting either a rise in the number of new cases or an increase in the positivity rate.The government on Saturday extended the existing restrictions till August 16 and said a decision on night curfew or weekend lockdown will be taken after 15 days, reviewing the progression of the situation. The government has also made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for people coming to the state from Maharashtra and Kerala. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has said stringent border checking and random testing have also begun in the state."Resorts - homestay bookings have to be done only after the mandatory procurement of negative RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours," he said.Bengaluru | Apartments become containment zones due to the people who're residing in their homes after travelling abroad & hiding travel info. There's infection risk, they should provide full travel history: Dr Syed Pervez Ismail, Primary Health Centre, Vasant Nagar#Karnataka pic.twitter.com/M0j8y0qi3l"I have reviewed the Covid status of 8 districts today. Last time second waves came from Kerala and Maharashtra. Now again the cases are becoming more in Kerala in the last few days. I have instructed to DCs to take care of it. And the testing unit has to be medical infrastructure has to be improved in these districts. vaccination has to be done," the chief minister said.In Bengaluru, several residential apartments have become containment zones. This is mostly because people are hiding their travel information, Dr Syed Pervez Ismail of Vasant Nagar's primary health centre told ANI.According to reports, there are 108 active micro-containment zones in Bengaluru under Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. And maximum were added in July as on July 1 the number of micro-containment zones was 44.Karnataka started seeing the spike only in the last week of July. On July 24, the state reported 1,001 fresh infections. But since then, the case graph is only rising.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-curbs-likely-in-karnataka-after-15-days-many-bengaluru-apartments-are-now-covid-containment-zones-101627831036117.html
01-08-2021||India||Hotline set up between Indian, Chinese armies in eastern sector||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday established a new hotline in the eastern sector to enable local commanders from both sides to speak directly and resolve differences on the ground, officials familiar with the development said. The hotline has been established between commanders of the Indian Army at Kongra La in North Sikkim and the PLA at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region, the Indian Army said in a statement. The latest hotline was activated a day after the two armies held the 12th round of talks in the Ladakh sector to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The setting up of the hotline in the eastern sector coincided with the PLA Day. This is the sixth hotline for local commanders between the two armies - two in eastern Ladakh, two in Arunachal Pradesh and two in Sikkim. The hotline has been established to “further the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders,” the Indian Army statement said. Such hotlines are used routinely to resolve differences at the local level, including the Ladakh sector where the two armies have been locked in a border row for almost 15 months and negotiations are on to cool tensions. The two hotlines in the Ladakh sector have been activated more than 1,450 times since May 2020 to sort out differences at the ground level. “The armed forces of the two countries have well-established mechanisms for communication at the ground commander level. These hotlines in various sectors go a long way in enhancing the same and maintaining peace and tranquillity at the borders,” the army statement added. Top Indian and Chinese commanders on Saturday met in the Ladakh sector in the latest attempt to reduce border tensions between the two countries, amid hopes in some quarters of reaching an understanding on the disengagement of rival soldiers from Hot Springs and Gogra. The 12th round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) began at 10.30 am and ended at 7.30 pm at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the dialogue is not yet known, with officials saying that a statement is likely to be issued on Monday. India and China have been locked in a border row since May 2020, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and heightened tensions between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020. Before Saturday, the corps commander-ranked officers met on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. Some forward movement is expected in hammering out a disengagement agreement for Hot Springs and Gogra, as reported by HT on Friday. While the Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh on June 6, the talks have only limited success so far. The only significant outcome has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. Problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang are yet to be resolved....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotline-set-up-between-indian-chinese-armies-in-eastern-sector-101627831282046.html
01-08-2021||India||'A plan to instigate and defame': SKM cautions farmers against Haryana BJP's Tiranga Yatra||Sanyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of 40 farmers unions leading protests against the three central agricultural laws, on Sunday urged farmers of Haryana to not oppose the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party's (BJP) "Tiranga Yatra," which, the body claimed, is a "devious plan to instigate and defame farmers.""The proposed Tiranga Yatra of the BJP's Haryana unit is mainly to instigate farmers and defame them. We urge the farmers to see through this devious plan of the BJP so that this dirty tactic, under the guise of the national flag, does not succeed," an SKM statement read. The SKM, however, clarified that boycott of politicians from the ruling BJP-Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) combine will continue as usual.Leaders of the BJP and JJP in Haryana, and those of the BJP in the neighbouring state of Punjab, have faced intense protests in their respective states from farmers agitating against the contentious laws. Majority of farmers opposing these are from the two northern states.The Haryana BJP launched its two-week-long "Tiranga Yatra" on Sunday. The initiative, which began from Bhivani, will conclude on August 15 when the country celebrates 74 years of independence. State party chief OP Dhankar, who rode a tractor along with agriculture minister JP Dalal to mark the occasion, claimed "thousands of farmers" joined the event.Since November last year, farmers, under the banner of SKM, have been protesting on Delhi's borders against what they allege are "black laws." 11 rounds of talks, the last of which took place on January 22, have taken place between the Union government and farmers' unions but have failed to resolve the impasse. Farmers want the reforms to be withdrawn but the Centre has repeatedly stressed it is ready for any other solution, except a complete rollback. The Supreme Court, on January 12, ordered a stay on the implementation of the laws till further orders.On January 26, a tractor rally taken out by farmers in Delhi resulted in street clashes between them and the police.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plan-to-instigate-and-defame-farmers-skm-cautions-against-haryana-bjp-s-tiranga-yatra-101627828655091.html
01-08-2021||India||Will nasal vaccines offer maximum protection against Covid-19? What we know||Nasal vaccines, which are under trial across the world, are believed to be more effective than intramuscular vaccines as nasal vaccines are supposed to provide mucosal immunity in the nose -- one of the entry points of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. The current vaccines are intramuscular vaccines and that is why they do not guarantee that the virus will not enter the body. What they assure is that the disease will not become severe after vaccination. While the arrival of nasal vaccines is being seen as a landmark, a combination of an intramuscular vaccine and a nasal vaccine can be a gamechanger, experts believe.The subject expert committee of the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation has recommended a trial of combining Bharat Biotech's Covaxin and an intranasal vaccine where the subjects will be provided with the first shot of Covaxin and the second shot of a nasal vaccine.There are seven intranasal Covid-19 vaccines under clinical trial across the world. Bharat Biotech is one of them. The other nasal vaccines under trial are by Oxford University, Altimmune, University of Hong Kong, Meissa Vaccines, Codagenix and Cuba's Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology.BBV154 is an intranasal COVID-19 vaccine that may overcome the shortfalls of intramuscular vaccines. Perhaps the ideal mode of protection (against disease and infection) might require IgA (mucosal) + IgG (systemic) + Memory B/T cells. If achieved, we may limit transmission. pic.twitter.com/TfR72lAVuwSharing a study of the intranasal vaccines under clinical trials, Bharat Biotech's Dr Raches Ella recently said that nasal vaccines may overcome the shortfalls in intramuscular vaccines. "Perhaps the ideal mode of protection (against disease and infection) might require IgA (mucosal) + IgG (systemic) + Memory B/T cells. If achieved, we may limit transmission," Dr Ella tweeted.A nasal vaccine evokes all these three kinds of responses in the human body, while intramuscular vaccines can't stop the infection from entering the body.Bharat Biotech founder Krishna Ella has said the company is expecting significant data about nasal vaccines in the next two and half months.Can mucosal (intranasal) vaccine be a gamechanger for #SARSCoV2Given their remarkable allure to block #COVID19 transmission we do need on priority an all hands on deck approach to manufacturingThe case very well explained below https://t.co/tf6n7bWyNQ@WHO @ICMRDELHI pic.twitter.com/4gTgYx5paWWhy nasal vaccines can be the gamechangerAs vaccination is going on and cases of breakthrough infections are also being reported, it is now clear that intramuscular vaccines (all present vaccines in the world) prevent the severity of Covid-19. These vaccines do not guarantee future protection from infection and that's why vaccinated people are also supposed to adhere to Covid-appropriate behaviour. The nasal vaccine, as experts said, can actually block the infection from entering.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-nasal-vaccine-offer-maximum-protection-against-covid-19-what-we-know-101627825091408.html
01-08-2021||India||7,832 PILs filed on violation of fundamental rights across high courts: Centre||More than 7,800 public interest litigations (PILs) were filed in various high courts across India since 2019 citing violation of fundamental rights, according to a data released by the government. Some high courts have not maintained a separate record of such PILs but data from some high courts were available without a year-wise breakup.The government last week shared the data in the Rajya Sabha as a part of a written response to a question regarding the details of the PILs filed, particularly regarding the violation of fundamental rights in the apex court as well as various high courts in the past two years and in 2021. The government said that between 2019 and July 2021 at least 7,832 PILs were filed regarding the violation of fundamental rights across several high courts.On the number of such PILs in the Supreme Court, the response stated that ‘information is not maintained in the manner as sought for.’ The government, however, shared the number of PILs filed under "Supreme Court Subject Category 08" dealing with “Letter Petition and PIL Matters.”“The total number of pending cases pertaining to the above subject Category, in the Supreme Court (as per data retrieved from Integrated Case Management Information System,” the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/7832-pils-filed-on-violation-of-fundamental-rights-across-high-courts-centre-101627823988019.html
01-08-2021||India||GST kitty rebounds to ₹1.16 lakh crore in July||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection surged to ₹1.16 lakh crore in July, a 33% year-on-year jump, signifying the easing impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy which saw the revenue plunge below ₹1 lakh crore in the previous month for the first time since October 2020.The GST revenue in July this year, which indicates the actual volume of business transactions in June, is also about 14% up compared to ₹1.02 lakh crore collected in July 2019, pointing at rapid economic recovery after the second wave that raged in the months of April and May, according to official data.The GST collections, after posting above ₹1 lakh crore for eight months in a row, dropped below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021 as the collection in the month was predominantly related to business that took place in the month of May 2021, when most of the states and Union territories (UTs) were under complete or partial lockdown due to the pandemic, the finance ministry said.“With the easing out of Covid restrictions, GST collection for July 2021 has again crossed ₹1 lakh crore, which clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too,” it said in a statement.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) last week slashed India’s growth forecast for FY-22 to 9.5% from 12.5% projected in April, citing the severe second wave of the pandemic, and expected slow recovery in business confidence. Most of the professional forecasters also reduced their growth projections for India. Last month, global rating agency S&P lowered India’s GDP growth forecast to 9.5% in the current fiscal year compared to its prediction of 11% in March, which was just before the second wave.The GST collections, which dropped for seven consecutive months from March 2020 after a 68-day nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the first wave, showed recovery from October last year. The revenue surpassed the ₹1 lakh crore mark for eight consecutive months since October 2020. The second wave of the pandemic, however, led to the GST collections dipping below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021. The revenue, however, bounced back quickly as there was no nationwide lockdown this year, according to experts.Aditya Singhania, partner at consultancy firm Singhania’s GST Consultancy Co, said: “Collection during the July ’21 majorly relates to supplies taken place in June ’21 whose collection has bounced back to mark of ₹1 lakh crore, which certainly indicates the economic activities restoring steadily.”The gross GST revenue collected in July 2021 is ₹1,16,393 crore — ₹22,197 crore central GST (CGST), ₹28,541 crore state GST (SGST), and ₹57,864 crore integrated GST (IGST), including ₹27,900 crore collected on import of goods. ₹7,790 crore was collected as the GST cess, including ₹815 crore collected on imports.“During the month, revenue from import of goods was 36% higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 32% higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the finance ministry said.MS Mani, senior director at Deloitte India, said: “The improvement in GST collections both on domestic transactions and imports, accompanied by the fact that major producing states have shown significant increases, would indicate that the economic activities have resumed across the country.”According to the official data, barring Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, all other states and UTs have shown positive year-on-year growth in July GST collections. The revenue of Maharashtra in July jumped 51% at ₹18,899 crore; Gujarat saw a 36% growth at ₹7,629 crore; Karnataka 12% ( ₹6,737 crore); Tamil Nadu 36% ( ₹6,302 crore); Uttar Pradesh 18% ( ₹6,011 crore) and Haryana 53% ( ₹5,330 crore).Rajat Bose, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said the collection in July has seen a sharp uptick due to unlocking of businesses in June. “If the country is able to resist the third wave, the GST collections should increase from hereon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-collections-jumps-to-rs-1-16-lakh-cr-in-july-101627820243095.html
01-08-2021||India||What is e-RUPI? How to use it? List of banks live with this new payment option||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday will launch a new cashless payment solution, which will operate based on e-vouchers. The system has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India in collaboration with the department of financial services, health ministry and the National Health Authority.How to use e-RUPI vouchersThese vouchers are like e-gift cards, which are prepaid in nature. The code of the cards can be shared either via SMS or the OR code can be shared. These e-vouchers will be person and purpose-specific. For example, if you have an e-RUPI voucher for Covid-19 vaccine, then it has to be redeemed for vaccines only.How is an e-RUPI voucher different from other online payment applications?E-RUPI is not any platform. It is a voucher meant for specific services. E-RUPI vouchers are purpose-specific and even if one does not have a bank account or a digital payment app or a smartphone can benefit from these vouchers. That is the difference.These vouchers will be used mostly for health-related payments. Corporates can issue these vouchers for their employees. The Centre had earlier said it would bring in an option for vaccine e-voucher, where one can buy an e-voucher for vaccination in a private hospital and can gift it to another.The person who is buying the vouchers and issuing them to others can track the utilisation of the vouchers.Privacy is another issue as the beneficiaries won't have to share their personal details.How to redeemNo card or hard copy of the voucher is needed for redeeming these. The QR code received via message is enough.List of banks that are live with e-RUPIAccording to National Health Authority, eight banks are already live with e-RUPI, including State Bank of Inia, HDFC, Axis, Punjab National Bank, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank, IndusInd Bank, ICICI Bank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/what-is-e-rupi-how-to-use-it-list-of-banks-live-with-this-new-digital-payment-101627819646308.html
01-08-2021||India||'You also got vaccinated in July': Mansukh Mandaviya retorts to Rahul Gandhi's vaccine shortage tweet||Union minister of health and family welfare Mansukh Mandaviya on Sunday said that 130 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in India in July 2021 and further said that it will be accelerated in August 2021. The minister made these remarks on Twitter, in response to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tweet about vaccine shortage.“More than 13 crore vaccines have been administered in India in the month of July. It is going to accelerate this month. We are proud of our healthcare workers for this achievement. Now you should also be proud of them and the country,” Mandaviya tweeted.भारत में जुलाई महीने में 13 करोड़ से अधिक टीके लगाए गए हैं। इस महीने इसमें और तेजी आने वाली है। इस उपलब्धि के लिए हमें अपने स्वास्थ्यकर्मियों पर गर्व है। अब तो उन पर और देश पर आपको भी गर्व होना चाहिए। https://t.co/fgdifM26k6Rahul Gandhi had tweeted, “July has passed, vaccine shortage has not gone.” Along with the tweet, Gandhi also shared a 30-second video clip titled “COVID: Will India be able to meet its vaccination target?” which showed several news headlines about vaccine crunch in different places. In the beginning of July, Gandhi had sent out a similar tweet in which he said, “July has come, vaccines have not #WhereAreVaccines.”In his reply, Mandaviya took a swipe at the Congress leader saying that he was also one among the several people who had received their Covid-19 vaccine in July.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination drive: Delhi crosses 10 million doses mark, says Kejriwal“I have heard that you are one of the 13 crore people who were vaccinated in July. But you did not speak a word for our scientists, did not appeal to the public to take the vaccine. Meaning, you are doing petty politics in the name of vaccination. Not the vaccine, but you lack maturity,” Mandaviya tweeted.सुना है, जुलाई में जिन 13 करोड़ लोगों को टीके लगाए गए, उनमें से आप भी एक हैं। लेकिन आपने हमारे वैज्ञानिकों के लिए एक शब्द नहीं बोला, जनता से वैक्सीन लगाने की अपील नहीं की। मतलब आप वैक्सीनेशन के नाम पर तुच्छ राजनीति कर रहे हैं।दरअसल वैक्सीन की नहीं, आपमें परिपक्वता की कमी है।Rahul Gandhi was inoculated with the first dose of the vaccine on July 28 (Wednesday) and hence could not attend the parliament on July 29 and 30, news agency ANI reported citing unnamed sources within the Congress.While the BJP has been questioning the Congress leaders about their vaccination, the Congress insisted that the Centre should concentrate more on increasing vaccination and vaccine supply in the country.Meanwhile, on Sunday, the Union health ministry announced that the cumulative doses administered under the country’s Covid-19 vaccination drive crossed the 470-million mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/130-million-covid-vaccine-doses-given-in-july-will-further-ramp-up-union-health-minister-mansukh-mandaviya-101627817238378.html
01-08-2021||India||Over 4,000 children died by suicide between 2017 and 2019 after failing in exams||At least 4,000 children in the age group of 14-18 years died by suicide after they failed to clear academic examinations between 2017 and 2019, according to a data released by the government.The data also highlighted that at least 24,000 children died by suicide between 2017 and 2019. The data compiled by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) on children's suicide was also recently presented in the Parliament.Of the 24,568 children who died by suicide, at least 13,325 were girls in the age group of 14-18 years. The data also showed that the number of children, inthat particular age group, who died by suicide rose from 8,029 in 2017 to 8,162 in 2018 to 8,377 in 2019. The states which reported a rise in the number of child suicides were Madhya Pradesh – with the highest such cases -- followed by West Bengal, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu.While failure in examination was the reason behind the death by suicide of 4,046 children, marriage-related issues were attributed to the deaths of 639 children of which 411 were females. At least 3,315 children died by suicide due to reason related to love affair while 2,567 children took their lives due to illness. The data showed that 81 children died by suicide after suffering physical abuse.Other reasons attributed were death of a loved one, drug and alcohol addiction, unwanted pregnancy, fall in social reputation, unemployment, poverty as well as ideological causes and hero worshipping. Child rights activists reacting to the report stressed on including life skill training in school curriculum as well making mental health a part of mainstream healthcare and wellness programmes.“Among younger children, suicide attempts are often impulsive. They may be associated with feelings of sadness, confusion, anger, stress or problems with attention and hyperactivity. Among teenagers, suicide attempts may be associated with feelings of stress, self-doubt, pressure to succeed, financial uncertainty, disappointment, depression and loss. For some teens, suicide may appear to be a solution to their problems,” Puja Marwaha, CEO, CRY-Child Rights and You was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.(A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai))||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-4-000-children-died-by-suicide-between-2017-and-2019-after-failing-in-exams-101627816547086.html
01-08-2021||India||Amit Shah visits ailing former UP CM Kalyan Singh in Lucknow hospital||Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday visited the ailing former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh at Lucknow's Sanjay Gandhi Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS).The 89-year-old Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) vetera who has also served as the former governor of Rajasthan was admitted to the ICU on July 4 after he contracted an infection and showed reduced consciousness level.Shah was accompanied by Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and minister of medical education Suresh Khanna.In the latest medical bulletin update on Singh's health, the hospital said that the former Kalyan Singh continues to remain critical. Singh is being administered oxygen through a mask, hospital officials had said in mid-July."Former chief minister of UP and ex-Governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical, but his clinical parameters are under control," the hospital said in a statement.Singh is on a life-saving support system and being closely monitored by expert consultants, it said.The former UP chief minister's health is being monitored by the senior faculty of critical care medicine, cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology. SGPGIMS director R K Dhiman is also closely monitoring Singh's treatment on a daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-visits-ailing-former-up-cm-kalyan-singh-in-lucknow-hospital-101627814290446.html
01-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Epsilon strain of Covid-19 virus found in Pakistan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid's Epsilon strain of Covid virus found in Pakistan amid '4th wave'Epsilon strain, widespread in the United States, is not common in South Asia. On March 5, this year, the World Health Organization listed Epsilon as a variant of interest. Read moreCovid-19 in Delhi: Less than 1,000 fined for not wearing mask for 16th dayDelhi Police issued fewer than 1,000 challans (penalties) to people in the capital for 16th consecutive day on Saturday for not wearing face masks amid the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreMyanmar military leader extends rule, pledges to hold new multiparty elections in 2023The chief of the armed forces said on Sunday that the new elections would be held in the country and the prevailing state of emergency would be revoked by August 2023. Read more'They've reduced by mere 20 balls, a format that was extremely popular with players': Ian Chappell on The HundredFormer Australia captain Ian Chappell reckons that the T20 format is enough to take the sport into the Olympics and the newest addition 'The Hundred' was not really needed. Read moreYuvraj Singh shares Friendship Day post, Sania Mirza is not ‘happy’ with itFormer India all-rounder Yuvraj Singh has shared a wonderful post on his Instagram on Friendship Day that features several sports personalities. Read moreJanhvi describes dream wedding to 'sane' person, wants bachelorette in Capri and mehendi at Sridevi's ancestral homeActor Janhvi Kapoor has her wedding all planned out in her head, from the venue and the decorations, to whether or not a reception is even 'necessary'. Read moreTiger Shroff flaunts jaw-dropping deadlift skills and we are inspired to hit gymWhile most of us are hanging up our boots this Sunday, Tiger Shroff is seen flexing his ripped muscles and flaunting unbelievable powerlifting skills during deadlift workout at the gym. Read moreOlympic medalist Mirabai Chanu talks love for pizza, Neha Kakkar’s songs & moreIn an interview with RJ Stutee, Olympic medalist Mirabai Chanu spoke about her love for pizza, singer Neha Kakkar’s songs and more. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-epsilon-strain-of-covid-19-virus-found-in-pakistan-and-all-the-latest-news-101627813844802.html
01-08-2021||India||Stone pelting to now cost security clearance for passport, govt services in J&K||The government of the Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir has issued an order stating there will be no security clearance to those found involved in law and order and stone pelting cases and other crimes "prejudicial to the security of the State" for passport verification and government schemes and services.A circular from the SSP of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Special Branch, Kashmir, directed all field units to ensure that all such verification be corroborated with local police. Officials have also been asked to refer to digital evidence like CCTV footage and photographs.It must be ensured that “during verification related to passport, service, and any other verification related to government services/schemes, the subject’s involvement with law and order, stone pelting cases and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into and the same must be corroborated with local police station records”.No security clearance related to passport verification for subjects found involved in law & order, stone-pelting cases, and other crimes prejudicial to the security of the Union Territory: Govt of J&K pic.twitter.com/eb6oIRIa9N“Also, digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police and security forces and security agencies shall be referred to,” the order further read. Any person found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance.An earlier amendment to the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Verification of Character and Antecedents) Instructions, 1997, had mandated a “satisfactory” CID report to land a government job.It has also been made compulsory to disclose whether any family member or close relative is associated with any political party or organisation, or has participated in any political activity, or has had links with a foreign mission or organisation, or any prescribed/ prohibited/ banned organisation such as the Jamaat-e-Islami, according to a report in The Indian Express.The moves came weeks after some government officials were dismissed from service over alleged anti-State activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stone-pelting-to-now-cost-security-clearance-for-passport-govt-job-in-jk-101627810878048.html
01-08-2021||India||Babul Supriyo clarifies on joining other parties, says, 'Won't have to deal with uncouth comments'||A day after Babul Supriyo's Facebook post announcing resignation from BJP, Lok Sabha and politics stirred a row, the former Union minister clarified that he indeed is not joining any party. He said those lines in the original post got deleted by mistake as he was editing the post to add the point about his resignation from the MP post too. "I assume while trying to add the line that I am resigning from my MP post too, a very important line got erased for some reason. Hence, reiterating that I am not joining any other political party," he said.Babul Supriyo also made some other posts which may not be political but brings his disagreement with West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh to the fore, once again. On Saturday, Babul Supriyo made it clear that the infighting among the top leadership of the party in West Bengal is harming the morale of the grassroots cadre. Though he did not take Dilip Ghosh's name, his indication was amply towards Ghosh who later denied commenting on Babul Supriyo's resignation. "Has he officially resigned? I don't see who posts what on Facebook," Dilip Ghosh said.Trinamool spokesperson Kunal Ghosh too reacted on the same lines and said instead of announcing on Facebook, Babul Supriyo should submit his resignation to the Lok Sabha Speaker.Asked about his resignation, Babul on Saturday said he should be allowed the dignity of silence. Then at night, he took to Facebook and posted two snippets of the reaction of Dilip Ghosh and Kunal Ghosh and wrote,"At least I won't have to deal with such uncouth comments every day.""Have gone through all the comments. Some people opposed, some supported, some questioned me. I accept all. But I can answer all these through my work. And that does not need the post of a minister or an MP. Give me some time. I will have ample time now. How many shows will I get now!""If I stay away from vote politics, no interests will be hurt. I have initiated ₹200 crore projects in Asansol. Will visit those projects. Will anyone stop me. Yes, my name will not be there. But it doesn't matter. Will set up a trauma centre. Was talking with some doctors. But there was some hesitation as I was in active politics. If Imran Khan can make a hospital in his mother's name, why can't I?" Babul Supriyo wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-clarifies-on-joining-other-parties-says-won-t-have-to-deal-with-uncouth-comments-101627809984773.html
01-08-2021||India||TN mandates negative RT-PCR certificate for arrivals from Kerala||After Karnataka, Tamil Nadu has made a Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) negative certificate mandatory for those entering the state from Kerala, which is struggling to contain the second wave of Covid-19.Tamil Nadu health minister M Subramanian on Sunday announced that starting early morning August 5, those from Kerala wanting to enter Tamil Nadu will have to produce a negative RT-PCR test certificate due to rising Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring state. Kerala reported more than 20,000 fresh infections of the novel coronavirus for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday.“Though the government (of Kerala) and health officials are making all efforts to bring it under control, Covid-19 cases are spiking rapidly so we have... to do this surveillance for those arriving from Kerala for whom RT-PCR negative test certificate is mandatory,” Subramanian said. He added that this was an instruction from chief minister M K Stalin. Those who have taken two doses of vaccines can enter the state after a 14-day period by showing evidence of receiving both vaccine doses..., he added.In Tamil Nadu, there has been a marginal increase in the number of Covid-19 cases with 1,859 new infections reported on Thursday, 1,947 on Friday and 1,986 on Saturday. The state is conducting more than 1.5 lakh RT-PCR tests every day.The state government has informed districts bordering Kerala such as Kanyakumari, Thoothukudi and Coimbatore to be vigilant. “There are as many as 13 points of entry in Coimbatore and we have given enough time for the inspection to begin,” the health minister said. Earlier, the Karnataka government also made RT-PCR negative certificates mandatory for those looking to enter the state from Kerala and Maharashtra.Though Tamil Nadu has resumed most activities, movie theatres and private bars remain closed as the state on Saturday extended the on-going phased lockdown until August 9 with no additional relaxations. While doing so, the government empowered district collectors, corporation commissioners and the police to enforce localised lockdowns if there was crowding at a particular place.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-mandates-negative-rt-pcr-certificate-for-arrivals-from-kerala-101627809381279.html
01-08-2021||India||Unnao rape survivor moves Delhi HC, alleges harassment by SC ordered PSOs||The Unnao rape survivor has moved a Delhi court alleging harassment by the personal security officers (PSOs) deputed on the directions of the Supreme Court for her protection. District and Sessions Judge Dharmesh Sharma has directed the investigating officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to submit an impact assessment report in this regard with the assistance of the local police. "Application has been moved on the behalf of the complainant that she and her family members were harassed by the PSOs who are deputed as per the direction of the Supreme Court, in a sense that they are not allowing her to enjoy her liberties," the judge said on July 31 through video-conferencing.He further said that a sealed envelope was also received from the police in which certain allegations were levelled against the complainant and her family members."It is directed that this application be taken up for consideration," the sessions judge added. The woman was kidnapped and raped by expelled BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar in 2017 when she was a minor. The case was transferred from Unnao to Delhi and was probed by the CBI. On August 1, 2019, the apex court had directed that the survivor, her mother, and other members of the family be provided security by the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF).On December 20, 2019, Sengar was sentenced to jail for the "remainder of his natural biological life" in the rape case. On March 4, 2020, Sengar, his brother, and five others were convicted for the death of the rape survivor's father in judicial custody and were sentenced to 10 years imprisonment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unnao-rape-survivor-moves-delhi-hc-alleges-harassment-by-sc-ordered-psos-101627807781197.html
01-08-2021||India||A motorable road to Lovlina’s home in Assam before she returns from Olympics||On Friday, soon after Lovlina Borgohain outclassed Chinese Taipei’s Nien-Chin Chen to seal a bronze medal in the women’s welterweight category in boxing at Tokyo Olympics and entered the semi-finals, a heavy downpour turned the road leading to her home in Assam completely muddy.Now, in an attempt to cheer Assam’s first Olympic medal winner, her family and residents of Baromukhia village, the ‘kuccha’ (unmetalled) road to the 23-year-old boxer's home, located at Sarupathar in Golaghat district of Assam is being repaired by the public works department (PWD) before she returns.“Our area has been declared drought-hit this season. But on the day of Lovlina’s quarter final match, it rained heavily and turned the road to her home muddy and unmotorable,” said Biswajit Phukan, ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from Sarupathar.“I spoke to chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma about it and decided to make the road motorable. We are now busy ensuring that it is repaired before she returns from Tokyo. It will be metalled once the monsoon season is over,” he added.Lovlina’s home is located around 3 kms from Barpathar, the nearest town. While some portions of the road are gravelled, nearly 2 kms of it is completely muddy. Around 600 metres of the last stretch that leads to the boxer’s home is being repaired by workers now.Sarupathar assembly constituency in which Baromukhia village falls is the biggest in Assam and it also has some of the worst roads. According to Phukan, the constituency has nearly 2000 kms of mud roads at present.“Till few years back, the road to our village was very bad. Last year, after Lovlina qualified for the Olympics, the Golaghat deputy commissioner visited our home and assured us to do something. He did get some sand and gravel laid on the road, but not more than that,” said Lovlina’s father Tiken Borgohain.“On Friday, after Lovlina’s match, local MLA Phukan called and assured that work on the road will be completed soon. Starting from our home, workers are busy filling the 600 metre stretch with sand and gravel at present. We are happy,” he added.Speaking about Lovlina’s semi-final match on August 4, Borgohain said that the boxer is in a very confident state of mind and expects to win it and enter the finals for a shot at gold.Both Lovlina’s father and her mother Mamoni aren’t watching any of their daughter’s matches live on television. Though they have a TV at home, they wait for the match to be over to get news of its result.“There’s a lot of emotion involved watching a match live. We are happy that Lovlina has won her bouts and is assured of a medal. But her mother and I won’t be watching the next two matches as well,” said Borgohain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-motorable-road-to-lovlina-s-home-in-assam-before-she-returns-from-olympics-101627807281149.html
01-08-2021||India||Mizoram says Assam border row to end through talks: Here's what happened so far||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said on Sunday the border dispute with Assam will be resolved amicably through talks after discussions were held with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and and his counterpart in Assam Himanta Biswa Sarma. He also urged Mizoram residents to ensure the situation remains calm by not posting any sensitive messages on social media.Soon after, Sarma also spoke about resolving border disputes through discussion and said his government's "main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive". "What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM@ZoramthangaCM had promised to call me post his quarantine," Sarma further wrote on Twitter. However, later, while speaking to reporters, Sarma said he would not allow Assam's officers to be investigated and will move the Supreme Court to bring an end to the dispute.The duo's statements at the end of week-long re-ignited border tension following clashes between residents and security forces of the two northeastern states that led to the death of six Assam policemen and left at least 41 others injured.Here’s some of the key developments on the inter-state border crisis:- Both the states have accused each others’ forces and residents of initial provocations and opening fire and sought the Central government's intervention.- In the wake of the clashes, Mizoram said some miscreants in Assam blocked sections of National Highway 306 and uprooted a stretch of the lone railway track connecting Mizoram to the rest of the country, resulting in disruption of transportation of people and goods to and from Mizoram, which further escalated tensions.- There were also accusations that Mizoram was not honouring the agreement to withdraw its police force from the four-km disputed stretch between Vairengte in Mizoram and Lailapur in Assam along NH-306.- Assam soon issued an advisory to its residents against travelling to Mizoram, a move that was condemned by the latter.- Police on both sides have lodged cases. Assam has registered a case of murder and trespass against Mizoram officials and is also looking into the statements an MP from Mizoram who said “all Assam police personnel will be killed” if they enter the state again.- An FIR has also been filed against Sarma and six senior officials of Assam. Mizoram accused them accused them of attempt to murder and assault.- Meanwhile, an all-party meeting in Assam's Barak Valley on Friday saw almost all MLAs of the region across party lines extending their support to Sarma.- In Mizoram, a resolution was passed by the boundary committee, under the chairmanship of deputy chief minister Tawnluia, that slammed the incursions by Assam Police on July 26.- Earlier in the week, the two warring states agreed to withdraw their police forces and central paramilitary troops will be deployed in the four-km disputed stretch, which will function as a sort of no man’s land, till a permanent solution is found, according to an interim agreement reached during talks held in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mizoram-says-border-row-with-assam-to-end-through-talks-here-s-happened-so-far-101627805667563.html
01-08-2021||India||Modi first Indian PM to preside over UN Security Council meeting: Syed Akbaruddin||In a first for India after independence, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will preside over a meeting during New Delhi's presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), India's former envoy to the UN Syed Akbaruddin said on Sunday.PM Modi is expected to preside over the meeting of the UN Security Council on August 9.In over 75 years, this is the first time Indian political leadership has invested in presiding over an event of the 15-member UN body, the former permanent representative of India to the UN said."A first in the making… With India as President of @UN Security Council in August, an Indian Prime Minister may perhaps preside, albeit virtually, a Council meeting for 1st time on 9 August 2021," Akbaruddin said on Twitter and shared a picture of PM Modi's last visit to the UN from 2019.A first in the making…With India as President of @UN Security Council in August, an Indian Prime Minister may perhaps preside, albeit virtually, a Council meeting for 1st time on 9 August 2021. Pic: From last visit of PM Shri @narendramodi to UN in 2019. pic.twitter.com/OxaZbKZsNqAkbaruddin also confirmed the development to news agency PTI and said, "Our Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be the first Indian Prime Minister, who has decided to preside over a meeting of the United Nation Security Council."Also read | PM Modi, Jaishankar to chair UNSC meetings during Indian presidency "It shows that leadership wants to lead from the front. It also shows that India and its political leadership are invested in our foreign policy ventures," said Akbaruddin, who joined Kautilya School of Public Policy as its dean in June.This comes on the day India assumed the rotating presidency of the UNSC. The country will be hosting signature events related to maritime security, peacekeeping, and counterterrorism during the month.Several high-level meetings will be chaired by India's top officials including the Prime Minister, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla."This is our eighth stint on the UNSC yet in the 75 years, this is the first time that our political leadership has invested in presiding over an event of the security council," Akbaruddin told PTI."Although this is a virtual meeting, it's still a first meeting of the sort for us. It is historic. The last time an Indian PM was engaged in this effort was the then PM PV Narasimha Rao in 1992 when he attended a UNSC meeting," he added.India took over the presidency of the UNSC from France for the month of August. Ambassador of India to the United Nations, TS Tirumurti thanked French Permanent Representative to the UN, Nicolas de Riviere, for steering the UN Security Council for the month of July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-first-indian-pm-to-preside-over-un-security-council-meeting-syed-akbaruddin-101627801958579.html
01-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Rajasthan Police arrest BJP MP Kirori Meena and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP MP held for disturbing peace after hoisting community flag at Rajasthan fortRajasthan Police on Sunday arrested Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Member of Parliament from Rajya Sabha Kirori Meena for disturbing the peace and said the tribal leader had sneaked into Ambagarh fort and unfurled a white coloured tribal flag despite police restrictions. Read moreDelhi metro to open Grey Line extension, Pink Line segment on August 6The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) announced on Sunday that the Najafgarh-Dhansa Bus Stand extension of Grey Line of the Delhi Metro and the Trilokpuri section of Pink Line will be inaugurated on August 6. Read moreDays after RSS suggestion, Uttarakhand govt forms panel on population controlDays after the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) suggested that a population control policy be introduced in Uttarakhand on the lines of those in place in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Assam, the Pushkar Singh Dhami government on Saturday issued instructions for the setting up of a committee for the same. Read moreAsia sees record Covid-19 surge, Delta variant spurs nations to reconsider curbsCoronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases are once again surging in Asia, with countries such as Thailand and Malaysia clocking a record number of infections. The city of Tokyo in Japan, where the 2020 Summer Olympics are underway, reported record Covid-19 infections over the past few days. Read moreAnurag Kashyap's daughter Aaliyah says she was 'horrendous' at managing money, would 'spend it all'Anurag Kashyap's daughter, Aaliyah Kashyap, spoke about how she handles her finances, now that she's earning money as a social media influencer. Aaliyah said that she used to be careless about the money she made, but has now become more responsible. Read moreSkoda Kushaq SUV bats on front foot, company sees 234% sales rise in JulySkoda Kushaq has managed to add momentum to the Czech car maker's India sales and this was reflected in the performance in the month of July. Kushaq SUV was officially launched here on June 28 and had a fair bit of role to play in Skoda witnessing a stellar 234% rise in its sales in the month of July, when compared to the same period of last year. Read more'You don't have any excuse to keep them out': Karim picks India's squad for the T20 World Cup, leaves out star batsmanIndia finished its final limited-overs assignment before the T20 World Cup in October. India played a host of youngsters during the limited-overs series against Sri Lanka as the first team were in England for the WTC final and a five-match Test series. Read moreMasaba Gupta oozes oomph as she styles denim jeans with satin crop topsCrop tops have become a wardrobe staple this summer and hopping onto this trend with her own sartorial elegance is ace designer Masaba Gupta who was seen adding ooze to oomph as she styled denim jeans with satin crop tops. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-rajasthan-police-arrest-bjp-mp-kirori-meena-101627801741003.html
01-08-2021||India||‘Will resolve border issue with Assam amicably’, says Mizoram CM||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said on Sunday he wants to resolve the border dispute with Assam amicably and called for de-escalation of tensions, heightened after Monday’s deadly clash between the two northeastern states left six Assam policemen dead and 41 others injured. “As per telephonic discussion with the Union home minister and Assam chief minister, we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue,” Zoramthanga tweeted. “In the meantime, in order to prevent any possible escalation of the situation, I request the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicious use of their social media platform,” he added. Following the clash on Monday, some Assam residents blocked sections of National Highway 306 and uprooted a stretch of the lone railway track connecting Mizoram to the rest of the country, resulting in disruption of transportation of people and goods to and from Mizoram, which further escalated tensions. There were also accusations that Mizoram was not honouring the agreement to withdraw its police force from the four-km disputed stretch between Vairengte in Mizoram and Lailapur in Assam along NH-306. The tensions continued to simmer with Assam issuing an advisory to residents against travelling to Mizoram and both sides issuing provocative statements.The two states share a 165-km-long border and a decades’ old dispute over stretches of the boundary that has seen each accuse the other of encroachment. Since October last year, there have been skirmishes along the border resulting in torching of huts, damaging crops, and injuries to people. Mizoram claims action by its police on Monday was in retaliation to Assam police personnel entering their territory forcibly and targeting police personnel and residents. Assam maintains that the team had gone to discuss the border issue when they were attacked without provocation. Police on both sides have lodged cases following the incident. Assam has lodged a case of murder and trespass against Mizoram officials and is also probing a Mizoram MP who said “all Assam police personnel will be killed” if they enter the state again. The Mizoram police have also lodged an FIR against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six senior officials of the state, accusing them of attempt to murder and assault. Following Monday’s clashes, the dispute between both states have spilled over to social media with accusations and counter accusations turning very ugly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-resolve-border-issue-with-assam-amicably-says-mizoram-cm-101627803140537.html
01-08-2021||India||'Life isn't like a scene of a Bollywood film': Indian Railways tweets RPF constable saves woman||An Indian Railways constable in Telangana’s Secunderabad saved a woman from falling into the gap between a coach and the platform as she boarding a moving train. The incident took place on Friday. The ministry of railways shared the incident which was captured on one of the CCTV cameras of the railway station.“Life is not like a scene of a Bollywood film. It is much more precious. She was lucky to be saved today because of timely action by alert RPF staff. Do not board/de board a moving train. Stay alert. Stay safe!" the railways ministry tweeted.“Life is not like a scene of a Bollywood film. It is much more precious”She was lucky to be saved today because of timely action by alert RPF staff. Do not board/de board a moving train. Stay alert. Stay safe! pic.twitter.com/BuPsexgFyRThe video has now gone viral on social media and people are praising the Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable Dinesh Singh for saving the woman. The video shows the woman trying to jump on the train, then slipping and getting stuck between the coach and the platform. As she was getting dragged by the moving train Singh, who was passing by, pulls her back onto the platform. She then gets up and slowly walks away with the help of others.On July 31, a similar incident was reported from Uttar Pradesh's Prayagraj. A man was trying to get down from a train leaving the Prayagraj station. His legs got caught in the gap between the train and the platform and he was dragged by the speeding Brahmaputra Special. An RPF constable who was on duty acted quickly and pulled the man into the platform.Lauding the efforts of the RPF constable, Piyush Goyal, who was the railways minister then, praised the courage of the constable as he shared the video on Twitter.Last month, another RPF constable rescued a man at Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai’s Kurla, who slipped while trying to board a moving train.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-isn-t-like-a-scene-of-a-bollywood-film-indian-railways-tweets-rpf-constable-saves-woman-101627795679469.html
01-08-2021||India||Manipur Congress leader Govindas Konthoujam joins BJP||Almost five days after leaving the Congress party's Manipur unit, Govindas Konthoujam joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the national capital on Sunday.Konthoujam's entry to the BJP was announced by the party's national spokesperson Anil Baluni on Sunday morning. "An eminent personality will join @BJP4India today (Sunday) 01 August, 12 noon at BJP HQ, 6A DDU Marg, New Delhi," Baluni said in a tweet.Konthoujam joined the BJP in the presence of Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh. Shri @KonthoujamG joins BJP at party headquarters in New Delhi. https://t.co/cZHLSTlyrTKonthoujam, who also served as the president of the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, exited the party on Wednesday and resigned as a member of the assembly and primary membership of the party. He exited the party citing personal reasons.A prominent leader in the northeast region, Konthoujam is a six-time elected MLA from the Bishnupur seat.The Manipur assembly has an effective strength of 56 in which the BJP has 25 members and the Congress 16 after Kanthoujam's resignation from the House.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-congress-leader-govindas-konthoujam-joins-bjp-101627796652953.html
01-08-2021||India||RT-PCR report must for people travelling from Kerala, says Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu government on Sunday ordered a mandatory RT-PCR test report for people coming from Kerala from August 5, news agency PTI reported citing state's health minister Ma Subramanian.The notice from Tamil Nadu comes a day after the Karnataka government announced a special surveillance measure, making a negative RT-PCR certificate for people arriving in the state from Kerala and Maharashtra mandatory in the view of Covid-19 situation. Karnataka government said in a circular that the negative Covid report should not be older than 72 hours irrespective of the vaccination status.Tamil Nadu's guideline also comes in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases in Kerala. The state recorded more than 20,000 fresh infections of coronavirus for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday. However, it saw a decline in fatalities and a fall in the positivity rate to 12.31 per cent.A Covid-19 infection hotspot, Kerala is still reporting a high caseload and also the highest number of fresh infections every day. The state health minister Veena George said on Saturday Kerala is not yet free from the second wave of Covid-19. George asked people to be extra cautious and vigilant against transmission of the infection to prevent a third wave from occurring. At the time India has managed to control the second wave in the majority of states and continues to report less than 50,000 cases for over a month, the daily infections in Kerala continue to spike.Half of Kerala's population is susceptible to the virus, underlining the need in the state to exercise Covid-19 safety protocols. Precautions have to be taken as the presence of the highly contagious Delta variant has been detected, health minister George said at a special meeting held to review the state's preparedness to handle a likely third wave.People need to take precautions like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing and isolation till a majority of the population is vaccinated, George said. If a third wave hits Kerala before everyone is vaccinated, the severity of the infection and those requiring hospitalisation would be high, the health minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-report-must-for-people-travelling-from-kerala-says-tamil-nadu-101627797292661.html
01-08-2021||India||Days after RSS suggestion, Uttarakhand govt forms panel on population control||Days after the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) suggested that a population control policy be introduced in Uttarakhand on the lines of those in place in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh and Assam, the Pushkar Singh Dhami government on Saturday issued instructions for the setting up of a committee for the same. Chief secretary SS Sandhu will head the panel, an ANI report said.As many as 35 affiliates of the Sangh called for ensuring a “demographic balance” in the hill states during a coordination meeting held recently. Claiming that there has been a substantial rise in Muslim population in areas like Dehradun, Haridwar, Udham Singh Nagar and Nainital over the years, the leaders sought appropriate measures in this regard. According to a report in The Indian Express, they also said there has been unauthorised development of religious sites belonging to the minorities and called for identification of such places.Also read | UP, Assam’s population control policies in line with RSS demandThe meeting held in Dehradun last Wednesday was attended by BJP national general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh, state unit chief Madan Kaushik, and RSS joint general secretaries Dr Krishna Gopal and Arun Kumar. Kumar is also the Sangh’s new BJP pointsperson.The BJP-ruled government in Uttar Pradesh and Assam have already come up with policies that the Sangh has been advocating as part of a nationwide policy to check what it calls “demographic imbalance”. For long, the RSS has advocated a pan-Indian law that would be uniform for all communities and override religious or social restrictions pertaining to family planning.Also read: What is two-child policy? What Assam and Uttar Pradesh have proposedWhile UP has announced a legislation that will incentivise population control, Assam is also considering a two-child policy for access to government schemes.The new law bars people from availing of government subsidies and other government benefits if they have more than two children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-rss-suggestion-uttarakhand-govt-forms-panel-on-population-control-101627797136398.html
01-08-2021||India||Zika virus transmission, symptoms, prevention explained||Zika virus has infected more than 60 people in Kerala and on Saturday Maharashtra reported that a 50-year-old woman from the Pune district tested positive for the infection. Kerala reported its first case of Zika virus in a pregnant woman on July 8 and out of the 63 current cases, three are active and none of them is hospitalised, according to officials.Officials in Maharashtra have urged people not to panic and said that the woman, who was diagnosed with Zika infection, has completely recovered.How does the Zika virus spread?Zika virus, which is similar to dengue fever, yellow fever and West Nile virus, is spread mostly by the bite of an infected Aedes species mosquitos mainly Aedes aegypti. Aedes mosquitoes usually bite during the day, peaking during early morning and late afternoon or evening, according to the World Health Organization (WHO).How Zika is transmitted?Zika can be transmitted through mosquito bites, from a pregnant woman to her foetus, through sexual contact and transfusion of blood and blood products, and organ transplantation.What are the symptoms of Zika?Many people infected with the Zika virus will not have symptoms or will only have mild ones. Symptoms generally include mild including fever, rash, conjunctivitis, muscle and joint pain, malaise, and headache, and usually last for two to seven days. The incubation period or the time from exposure to symptoms of Zika virus disease is estimated to be 3 to 14 days, according to WHO.Those infected usually don’t get sick enough to go to the hospital and they very rarely die of Zika. They may be protected from future infections once infected with Zika.How is Zika diagnosed?Diagnosis of Zika may be based on symptoms of those living in or visiting areas with Zika virus transmission or Aedes mosquito vectors. A diagnosis of Zika virus infection can only be confirmed by laboratory tests of blood or other body fluids, such as urine or semen, says WHO.How to prevent Zika?There is no vaccine or medicine for Zika. The best way to prevent diseases spread by mosquitoes is to protect yourself and your family from mosquito bites.What to do if you have Zika?You should get plenty of rest, drink fluids to prevent dehydration, take medicine such as acetaminophen to reduce fever and pain. You should avoid taking aspirin or other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and talk to your doctor if you are taking medicine for another medical condition.Is Zika risky for some people?WHO says that Zika infection during pregnancy can cause a birth defect of the brain called microcephaly and other severe brain defects. It is also linked to other problems, such as miscarriage, stillbirth and other birth defects. There have also been increased reports of Guillain-Barré syndrome, which affects the nervous system, in areas affected by Zika, according to WHO.(Source WHO, CDC)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/zika-virus-transmission-symptoms-prevention-explained-101627795899922.html
01-08-2021||India||Odisha issues fresh Covid unlock guidelines; allows restaurants, cinema halls to reopen with 50% seating capacity||The Odisha government has introduced new relaxations in its ongoing lockdown restrictions to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The new guidelines, issued late on Saturday, will remain in place from Sunday till September 1. “With a view to protecting the health of the public along with normalising the economic activities, in suppression of all previous orders of Revenue and Disaster Management Department in this regard, the Government of Odisha do hereby impose the following stipulations/instructions for graded unlocking which shall be effective from 6 am of 1st August, 2021 (Sunday) till 6 am of 1st September, 2021 (Wednesday),” a state government order read.However, the statewide night curfew from 8pm to 6am will continue and weekend shutdown will remain in force in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri, where the transmission rate of the viral disease is still high.Also Read| Bhubaneswar achieves target of 18 lakh doses of vaccination, TPR still above 5%From Sunday, shops and malls across Odisha can reopen from 6am to 8pm, restaurants, bars and dhabas or roadside eateries can operate with 50 per cent seating capacity and cinema halls and theatres can also reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity, the new guidelines stated.Here are the new unlock guidelines put in place by Odisha:> All religious, political and social gatherings will remain prohibited. However, district and municipal authorities are allowed to give permission for the reopening of religious places only after reviewing the Covid-19 situation.> Shops and malls are allowed to open from 6am to 8pm in adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour which includes wearing face masks, social distancing, thermal scanning and usage of hand sanitisers.> Restaurants, bars and dhabas across Odisha can operate with 50 per cent seating capacity in adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour.> All cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls can reopen with 50 per cent seating capacity.> The government order also said that street food vendors are allowed to operate with on the spot eating in adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour.Odisha Govt has issued fresh unlock guidelines, to remain effective between Aug 1 and Sept 1Night curfew to continue from 8pm to 6am every day; weekend shutdown to remain in force in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack & PuriShops and malls to open between 6am & 8pm pic.twitter.com/wc4VQOj7av> Residents of Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and Puri will be required to produce a final Covid-19 vaccination certificate for entry into malls, bars, restaurants, dhabas, cinema halls, theatres, auditoriums, assembly halls, the order said.> Inter-state and intra-state public transport and buses will remain functional with the notified seating capacity only.Also Read| Orissa HC rejects govt affidavit on Covid deaths citing discrepancies> The Odisha government has allowed sea beaches and parks to remain open.> Weddings have been allowed, with approval from local authorities, with not more than 25 people. In the case of funerals and last rites, no more than 20 people can take part including hosts, priests, guests and other support staff.> Museums, tourist places, zoos and archaeological monuments are allowed to open by following the Covid-19 protocols.> All educational institutions including coaching centres shall operate as per the guidelines issued by the respective departments.Odisha has so far recorded 977,268 coronavirus disease cases, 5,902 deaths and nearly 955,000 recoveries. On Saturday, the state saw 1,578 people testing positive for Covid-19, while 68 died and 1,841 recovered from the viral disease. Active cases in the state have come down 16,384. A health department official told news agency PTI on Saturday that all the 30 districts of Odisha registered daily test positivity ratio below 5 per cent after almost four months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19odisha-issues-fresh-unlock-guidelines-check-what-s-allowed-101627794374786.html
01-08-2021||India||Yamuna surges again in Delhi, water level inches close to danger mark||The water level in the Yamuna river inched close to the danger mark once again on Sunday morning, as Delhi and the adjoining National Capital Region (NCR) woke up to a spell of heavy rainfall, accompanied by forecasts for thunderstorms. According to news agency PTI, the water level in the Yamuna was recorded at 205.30 metres at 9am on Sunday, alarmingly close to the danger mark. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 meters."The flood alert remains in place," PTI quoted an official of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) as saying on Sunday. "We have deployed boats in different areas and families living in vulnerable areas are being temporarily moved into tents and shelter homes of the city government."The Yamuna breached the danger mark earlier this week on Friday when the water level was recorded at 205.59m, prompting the Delhi administration to sound a flood alert and expedite efforts to evacuate people from vulnerable areas. More than 100 families have been evacuated from the Yamuna floodplains to higher areas over the past few days, reported PTI.The surge in the Yamuna last week followed another spell of heavy rainfall and subsequent water discharge from the Hathnikund Barrage in Haryana. According to officials of the irrigation and flood control department (I&FC), the water level first started rising on Thursday, reaching close to the warning level of 204.50m. It rose to 205.59m on Friday, before receding once again to 204.89m on Saturday evening, according to the Delhi flood control room.Historically speaking, the highest that the water level in the Yamuna river ever rose was an all-time record of 207.49 metres in 1978. In 2013, the river surged to 207.32 metres and in 2019, it reached the 206.60-metre mark, breaching the danger level.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yamuna-surges-again-water-level-in-delhi-inches-close-to-danger-mark-101627790924768.html
01-08-2021||India||India sees 41,831 new Covid-19 infections, positivity rate touches 2.34%||As many as 41,831 fresh cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) disease were registered in the last 24 hours taking the cumulative tally to 31,655,824. India now has 4,10,952 active cases, which constitutes 1.30 per cent of the total caseload. With this, the daily positivity rate has touched 2.34 per cent.With 541 new deaths, the total number of people who have lost their lives to the virus since the pandemic struck now stands at 4,24,351, according to the latest updates of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The fatality rate now stands at 1.34 per cent. A total of 39,258 patients recovered from the viral disease, which pushed the total discharge to 3,08,20,521 at a rate of 97.37 per cent, the health bulletin further said.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said with 17,89,472 samples tested during the day for the virus, the total number of such tests conducted so far stands at 46,82,16,510.Meanwhile, with 60,15,842 doses against Covid-19 administered during the day across the country, the cumulative total of the vaccination touched 47,02,98,596.The government also said that more than 49.49 crore (49,49,89,550) vaccines have been provided to states and Union territories so far of which 3,00,58,190 doses are still available with them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-sees-41-831-new-covid-19-infections-541-deaths-101627790677194.html
01-08-2021||India||Ex-Congress MLA Sushanta Borgohain to join BJP today||Sushanta Borgohain, the two-time Congress legislator from the Thowra constituency in Assam's Jorhat district, is set to join the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday. Borgohain resigned from the party on Friday citing a changed internal political atmosphere within the Congress. His resignation was accepted by the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Bhupen Borah on Saturday.Meanwhile, the Congress party on Saturday wrote a letter to the speaker of the state assembly Biswajit Daimary asking him to disqualify Borgohain as an MLA under the anti-defection law following his resignation from the party. Debabrata Saikia, the leader of opposition in the assembly, requested the speaker to take necessary action according to the Constitution's 10th Schedule and disqualify him. Following Borgohain's exit, the Congress’ strength in the 126-member House will come down to 27.Hon'ble Assam PCC President Shri @BhupenKBorah has accepted the resignation of Shri Sushanta Borgohain from the primary membership of Congress Party. pic.twitter.com/UIlhvlwrlVThe 47-year-old is the second Congress MLA to jump ship to the BJP after four-time MLA Rupjyoti Kurmi, who was the lone legislator from the tea tribe community in the Congress, resigned on June 18 and joined the BJP on June 21. APCC general secretary Barnali Saikia Bora, who was the officer on special duty (OSD) to former chief minister Tarun Gogoi, also resigned from the Congress on Friday, news agency PTI reported.For the past few months, the Congress has seen many of its leaders move to the BJP. Jury Sharma Bordoloi, who was serving as the Guwahati district president of the Congress, resigned on June 18 and joined the BJP on July 2. Rajib Lochan Pegu, who was a minister in Tarun Gogoi’s cabinet, quit as the president of the Majuli district unit of Congress on July 6 amid speculations that he might also join the BJP.In this year’s assembly elections in Assam, the Congress was a part of the Mahajot alliance and won 26 seats. Whereas, the BJP won 60 of the total 126 seats and returned to power for a second consecutive time with the support of Asom Gana Parishad which got nine seats and United Peoples Party Liberal which got six seats.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/excongress-mla-sushanta-borgohain-to-join-bjptoday-101627790683628.html
01-08-2021||India||Parliament worked just 18 hours in first 2 weeks of monsoon session||Parliament could function for just 18 hours out of possible 107 hours since the monsoon session began on July 19 leading to the loss of taxpayers money amounting to more than ₹133 crore as the opposition disrupted the business of both the Houses over several issues, reports said citing an official notification.According to the reports, the Lok Sabha worked for about 7 hours out of possible 54 hours and the Rajya Sabha for 11 hours out of possible 53 hours as opposition parties protested over farmers' agitation, the Pegasus spyware row, the Centre's handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and inflation."With disruptions continuing, the productivity of Rajya Sabha fell to 13.70 per cent during the second week of the ongoing monsoon session from 32.20 per cent during the first week, resulting in the overall productivity of 21.60 per cent for the first two weeks," ANI reported quoting an official notification. "Of the total 50 working hours available, 39 hours 52 minutes have been lost due to disruptions. The House, however, sat for 1 hour 12 minutes beyond the scheduled time, but for which the productivity would have been much lower," the notification added, according to ANI.Also read | Not getting time in Rajya Sabha: Oppn to NaiduThe Rajya Sabha only had an hour and 38 minutes of Question Hour, an hour and 24 minutes for legislative business passing four bills with seven members intervening and a minute of Zero Hour and another four minutes on Special Mentions during the nine sittings of these first two weeks in the monsoon session.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw made or laid a statement on the Pegasus spyware row and Covid-19 related issues were discussed for 4 hours 37 minutes during the first week.The government has so far managed to get Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021; the Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill, 2021; the Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed in Parliament. Among the four bills introduced in the Rajya Sabha were The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021.Also read | As ruckus continues in House, govt says Oppn raking up a ‘non issue’As the logjam continued in Parliament even as the opposition and the Centre traded blame for the disruptions, Prime Minister Narendra Modi accused the Congress party of not allowing the monsoon session to function. PM Modi also asked lawmakers of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to "expose the party before the public and the media".On Friday, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said in the Lok Sabha opposition leaders should not focus on “non-serious issues” but raise “important people-related issues”.Meanwhile, Congress leader and the leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge has written to the chairman of the House, vice president M Venkaiah Naidu, saying that opposition parties are not being given time to speak in Parliament.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-worked-just-18-hours-in-first-2-weeks-of-monsoon-session-101627788571584.html
01-08-2021||India||News updates from HT at 9am: Maharashtra may relax Covid-19 curbs in 25 districts today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9am. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Maharashtra may relax Covid-19 curbs in 25 districts today, decide on Mumbai trains soonMaharashtra may on Sunday loosen the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-related restrictions in as many as 25 districts across the state. Read moreRashtrapati Bhavan, museum to open for visitors from todayRashtrapati Bhavan, as well as the museum complex, which was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic since April this year, will reopen for public viewing from Sunday. Read morePM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI tomorrowPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday virtually launch e-RUPI, an electronic voucher-based digital payment system, his office has said. "The Prime Minister has always championed digital initiatives. Read more'I speak to him a lot; he's played cricket all over the world': Pant names 4 individuals he turns to for adviceThe upcoming five-Test series between India and England will mark a full circle for Rishabh Pant, for it was three years ago during India's 2018 tour of the UK that he made his Test debut for India. Read morePriyanka Chopra shares new selfie, and Nick Jonas can't get over how 'hot' she looks. See herePriyanka Chopra on Saturday took to Instagram to share a new selfie, prompting her husband Nick Jonas to declare, "You're hot." Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-maharashtra-may-relax-covid-19-curbs-in-25-districts-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101627785281436.html
01-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI tomorrow||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday virtually launch e-RUPI, an electronic voucher-based digital payment system, his office has said. "The Prime Minister has always championed digital initiatives. Over the years, several programmes have been launched to ensure that the benefits reach its intended beneficiaries in a targeted and leak-proof manner, with limited touchpoints between the government and the beneficiary," the Prime Minister's Office said in a statement on Saturday. "The concept of electronic voucher takes forward this vision of Good Governance," it added.Developed by the National Payments Corporation of India along with the department of financial services, the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the National Health Authority, e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment.The PMO statement said that e-RUPI is a QR code or SMS string-based e-voucher delivered to the mobile of the beneficiaries. "The users of this seamless one-time payment mechanism will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider," it said.e-RUPI, the PMO said, connects sponsors of services with beneficiaries and service providers without any physical interface while ensuring that the payment to the service provider is made only after the transaction is completed. "Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without the involvement of any intermediary. It is expected to be a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a leak-proof delivery of welfare services," it added.According to the PMO's statement, e-RUPI can also be used for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support. "Even the private sector can leverage these digital vouchers as part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-digital-payment-solution-e-rupi-tomorrow-101627784813556.html
01-08-2021||India||Ahmedabad's 150-year-old heritage building to be restored to aid those in need||In a unique initiative, a 150-year-old heritage building in Ahmedabad's Khamasa is being restored and turned into an innovation center for underprivileged girls. Built by a colonial architect, the building sustained structural damage after the 2011 earthquake, said Sanskriti Panchal, who is an architect working on this restoration project.LxS Foundation in partnership with the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry will develop this building, the estimated cost of which is ₹3.2 crores."It was a girls' college but was abandoned following the 2001 earthquake. Thus the government was compelled to shift it to a new building," she said.Sanskriti Panchal, who is also Co-Founder of LxS Foundation told news agency ANI that the innovation center will be completed in the next two years. "In 2018 we decided to restore the building and approached the state education minister," she said.Elaborating on the foundation of the project, the architect said that each heritage restoration has to work for people. "One misconception we all have is that heritage is something that we should be proud of our past. However, I think we need to rewind the fact that heritage is something that respects our past and to be proud of our present and future," she noted.With a hope to empower girls in the vicinity of the building, she emphasised that the project will greatly benefit the people. "Our core concept is to include the communities. It is essential to do so for conserving the heritage," she concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahmedabads-150-year-old-heritage-building-to-be-restored-to-aid-those-in-need-101627781078898.html
01-08-2021||India||Muslim Women's Rights Day: Know its history, significance||Muslim Women's Rights Day is observed across the nation on August 1 to celebrate the enactment of the law against triple talaq. The central government enacted the law on August 1, 2019, that has made the practice of instant triple talaq a criminal offence.The Union ministry of minority affairs on Saturday announced that Muslim Women's Rights Day will be observed across the nation on August 1 and it will celebrate the second anniversary of the enactment of the law against triple talaq.Union minister for women and child development Smriti Irani, Union minister for environment, forest and climate change Bhupender Yadav and Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi will attend a programme in Delhi to observe Muslim Women's Rights Day on Sunday, reports news agency PTI. Different organisations across the nation will also observe August 1 as Muslim Women's Rights Day.Union minority affairs minister Naqvi said after the law came into effect triple talaq cases have come down significantly. "Muslim women across the country have overwhelmingly welcomed this law. The government has strengthened self-reliance, self-respect and self-confidence of the Muslim women of the country and protected their constitutional, fundamental and democratic rights by bringing the law against the triple talaq," he added.The Supreme Court in August 2017 declared the practice of triple talaq or a form of divorce based on the husband pronouncing divorce thrice in quick succession as 'unconstitutional'.In December 2017, citing the Supreme Court judgment and cases of triple talaq in India, the government introduced the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill in Parliament. The bill was passed by the Lok Sabha but was stalled by the opposition in the Rajya Sabha. The bill was reintroduced and passed by both the Houses of Parliament in July 2019. Consequently, the bill received assent from President Ram Nath Kovind. The legislation, which outlaws instant triple talaq, sets forth three years jail for violations and also make the violator liable to pay a fine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muslim-women-s-rights-day-know-its-history-significance-101627777536417.html
01-08-2021||India||Rains lash Delhi-NCR, key areas waterlogged||Delhi and the adjoining regions of the National Capital Region (NCR) woke up to witness moderate to heavy rainfall, accompanied by thunderstorms, on Sunday. Visuals shared by news agencies on social media showed downpour lashing several parts of the national capital, from Connaught Place to the Barapullah flyover. A number of major sections in the city, including Yamuna Bazar, remain waterlogged following the spell of heavy rains, the visuals showed.More than a dozen areas in Delhi, including Yamuna Bazar, Ashram, Anand Vihar, Sarita Vihar, and ITO remain inundated due to the heavy rain, reported HT's sister publication Live Hindustan on Sunday, adding that the downpour started around 4am. However, traffic was normal with no major disruptions due to the waterlogging, so far.Also Read | Flood alert issued in Delhi after Yamuna breaches ‘danger mark’ amid heavy rainsSkymetWeather, a private weather forecasting agency, had earlier predicted that several parts of northern India will witness heavy rainfall throughout the entire first week of August. The heavy rains lashing Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh are set to continue till August 8, Skymet said.Delhi: Waterlogging in Yamuna Bazar area following rainfall in the national capital this morning pic.twitter.com/crZEnTsznlRain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR; visuals from Connaught Place"Thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain would occur over & adjoining areas of entire Delhi & NCR during the next 2 hours (issued at 5:25 am)," says India Meteorological Department (IMD) pic.twitter.com/jCSMIz8neyRain lashes parts of Delhi-NCR; visuals from Barapullah Flyover pic.twitter.com/PUIKWjNdSiAccording to a notification issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the regions set to witness rainfall on Sunday include Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram, and Faridabad, among several other nearby areas."Thunderstorms, with moderate to heavy intensity rains, would occur over and adjoining areas of entire Delhi-NCR," read the alert issued by the IMD.Also Read | From heatwaves to rainfall records:An extreme July for Delhi’s weatherThe met department then proceeded to list the regions in Delhi-NCR that are predicted to receive rainfall activity on Sunday. These are -- the entirety of Delhi, Bahadurgarh, Gurugram, Manesar, Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Loni Dehat, Hindon AF Station, Ghaziabad, Indirapuram, Chhapraula, Noida, and Dadri.Greater Noida) Panipat, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Jhajjar, Kosali, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Rewari, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Aurangabad, Palwal (Haryana) Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baraut, Bagpat, Nazibabad, Bijnaur, Hastinapur, Khatauli, Sakoti Tanda, MeerutA few other regions set to witness rainfall activity today are -- Greater Noida, Panipat, Gohana, Gannaur, Sonipat, Rohtak, Charkhi Dadri, Mattanhail, Jhajjar, Kosali, Farukhnagar, Bawal, Rewari, Nuh, Sohana, Hodal, Aurangabad, Palwal (Haryana), Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Baraut, Bagpat, Nazibabad, Bijnaur, Hastinapur, Khatauli, Sakoti Tanda, and Meerut.Later, issuing another update, the IMD added more places to the list of regions across India set to witness rainfall activity on Sunday. These are -- Modinagar, Rampur, Moradabad, Billari, Sambhal, Amroha, Garhmukteshwar, Siyana, Hapur, Pilakhua, Bahajoi, Anupshahar, Jahangirabad, Shikarpur, Bulandshahar, Gulaoti, Khurja, Barsana, Nandgaon (in Uttar Pradesh), Kotputli, Khairthal, Tizara, and Deeg (in Rajasthan).Starting off as an unusually hot month, July ended up with 507mm of rain -- -- twice that of Delhi's average of 210.6mm for the month, making it the wettest in the past 18 years, another weather extreme that was characteristic of the patterns being observed in the capital since August 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rains-lash-delhi-ncr-thunderstorms-predicted-101627779280839.html
01-08-2021||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan, museum to open for visitors from today. Here's how to book slots||Rashtrapati Bhavan, as well as the museum complex, which was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic since April this year, will reopen for public viewing from Sunday. The tour of Rashtrapati Bhavan will be available on Saturday and Sunday except on gazetted holidays in three pre-booked time slots: 10:30am-11am, 12:30pm-1:30pm, and 2:30pm-3:30pm with a maximum limit of 25 visitors per slot, according to a statement issued by the Rashtrapati Bhavan.The Rashtrapati Bhavan museum complex will remain open for six days in a week from Tuesday to Sunday except on gazetted holidays in four pre-booked time slots - 9:30am-11am, 11:30am-1pm, 1:30pm-3pm and 3:30pm-5pm with a maximum limit of 50 visitors per slot.The museum complex is an event-based storytelling museum that showcases the invaluable artefacts symbolising art, culture, heritage and history of India. Virtual and augmented reality, interactive digital cascading table, video wall, three-dimension stereoscopic projection, holographic projection and sound-light-video synchronized stage settings are used to tell the story of Rashtrapati Bhavan.Those planning to visit the Rashtrapati Bhavan and the museum complex can book their slots online on https://presidentofindia.nic.in or https://rashtrapatisachivalaya.gov.in/ or https://rbmuseum.gov.in/.Rashtrapati Bhavan is home to the President of India and it portrays the nation's democratic traditions and secular nature. Originally built as the residence for the viceroy of the country, as it was called earlier, has transformed into today's Rashtrapati Bhavan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rashtrapati-bhavan-museum-to-open-for-visitors-from-today-here-s-how-to-book-slots-101627776226516.html
01-08-2021||India||Vindhyachal Corridor, worth ₹300 crore, aims to give 'grand view' to UP temple||Union home minister Amit Shah will on Sunday visit Mirzapur in Uttar Pradesh to lay the foundation stone for the Vindhyachal Corridor, dubbed a 'dream project' of the state's chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The project, worth over ₹300 crore, includes ramping up amenities for devotees at the Vindhyachal temple in the district as well as widening of surrounding roads to 50 feet and facilitating a grander look at the shrine for the purpose of 'darshan'.The Vindhyachal temple in Mirzapur, which sees scores of devotees flocking to pay a visit to the Goddess Vindhvasini, is a point of tourist interest for the state. The Vindhya Corridor, on completion, is expected to provide a clear view of the Ganga flowing in the northern direction of the temple. According to reports, the river will be visible right from the stairway to the temple and will be an added attraction for the devotees who show up for the 'darshan' of Ma Vindhvasini Devi.The Vindhyachal Corridor project is deemed important for the sphere of Uttar Pradesh pilgrimage since a lot of devotees have been complaining of the current situation near the temple as being messy and unfit for a holy site.There are no proper transportation measures to reach the temple, nor are many of the narrow lanes and roads leading to the site accessible for many pilgrims. Thus, chief minister Yogi Adityanath intends to increase footfall to the temple and the surrounding area at large by undertaking the Vindhyachal Corridor project.Union home minister Amit Shah, after laying the foundation stone for the corridor on Sunday, is also expected to address a public meeting at the Government Inter College ground in the city, said a local MLA earlier this week.According to Mirzapur MLA Ratnakar Mishra, the home minister will first pay obeisance of Goddess Vindhvasini at the Vindhyachal temple in the district and later participate in the 'havan' programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vindhyachal-corridor-worth-rs-300-crore-aims-to-give-grand-view-to-up-temple-101627774771197.html
01-08-2021||India||National Book Trust Foundation Day: All you need to know||National Book Trust (NBT) was established on August 1, 1957. This organisation is the vision of the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru. It was inaugurated by the then vice president of India, Dr Sarvapalli Radhakrishnan in Delhi's Vigyan Bhawan.The primary objective of NBT is to publish high-quality books at affordable prices and to promote reading habits in the nation. Its purpose is also to make literature in different languages available at moderate prices to the public and to bring out book catalogues, arrange book fairs and exhibitions and seminars and take all necessary steps to make people book minded.To widen the readership base across the nation, various programmes have been initiated by the NBT. Some of the new outreach programmes are Samagra Shiksha Abhiyaan, guest of honour presentations, promotion of books and reading, mobile book exhibitions, New Delhi World Book Fair etc.The NBT often represents the nation in the international book fairs in foreign countries. The organisation has been the nodal agency to prepare and present the country’s presentation whenever India is invited as the guest of honour country in a foreign book fair. The NBT has organised India’s guest of honour presentation in the Abu Dhabi International Book Fair in 2019 and Guadalajara International Book Fair in the same year, among others.The recruitment in the NBT is done through regular government job vacancies. Advertisements are published in leading newspapers and the information is also posted on the organisation’s website.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-book-trust-foundation-day-all-you-need-to-know-101627774816580.html
01-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Maharashtra reports 6,479 new Covid cases, 157 deaths in 24 hours||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Follow all the updates here:PM Modi to interact with PMGKAY beneficiaries in Gujarat on Aug 3Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Gujarat on 3rd August, via video conferencing(File pic) pic.twitter.com/qLGB0hKM9bPrime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Gujarat on August 3 via video conferencing, reports ANI.UP police say no procession should be allowed on Muharram due to Covid-19No procession should be allowed on the occasion of Muharram, in view of COVID19 pandemic: Uttar Pradesh Police pic.twitter.com/sTw7ZZk7RDThe Uttar Pradesh police said that no procession should be allowed on the occasion of Muharram due to the Covid-19 pandemic, reports ANI.'Hope our people will do a good job': Congress' Shashi Tharoor on India's UNSC presidencyAssumption of the UNSC Presidency is a routine thing, it goes in alphabetical order and this month it's India's turn ... We have a good team. I hope that our people will do a good job and make India proud: Congress MP Shashi Tharoor pic.twitter.com/lWyfPsEHlhAs India assumed the presidency of UN Security Council for August, Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that India has a "good team" at the UN and also said he hoped that the team would do a good job and make India proud, reports ANI.Maharashtra report 6,479 new Covid-19 cases, 157 deaths in last 24 hoursWith 6,479 new Covid-19 cases and 157 deaths in the last 24 hours, Maharashtra's tally reached 6,310,194 and the death toll climbed to 132,948. Mumbai reported 328 new cases and 10 more fatalities as the city's tally reached 735,107 and the death toll further went up to 15,899.Over 20,000 new Covid-19 cases, 56 deaths in Kerala in last 24 hoursKerala reported 20,728 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday and 56 more deaths pushed the death toll to 16,837. Active caseload stands at 167,379, reports ANI.PM Modi congratulates PV Sindhu on winning Bronze at Tokyo OlympicsWe are all elated by the stellar performance by @Pvsindhu1. Congratulations to her on winning the Bronze at @Tokyo2020. She is India’s pride and one of our most outstanding Olympians. #Tokyo2020 pic.twitter.com/O8Ay3JWT7qPrime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Indian badminton player PV Sindhu for winning a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics."We are all elated by the stellar performance by @Pvsindhu1. Congratulations to her on winning the Bronze at @Tokyo2020. She is India’s pride and one of our most outstanding Olympians," Modi tweeted.7 bodies recovered, 3 still missing after 10 people drowned in flash floods in Lahaul: Himachal CMIn recent flash flood incident in Lahaul, out of 10 drowned people, 7 bodies recovered, 3 still missing. There were 200 tourists stranded in Lahaul. We had rescued around 150 earlier & remaining were rescued today, with the help of helicopter: Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur pic.twitter.com/P4PtgdgrD4Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said that seven bodies have been recovered while three are still missing of the 10 people who drowned in a recent flash flood in Lahaul, reports ANI.Uzbekistan supports India's candidacy for permanent membership in UNIndia is one of the biggest members of the UN & plays an important role. Its permanent membership for the next two years is an important event. Uzbekistan supports Indian candidacy to obtain a permanent membership in the council: Dilshod Akhatov, Ambassador of Uzbekistan to India pic.twitter.com/roBcR0etq7Uzbekistan's ambassador to India Dilshod Akhatov said that the country supports India's candidacy to permanent membership at the UN security council, reports ANI.Russia reports 22,804 new Covid-19 cases, 789 deathsRussia reported 22,804 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, including 2,484 in Moscow, taking the official national tally since the pandemic began to 6,288,677.Madhya Pradesh: 4 members of family killed in house collapseFour members of a family, including two minors, were killed and another girl was injured after their mud house collapsed due to heavy rains in Madhya Pradesh's Rewa district on Sunday, an official said.Iran denies launching oil tanker attack that killed 2Iran's Foreign Ministry spokesman has denied Tehran carried out a drone attack on an oil tanker off Oman that killed two people, even as Israel alleges the Islamic Republic launched the assault.Himachal CM conducts aeriel survey to flood affected regionHimachal Pradesh Chief Minister Jairam Thakur conducts aerial survey of the flood-affected region of Lahaul-Spiti district on Sunday.Yamuna water level close to danger markYamuna water level close to danger mark at Old Yamuna Bridge - 'Loha Pul'. ₹1,16,393 crore collected in GST revenue in July ₹1,16,393 crore collected in GST revenue in July, 33% higher than same month last year, says finance ministry.Govindas Konthoujam joins Bharatiya Janata PartyGovindas Konthoujam, former Manipur Congress chief joins Bharatiya Janata Party, in the presence of Manipur CM N Biren Singh.Covid vaccine at doorstep for old, ailing Kolkata residentsThe Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) will soon start visiting old and ailing residents of the city to vaccinate them, its chief Firhad Hakim said.Naxals kill a 35-year-old man in Chandan Bahara villageNaxals kill a 35-year-old man in Chandan Bahara village, Nagari tehsil of Dhamtari district, say police, reports ANI.Arunachal Pradesh logs 266 new Covid-19 cases, 3 fresh fatalitiesArunachal Pradesh reported 266 fresh Covid-19 cases, which pushed the tally to 48,122, a senior health official said here on Sunday.RT-PCR report mandatory for people coming from Kerala to TN from August 5RT-PCR report mandatory for people coming from Kerala to Tamil Nadu from August 5: Tamil Nadu Health Minister, Ma Subramanian.Grey Line extension, Pink Line segment of Delhi Metro to be opened on August 6Grey Line extension, Pink Line segment of Delhi Metro to be opened on August 6: DMRC.Over 49.49 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States/UTs so farMore than 49.49 crore (49,49,89,550) Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States/UTs so far. 3,00,58,190 vaccine doses are still available with the States/UTs: Government of India.Schools will reopen for Class 9 to Class 12 from tomorrow in UttarakhandUttarakhand | Schools will reopen for Class 9 to Class 12 from tomorrow in the state.All schools have been asked to strictly follow Covid-19 protocols and classes will function in two shifts where number of students is higher: State Education Minister Arvind Pandey.Till now, India has administered 47,02,98,596 vaccine dosesTill now, India has administered 47,02,98,596 vaccine doses including 60,15,842 doses administered in the last 24 hours: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.South Korea reports 1,442 more Covid-19 cases, 199,787 in totalSouth Korea reported 1,442 more cases of Covid-19 as of midnight Saturday compared to 24 hours ago, raising the total number of infections to 199,787.Indian boxer Satish Kumar exits Olympic GamesIndian boxer Satish Kumar ( 91kg) exits Olympic Games after quarterfinal loss to Uzbekistan's Bakhodir Jalolov.Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs likely to visit J-K, Ladakh from August 17-22Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh from 17th August to 22nd August: Sources, reports ANI.India logs fresh 41,831 Covid-19 cases; 541 deaths in last 24 hrsIndia on Sunday recorded fresh 41,831 Covid-19 cases and 541 deaths in last 24 hours, Union health ministry's data showed.Rockets hit Kandahar airport in AfghanistanRockets hit Kandahar airport in Afghanistan: Airport official, reports AFP.India takes over UN Security Council Presidency for August"Truly impressed with the agenda, which embraces pressing global issues incl maritime security, peacekeeping & counter-terrorism. Expecting fruitful & effective work," tweets Nikolay Kudashev, Russian Envoy to India.Police in China detain Canadian pop star Kris Wu over rape allegationPolice in China said they have detained a 30-year-old Canadian man surnamed Wu on suspicion of committing rape, with state media identifying him as Chinese-born pop singer Kris Wu.Waterlogging in Yamuna Bazar areaWaterlogging in Yamuna Bazar area following rainfall in the national capital this morning.Australia's New South Wales reports 239 locally acquired Covid-19 casesAustralia's most populous state of New South Wales recorded 239 Covid-19 infections of the highly transmissible Delta variant on Sunday, matching the record daily number of cases in the current outbreak seen on Thursday.ATM cash withdrawals to cost more from todayAutomated Teller Machines (ATMs) across banks are all set to undergo a change from Sunday, August 1, following an order from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).Muslim Women's Rights DayMuslim Women's Rights Day is observed across the nation on August 1 to celebrate the enactment of the law against triple talaq.Rashtrapati Bhavan, museum to open for visitors from todayRashtrapati Bhavan, as well as the museum complex, which was closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic since April this year, will reopen for public viewing from Sunday.Rain lashes parts of Delhi-NCRRain lashes parts of Delhi-NCRAntony Blinken to participate in 5 ASEAN ministerial meetings on August 2-6US Secretary of State Antony Blinken will take part in five online ministerial meetings within the framework of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to discuss regional and international issues.National Book Trust Foundation DayNational Book Trust (NBT) was established on August 1, 1957. This organisation is the vision of the first prime minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru.5.2 magnitude quake jolts MexicoA 5.2 magnitude earthquake jolted 26 kilometer West-Southwest of Bavispe, Mexico at 21.19 GMT on Saturday, the US Geological Survey said.Florida breaks record with more than 21,000 new Covid casesFlorida reported 21,683 new cases of Covid-19, the state’s highest one-day total since the start of the pandemic, according to federal health data released Saturday, as its theme park resorts again started asking visitors to wear masks indoors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-1-2021-101627774385570.html
