02-08-2021||India||Babul Supriyo has second thoughts after meeting JP Nadda, says will stay MP||KOLKATA: Former Union minister Babul Supriyo, who announced his decision to quit politics and Lok Sabha over the weekend, said in Delhi on Monday evening that he had reviewed his decision announced on Facebook on July 31 and decided to stay in Parliament.“I have a constitutional responsibility,” said the 50-year-old Bollywood singer-turned-politician after meeting Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president J P Nadda in national capital Delhi.Supriyo did not elaborate on his conversation with Nadda but said he remains firm on his decision to quit politics.“It is my personal decision and I am not going to change it. I may move either to Kolkata or Mumbai. I will not engage in any political activity,” said the two-time MP from Asansol in Bengal’s West Burdwan district.“People of Asansol have asked me to stay as their MP,” he said. He said he will give up his security cover, the bungalow in Delhi and other facilities he is entitled to as a Lok Sabha member. “You may soon see me earning my living through other means, singing for example,” Supriyo told the media in a lighter mood. He refused to say why he decided to quit politics.Bengal BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar said Babul Supriyo’s decision to continue in Parliament is entirely his. “There is no ground to believe that Nadda or any other central leader have put pressure on him.”Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders earlier insisted that Supriyo’s Facebook posts reflect his immaturity in politics. TMC state general secretary Kunal Ghosh even dubbed it as “a drama”. On Monday, senior TMC legislator Tapas Roy said, “Babul has once again shown his immaturity.” Supriyo, a former minister of state for environment, forest and climate change, resigned from the Union council of ministers before Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent reshuffle of his team, and wrote an emotional post on social media, saying he was “asked to resign.” This led to some friction with Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh. On Saturday, Supriyo made the surprise announcement about his exit from politics. “I’m leaving...Alvida (farewell)...If you want to do social work, you can do it without being in politics...” Supriyo wrote on Facebook.He unsuccessfully contested the Tollygunge seat in south Kolkata in the March-April assembly polls. He lost by around 50,000 votes, which came as a blow to the Bengal BJP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/babul-supriyo-has-second-thoughts-after-meeting-jp-nadda-says-will-stay-mp-101627926447994.html
02-08-2021||India||India, Bangladesh resume freight train operation via Haldibari-Chilahati route||India and Bangladesh resumed the operation of freight trains through the restored Haldibari-Chilahati route on Sunday in a significant step aimed at boosting railway connectivity between the two countries.The rail link was reopened by the Prime Ministers of India and Bangladesh on December 17, last year, for the movement of passenger and freight trains. On Sunday, the Indian Railways ran the first freight train laden with stones from Damdim railway station under Northeast Frontier Railway's jurisdiction for Bangladesh. Situated 12km away from Bangladesh's Chilahati, the railway station in Haldibari is located 4.5km from the international border, also known as ‘zero point’. Indian Railways officials said five links connecting India with Bangladesh have been made operational, including between Petrapole (India) and Benapole (Bangladesh), Gede (India) and Darshana (Bangladesh), Singhabad (India) and Rohanpur (Bangladesh), Radhikapur (India) and Birol (Bangladesh) apart from Haldibari and Chilahati.The Haldibari-Chilahati rail link between India and Bangladesh (the then East Pakistan) was operational till 1965. This was part of the Broad Gauge main route from Kolkata to Siliguri during the Partition. Trains travelling to Assam and North Bengal continued to travel through the territory even after the Partition. However, the war of 1965 effectively cut off all the railway links between India and the then East Pakistan.Around 20 freight trains are expected to be interchanged through the rail link every month. The link is intended to improve freight and passenger connections between Bangladesh and Assam and West Bengal, and will aid the growth of trade and economic development in the region.A passenger train service, New Jalpaiguri-Dhaka-New Jalpaiguri Mitali Express was announced by Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit to Dhaka March 27, 2021, but the service could not be resumed owing to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bangladesh-freight-train-operation-haldibari-chilahati-rail-route-101627923929877.html
02-08-2021||India||Calcutta HC grants bail to Adhikari’s aide, shields him from arrest in job scam case||The Calcutta high court on Monday granted bail to an aide of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Suvendu Adhikari in an alleged job scam for which he had been arrested twice. The court also shielded him from arrest in any case in any part of West Bengal. On June 7, the Kolkata Police arrested Rakhal Bera, an old associate of Suvendu Adhikari, the leader of the opposition in the Bengal legislative assembly, in a job scam case in East Midnapore district, the home turf of the Adhikari family. Four cases were registered against Bera at the district’s Contai police station in June, while a fifth one was filed at the Manicktala police station in Kolkata on July 1, the court said. Bera filed a writ petition seeking bail and a stay on the investigation. “As already averred in WPA 10778 of 2021 it is reiterated that the petitioner is being punished by the ruling dispensation for changing political affiliation and for being close to the present leader of the Opposition by causing to foist false cases against him,” the order said, referring to a case number and arguments put forth by the petitioner. “There appears to be a pattern being followed by police in coordination with one another in attempting to keep the petitioner in custody by hook or crook on one pretext or the other and by registering one FIR after the other,” Justice Rajasekhar Mantha said in his written order on Monday. HT has seen a copy of the order. In the job scam case, Bera, a businessman based in East Midnapore, was held for allegedly taking ₹2 lakh from a man in 2018-19 by promising a job in the irrigation department that Adhikari headed at that time. Adhikari joined the BJP in December last year. After Bera’s arrest, his lawyers told the media that he became a victim of “political vendetta” because of his proximity to Adhikari. In the order passed on Monday, Justice Mantha said, “Considering the repeated attempts by persons to lodge one complaint after the other against the petitioner and in a planned and systematic manner and the repeated arrest after bail in one case or the other, this court is persuaded to grant interim relief to the petitioner.” “Normally a prayer for liberty from custody pending criminal proceedings is required to be made under Section 439 of the Cr. P. C. However, looking at the successive cases against him and the repeated arrests of the petitioner, provisions of Article 21 of the Constitution of India are clearly attracted and a Writ Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot be a silent spectator. A Writ Court is required to intervene even at a suggestion of any plan or attempt to take away the liberty of a person, with ulterior motive or for doubtful reason. Such cases call for judicial scrutiny,” said the order. Stating that the petitioner will co-operate with the police in all the investigations, the order said, “The state is once again directed to submit a list of all cases pending against the petitioner anywhere in the state. This Court is also inclined to direct that all police stations in the state may register any FIR against the petitioner but he shall not be arrested without the express leave of this Court.” The judge asked the government to file its affidavit within four weeks. Adhikari was not available for comment. However, BJP state vice-president Ritesh Tiwari welcomed the court order. “Rakhal Bera was arrested only because he was close to @SuvenduWB. That was his only fault. He became a victim of vindictive politics by @AITCofficial. Calcutta High Court’s verdict today gave a big blow to @MamataOfficial’s dirty politics,” tweeted Tiwari. TMC leaders did not want to comment on the order saying the matter was subjudice. Another bench of the high court on Monday offered relief to Adhikari by dismissing a proposed meeting of the board of directors of the Contai Co-operative Bank Ltd on Tuesday. The TMC is trying to remove Adhikari from the post of chairman of the board alleging financial and administrative irregularities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/calcutta-hc-grants-bail-to-adhikari-s-aide-shields-him-from-arrest-in-job-scam-case-101627926328911.html
02-08-2021||India||Shiv Sena workers allegedly vandalise Adani airports branding at Mumbai airport||The labour wing of Shiv Sena Bharatiya Kamgar Sena on Monday allegedly vandalised the brand logo of Adani Group near the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport in Mumbai. The Kamgar Sena workers allegedly removed the signboard bearing the name of Adani.An official also said that the agitating workers also briefly held up traffic movement in Mumbai’s arterial north-south road as they gathered on the nearby Western Express Highway. The Adani Airports Holding Limited, however, clarified that no changes were made to the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport’s branding or positioning at the terminal.“In light of the incidents around Adani Airports branding at the Mumbai International Airport, we firmly assure that Adani Airports Holding Limited (AAHL) has merely replaced the previous branding with Adani Airports branding and that no change has been made to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport’s branding or positioning at the terminal. The branding at CSMIA is in compliance with the norms and guidelines of Airport Authority of India (AAI). AAHL will continue to adhere to all the guidelines laid out by the government in the interest of the aviation community at large,” an AAHL spokesperson said.The issue regarding branding in the airports run by the Adani Group surfaced in January when the Airport Authority of India (AAI) flagged that the Adani group was in violation of branding norms at the airports in Ahmedabad, Mangaluru and Lucknow. Three committees headed by the AAI found that Adani Group was violating the branding guidelines.Adani Group after receiving the report started making changes which were seen in the Lucknow, Manglauru and Ahmedabad airports, according to the AAI. The committee last year found that Adani Group wrote ‘Adani Airports’ on both sides of Lucknow International Airport hoardings, which is in violation of the concession agreement. “The committee also found that the name and logo of the AAI was not equally and prominently displayed in other displays where the concessionaire intends to display its own name, which was again in violation of the Article 5.15.2 of the concession agreement,” the AAI said. It also found similar violations in Ahmedabad and Mangaluru.The Adani Group in July took over the management of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport from the GVK group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shiv-sena-workers-allegedly-vandalise-adani-airports-branding-at-mumbai-airport-101627923230614.html
02-08-2021||India||Former Prasar Bharati CEO Jawhar Sircar wins Bengal Rajya Sabha seat unopposed||Former chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati, Jawhar Sircar, on Monday won the vacant Rajya Sabha seat from Bengal without any contest. Bengal assembly speaker Biman Banerjee gave Sircar the certificate in the afternoon. There was no election as the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the only opposition party in the state with 75 legislators against 213 of the Trinamool Congress (TMC), did not field any candidate. Rajya Sabha members are elected by legislators. The seat was left vacant after TMC lawmaker Dinesh Trivedi joined the BJP before the West Bengal assembly elections held in March and April. On July 24, the TMC nominated Sircar to the Upper House of Parliament. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service and is known as a vocal critic of the BJP government at the Centre. “The entire process was a surprise for me. Till a week ago, I was only a retired bureaucrat. This has given me an opportunity to express my views,” Sircar told HT on Monday evening. After joining the Indian Administrative Service (IAS) in 1975, Sircar made a name for himself as an officer of the West Bengal cadre. He served in various posts, including that of the chief electoral officer. Sircar left Bengal to join the Union ministry of culture as the secretary, a post he served till 2012. He later became the CEO of India’s public broadcaster, Prasar Bharati, where he served till 2016. Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya said, “Sircar has been rewarded by the TMC for his mindless opposition to all policies of the BJP government. He has done nothing else in recent years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-prasar-bharati-ceo-jawhar-sircar-wins-bengal-rajya-sabha-seat-unopposed-101627921467413.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata dribbles football at 'Khela hobe' programme launch and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata Banerjee dribbles football at ‘Khela hobe’ programme launch in KolkataWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee was seen dribbling a football at the Netaji Indoor Stadium in Kolkata on the occasion of launching “Khela Hobe Divas” on Monday. Read more.India, China agree to speedy resolution of Ladakh border rowTop Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border, said a joint statement issued on Saturday. Read more.To pave way for talks, Assam, Mizoram go easy on police cases filed after clashesIn further display of easing of tension between the two states, Assam and Mizoram on Monday decided to go easy on the police cases lodged after last week’s border clash that claimed the lives of six policemen. Read more.Uttarakhand has sent back at least 15K Kanwariyas in a week, say policeIn the first week since the Kanwar Yatra period began on July 25, Uttarakhand sent over 15,500 Kanwariyas back from its border in Haridwar. Read more.Lok Sabha clears insurance divestment BillLok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill to amend the country’s general-insurance law and allow the government to offload its stake in state-run insurance corporations, clearing its first hurdle without discussion as Parliament continued to witness pandemonium. Read more.Mayank Agarwal ruled out of first Test against England due to concussion after being hit on the head during net sessionIndia's opening batsman Mayank Agarwal was ruled out of the first Test match against England, starting at Trent Bridge from August 4, after being hit on the head while batting in the nets. Read more.Geeta Basra says she suffered two miscarriages before son Jovan’s birth: ‘Last two years have been traumatic’Geeta Basra, who welcomed son Jovan last month, revealed that she suffered two miscarriages in the last two years - one in 2019 and the other, last year. The first time, her husband Harbhajan Singh flew down from Punjab to be by her side, while during her second miscarriage, they were together due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.Soha Ali Khan rocks one of the hottest fashion trends in ₹10k boho chic topFree and flowy fabrics with fun and funky prints and a touch of fringe are here to form one of the hottest summer trend, that is boho fashion and Soha Ali Khan rocked the same on a recent get-together with friends. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-dribbles-football-at-khela-hobe-programme-launch-101627916481963.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC’s Abhishek Banerjee aims at Tripura in 2023, searches for ally in Oppn camp||AGARTALA: The Trinamool Congress has its sights on the Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled Tripura and intends to come to power in 2023 when the state votes the next government, party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee said in state capital Agartala on Monday.“Our target is to end the misrule of the BJP government and form our government in the state in the next one-and-a-half years,” Banerjee said during a quick visit to the state to capitalise on the controversy over the alleged detention of 23 members of the political consultancy firm founded by Prashant Kishor, Indian-Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC).Banerjee promised that the TMC will not parachute leaders from Bengal to assume a leadership role if the party comes to power and offered to work with other opposition parties as well.“Tripura will only rule Tripura and not Bengal,” he said as he appealed to non-BJP political parties including the Left, Congress or others, to join them in their fight against BJP. “Any political party willing to fight against BJP are welcome to join hands with us and we will fight united,” he said.To be sure, the TMC didn’t have much success in Tripura in 2018 when a coalition of the BJP and Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT) dethroned the Manik Sarkar-led Communist Party of India’s (CPI) after 25 years in power.The BJP’s had a vote share was 43.4%, a shade better than the CPI’s 43.2% but the BJP won a disproportionately higher number of seats; 35 as against the CPI’s 16.In the same election, Mamata Banerjee’s party fielded 24 candidates for the 60-seat assembly in 2018 who, put together, got less than 7,000 votes; a vote share of 0.3%. The BJP’s spectacular performance in 2018, however, appears to hold out hope for the TMC, particularly since the BJP had secured a vote share of less than 1.5% after contesting on 50 seats in 2013.Banerjee claimed that many Tripura legislators were in contact with the TMC leadership in Kolkata, but his party didn’t want to disrupt the government by breaking away their legislators.Banerjee, who faced protests by BJP supporters during his visit, alleged that his car was also attacked when he was travelling towards Tripurasundari temple in Udaipur, nearly 55 kilometres from Agartala. “Democracy in Tripura under @BJP4India rule!Well done @BjpBiplab for taking the state to new heights,” Banerjee said in a post as he tweeted a video where people are seen holding BJP flags and hitting his car with sticks. The TMC leader, who is seen as the number two in the party led by his aunt, demanded the chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb resignation.The BJP rebutted allegations that Banerjee’s car was attacked, saying its political activists didn’t attack anyone.“Our activists didn’t attack anyone. Their anti-violence protests were in a democratic manner,” said BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya.The TMC has been looking at gaining a foothold in Tripura for some time. It was in this context that about two dozen I-PAC members came for a survey to assess the TMC’s potential in the state. But the quiet exercise turned controversial after they were initially not allowed to move out of their hotel, and later booked for violating Covid-19 guidelines.Soon after, the TMC initially deputed West Bengal education minister Bratya Basu, law minister Moloy Ghatak, MPs Derek O’Brien, Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar and TMC leader Ritobroto Banerjee to visit the state.“If they can stop us, let them try. Days of their hooliganism are over. We will fight till our last drop of blood,” Banerjee said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmcs-abhishek-banerjee-aims-at-tripura-in-2023-searches-for-ally-in-oppn-camp-101627914806892.html
02-08-2021||India||India, China agree to speedy resolution of Ladakh border row||Top Indian and Chinese commanders agreed to a speedy resolution of outstanding issues on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) at the 12th round of military talks held in the Ladakh sector last week, with the dialogue focusing on disengagement of rival troops from the remaining flashpoints on the contested border, said a joint statement issued on Saturday. The corps commander-ranked officers met on Saturday in the latest attempt to reduce border tensions between the two countries, amid hopes in some quarters of reaching an understanding on the disengagement of rival soldiers from Hot Springs and Gogra. “Some progress was made during the talks, and we are inching towards working out a disengagement plan for Hot Springs and Gogra. We are looking forward to positive outcomes in future talks,” said a senior officer, asking not to be identified. The 12th round of military talks took place at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC, and went on for nine hours. The joint statement described the talks as “a candid and in-depth exchange of views on resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.” “The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations,” the statement said. The latest round of talks was held following the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers on July 14, in Dushanbe, and the 22nd meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC) on June 25. India and China have been locked in a border row for almost 15 months, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and saw tensions spiral between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. “The two sides also agreed that in the interim they will continue their effective efforts in ensuring stability along the LAC in the Western Sector and jointly maintain peace and tranquility,” the joint statement added. Expectations of an early breakthrough are not very realistic, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd). “Coming after more than three months, it is good to see that the military commanders are meeting to exchange views. However, the differences between the two sides on the process and terms of disengagement are not going to be quickly reconciled. This will require extensive discussions, not only at the military but also at the diplomatic level,” Hooda added. The corps commander-ranked officers last met on April 9 for the 11th round of talks. At the time, the Indian Army told the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict. The two armies kicked off talks to cool border tensions in June 2020. But the first major breakthrough came only after the 9th round of talks earlier this year. The talks led to the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February. Problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang are yet to be resolved, as previously reported by HT. Deployments haven’t thinned after the disengagement from Pangong Tso --- both armies have 50,000 to 60,000 troops each in the Ladakh theatre. PLA’s reluctance to pull back its forward deployed troops and restore the status quo ante of April 2020 has hit disengagement. The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has been affected in Hot Springs and Gogra due to the Chinese deployments. The PLA’s forward presence in Depsang has also hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13. The problems at Depsang, however, predate the current border standoff.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-agree-to-speedy-resolution-of-ladakh-border-row-101627914446989.html
02-08-2021||India||To pave way for talks, Assam, Mizoram go easy on police cases filed after clashes||In further display of easing of tension between the two states, Assam and Mizoram on Monday decided to go easy on the police cases lodged after last week’s border clash that claimed the lives of six policemen. Assam decided to withdraw the police case registered against Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram, K Vanlalvena, for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy leading to the July 26 clashes. But, the cases of murder, criminal trespass and other charges against Mizoram officials won’t be withdrawn. Mizoram, on the other hand, said they would not proceed against Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six other officials from the state against whom attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy charges had been lodged. “I have noted statements from CM Zoramthanga wherein he has expressed his desire to settle the border dispute amicably. Assam always wants to keep the spirit of North East alive. We are also committed to ensure peace along our borders,” Sarma tweeted in the wee hours of Monday. “To take this goodwill gesture ahead, I have directed Assam Police to withdraw the FIR against K Vanlalvena, MP, Rajya Sabha, from Mizoram. However, cases against other accused officers will be pursued,” he added. Assam Police had lodged a case against Vanlalvena after he said in a TV interview that if Assam policemen enter Mizoram again “all will be killed”. A police team had visited his residence in Delhi and directed him to appear at the Dholai police station in Cachar district of Assam to record his statement. “In order to build a conducive atmosphere for an amicable solution to the Mizoram, Assam border dispute and to reduce the plight of suffering citizens, I have directed Mizoram Police to withdraw the FIR dated July 26 filed at Vairengte, Kolasib district, Mizoram against all the accused,” Mizoram CM Zoramthanga tweeted on Monday evening. On Sunday, Kolasib superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte said that the police will not proceed with the case against the Assam chief minister. “The case is not withdrawn, but we are not going to investigate the matter against Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to have a peaceful atmosphere,” Ralte said. The development came after chief ministers of both states agreed on Sunday to defuse tension along the border and settle the border dispute through talks. Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972, when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021. The dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/to-pave-way-for-talks-assam-mizoram-go-easy-on-police-cases-filed-after-clashes-101627911927059.html
02-08-2021||India||Rotavac 5D: Bharat Biotech's rotavirus vaccine receives 'Prequalification' from WHO||Bharat Biotech International Limited announced on Monday that Rotavac 5D, a variant of its Rotavac vaccine, has received “Prequalification” from the World Health Organization (WHO). Rotavac is used to prevent rotavirus, which causes severe diarrhea and vomiting, and is mostly found in babies and children.Also Read: Covaxin effective against Delta Plus variant, says ICMR study“Today’s announcement is an important step to further strengthen and fulfil Bharat Biotech’s vision to address neglected diseases, and prevent infections that continue to affect millions in the developing world,” a statement from Suchitra Ella, the Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical firm’s Joint Managing Director, said.WHO’s website describes “prequalification” as a “systematic process to determine a manufacturer’s capacity to produce a product of consistent quality in accordance with international standards and specifications laid out by WHO/United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).” The purpose, it says, is to ensure procurement and distribution of good quality products.Once “prequalified,” vaccines can be procured by organisations such as the United Nations Childrens’ Emergency Fund (UNICEF) and Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO).Rotavac 5D, which was rolled out in December 2019, has a “unique” vaccine formulation that can be administered without a “buffer,” Bharat Biotech’s statement noted. With a low dosage volume of 0.5 ml, the shot is easier to be stored, and further facilitates easy cold chain management and low biomedical waste disposal after vaccination, the statement noted further.Bharat Biotech developed Rotavac, a first-generation vaccine, in a partnership with the Government of India’s Department of Biotechnology. 16 other international partners were also involved in the project. In March 2016, India became the first country in Asia to launch an anti-rotavirus vaccine, doing so under the Universal Immunisation Program (UIP).(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rotavac-5d-bharat-biotech-s-rotavirus-vaccine-receives-prequalification-from-who-101627909050025.html
02-08-2021||India||SC directs parashooter Sharma to be considered for Tokyo Paralympics||The Supreme Court on Monday directed the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to recommend the name of award-winning paralympic shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma for the Tokyo Paralympics as the deadline for sending names to the International Paralympic Committee ended today. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court passed the order realising the urgency of the situation and said, “For the time being, we direct PCI (respondent 1) to immediately recommend the name of petitioner (Sharma) as an additional participant/additional entry for the 50 metres (SH-1)R-7 event without any exception and report compliance by tomorrow.” Later in the day, PCI issued a statement saying, “The selection criteria and process is totally at the discretion of International Paralympic Committee and PCI has no active role to play in it apart from conducting selection as per the guidelines….But PCI still bows down to the order of the Supreme Court and will further recommend Naresh Kumar’s name once again for the selection in the desired event to the International Paralympic Committee.”The PCI statement further said that Sharma had failed the selection criteria. Those selected qualified with much better scores than Sharma who failed to win any quota for the country in the last four years, the statement said. At Sharma’s request, the PCI claimed that his name was recommended for selection but the same was turned down by the International Paralympic Committee. Sharma, an Arjuna awardee, was not included for the Tokyo Paralympics that is to begin on August 24. As the last date for sending the names was August 2, he approached the Supreme Court for an urgent intervention. According to him, the PCI had recommended the name of just one shooter, Deepak, under the R-7 event when there is provision for sending three names for each event. Appearing for Sharma, senior advocate Vikas Singh mentioned the petition on Monday morning before a bench headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana. The matter was listed before the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar, BR Gavai and Krishna Murari. Singh said the parashooter had approached the Delhi high court in July this year to challenge the decision of PCI to drop his name from the list. Further, Singh argued that the selection criterion adopted by PCI was criticised by the Delhi high court in its July 27 judgment. The HC held, “There is certainly something to be said about the manner in which respondent (PCI) has conducted itself, which is quite unbecoming of a public sporting body entrusted with the important task of selecting athletes to represent the nation at Paralympic games and other international Paralympic athletic meets, as also for managing Indian Paralympic teams at such events.” Although HC said that Sharma fulfilled the existing criteria, it did not pass an order including him in the list noting that “the shooting team has already been placed in a bubble”. The HC, however, directed the Centre to examine if there was foul play behind dropping Sharma, and if so, ordered appropriate action to be taken against PCI. This order was challenged by Sharma before a division bench of the HC which issued notice to PCI and other respondents and fixed it for hearing on August 6. The Supreme Court bench directed the matter to be listed on Tuesday and asked Singh to serve a copy of the petition on the PCI and other respondents including Sports Authority of India and the selected shooter Deepak whose name already figures on the list forwarded by PCI. The absence of PCI left the top court with no option but to pass interim orders. The court had specific queries on whether Sharma can be placed in the bubble at this stage and whether there was any cut-off for placing athletes within the bubble. Before the HC, Sharma had said that PCI had factored in the scores obtained by the other shooter at Novi Sad 2021 World Shooting Para Sport Grand Prix which is not a recognised event for purposes of tabulation either by PCI or the International Paralympic Committee. However, PCI submitted in the HC that pandemic resulted in cancellation of most international shooting competitions that forced them to change standards for selecting players. Further, it had stated that Deepak’s performance at 2021 Lima World Cup had helped India clinch the quota for the Tokyo Paralympics. He was thus entitled to all benefits therefrom, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-directs-parashooter-sharma-to-be-considered-for-tokyo-paralympics-101627909527212.html
02-08-2021||India||India, China hold military commander-level meeting aimed at LAC disengagement||India and China held the 12th round of corps commander-level on Monday at the Chushul-Moldo border in Ladakh.The talks between the senior military commanders of the two neighbouring countries come close on the heels of the meeting between the foreign ministers of India and China at Tajikistan's capital Dushanbe last month.During the meeting, on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) foreign ministers' meeting on July 14, India's external affairs minister S Jaishankar made it clear to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the normalised bilateral ties with Beijing is possible after disengagement of Peoples Liberation Army (PLA) troops from Indian territories in eastern Ladakh.Jaishankar urged China to complete the disengagement process and resolve all outstanding border issues along the 1,597km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh.Monday's meeting between the commanders of India and China saw an in-depth exchange of views on the resolution of remaining areas related to disengagement along the LAC in the western sector of the border areas."The two sides noted that this round of meeting was constructive, which further enhanced mutual understanding. They agreed to resolve these remaining issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols and maintain the momentum of dialogue and negotiations," according to a joint statement released by the two countries after the meeting.The last commander-level meeting India and China took place on April 9, where the two sides highlighted that the completion of disengagement in other areas along the LAC would pave the way for the two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity and enable progress in bilateral relations.The meeting also focussed on outstanding problems between the Indian Army and the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang areas along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-holds-corps-commander-level-meeting-aimed-at-lac-disengagement-101627908503911.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi launches e-Rupi digital payment system||Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the e-Rupi mode of digital payment system on Monday via video conferencing. Developed by the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) in collaboration with the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the department of finance, e-Rupi is a digital payments platform.It is a person-and-purpose-specific digital payment solution. “If any person or any organisation wants to donate money, e-Rupi will ensure that the amount of money donated is being used for that purpose itself. It ensures that the objective with which money has been donated is being used to fulfil that objective,” the Prime Minister said.PM Modi said that e-Rupi will help in boosting digital payments and Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in the country. He also expressed his happiness that the system was launched weeks before India celebrates its 75th anniversary of independence.e-Rupi is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment. It is a QR code or a SMS-string based e-voucher which is delivered directly to the phone of the beneficiary. A statement said that the beneficiary will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access at the service provider. The mechanism connects services with the beneficiaries and service providers in a digital manner without any physical interaction.The Prime Minister’s Office said that e-Rupi can be used to deliver welfare services in a leak-proof manner. The PMO also said that private sector companies can also leverage e-Rupi vouchers as a part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-launches-e-rupi-digital-payment-system-101627908575571.html
02-08-2021||India||Johnson & Johnson says talks with India on Covid vaccine Janssen still going on||Days after India's drugs regulator announced that Johnson & Johnson has pulled out its proposal seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine, the company said that the talks are still on.“Johnson & Johnson remains committed to bringing its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India. Since the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently directed that there is no longer a requirement to conduct bridging clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccines in India, Johnson & Johnson withdrew its application to conduct these studies. We look forward to ongoing discussions with the Government of India and will continue to explore how to accelerate availability of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India," an official statement from the American pharmaceutical firm read.Without giving any details, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation's (CDSCO) had said in a note that the US-based company "has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal" seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine. There is no response from CDSCO to Johnson and Johnson's statement.Johnson & Johnson had said in April it was seeking an approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of its Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.In May, India scrapped local trials for foreign coronavirus vaccines, which have been cleared by drug regulators in countries like the US, in a bid to hasten vaccination rollouts to fight a second wave of infections.Till July 31, Johnson & Johnson has not requested a full approval for its shot with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while Pfizer Inc, BioNTech SE, and Moderna Inc have already done so.The Indian government, meanwhile, has formed a team to engage with vaccine makers."This team is in continuous dialogue with Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson & Johnson to discuss and address various issues including the issue of indemnity," Bharati Pravin Pawar, Minister of State in Union health ministry, said last week.Johnson & Johnson has claimed that their vaccine generates a strong and persistent response activity against Delta and other prevalent strains of coronavirus. The neutralising antibodies, according to the company, lasts at least eight months. The healthcare company added that its vaccine was 85 per cent effective and could also help prevent hospitalisation and death.India has so far approved four vaccines - AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian Gamaleya Institute's Sputnik V and Moderna's vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-says-talks-with-india-on-covid-vaccine-janssen-still-going-on-101627907546423.html
02-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand has sent back at least 15K Kanwariyas in a week, say police||In the first week since the Kanwar Yatra period began on July 25, Uttarakhand sent over 15,500 Kanwariyas back from its border in Haridwar. The state government cancelled Kanwar Yatra for a second consecutive year amid fears of it turning into a super-spreader event like the earlier Mahakumbh which saw a massive spike in Covid cases afterwards. Thirty cases have also been lodged at various police stations with 54 people framed under Disaster Management Act and Epidemics Act in the past week since the pilgrimage began. In the same period, 1,161 people have been penalised for violating social distancing norms while 33 people have been fined for not wearing masks, senior superintendent of district police D Senthil Aboodai Krishan.Also Read | Kanwar pilgrims to get Ganga water on Haridwar bordersKanwariyas are being sent back from the state’s border with Uttar Pradesh or when they arrive on buses and trains on their way to Har-Ki-Pauri, he said, adding that round-the-clock checking and monitoring of vehicles is being carried out at border check posts. “Cases are being lodged against Kanwariyas found violating norms. They are also being put in quarantine facility and sent back from border posts,” he said. The ten border check posts where monitoring is being done are Chidiyapur-Shyampur,Narsain, Mandawar ,Kali Nadi ,Tejjupur ,Gokalpur ,Beerpur, Purkaji barrier, Balawali Laksar, and Dallawala post Khanpur. The yatra period is to continue till August 6. For the yatra, Shiva devotees walk to fetch water from the Ganga and carry it back to their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-has-sent-back-at-least-15k-kanwariyas-in-a-week-saypolice-101627907846651.html
02-08-2021||India||Tension grips Rohtas after youth shot dead, 2 others critically hurt over land dispute||Residents of Karanj village under Dinara police station area of Bihar’s Rohtas district were a tense lot after a young man was shot dead on Sunday, allegedly over a disputed piece of land near the village. Two managers of a Math were also critically injured during the attack.A dispute regarding the possession of 8.52 acres of cultivable land belonging to the Vaishnavayat Ramanuj sect’s Bara Khatla Ashram of Vrindavan led to the incident.A Patna high court judgment and revenue receipts were in favour of asharm mahanth Rameshwaracharya. But a priest of the Shaivayat sect called Anoop Giri alias Naga Baba had usurped the land and given it to some villagers, the police said.The administration had earlier fixed a date to resolve the dispute and had called both the parties to Dinara police station on Saturday. Sub divisional magistrate, Deputy SP and deputy collector of land reforms (DCLR), Bikramganj, had reached the police station on the stipulated date.Mahanth Rameshwaracharya also appeared before the officers and showed them the HC judgment and revenue receipts based on which the officers directed him to cultivate the land after following the legal process of demarcation. Giri, however not had not showed up.On Sunday, when the manager and staff of the Math reached the area with a tractor to plough the land, Anoop Giri along with his supporters attacked them resulting in firing from both sides.A 20-year-old youth identified as Bhola Ram who was grazing goats on the disputed land got caught in the cross-firing and died on the way to the district hospital at Sasaram.Angry villagers led by Anoop Giri torched the tractor and attacked the Math and assaulted the manager and staff hiding inside. Managers Raja Ram Singh and Daya Shankar Tiwary were critically injured and rescued by a police team led by station house officer Samrat Singh. Both the men were admitted to a hospital under police protection.The angry mob also blocked NH-30 for half an hour accusing the police and administration of being partial. A few others also accused the administration and police of not implementing the HC order and blamed them for not registering a case against Giri and his men. The Magistrate and a police team are currently camping at the village, officials said. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code, Section 27 of the Arms Act and Section 3(1)(iv) of SC/ST Act against 12 people based on the statement of the victim’s cousin. A special investigation team has been formed to look into the matter, Superintendent of Police, Ashish Bharti said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tension-grips-rohtas-after-youth-shot-dead-2-others-critically-hurt-over-land-dispute-101627907426644.html
02-08-2021||India||On Raj Kundra's plea challenging arrest, cops tell court evidence destroyed||The Mumbai Police on Monday told the Bombay high court that businessman Raj Kundra, who was arrested on charges of producing and streaming pornographic content, deleted evidence, including WhatsApp chats. The police's submission came on a petition filed by Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest."They (Kundra and Thorpe) were found deleting certain WhatsApp chats. The attitude of the applicant Raj Kundra speaks volume of his cooperation in the investigation. We do not know how much data has been deleted. The police are still trying to retrieve it," public prosecutor Aruna Kamat Pai said.She further told the court that Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code (on destruction of evidence) was subsequently invoked against both the accused. “If accused persons are destroying evidence, then can the investigating agency be a mute spectator?” Pai asked.Kundra's lawyer, however, refuted the claim of destruction of evidence saying all the devices of businessman, including his phone and laptops, were seized by the police during the search.Kundra and Thorpe have termed their arrests as illegal, contending mandatory provision of issuing notices to them under Section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) was not followed. They sought the high court to direct for their immediate release and quash two orders passed by a magistrate after their arrest remanding them in police custody.But the public prosecutor told the single bench of Justice AS Gadkari that notices were indeed issued to both Kundra and Thorpe before their arrest. "Kundra refused to accept it while Thorpe accepted it," Pai said. Thorpe's counsel Abhinav Chandrachud argued that while a notice was issued to Thorpe, he was not given time to comply or respond to it.The public prosecutor further told the court that from Kundra's laptop, the police recovered scripts with sexual content and a presentation on the financial projection and marketing strategy of HotShots and another similar app BollyFame.The duo is in jail under judicial custody. While Kundra was arrested on July 19, Thorpe was arrested the next day. Kundra told the high court in his petition that the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict explicit sexual acts but shows material in the form of short movies "which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best".After the lawyers concluded their arguments, the high court reserved its order on the petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-raj-kundra-s-plea-challenging-arrest-cops-tell-court-evidence-destroyed-101627905295138.html
02-08-2021||India||Supreme Court directs Paralympian's name to be included for Tokyo games||The Supreme Court on Monday directed Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to include the name of five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma in the list being recommended for the Tokyo Paralympics.The committee was intimated of the urgent hearing taken up by the bench of justices A M Khanwilkar, B R Gavai and Krishna Murari but none appeared. The sports ministry said it had no objection if the name of Sharma is sent and the government would be happy if medals increase.The Paralympics will begin in the Japan capital on August 24 and go on till September 5.As the last date for sending the names for the event is August 2, the three-judge bench of the top court directed the committee to add the name of Sharma in the R-7 shooting event and report compliance by Tuesday. The court directed the order to be emailed to the president of Paralympics Committee.Sharma, an Arjuna Award recipient, challenged an order of the Delhi high court which had posted his plea relating to his non-selection for the upcoming Tokyo Games for hearing on August 6.The Paralympian had sought an urgent hearing pleading that any delay in hearing before the high court would render his plea seeking inclusion in the Indian contingent for the games infructuous as the last date for selection for the shooting event in Tokyo Paralympics is today.The shooter said a division bench of the high court had on July 30 sought responses of the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) and the Centre on his appeal against its single-judge order which had refused to interfere with his non-selection for the Games.The high court had, however, said that PCI's conduct in relation to the selection of another player over Sharma was "unbecoming of a public sporting body" which has to maintain a fair, transparent and inclusionary approach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-directs-paralympian-s-name-to-be-included-for-tokyo-games-101627903617422.html
02-08-2021||India||Cannot allow public to board local trains at this moment: Thackeray||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday said that local trains will not be available to the general public immediately as Maharashtra continues to stop the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Thackeray also said that shops across Maharashtra will be allowed to operate till 8pm.The Maharashtra government will release the new set of relaxations later on Monday, the chief minister said. The chief minister pointed out that the relaxations will not be applicable to districts reporting a high positivity rate and large number of fresh cases.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope last week indicated that 25 districts may come under the ambit of these relaxations which the government is expected to announce soon. The Maharashtra government also said that several nations were reporting a rise in the number of Covid-19 cases despite high vaccination rates.Maharashtra continues to fight the second wave of Covid-19 as districts like Sangli, Satara, Pune and Kolhapur reported more than 300 cases on Sunday. The state reported 6,479 fresh cases on Sunday which took the overall caseload to 6.31 million cases. The state also reported 157 fatalities, taking the death toll to 132,948.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cannot-allow-public-to-board-local-trains-at-this-moment-thackeray-101627903710525.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Centre rushes team to Maharashtra over Zika virus situation and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Centre rushes team to Maharashtra after first case of Zika virus foundThe Union health ministry on Monday rushed a high-level team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation. Read moreDelhi Police files chargesheet in Sagar Dhankhar murder case, names Sushil Kumar main accusedDelhi Police filed a chargesheet on Monday in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankhar, naming Olympian Sushil Kumar as the main accused. Read more'From ex-coach Kabir Khan': Shah Rukh tweets special message to Sjoerd Marijne, India women's team coach repliesThe Indian women's hockey team defeated Australia in the quarterfinal in Tokyo 2020 to book a spot in the semifinals for the first time in history. Read moreShilpa Shetty breaks silence on Raj Kundra’s arrest in porn case: ‘I am a proud law-abiding Indian citizen’Shilpa Shetty has urged everyone to respect the family’s privacy for the sake of their two children - Viaan and Samisha. Read moreGauahar Khan looks breathtaking in ₹43k chanderi kalidaar kurta, shararaGauahar Khan ropes in the charm of the bygone era and makes us fall in love with ethnic wear. Read moreKia India hits one lakh sales figure in CY2021 with Sonet providing max thrustWith 15,016 units sold in the month of July, Kia India is hoping to continue with the momentum for the remainder of the year. Read moreWoman beats up cab driver in Lucknow in front of cop; video goes viralA woman repeatedly slapped a man who reportedly works as a cab driver in Uttar Pradesh's capital city Lucknow. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-centre-rushes-team-to-maharashtra-over-zika-virus-situation-and-all-the-latest-news-101627899415804.html
02-08-2021||India||Centre rushes team to Maharashtra after first case of Zika virus found||The Union health ministry on Monday rushed a high-level team to Maharashtra to monitor the Zika virus situation. The decision was taken after Pune district in Maharashtra recorded the state's first case of the Zika virus infection.The multi-disciplinary team will support the state government in checking the spread of the virus.The three-member central team consists of a public health expert from the office of Regional Director, Pune; a gynecologist from Lady Hardinge Medical College, New Delhi; and an entomologist from National Institute of Malaria Research (NIMR), ICMR, New Delhi.The team shall work closely with the state health department, take stock of the situation on the ground and assess whether the Union health ministry's action plan for Zika management is being implemented, a statement from the home ministry said.A 50-year-old woman was found positive with the Zika virus in Belsar village in Pune's Purandar tehsil. According to doctors, the infection in the patient is mild and no other family member has developed any of the symptoms."Since the first week of July, several cases with fever were being reported in Belsar village. From the samples that we sent for testing, 21 people had Chikungunya, three had Dengue and one was reported positive for Zika and Chikungunya both," according to Dr Pradip Awate, Maharashtra's Surveillance Officer.Meanwhile, the local administration has swung into action after confirmation of Zika virus case. Along with the village where the woman lives, seven others that fall within the five kilometre radius too are being surveyed to ensure that every symptomatic patient is tested.Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said Zika is not as contagious as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and there is no need to panic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-rushes-team-to-maharashtra-after-first-case-of-zika-virus-found-101627900826466.html
02-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh’s plan to contain human-elephant conflicts raises eyebrows||Chhattisgarh’s forest department has mooted a plan to purchase paddy from the state government’s food and civil supplies department ostensibly to lure elephants away from human habitation to prevent human-elephant conflicts in the state that have resulted in loss of 204 lives in the last three years.However, activists and political opponents are accusing the department of conjuring an unscientific plan which they say in reality aims to help the state government cut its losses incurred in additional procurement of paddy in 2019-2020.Forest officials claimed that since elephants enter villages following the smell of stored paddy or mahua (a juicy fruit with strong smell) in houses, the department will dump paddy, a few kilometers away from these villages, distracting the elephants away from the villages.“We will start this drive as [a] pilot project in some villages of Chhattisgarh and will see how it works. Till now we have not decided the rate at which paddy will be purchased for the drive. The aim is to contain human-elephant conflicts,” said Narsimbha Rao PV, the principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife).As per government records, 204 humans were killed in elephant attacks across the state in the last three years and 66,582 cases of damage to crops and 5,047 cases of damage to houses were reported in this period. The state government spent nearly ₹58 crores in paying compensation to the victims of elephant attacks in the last three years.A senior officer of the forest department, said the decision to buy paddy as a means to contain human-animal conflicts was taken in the last review meeting of the department.“The Chhattisgarh State Cooperative Marketing Federation (MARKFED) has offered to sell paddy at ₹2095.83 per quintal to us. Further decision regarding the purchase of paddy is yet to be taken,” the official mentioned above added.Chhattisgarh MARKFED wrote to the forest department on July 22, offering rates to sell paddy procured in 2019-20. As per state government figures, 8.394 million metric tonnes of paddy were purchased from 1,838 million farmers in Chhattisgarh.The activists and political rivals in the state have questioned the move’s rationale and alleged it was an attempt to compensate the losses incurred in procuring surplus paddy in 2019-20 by the state.Leader of Opposition in Chhattisgarh assembly and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dharmlal Kaushik said the party has several questions for the state government over the scheme.“First of all, the state government had deliberately not done the custom milling of paddy procured in 2019-20 due to which wastage of paddy took place. The milling can't be done now and the food department and MARKFED are responsible for it. Secondly, a large part of this paddy procured in 2019-20 is rotten, which the forest department may purchase for ₹2,095 per quintal. When good paddy is auctioned by the department for ₹1,400 per quintal, then what is the obligation to buy rotten paddy [at a higher price],” Kaushik asked.The BJP leader alleged that the forest department’s scheme was meant to misuse the public exchequer.“We are suspicious that they may use the Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and Planning Authority (CAMPA) fund. We will write a letter and ask these questions from the government,” Kaushik added.Activists too have questioned the forest department’s idea as “weird” and “unscientific”.“Instead of safeguarding the habitat and corridor of elephants like Hasdeo Arand, where the state government is permitting mining, this is a weird attempt to mitigate man-elephant conflicts. The efficacy of this drive is doubtful considering the nomadic nature of the elephants. This appears more to be an exercise to compensate for the loss incurred in surplus paddy purchase through forest department’s funds like CAMPA,” said Sudeip Shrivastava, an environmental lawyer.North Chhattisgarh is home to around 240 wild elephants. In the last decade, the state recorded an increase in its wildlife population including elephants, whose numbers rose from 225 to 290, as per the state forest department.Meetu Gupta, a member of state wildlife board, said, “There is no case study behind this drive. The forest department should stop experimenting with wildlife management and should instead focus on habitats of elephants,” said Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarhs-plan-to-contain-human-elephant-conflicts-raises-eyebrows-101627900526309.html
02-08-2021||India||Sans Parl nod, govt may have to defer sale of two PSU banks to next year||The Narendra Modi-led Union government’s attempts to sell two public sector banks may get deferred to the financial year as no approval has been taken from Parliament for making changes in laws required to initiate the deals.According to a Bloomberg report, the finance ministry is yet to work out the modalities to seek approval from lawmakers for the sale, leaving little time for the process to be completed this year.In February this year, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said the government will seek buyers for two state-run banks by March 2022. She made the statement while presenting the Budget for the current financial year.The report said no spokesperson from the finance ministry was available for comment.In June, government think-tank Niti Aayog had submitted a list of public sector banks that are to be privatised in the current fiscal year to the Core Group of Secretaries on Disinvestment.The Central government’s plan to sell a majority stake in the country’s second-biggest state refiner has also slowed down, and the transaction may only take place early next year, Bloomberg had reported in July. The administration could still go ahead with other asset sales, including Life Insurance Corp. of India’s initial public offer, that could help the government raise funds to make up for any fall in tax revenues this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-have-to-defer-sale-of-two-public-sector-banks-101627899538546.html
02-08-2021||India||Tribunal Reforms Bill passed in Lok Sabha amid Oppn’s demand for discussion||The Opposition on Monday continued with their protest in Lok Sabha demanding a discussion on the Tribunal Reforms Bill, 2021 along with the Pegasus spyware issue. The House was adjourned thrice since morning following the protests.The Tribunal Reforms Bill, moved by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, seeks to withdraw and then replace the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act, and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act. The government said this would reduce another layer of litigation by abolishing tribunals or authorities under various laws.Opposing the Bill, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “By riding over the legitimate right of the Opposition, the government has been bulldozing one after another legislation without a discussion… There has been no enlistment of this Bill… by the BAC (business advisory committee).” Also Watch | Parliament Day 10: Slogans, protests force adjournment; disruption over PegasusChowdhury added that the Opposition wanted a discussion on the Bills but this discussion should start with the Pegasus snooping issue.Following this, Chowdhury’s microphone was turned off and the Bill was passed through a voice vote.Earlier in the day, speaking to media outside his residence Chowdhury said, “Why is Mr. Modi afraid?... We just have few questions on this spying issue... This is not only being discussed in India but across countries. Israel, France, United States & European nations are investigating it,” he said.“We are representatives of people from far-flung areas… We come here to raise their issues… They (government) are forcibly passing Bills. This is against the decorum of the House...They are doing everything against the prestige of the Parliament,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribunal-reforms-bill-passed-in-lok-sabha-amid-oppn-s-demand-for-discussion-101627899086161.html
02-08-2021||India||Delhi Police files chargesheet in Sagar Dhankhar murder case, names Sushil Kumar main accused||Delhi Police filed a 170-page chargesheet on Monday in connection with the murder of wrestler Sagar Dhankhar and named Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar as the main accused, news agency ANI tweeted.Former junior national wrestling champion Sagar Dhankhar was assaulted and then murdered inside Delhi's Chhatrasal stadium on May 5. Subsequently, the special cell of Delhi Police arrested 12 people, including two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar and his aide Ajay Kumar Sehrawat, in connection with Dhankhar's murder.Sushil Kumar is currently lodged in Delhi’s Tihar jail. Police are charging Kumar under various sections of the IPC related to murder, abduction and criminal conspiracy, Hindustan Times reported on Monday.The Olympic wrestler and a few of his accomplices allegedly assaulted Dhankhar and two others over a property dispute inside the Chhatrasal stadium on May 4, leading to the death of the junior wrestler. The other two survived with injuries.Police said the ace wrestler allegedly kidnapped Dhankhar from his Model Town apartment in Delhi and brought him to Chhatrasal stadium where he assaulted them. Police also claimed to be in possession of a video recording that shows Sushil Kumar beating up the junior wrestler.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-police-names-sushil-kumar-accused-in-wrestler-murder-case-chargesheet-101627897326140.html
02-08-2021||India||'Withdrew application because...': Johnson & Johnson on accelerated approval of its Covid vaccine in India||India's drug regulator said on Monday that Johnson & Johnson withdrew its proposal seeking accelerated approval of its Covid-19 vaccine in the country, without giving additional details."The firm has informed that they are withdrawing their proposal," a line in Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation's (CDSCO) note on a meeting held accelerated approval process said. The meeting was held on July 29.The US-based company had said in April it was seeking an approval to conduct a bridging clinical study of its Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India.As per the data available till July 31, Johnson & Johnson is yet to request a full approval for its shot with the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while Pfizer Inc, BioNTech SE, and Moderna Inc have already sought full approval of their vaccines with the FDA.Johnson & Johnson has claimed that their vaccine generates a strong and persistent response activity against Delta and other prevalent strains of coronavirus. The neutralising antibodies, according to the company, lasts at least eight months. The healthcare company added that its vaccine was 85 per cent effective and could also help prevent hospitalisation and death.Johnson & Johnson is in the eye of storm in the United States over a rare autoimmune disorder. About 100 preliminary reports of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) have been detected in the United States after vaccination with J&J shot, mostly in men, many of whom were 50 or older.India has so far approved four vaccines - AstraZeneca's Covishield, Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Russian Gamaleya Institute's Sputnik V and Moderna's vaccine.Update: In an official response to the story, Johnson & Johnson said, "We remain committed committed to bringing our single-dose Covid-19 vaccine to the people of India. Since the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) recently directed that there is no longer a requirement to conduct bridging clinical studies of Covid-19 vaccines in India, Johnson & Johnson withdrew its application to conduct these studies. We look forward to ongoing discussions with the Government of India and will continue to explore how to accelerate availability of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine in India."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/johnson-johnson-withdraws-accelerated-approval-of-its-covid-vaccine-in-india-101627898248212.html
02-08-2021||India||New Karnataka cabinet after meet with JP Nadda: CM Basavaraj Bommai||Newly appointed Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday a meeting will be held under the leadership of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) national president JP Nadda later in the day to hold comprehensive discussions on cabinet formation in the state. Bommai, who took over the reins from BS Yediyurappa last week, reached the national capital on Sunday night. He said the new cabinet will be formed in a balanced way keeping in mind the previous team. At present, he is the lone Cabinet member in the government.“The list may get finalised either today or tomorrow. If it gets finalised tonight, the cabinet expansion can take place on Wednesday," Bommai told reporters before leaving for Parliament to meet Home Minister Amit Shah.Earlier, he had said he would seek time from the BJP's central leadership to discuss the cabinet expansion during his visit to Delhi.A comprehensive discussion will be held with Nadda in the evening about the cabinet formation, including whether it should be done in multiple stages or one go, he said, adding balancing of regional and social representation would also be kept in mind while deciding names.Also read | 'Won’t be a rubber stamp CM': Bommai"A decision on how many deputy chief ministers would also be taken at the meeting," Bommai said. He further said efforts would be made to take everyone together."We are hopeful that cabinet making will be fruitful. Not only fruitful, it should serve the purpose of serving the people of the state," he said.The CM also said some aspirants have met him and held talks, adding that even they are aware not everyone can become ministers.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-meet-jp-nadda-to-finalise-new-cabinet-karnataka-cm-basavaraj-bommai-101627894638650.html
02-08-2021||India||‘Not scared of Covid-19’: Devotees crowd Kashi Vishwanath Temple despite curbs||Hundreds of devotees thronged the Kashi Vishwanath Temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi as they took a holy dip in the Ganga and offered prayers on the second Monday of the holy month of Sawan despite being warned by the authorities to follow all coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related regulations. There was a brazen violation of Covid appropriate behaviour as very few of the devotees were seen wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, news agency ANI reported.“I am not afraid of anyone in Lord Shiva’s place. Lord Shiva will take care of everything,” Ravinder Kumar, one of the devotees who was not wearing a mask, told ANI. Another maskless devotee, A Ram Patel, told the news agency he was happy to be present at the temple and he was not scared of Covid-19.Prahlad Panday, a priest at the temple, echoed the remarks of the devotees and said Covid-19 does not stand a chance in front of Baba Bholenath, another name for Lord Shiva.Sawan or Shravana is the fifth month in the Hindu calendar and is considered to be the most auspicious month. It is dedicated to Lord Shiva, who is regarded as the creator, preserver and destroyer of the universe. This time, Sawan started on July 25 and will end on August 22. It is a traditional practice by devotees to observe a special fast and visit temples of Lord Shiva on Mondays during this period. However, due to the ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, it has been advised to observe the festival at home.Uttar Pradesh’s caseload of coronavirus disease has climbed to 1,708,476 including 22,763 deaths, 1,685,049 recoveries and 664 active cases. On Sunday, the state recorded 36 new cases, of which three were from Varanasi. No deaths due to the viral disease were reported on Sunday across the state and 76 patients recovered from Covid-19.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-scared-of-covid-19-devotees-crowd-kashi-vishwanath-temple-despite-curbs-101627893626795.html
02-08-2021||India||Covaxin effective against Delta Plus variant, says ICMR study||Covaxin, India's first indigenous vaccine to fight Covid-19, is effective against the Delta Plus variant of coronavirus, a study conducted by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has said, according to news agency ANI. Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech, in collaboration with ICMR.Delta Plus is a mutated form of the Delta variant, first discovered in India. It is characterised by increased transmissibility. Last week, Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said in Parliament that 70 cases of the Delta Plus variant were found by INSACOG, a group of 28 laboratories involved in genome sequencing.In July, the Hyderabad-based company released data from the final analysis of Covaxin and said that it demonstrated overall efficacy of 77.8 per cent against symptomatic infection. It also said that Covaxin has now received emergency use authorisations (EUAs) in 16 countries including, Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico, with EUAs in process in 50 countries worldwide.India has undertaken one of the world's largest vaccination drives and so far distributed more than 430 million doses. Covaxin was given emergency use authorisation on January 3 this year by India’s drugs regulator, Dr VG Somani, even though its efficacy data was still not out.The government said in May it would make 516 million shots available by the end of July. It wants to inoculate all its estimated 944 million adults by December.Bharat Biotech, meanwhile, said that it is in discussions with the World Health Organization (WHO) to obtain emergency use listing (EUL) for Covaxin.All documents required for EUL have been submitted to WHO by Bharat Biotech for Covaxin as of July 9 and the review process by the agency has commenced, minister of state for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar told Rajya Sabha last week."The review process by WHO has commenced. WHO usually takes up to six weeks to decide on Emergency Use Listing (EUL) submissions," she said in a written reply.The first interim analysis result released by Bharat Biotech in March showed that Covaxin had an efficacy of nearly 81 per cent. The analysis was based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus 7 cases observed in the BBV152 (Covaxin) group, according to Bharat Biotech.The second interim analysis released April showed that the the vaccine's efficacy against severe Covid-19 disease was 100%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-effective-against-delta-plus-variant-says-icmr-study-101627892596288.html
02-08-2021||India||On Raj Kundra's arrest in porn case, Shilpa Shetty says 'don't deserve media trial'||Shilpa Shetty on Monday urged people to respect her family's privacy and said they "don't deserve a media trial" as she spoke up about her husband Raj Kundra's arrest in connection with a pornography racket for the first time. Shetty, in a statement on social media platform Instagram, said she has full faith in the Mumbai Police and the judiciary."As a family, we are taking recourse to all our available legal remedies. But, till then I humbly request you - especially as a Mother - to respect our privacy for my children’s sake and request you to refrain from commenting on half-baked information without verifying the veracity of the same," the Bollywood actor wrote.She said she will continue to refrain from doing commenting on the case as it is subjudice, "so please stop attributing false quotes on my behalf." "People have put their faith in me and I’ve never let anyone down. So, most importantly, I request you to respect my family’s and ‘my right’ to privacy in these times," she said.In the post, Shetty called herself a "proud law-abiding Indian citizen" and a hardworking professional for the last 29 years. "We don’t deserve a media trial. Please let the law take its course. Satyamev Jayate," Shetty said.Kundra, 45, was arrested by the crime branch on July 19 for his alleged involvement in making pornographic films and publishing them through mobile applications. The businessman, called the key conspirator by the police, was denied bail last week by a city court after the prosecution contended the police investigation was still on and his release at this juncture will derail the probe.The Mumbai Police have claimed they found during their probe that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought the Hotshots app to upload objectionable videos on social media.Kundra has been accused of earning over ₹1.17 crore between August and December last year by uploading pornographic content online through Hotshots. The police also claimed to have found 51 obscene videos - 35 with Hotshots logo and 16 with BollyFame logo, during searches at the office of the accused.Kundra has said in his plea in the Bombay High Court challenging his arrest that the material which the police claimed to be pornographic did not depict explicit sexual acts but shows material in the form of short movies "which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-raj-kundra-s-arrest-in-porn-case-shilpa-shetty-says-don-t-deserve-media-trial-101627890525484.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi to meet Assam MPs today over border dispute with Mizoram||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will meet MPs from Assam on Monday to discuss the border issue with Mizoram that had taken a violent turn last week leading to deaths of six Assam Police personnel and injury of many.Earlier in the day, Mizoram governor Hari Babu Kambhampati met the Prime Minister to discuss the standoff between the two states. The governor said the Centre and state governments are working closely and efforts are underway to resolve the issue.Stating that the clashes that erupted last week were “very unfortunate”, he further said Union home minister Amit Shah is trying to diffuse the crisis, while chief ministers of both the states have also spoken about restoring peace.Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga are said to have held a telephonic conversation with Shah, days after the duo traded charges on social media over the clashes. The two CMs are also likely to meet soon.Meanwhile, Assam has decided to withdraw a police case against K Vanlalvena, Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram, signalling further easing of tension. The case, filed against Vanlalvena after he said in a TV interview that if Assam policemen enter Mizoram again “all will be killed”, was taken back following Shah’s intervention.On Sunday, Mizoram also hinted at removing Sarma’s name from an FIR wherein the Assam CM and some senior officials were accused of an attempt to murder and assault.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-meet-assam-mps-today-over-mizoram-border-row-101627889017699.html
02-08-2021||India||Monsoon to be ‘normal’ in August and September: IMD||Monsoon rain is likely to be "normal" in August and September, between 95% to 105% of long period average (LPA), according to India Meteorological Department.Monsoon is also likely to be "normal", between 94% to 106% of LPA, in August. The LPA for August from 1961 to 2010 is 258.1mm.During August and September, "below normal" to "normal" rainfall is likely over many areas of the northwest, east and northeast India while "normal" to "above normal" rainfall is most likely over peninsular India and adjacent central India, IMD said in its monsoon forecast for the second half of the season released on Monday.In August, "below normal" to "normal" rain is likely over many areas of central India and parts of northwest India while "normal" to "above normal" rain is likely over most parts of peninsular India and northeast India.Rainfall between 96% -104% of LPA is considered "normal"; between 90% and 96% is considered "below normal" and between 104% and 110% is considered "above normal" by IMD.Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, N-W IndiaJuly recorded a 7% deficiency in rain, with 26% deficiency over east and northeast India; 27% excess over south peninsula; 7% deficiency over northwest India and 7% deficiency over central India. June ended with 10% excess rain but a monsoon break of around 12 days from June 19 to July 11 led to a long dry spell in many parts of the country. After monsoon revived, extreme rainfall events, floods and landslides in Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra and in Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand marked the July monsoon.There were 567 stations this July which reported "very heavy" rain in July of about 11.56 cm to 20.45 cm; 112 stations reported "extremely heavy" rain of over 20.45cm. In the past 5 years, 2019 saw the highest number of stations reporting extreme rain including 753 stations reporting "very heavy" rain and 161 stations reporting "extremely heavy" rain."La Niña" approaching IMD flagged that La Niña conditions are gradually likely to set in around September and October and could continue till next spring (2022). The transition to La Niña conditions has started, which is favourable for monsoon. "We cannot say immediately if it will be a prolonged monsoon, but La Niña conditions support good rains. La Niña years are also linked to higher chances of cyclogenesis over Bay of Bengal in the post monsoon season in October, November and December," said M Mohapatra, director general, IMD.Sea surface temperatures over central and east equatorial Pacific Ocean is showing a cooling tendency and there is an increased possibility of re-emergence of La Niña conditions in the end of the monsoon season or thereafter, IMD said on Monday. Negative Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions over Indian Ocean are likely to continue during the monsoon season. "As the changes in the sea surface temperature (SST) conditions over the Pacific and the Indian Oceans are known to influence the Indian monsoon, IMD is carefully monitoring the evolution of sea surface conditions over these ocean basins," IMD said in a statement.La Niña, a global meteorological phenomenon, is linked to very cold and harsh winters in India and "above normal" monsoon rains. La Niña is also linked to increased frequency of cyclones over Bay of Bengal. A paper published in International Journal of Meteorology in 2019 on impact of ENSO on the Bay of Bengal tropical cyclone (TC) activity during post-monsoon (October–December) season for a period of 44 years (1972–2015) found that La Niña years are characterized by more frequent and intense cyclonic events compared with El Niño years.This winter is also likely to be colder than normal this year. "This winter may be colder than normal but its too early to say. We will issue a forecast before the season. Normally, cyclone frequency is also higher in La Niña years," said OP Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group, IMD Pune.A well-marked low pressure area over southeastern parts of West Uttar Pradesh and neighbourhood now lies over southwest Uttar Pradesh and adjoining northwest Madhya Pradesh. It is likely to move westwards gradually during next 3 days. The monsoon trough has shifted slightly north of its normal position. Under the influence of these systems, fairly widespread rainfall with isolated "heavy" to "very heavy" rain is very likely over Madhya Pradesh during August 2 and 6. Isolated "extremely heavy rain" (over 20cm) is also very likely over West Madhya Pradesh on August 2 and 3 with reduction from August 4. Widespread, "heavy" to "very heavy" rainfall is very likely to continue over east Rajasthan till August 6. Current spell of widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over rest of north India with isolated "heavy" rain over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Isolated "heavy" rain is likely over Haryana during the next three days and Himachal Pradesh on August 4 and 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-to-be-normal-in-august-and-september-imd-101627888945555.html
02-08-2021||India||Killed Jaish commander's phone leads to Masood Azhar's Pak terror empire||The Indian intelligence agencies, along with Army and Jammu and Kashmir Police, are conducting forensic analysis of the three iPhones recovered from killed Muhammad Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, to extract the links that the terrorist had with Bahawalpur-based headquarters of the proscribed Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) and overground workers of the group in Jammu and the Valley.On July 31, the Victor Force headed by Major General Rashim Bali, conducted a counter-strike operation using special forces at the terrorists' hideout at Hangalmarg forest area, Tral, Pulwama. From the encounter site, arms and ammunition, including one US M-4 assault rifle, one AK-47, a Glock pistol and one pistol were recovered.The entire operation based on actionable intelligence inputs was over in just seven minutes with both the terrorists gunned down without any collateral damage. Ismail Alvi, along with Sameer Dar (the other terrorist killed), were the main perpetrators of the 2019 Pulwama attack.According to security forces, Ismail Alvi, blood relation of global terrorist leader Masood Azhar was constantly in touch with his younger brother Mufti Abdul Rauf Azhar, who carries the codename 'Mara' within the Indian security forces. The detailed analysis of the iPhones is being done, but the preliminary forensic scanning has shown that Alvi was in touch with 'Mara' and other high-ranking terrorists of JeM.Masood Azhar runs a terror empire in Bahawalpur with all his family involved in terror strikes against India. While Azhar, after his designation as global terrorist by the UN, does not directly communicate with his terror lieutenants on the ground, his younger brother Rauf Azhar handles the entire operation of this terror outfit based in Pakistan. Masood Azhar, with his umbilical link with the Taliban, as was evident from the 1999 IC-814 hijacking to Kandahar, is presently the resident ideologue of the group with focus on his ideological brothers capturing Afghanistan through military force.Incidentally, Ismail Alvi alias Lambu, infiltrated into India through Shakargarh sector opposite Jammu after receiving training at Jaba Top terror training camp at Balakot, Manshera, Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. He was instrumental in motivating and training Adil Ahmed Dar, who carried out the suicide attack. Alvi was also involved in imparting IED training to local JeM cadres.He was also in touch with Hafeez Al Rehman (the facilitator of the Pulwama attack) and other JeM launching commanders like Qari Zarrar, Shahid Lateef, Gazi Khan, Hammad and others.The Balakot terror camp was targeted by the Indian Air Force Mirage fighters post-Pulwama attack (on February 14, 2019) with laser-guided bombs. As many as five bombs landed at the terror training facility, leaving as many as 300 terrorists dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/killed-jaish-commander-s-phone-lead-to-his-links-with-masood-azhar-101627887423843.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Supreme Court orders AP, Telangana to amicably resolve Krishna water dispute and all the latest ne||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Resolve Krishna water dispute amicably: SC to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana govtsThe Supreme Court on Monday advised states of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to amicably resolve their dispute on sharing the Krishna river water for drinking and irrigation. Heading the bench, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, who was born in the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh, clarified that he would not adjudicate the legal issues involved in the matter but if the states were forthcoming on settling the dispute through talks, the bench could assist the mediation process.Read more. Afghanistan's situation will change in 6 months, says president Ashraf GhaniAfghanistan president Ashraf Ghani has said the violence-hit country's situation will see a change within the next six months as he emphasised that the security of cities is his government's priority. Addressing a virtual cabinet meeting, Ghani said on Sunday the Taliban has become "more cruel and more oppressive" in the last two decades.Read more.Glenmark, Canada's SaNOtize sign deal for Covid treatment spray in India, other Asian countriesGlenmark Pharmaceuticals said on Monday it has signed an agreement with Canadian biotech firm SaNOtize Research and Development Corp to commercialise its nasal spray for Covid-19 treatment in India and other Asian countries.Read more.'Very challenging for us to work in Bihar', says BJP leader Samrat ChaudharyBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samrat Chaudhary on Sunday said that it is not easy to run the government in Bihar, where his party is in alliance with Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) or JD(U). Chaudhary also said that there are four ideologies working together in the state.Read more. Tokyo Olympics: The Gurjit Kaur goal that took India women's hockey team in the history books - VideoGurjit Kaur's goal in the second quarter earned the Indian women's hockey team a place in the Tokyo Olympics semi-final - their first-ever in Olympic Games - with a historic 1-0 win over Australia in the quarter-final on Monday.Read more. Elon Musk shares pic with son X AE A-XII at Starbase, netizens can’t keep calmIf you follow SpaceX CEO Elon Musk regularly on Twitter you may have come across several posts of his son X AE A-XII shared by Musk. Now, Musk has shared a sweet photo of his visit to SpaceX’s Starbase located at Boca Chica, Texas with baby X and left tweeple gushing.Read more. Meezaan recalls playing Ranveer Singh's body double in Padmaavat, learning entire speech: 'Band baji hui thi'Actor Meezaan, who recently starred in Hungama 2, technically made his 'screen debut' as a body double for Ranveer Singh in director Sanjay Leela Bhansali's Padmaavat. Meezaan, the son of actor Jaaved Jafferi, had assisted Bhansali before being launched by him in the film Malaal.Read more. Sonakshi Sinha turns boss babe look comfy by pairing chic pantsuit with sneakersBhuj: The Pride of India actor Sonakshi Sinha has been keeping busy promoting her upcoming film with Ajay Devgn, Sanjay Dutt and Nora Fatehi. However, that hasn't stopped the star from getting her glam game on, be it with faux leather print dresses or monotone collared ensembles. Her latest look for an event saw her turning into a total boss babe, and we love it.Read more. Auto Expo 2022 in Greater Noida pushed back due to Covid-related uncertaintiesThe Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers (SIAM) informed on Monday that the Indian auto expo, officially called Auto Expo – The Motor Show 2022, which was scheduled to be held between February 2 and 9 of next year in Greater Noida has now been pushed back due to the prevailing uncertainties caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-supreme-court-orders-ap-telangana-to-amicably-resolve-krishna-water-dispute-and-all-the-latest-news-101627887798749.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC says posters torn in Tripura ahead of Abhishek Banerjee's visit, attacks BJP||The Trinamool Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) engaged in a war of words after banners of the former were found torn in Tripura ahead of party MP Abhishek Banerjee and some other leaders’ visit.Calling it an act of “absolute hooliganism”, the state TMC unit said several posters featuring TMC supremo and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her nephew, who is the national general secretary of the party, were torn.Several such banners from the airport in Agartala to Gorkha Basti were damaged on Sunday night and the party would register its protest on the issue, TMC leader Ashish Lal Singh was quoted as saying by News18, adding the party will lodge a protest over the matter.However, BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjyo said the party did not consider the TMC a “political competitor”. “They can lodge an FIR if they like. They are coming here to do political tourism but we are just not bothered with them,” he said.“When it comes to BJP, ruthlessness and disrespect for democracy seem to be running the show. You can keep trying but you cannot erase us from the hearts of the people of Tripura! Shameful attempt,” the TMC wrote on its official Twitter handle.Such blatant state-sponsored attacks on democracy can only be seen in @BJP4India ruled states!Last night in Agartala, posters of @AITCofficial and Shri @abhishekaitc were torn.Did the @BJP4Tripura govt. allow this? Will strict action be taken against the miscreants? pic.twitter.com/6QULSoCChaBesides Abhishek, two Bengal ministers -- Bratyo Basu and Moloy Ghatak -- and trade union leader Ritabrata Banerjee will be in the hill state where the TMC is making a renewed bid to challenge the ruling BJP. In a bid to expand its footprints following a thumping victory in the Bengal assembly election, the Mamata-led party is now focussing on Tripura which has its state polls in 2023.Last week, seven senior Congress leaders, including former minister Prakash Chandra Das, former MLA Subal Bhowmik, All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Panna Deb and party leader Md. Idris Miah joined the TMC. The party has also renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls. The latest visit comes days after I-PAC members were allegedly confined to a hotel by the Tripura police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-says-posters-torn-in-tripura-ahead-of-abhishek-banerjee-s-visit-attacks-bjp-101627887239582.html
02-08-2021||India||Delhi HC allows Moser Baer scam-accused Deepak Puri, wife to travel abroad||The Delhi high court allowed Deepak Puri and Nita Puri, parents of businessman Ratul Puri, who are being investigated for multiple charges, including a ₹354 crore bank fraud by Moser Baer, to travel abroad on medical grounds. While granting the relief, the high court observed that the “right to travel abroad is a valuable one” and “an integral part of the right to personal liberty”. A special judge at Rouse Avenue Court, Delhi, had, in June this year, allowed Deepak Puri, founder of Moser Baer, and Nita Puri, sister of Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath, to travel to New York, US, for medical follow-up and treatment for two months. Also Read | CBI teams, complete with PPE kits, raid Ratul Puri in new ₹780 cr bank loan caseHowever, the order was challenged by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which has registered two fraud cases against them. The agency’s special public prosecutor Anupam Sharma argued before justice Manoj Kumar Ohri that the “Puris are accused in a case of immense economic magnitude and the allegations are grave and serious in nature”. Sharma also argued that if allowed to travel overseas, they may tamper with evidence and might not return to India. The Puris’ lawyer Vijay Aggarwal sought relief on the grounds that Deepak Puri is nearly 80 years old and is suffering from degenerative chronic bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia associated with lung fibrosis. He said Deepak Puri had also undergone surgery and reconstruction for the treatment of mouth cancer at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, US, in 2016. To control the progression of his lung disease and to follow up on his mouth cancer surgery, he is required to visit California and New York, US. Discarding CBI’s argument, the high court allowed them to travel for two months on two sureties of ₹1 crore each. Justice Ohri also asked them to furnish an undertaking disclosing their flight details, telephone numbers and residential details during their stay abroad, and the return date. The high court further asked the Puris not to make a banking or commercial transaction of any nature. “Also, as a voluntarily undertaking by the respondents, their son Ratul Puri, a co-accused in the present case, shall deposit his passport with the petitioner/CBI till the time the respondents return to India after two months from the date of their travel, if not already done,” the court order, reviewed by HT, said. Both, CBI and Enforcement Directorate (ED), are investigating the Puris for at least four cases of fraud, cheating and money laundering. The CBI had registered a bank fraud case against Puris and their company Moser Baer in August 2019 for cheating Central Bank of India of ₹354 crore. A fresh case was registered against them last year for cheating Punjab National Bank of ₹787 crore. ED has also accused Ratul Puri, currently on bail, in the AgustaWestland scam, saying he played a key role in laundering crores of rupees. The AgustaWestland case centres on allegations that bribes were paid to middlemen, perhaps even politicians, when India agreed to buy 12 AgustaWestland helicopters built by Italian defence manufacturing giant Finmeccanica (now known as the Leonardo Group) at an estimated cost of ₹3,727 crore in 2010. The deal was scrapped in 2014 over alleged breach of contractual obligations and charges of payment of kickbacks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-hc-allows-moser-baer-scam-accused-deepak-puri-wife-to-travel-abroad-101627887625545.html
02-08-2021||India||Muharram banned in UP, clerics object to word 'festival' in police chief letter||The clerics in Uttar Pradesh have objected to a circular released by the state government banning Muharram. The clerics have expressed dismay over the word 'festival' used to describe the event.The Uttar Pradesh government has banned Muharram in view of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) protocols in place. In a "confidential and very important" letter sent to Suprintendents of Police (SPs), Uttar Pradesh Director General of Police (DGP) Mukul Goel has directed that Muharram must be bserved in the state in accordance with Covid-appropriate behaviour.No procession (called tazia) is allowed to be taken out during the 10 days - from August 10 to 19 - when Muharram will be observed. Goel has also directed that clerics must be involved to ensure Covid-19 guidelines are followed.Terming the situation during this period as "extremely sensitive", the DGP has asked to study areas where incidents have taken place during Muharram and take special measures to keep things normal. Additional police force must be deployed in sensitive areas, the police chief further said.He has also directed the all the entries in festival registers available in various police stations must be studied, and no permission for a separate route should be granted.All the police officers must be briefed one day before the festival of Muharram begins, the DGP said in his letter, asking strict monitoring of content on social media. Such content must be blocked, he has directed the police officials.The clerics, meanwhile, have objected to the use of the word 'festival' for Muharram as it is a period of mourning for the Muslims over the demise of Prophet Muhammad's grandson Hussain Ibn Ali or Imam Hussain in the battle of Karbala.Demanding that the guidelines be withdrawn, the All India Shia Personal Law Board has called for a meeting on Monday to discuss the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/muharram-banned-in-up-clerics-object-to-word-festival-in-police-chief-letter-101627885155486.html
02-08-2021||India||TMC writes to RS chairperson against MP suspension; gets help from Oppn parties||Trinamool Congress, the largest Opposition party in Parliament after the Congress, took help of its peers when it came to writing to Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu. The letter was sent to the chair after one of the Trinamool members, Shantanu Sen, was suspended from the House for gross misconduct. Sen had snatched the written statement from newly appointed IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw before tearing it into pieces when the latter was reading a statement in the wake of the Pegasus snooping controversy. Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedingsTrinamool’s July 30 letter, that seeks revocation of Sen’s punishment, was approved by none other than former finance minister P Chidambaram and CPI-M MP Bikash Bhattacharya, an arch rival of the Trinamool in Bengal. According to two leaders in the know of things, the letter even quoted late Arun Jaitley to say disruption is at times a legitimate tool of the Opposition. The letter also says that at least 12 leaders from various parties, including, Chidambaram, Digvijaya Singh, Bhattacharya, Samajwadi Party leader Ramgopal Yadav, MDMK leader Vaiko, and Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, are ready to depose against Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri.Trinamool accused Puri of using abusive words against Sen after the latter tore the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-writes-to-rs-chairperson-against-mp-s-suspension-from-house-101627886485374.html
02-08-2021||India||'Very challenging for us to work in Bihar', says BJP leader Samrat Chaudhary||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Samrat Chaudhary on Sunday said that it is not easy to run the government in Bihar, where his party is in alliance with Nitish Kumar's Janata Dal (United) or JD(U). Chaudhary also said that there are four ideologies working together in the state."We have a coalition government in Bihar, it's not our independent government. It is very challenging for us to work in Bihar as four ideologies are working together - there is JD(U), HAM (founded by Jitan Ram Manjhi) and VIP (founded by Mukesh Sahani). In such a situation, we have to tolerate many things," Chaudhary said while addressing a gathering in Aurangabad.Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) were the last minute entrants in BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) fold just ahead of the assembly elections in Bihar last year.Chaudhary added that things become easier in states where the BJP has the government of its own. "We have our own governments in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and used to be in power in Jharkhand too."Chaudhary, the Panchayati Raj minister in Bihar, said that the BJP accepted Nitish Kumar as the chief minister even though the JD(U) won 43 seats and his party garnered 74. "And this is not the first time. In 2000 also, the JD(U) had won just 37 seats and the BJP won 68-69 seats. Despite this, the party accepted Nitish Kumar as the chief minister."The leader, who became a minister in Bihar through BJP quota, had last week said that the party should not repeat the mistake of 2015. Addressing the BJP workers in Hajipur, he asked them to be prepared for 2024 General Elections and 2025 assembly polls.Meanwhile, JD(U) leader Upendra Kushwaha said on Sunday that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is "PM material" and has the potential and all qualities to become the Prime Minister of the country. Asked about whether Nitish Kumar will be projected as the Prime Ministerial face, Kushwaha said, "We are in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and firmly support the alliance. There is no discussion in this for now."The JD(U) is an ally of the BJP in Bihar and the party's RCP Singh had been inducted into the union council of ministers when PM Modi reshuffled his cabinet recently.JD(U) leader KC Tyagi had announced in June that the party will contest the upcoming Uttar Pradesh assembly elections and for that will discuss the seat-sharing arrangement with the BJP, and if it does not work out then they will go it alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/very-challenging-for-us-to-work-in-bihar-says-bjp-leader-samrat-chaudhary-101627882277155.html
02-08-2021||India||Eye on Tripura assembly polls, Mamata’s nephew to head for N-E state today||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s nephew Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to head for Tripura today to bolster the party’s organisational setup in the north-eastern state. The Trinamool Congress (TMC), after returning to power in West Bengal for the third consecutive term with a sweeping victory in the recent assembly elections, is now focusing on Tripura where assembly polls are due in 2023. Speculations are rife that a few political leaders may join the TMC in Abhishek Banerjee’s presence today. Last week, seven senior Congress leaders in Tripura, including former minister Prakash Chandra Das, former MLA Subal Bhowmik, All India Congress Committee (AICC) member Panna Deb and Congress minority leader Md. Idris Miah joined the TMC.Also Read | Tripura health workers cross hurdles to vaccinate people in remote areas“Wherever the TMC has landed, other political parties have been reduced to zero. The same would happen in Tripura,” said Sudip Banerjee, TMC MP and floor leader of the party in the Lok Sabha. The state is currently ruled by BJP -- Indigenous Peoples Front of Tripura (BJP-IPFT) alliance. “The TMC has no existence outside Bengal. Let the party set up its base in Tripura first. They can then think of reducing other parties to zero,” said Dilip Ghosh, BJP president in West Bengal. The TMC renewed its contract with Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC), the company launched by election strategist Prashant Kishor, till the crucial 2024 Lok Sabha polls. A three-member team of the TMC visited Tripura last week to meet members of I-PAC who were purportedly confined to a hotel by the Tripura police. A team of senior TMC leaders, including ministers Bratya Basu and Moloy Ghatak, left for Tripura early Monday morning. The TMC alleged that party posters in Agartala were torn ahead of Banerjee’s visit. “Abhishek Banerjee is scheduled to hold some meetings with TMC leaders in the state to boost the party’s organisational set up. He would also offer puja at Tripureswari temple. He would also meet media persons later during the day,” said a TMC leader.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/eye-on-tripura-assembly-polls-mamata-s-nephew-to-head-for-n-e-state-today-101627881625335.html
02-08-2021||India||Omar Abdullah slams move to deny passports and jobs for stone pelting in J&K||Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and National Conference (NC) vice president Omar Abdullah said the order allowing authorities in the Union Territory to deny passports and jobs to those involved in stone pelting and other unlawful activities was open to “gross misuse” as guilt of an accused needs to be proven first in court."As a rule, no one can be declared guilty until proven. So, as far as this new order is concerned, it should be seen in relation to the recent order on termination of employees. As such, this new order also seems open to gross misuse in its current form," Omar said in a tweet."They did the same with scores of others, many of whom had these police reports tossed out by the courts. An executive order cannot replace a court of law. Guilt or innocence must be proven in court & not based on vague unproven police reports," another of his tweets on the issue said.On Sunday, an order issued by the police’s criminal investigation department (CID) on behalf of the Jammu and Kashmir government said security clearance should be denied to all those against whom there are digital or police records of involvement in stone-pelting and other subversive activities. Security clearances are needed before issuing a passport and appointment to a government job in the UT.The order further said if there was any digital evidence such as CCTV footage, photographs, videos, audio clips or quadcopter images available in the police records, then it should be referred to the security forces and the security agencies. “Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance,” the order said.Earlier in May this year, following a similar order to weed out employees in government service after scrutiny for proof of involvement in anti-national activities or actions endangering the security of the country, three persons were dismissed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/omar-abdullah-slams-move-to-deny-passports-and-jobs-for-stone-pelting-in-jk-101627880041083.html
02-08-2021||India||States, UTs given at least 494 million Covid vaccine doses till now||The Centre has given at least 494 million coronavirus vaccine doses to states by Sunday. The same day, the national Capital added 85 new cases and the test positivity rate also rose to 0.12%, both the numbers being their highest in 25 days, the state government’s daily heath bulletin said.Meanwhile, by Sunday, 11am, 494,989,550 vaccine doses had been supplied to states and Union Territories. Of this, the total consumption, including wastages, has been 467,026,662. About 30,058,190 doses are in balance and another 804,220 doses are in the pipeline.Assam, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Odisha, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal have administered the first dose of the vaccine to more than a million beneficiaries in the 18-45 age group.By Sunday evening, the Union Health Ministry placed the total number of Covid cases in the country at 31,655,824 and the death toll at 424,351. The ministry said there are 410,952 active cases, while 30,820,521 people have so far recovered from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-uts-given-at-least-494-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627878684925.html
02-08-2021||India||At least 100K villages got tap water supply within 2 years: Jal Jeevan Mission||Jal Jeevan Mission, the government’s flagship scheme to make piped water available to all, has achieved the milestone of providing tap water to every household in at least 100,000 villages across India within 23 months since its launch in August 2019.Jal Jeevan mission’s 10th monthly report show that about 78.6 million rural households and every household in over 105,000 villages are getting tap water supply.Additional secretary and mission director Bharat Lal said on Sunday, “This speed, scale and momentum of works need to be maintained to accomplish the goal of ‘Har Ghar Jal’ in a time-bound manner.”Also Read | Jal Jeevan Mission: 10 million homes in encephalitis hot spots get tap water accessGoa, Telangana, Andaman & Nicobar Islands and Puducherry have achieved 100% tap water supply in rural areas.The mission said that ₹3.60 lakh crore has been earmarked to achieve the goal of providing safe and adequate drinking water to all households in rural India by 2024. Dr D Hemalatha, Vice Principle of Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) Institute stressed that good water quality is the key to better health. She urged the state governments to undertake water quality monitoring in partnership with universities/ colleges, high schools and health centres through public-private partnership. Madhuri Shukla, Consultant, UNOPS said water quality testing is imperative for water supply services. It includes verification of the safety of drinking water, quality validation process and preventive measures as well as investigation of water-borne disease outbreaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-least-100k-villages-got-tap-water-supply-within-2-years-jal-jeevan-mission-101627877965178.html
02-08-2021||India||India records 40,134 new Covid-19 cases, 422 deaths; positivity rate at 2.81%||India’s cumulative tally of coronavirus cases reached 3,16,95,958 on Monday with 40,134 new infections recorded in the last 24 hours. The numbers took the daily positivity rate to 2.8 per cent. At present, there are 4,13,718 active Covid-19 cases, which is 1.3 per cent of the total infections.According to the latest bulletin of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, 422 people lost their lives to the viral disease, while 36,946 patients recovered in the last 24 hours, pushing the total count of fatalities to 4,24,773 and discharges to 3,08,57,467. The fatality rate now stands at 1.34 per cent and recovery rate 97.36 per cent.Also read | Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: ReportAs many as 14,28,984 samples were tested for the virus during the day, the Indian Council of Medical Research said, adding a total of 46,96,45,494 tests have been conducted since the pandemic struck the country.As part of the nationwide vaccination drive, 47,22,23,639 doses against the coronavirus have been administered so far with 17,06,598 beneficiaries receiving the jab on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-40-134-new-covid-19-cases-422-deaths-101627874997874.html
02-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India outlines priorities as it enters UNSC presidency and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Focus on maritime security, peacekeeping, terror as India enters UNSC presidencyAs India took over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), a senior diplomat said the stint would give the country an opportunity to play an important role yet again in shaping some of the important challenges on international peace and security. Read morePM Modi to launch ‘futuristic digital payment solution’ e-RUPI todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific digital payment solution via video conferencing. “Digital technology is transforming lives in a major way and is furthering ‘Ease of Living.’ At 4:30 PM tomorrow, 2nd August, will launch e-RUPI, a futuristic digital payment solution which offers several benefits for its users,” Modi said in a tweet on Sunday. Read moreWidespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, NW IndiaWidespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD). Read moreInfant breastfeeding within an hour of birth declines in BiharThe number of children in Bihar who were breastfed within the first hour of their birth has decreased in the last four- five years, as per National Family and Health Survey (NFHS) reports. Read moreNearly 300 Taliban killed, hundreds injured in ops by Afghan forces in 48 hoursAs the Taliban and mounted an offensive amid the withdrawal of foreign troops from war-torn Afghanistan, as many as nearly 300 members of the group have been killed and hundreds of others wounded in operations by the country's security forces in different provinces since Saturday, said the ministry of defense has said. Read more'I still remember the way he batted at Lord's': VVS Laxman's advice for 'important member' of the Indian teamAs India look to register a Test series win in England after 14 years, a lot will depend on how their batting fares. Over the last three tours, especially in 2014 and 2018, India's batting has struggled to cope against Duke's ball in England, which subsequently led to outcomes such as a 1-3 loss in 2014 and a 1-4 defeat in 2018. Read moreSooraj Pancholi says perception of him was ‘ruined years ago’ because of Jiah Khan caseSooraj Pancholi said that he is a ‘little satisfied’ after his trial in the Jiah Khan death case has been moved to a special CBI court. Jiah was found dead in her apartment in Mumbai in 2013, and her boyfriend at the time, Sooraj, was charged with abetment to suicide. Read moreYay or Nay? Priyanka Chopra's summer look in blue corset dress with keyhole neckActor Priyanka Chopra Jonas is in London currently, and she is having the best time there as she shoots for the upcoming Amazon Prime spy series Citadel, executive produced by the Russo brothers. Read moreWatch| ‘Sindhu to have ice-cream with PM Modi’, says father after Bronze win at Tokyo||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-outlines-priorities-as-it-enters-unsc-presidency-101627873783496.html
02-08-2021||India||FM Nirmala Sitharaman to move tribunals reforms Bill in Lok Sabha today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha on Monday.The Bill seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending various statutes to streamline the justice delivery system. These include the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act.The government said it believes many tribunals only add to another additional layer of litigation. In 2017, seven tribunals were abolished or merged based on functional similarity.The Bill was earlier introduced in the Budget Session by minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur. However, since the Bill was not passed in the House, an ordinance was issued.Also Read | Opposition to raise concerns over Insurance billSitharaman will also move the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, which seeks to amend the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. The Bill was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday.While presenting the budge earlier this year, the finance minister had said: “We propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year FY22. This would require legislative amendments, and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session (Budget Session) itself.”HT’s sister publication Mint had reported on Friday that amendments to the parent Act, the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972, were approved by the union Cabinet on Wednesday. The insurance amendment bill is part of the government’s larger divestment programme, part of which involves selling stakes in five state-run corporations and speeding up its privatisation agenda to draw in foreign investment in a Covid-hit economy.In the Upper House, union minister of tribal affairs Arjun Munda will introduce the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, which will amend the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order 1950 to modify the list of Scheduled Tribes in Arunachal Pradesh.After being passed in the Lok Sabha, the Inland Vessels Bill 2021 will be introduced by union minister Sarbananda Sonowal in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The proposed legislation seeks to replace the Inland Vessels Act, 1917, for the regulation of the safety, security and registration of inland vessels. The union Cabinet approved the Bill on June 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fm-nirmala-sitharaman-to-move-tribunals-reforms-bill-in-lok-sabha-today-101627874484719.html
02-08-2021||India||Focus on maritime security, peacekeeping, terror as India enters UNSC presidency||As India took over the presidency of the United Nations Security Council (UNSC), a senior diplomat said the stint would give the country an opportunity to play an important role yet again in shaping some of the important challenges on international peace and security.India’s permanent ambassador to the UN TS Tirumurti said there are three major areas on which focus would remain in August -- maritime security, peacekeeping and counter-terrorism.Also read | Modi first Indian PM to preside over UN Security Council meeting: Syed Akbaruddin“Conflicts have increased in Covid times, putting considerable pressure on UN peacekeepers and resources. In this scenario, India's priority in the UN, particularly in the UNSC, has a very clear focus on issues that are directly relevant to the international community,”“For example international terrorism, peacekeeping, enhancing international peace and security, sensitivity to developing country issues especially Africa and small states, reformed multilateralism, and furthering the agenda of women and human-centric development,” the ambassador.Speaking about India’s agenda for August that it can decide on as part of the rotating presidency, focus will be on the themes of maritime security, peacekeeping, and counter-terrorism and preside over three high-level signature events on these issues."I think maritime security discussion is a first. And, you know, maritime security has always received a very high priority in our foreign policy. We believe that it is time for the Security Council to take a holistic approach to the issue of maritime security, that safeguards common prosperity and other security interest“This is our eighth tenure. We have been a sobering and responsible voice and also been bridging different views especially when the Council (UNSC) is polarised. We have not hesitated to stand out, even when P5 (five permanent members) had a different view,” Tirumurti said.“We've never failed to highlight manifestations of terrorist activities across the world, especially now, for example, in Africa where it is increasing. We hope to discuss the secretary general’s report on ISIL (Islamic State of Iraq & Levant) and keep the spotlight on this matter,” he said."We will be focusing on how to ensure the safety of the peacekeepers, but especially by using better technology, and also how to bring perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers to justice. We are strongly advocating for proactive measures to what we call as protecting the protectors."On the agenda of counter-terrorism, India's top envoy to the UN said, "India has consistently kept the spotlight on combating terrorism, both inside the discussions in the council and outside as well. We are not only strengthened the efforts to combat terrorism, especially for example in the financing of terrorism but we are also prevented efforts to dilute the focus on terrorism."This is India's first presidency during its 2021-22 tenure as a non-permanent member of the Security Council and is also. India's eight tenure so far. India will again preside over the Council in December next year, the last month of its two-year tenure.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-maritime-security-peacekeeping-terror-as-india-enters-unsc-presidency-101627873543545.html
02-08-2021||India||Maharashtra records over 6k new Covid cases amid plans to lift curbs in 25 dists||Maharashtra recorded 6,479 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing its count to 6,310,194 even as it planned to lift curbs in 25 districts. The tally of active cases rose to 78,962 as 4,110 recoveries were reported in the past 24 hours.The state also saw 157 casualties with Ahmednagar reporting the highest toll with 22 deaths. It was followed by Satara and Aurangabad with 16 fatalities each. The state government has planned to ease lockdown restrictions in 25 districts where the positivity rate is much less than that of the state. Positivity rate is the percentage of tests returning positive out of the total tests conducted for an infection.Also Read | Chhattisgarh to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from today; parents unhappyHowever, there won’t be any relaxations in 11 districts. On Sunday, they reported 5,115 cases, nearly 79% of the total infections. The most cases were reported in Ahmednagar (888), while Pune reported 820 cases, Sangli 754, Solapur 691, Satara 642, Kolhapur 610, Beed 202, Ratnagiri 196, Raigad 180, Sindhudurg 105, and Palghar recorded 27 cases.The above districts have continued to report a high number of cases in the state for the past few days.Currently, districts in the state have level-three restrictions, which involves tighter curbs with limited operational hours for shops and markets. Shops and bazaars remain shut on the weekends, while malls, theatres and multiplexes are completely closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-6k-new-covid-cases-amid-plans-to-lift-curbs-in-25-dists-101627873704563.html
02-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to reopen schools for classes 10, 12 from today; parents say govt should have waited||Chhattisgarh will reopen government and private schools for classes 10 and 12 with 50 per cent attendance from Monday, a decision criticised by parents in the state. According to an official order, the government has said schools will be reopened in districts with a positivity of 1% for the previous seven days.Schools, colleges and other educational institutions in Chhattisgarh were closed due to the second wave of the pandemic. The decision to reopen schools from Monday was taken during a recent cabinet chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel.The parents association in Chhattisgarh has expressed dissatisfaction over resuming offline classes for students and urged the state government to reconsider its decision. Kristopher Paul, the president of the Chhattisgarh Parents Association, told PTI that the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is likely in August and so the decision to reopen schools should have been taken next month. Alleging that the government took this decision in a hurry to benefit private school owners, Paul also said the monsoon season causes viral disease among children and the government should have waited.The state government also allowed the resumption of offline classes for students of classes 1, 5 and 8 subject to certain conditions.According to the official order, in order to start offline classes for students in rural areas of the state, it is necessary to get the recommendation from gram panchayats concerned and the parents committees of schools. In urban areas too, similar recommendations are needed from local corporators and parent committees before starting online classes for students classes 1, 5 and 8, the order added.However, offline classes will not be started immediately for students of classes 6, 7, 9 and 11, PTI further reported.Students who will attend offline classes will do so on alternative days and those down with cough, cold and fever will be banned. The order also said that online classes will continue and it will not be mandatory for students to attend schools.Chhattisgarh has so far recorded 1,002,222 Covid-19 cases, 13,525 related deaths and 986,778 recoveries. Active cases of Covid-19 stand at 1,919.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-reopen-schools-for-classes-10-12-from-today-parents-unhappy-101627873102525.html
02-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain to continue over parts of central, NW India||Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi till Wednesday, according to India Meteorological Department (IMD).IMD issued a warning for thunderstorm with moderate to heavy intensity rain over and adjoining areas of Bhiwani, Charkhidadri, Matanhail, Kosli, Narnaul, Mahendergarh, Kotputly, Viratnagar, Alwar, Viratnagar at 6.10am on Monday. It also said thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain will occur over and adjoining areas of Delhi, Faridabad, Gurugram, Assandh, Gohana, Rewari, Jind(Haryana) Greater Noida, Noida, Dadri, Meerut, Modinagar, Ghaziabad, Garhmukteshwar, Amroha, Hapur, Siyana, Gulaoti, Mahawa, Rajgarh during the next two hours.A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move westwards to east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. A low-pressure area is also lying over southern parts of Haryana and neighbourhood. It is likely to become less marked during next 24 hours.The eastern end of the monsoon trough is likely to shift north of its normal position from Sunday night. The western end is very likely to remain to the south of its normal position and active during next 3-4 days. Widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely over Madhya Pradesh till August 5. Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20 cm) is also very likely over East Madhya Pradesh on August 1 and 2.Widespread rain with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely to continue over East Rajasthan till August 5. Current spell of widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over rest parts of North India with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh on August 1 and 2. Isolated heavy rain is likely over Haryana during till August 5 and Himachal Pradesh till August 4.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-to-continue-over-parts-of-central-nw-india-101627872744670.html
02-08-2021||NA||Parliament Highlights: RS could have only 3 hours 37 mins of proceedings so far||The monsoon session of Parliament resumed on Monday amid continuing protests by the Opposition, who targetted the Centre over several issues including the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, farm laws and the Pegasus snooping controversy.Both Houses of the Parliament were adjourned several times during the day before being adjourned till tomorrow.Meanwhile, Lok Sabha passed the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill that seeks to amend the country's general-insurance law and permit the government to offload its stake in state-governed insurance corporations.Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge said that all Opposition floor leaders will meet have a breakfast meeting tomorrow at 9.30am at the Constitution Club in Delhi, which will also see the attendance of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, news agency ANI reported citing sources.Follow all the updates here:Of 10 sittings so far, RS could have only 3 hours 37 mins of proceedings: Govt sourcesIn 10 sittings so far, RS could have only 2hrs 8mins of Question Hour, meant for ensuring accountability of executive to Parliament; 1hr 24mins for legislative business passing 5 Bills with 7 members intervening; 1min of Zero Hour & another 4mins on Special Mentions: Govt sourcesOf total 50 working hours, 39 hours 52 mins have been lost due to disruptions: Govt sourcesOf the total 50 working hours available, 39 hours 52 minutes have been lost due to disruptions. The House, however, sat for 1 hour 52 minutes beyond the scheduled time, but for which the productivity would have been much lower: Government sourcesRajya Sabha productivity fell to 13.70% in second week from 32.20% in the first due to disruptions: Govt sourcesWith disruptions continuing, the productivity of Rajya Sabha fell to 13.70% during 2nd week of the ongoing monsoon session from 32.20% during 1st week, resulting in overall productivity of 21.60% for the first two weeks: Government sourcesLok Sabha passes General Insurance Nationalisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021Lok Sabha on Monday passed the General Insurance Nationalisation (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Both Houses will meet again tomorrow as sessions have been adjourned for the day.Both Houses adjourned till tomorrowBoth Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been adjourned till tomorrow owing to continuing uproar by Opposition MPs over Pegasus snooping row, farm laws, and other issues.Rajya Sabha adjourned till tomorrow 11amRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 11 am, 3rd AugustRajya Sabha has been adjourned till tomorrow (August 3) 11am amid protests by Opposition MPs over pegasus, and other issues.Opposition floor leaders to meet at the Constitution Club tomorrow in Delhi, says KhargeLeader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha, Mallikarjun Kharge said on Monday that all Opposition floor leaders will meet tomorrow morning at the Constitution Club in Delhi. Rahul Gandhi will also attend the meeting, ANI reported citing sources.The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, passed in Rajya Sabha; House adjourned till 3.36pmThe Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 passed in Rajya SabhaHouse adjourned till 3.36 pm pic.twitter.com/dY4jyaa3tJBoth Houses of the Parliament only resumed at 2pm before being adjourned for the third time in the day owing to protests by Opposition MPs over pegasus, and other issues.Lok Sabha adjourned till 3.30pm amid uproar by Opposition MPsLok Sabha adjourned till 3.30 pm amid protests by opposition membersBoth houses resume after being adjourned twiceThe Rajya Sabha and the Lok Sabha sessions have resumed after being adjourned twice during the day.'What is our fault if we want a discussion over Pegasus?': Adhir Ranjan ChowdhuryThis is being discussed not only in the country but across the world. Snooping matter isn't an issue for our country alone. Govts of Israel, France, Hungary US & European nations are investigating it. Why is PM Modi scared?: Leader of Congress in Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury pic.twitter.com/QiV3RvYV95Congress MP Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury lashed out at the Centre over the Pegasus hacking controversy by saying that Pegasus is a snooping matter and the opposition wanted a discussion on it.Mudra loan available for manufacturing, trading, services: Nirmala SitharamanUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed the Lok Sabha on Monday that the Mudra loan is available for manufacturing, trading, services along with activities allied to agriculture.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12 pm amid Oppn uproar over farm lawsThe Upper House of Parliament has been adjourned till 12 noon amid opposition uproar over the farmers protest against the farm laws.Lok Sabha session begins, speaker Birla congratulates PV SindhuI am delighted to tell you that PV Sindhu won the bronze medal for India in badminton women's singles at #OlympicGames. This is her second consecutive Olympics medal. She is the first Indian woman to win two Olympic medals for individual events: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla pic.twitter.com/cczSUVqmtcThe Lok Sabha session began on Monday morning and speaker Om Birla and other members of the House congratulated badminton player PV Sindhu for winning bronze medal in Tokyo 2020 Olympics.Centre responsible if House is not functioning: Rajya Sabha LoP Mallikarjun KhargeMallikarjun Kharge, the leader of opposition (LoP) in the Rajya Sabha, lashed out at the Centre on Monday by saying that it was responsible if the Upper House of Parliament was not functioning. Kharge said the Centre will face challenges if there is a discussion on the Pegasus hacking controversy."They want Parliament to go on just like this, that their Bills get passed just like that & issues like inflation, Covid, fuel prices hike, Rafale get hidden," Kharge further said.Cong MP moves adjournment motion notice in LS over PegasusCongress MP Manish Tewari on Monday gave adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss the Pegasus hacking controversy. "It should be noted that this kind of surveillance classifies as hacking, which is what spyware does and it would very much qualify as "unauthorised interception" or hacking as per Information Technology Act, 2000," Tewari said in his notice.Oppn to meet RS LoP to formulate strategy for day's proceedingsRajya Sabha Floor leaders of like-minded opposition parties to meet at LoP (Leader of Opposition) Mallikarjun Kharge's office at 10.15 am to formulate strategy for the day's proceedings of the House.Rajya Sabha to discuss important bills todayThe Upper House of Parliament will be seeing a discussion on important bills today including the Constitution(Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in Lok SabhaUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will move the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 in the Lok Sabha today, which seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending various statutes to streamline the justice delivery system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627865659869.html
02-08-2021||India||PM Modi to launch ‘futuristic digital payment solution’ e-RUPI today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Monday launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose-specific digital payment solution via video conferencing. “Digital technology is transforming lives in a major way and is furthering ‘Ease of Living.’ At 4:30 PM tomorrow, 2nd August, will launch e-RUPI, a futuristic digital payment solution which offers several benefits for its users,” Modi said in a tweet on Sunday.PM also said that among the benefits of e-RUPI are cashless and contactless digital payment, connecting service sponsors and beneficiaries digitally and ensuring leak-proof delivery of several welfare services.According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Saturday, e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment which has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India in collaboration with the department of financial services, the Union ministry of health and family welfare and the National Health Authority.It is a QR code or SMS string-based e-Voucher, which is delivered to the mobile phones of beneficiaries. Users of e-RUPI will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider.The digital payment solution connects sponsors of services with beneficiaries and service providers digitally without any physical interface. e-RUPI ensures that payment to a service provider is made only after the completion of a transaction. “Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without involvement of any intermediary,” the PMO statement added.e-RUPI can also be utilised for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support under mother and child welfare schemes, Tuberculosis eradication programmes, drugs and diagnostics under Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, fertiliser subsidies etc.The private sector can also leverage the e-Voucher as a part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility initiatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-launch-futuristic-digital-payment-solution-e-rupi-today-101627866979713.html
02-08-2021||India||Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: Report||India may see another rise in Covid-19 cases as soon as August with the third wave peaking with less than 100,000 infections a day in the best-case scenario or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario, researchers have said. Bloomberg reported citing researchers led by Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively that the surge in Covid-19 cases will push the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic, which may peak in October. Vidyasagar told Bloomberg in an email that states with high Covid-19 cases, such as Kerala and Maharashtra, could “skew the picture.”The third wave of Covid-19 is unlikely to be as brutal as the second wave when India reported 400,000-plus daily cases and came down after that. The prediction by the researchers, who accurately forecast the lessening of the surge in Covid-19 cases earlier this year, is based on a mathematical model.Also read | Delta as infectious as chickenpox: CDC reportIn May, Vidyasagar, a professor at IIT Hyderabad said India’s coronavirus outbreak could peak in the coming days based on the mathematical model. “Our predictions are that the peak will come within a few days. As per current projections, we should hit 20,000 cases per day by the end of June. We will revise this as needed," Vidyasagar told Bloomberg by email.However, in April, Vidyasagar’s team's prediction that the wave would peak by the middle of last month was incorrect. He wrote on Twitter at the time that it was because of incorrect parameters as “the pandemic was changing rapidly, even wildly, until about a week ago."He also told Reuters that the peak would be between May 3-5 and to India Today that it would come on May 7.Also read | Delta caused 82% Covid cases in 3 months: DataIndia reported 41,831 Covid-19 cases and 541 deaths on Sunday even as the Centre cautioned 10 states, including Kerala, Maharashtra and northeastern regions, amid the rising infections and asked them to take steps to arrest the spread of the coronavirus.Experts have also warned that the Delta variant of the coronavirus, which spreads as easily as chickenpox and can be passed on by vaccinated people, can fuel the surge. According to data from the Indian Sars-CoV-2 Genomic Consortium (INSACOG), nearly 8 of every 10 Covid-19 cases in May, June and July were caused by the highly infectious Delta variant of the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-third-wave-likely-this-month-may-peak-in-october-report-101627863320241.html
02-08-2021||India||Number Theory: Kerala’s outbreak concerning, but it is not as bad as it looks||Over the past few weeks, Kerala has defied the national trend of falling Covid-19 infections. But it’s the volume of the outbreak in the southern state that is worrying. As of Saturday night, the state has 165,011 active cases, accounting for 40% of all such cases in the country. In the past week, India has reported 40,459 new infections of Covid-19 every single day on average. Kerala alone has been responsible for around 19,528 of these daily new cases, or about 48% of the national tally. Only once before has any state been responsible for a larger share of the national infection count — Maharashtra, for a month-and-a-half period at the very start of India’s brutal second wave. The average weekly positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested, generally indicative of the spread of the infection within the community — currently stands at 12.3% in Kerala, over five times that of the national average of 2.4% in the same period. There is no denying that the state is currently the biggest virus hot spot in the country. But Kerala has handled the outbreak far better than what purely looking at infection numbers in isolation appears to suggest right now. Here is why.1) Kerala residents least exposed to virusOn Wednesday, the Union health ministry released state-wise data from its latest round of seroprevalence survey conducted between the last week of June and first week of July. It showed that at 44.4% detected seropositivity, Kerala had the lowest proportion of population exposed to Sars-CoV-2 in India. The national average was 67.6%. This, of course, includes the contribution of vaccination. This tell us two things. First, at the end of the second wave (when ICMR’s serosurvey was conducted), people in Kerala had been the least exposed to the virus in the country. The corollary of these findings is also that Kerala had the highest proportion of population (55.6%, compared to a national average of 32.4%) of any state in the country that still remained susceptible to the infection. Second, the findings give us a good idea of how well states worked on their testing. Placing the results of ICMR’s serosurvey along the total number of infections reported till the first week of July (when the survey concluded) shows that Kerala was, by a massive margin, the best state when it comes to identifying its on-the-ground infections. Till July 7, the state had reported a little over 3 million infections against the roughly 15.6 million people that had been exposed to the virus (if the findings are extrapolated on the state’s population). This paints a picture of the state’s testing strategy – Kerala was able to identify around 19% of all people exposed to the virus in the state. To put context to these, the national average for this detection rate is around 3%.2) The state was not hit as badly during the peak of India’s second waveDuring the peak of the second wave in the country, the health care system was exceedingly overburdened in a vast majority of the country’s populous regions. Through a three-four week period in May, a massive nationwide shortage of medical oxygen was dominating headlines. According to a database on deaths reported due to shortage of oxygen across the country maintained by Datameet, a citizen’s data collective based in Bengaluru which compiled such fatalities based on local news reports, there were at least 619 such deaths reported across India as of May 27, 2021. With 83 deaths due to shortage of oxygen, Goa had the highest number of such fatalities, followed by Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, both with 65 such deaths. Of the 619 deaths in the country, not a single was reported from Kerala.3) Kerala has fared better in saving livesThe state also has a Covid-19 mortality rate of 0.5%, the best of any major state in the country, and significantly better than the national average of 1.3%. This isn’t surprising considering Kerala is, by a good margin, the country’s best ranked state in terms of health care system, according to NITI Aayog’s Health Index, 2020, which measures the annual performance of states and UTs on a variety of indicators such as health outcomes, governance and processes.4) Better vaccination coverage than mostTill 9pm on Sunday, India’s vaccination drive has covered 27.9% of the country’s adult population on average with a single dose of the vaccine, while another 10.9% have been fully vaccinated, according to data from the health ministry’s CoWIN dashboard. In Kerala, this number is much higher – 30.7% of adults have been partially vaccinated and an impressive 22.8% of its eligible populations has been jabbed with both doses. In fact, a look at the country’s best population-wise administration of vaccine doses shows how far ahead the state is in terms of administering doses to its population. Among India’s 25 most populous regions, Kerala is on the third spot with 55 doses administered per 100 residents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-kerala-s-outbreak-concerning-but-it-is-not-as-bad-as-it-looks-101627857641191.html
02-08-2021||India||Lab hired Rajasthan man to make fake test entries: Mahakumbh testing probe||The special investigation team (SIT) probing the alleged fake Covid-19 tests during the Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand has found that a man from Rajasthan, hired by Bhiwani-based Delphia laboratory, had made fake entries of people whose swab samples were not actually taken, officials associated with the investigation said on Sunday.“A Rajasthan-based man, who was hired by Delphia laboratory, uploaded fake entries on the ICMR portal and was given a certain amount per entry by [lab owner] Ashish Vashisth,” said an SIT official, requesting anonymity. The SIT probe is looking into charges that two private labs – Delhi-based Lalchandani Labs and Hisar-based Nalwa Labs -- conducted roughly 100,000 fake tests during Mahakumbh.Delphia lab owner Ashish Vashisth was arrested and is, currently, in jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lab-hired-rajasthan-man-to-make-fake-test-entries-mahakumbh-testing-probe-101627850750741.html
02-08-2021||India||Sindhu makes history, hockey team on cusp||A second Olympic medal for PV Sindhu. The Indian hockey team in the Olympic semi-finals for the first time since Munich 1972. For India, this was a super Sunday at Tokyo 2020.With Sindhu’s medal, which she won beating China’s He Bing Jiao in the bronze medal match, India also surpassed its Rio 2016 tally of two. Weightlifter Mirabai Chanu won silver on Day 1 of Tokyo 2020 while boxer Lovlina Borgohain is also assured a medal (colour yet to be decided) after storming into the semis.Sindhu’s name will now unquestionably be taken among the greatest ever sportspersons from the country after becoming only the second Indian—and first woman—after wrestler Sushil Kumar to win two individual Olympic medals, having claimed a silver five years ago in Rio. The 26-year-old also has five World Championship medals—including the gold she won in 2019.Sindhu’s efforts ensured that badminton became only the second sport after hockey to bring medals from three consecutive Olympics. Saina Nehwal had won the bronze in London 2012. Barely half an hour after Sindhu’s dominating straight games win, the Indian men’s hockey team clinched their most significant match in 41 years to enter the semi-finals—the first on artificial turf. In 1972, India won the bronze. India won gold in Moscow 1980, but then the top two from the league phase directly played the final.Manpreet Singh and his men beat three-time champions Great Britain 3-1 in the quarter-final at the Oi Hockey Staidum with the Singhs—Dilpreet, Hardik and Gurjant—scoring a goal apiece to take India to the cusp of a hockey medal for the first time in more than four decades. India face world champions Belgium on Tuesday morning in the semis.Now back to Sindhu.Since she played the Rio 2016 final, the lanky shuttler from Hyderabad has reached the final of every World Championship—an incredible run. That Sindhu is a player transformed when it comes to major tournaments is well known, but on Sunday, she had a different challenge to overcome. Just the day before, after storming through to the semis without dropping a game in Tokyo, she found herself at the receiving end, being dominated by Tai Tzu Ying in the semis. The straight games loss could have been demoralising for her. Instead she came out all guns firing for the bronze playoff, an unusual place for her to be in on the big stage.“I had a lot of emotions going through me—should I be happy that I won bronze or sad that I lost the opportunity to play in the final. But overall, I had to close off my emotions for this one match and give it my best,” Sindhu said.Sindhu closed off the match 21-15, 21-13 in 52 minutes to better her record to 7-9 against the Chinese.“It makes me feel really happy because I’ve worked hard for so many years,” Sindhu said. “It’s a proud moment getting a medal for my country.”Sindhu knew well that Bing Jiao prefers close net play, a slow game and long rallies. Using the drift to her advantage, Sindhu ensured that Bing Jiao got few opportunities to bring the play to the net, dictated the pace with her hard smashes and made the Chinese run around trying to retrieve steeply angled cross court shots. When the rallies were long, she not only held her nerve, but played freely and aggressively. “There were really long rallies but I had to be patient and calm,” she said. “Even though I was leading, I did not relax.”A great fighter, Sindhu lost the lead of the match only once—that too for just a point—in the first game and was sensational in returns throughout the second, including smashes aimed at the body. With twelve match points in hand, Sindhu ended the match with a shot that has defined her game in Tokyo--a cross court back hand return hit hard with the flick of the wrist. She let out a victory cry, raising both arms. “I’m on cloud nine,” she said. “I’m going to enjoy this moment. My family has worked hard for me and put in a lot of effort, so I’m very thankful. A lot of Indian fans showed me their love and support and I’m very thankful to each and every one of them. Definitely lots of love and support and kisses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sindhu-makes-history-hockey-team-on-cusp-101627843283954.html
02-08-2021||India||SC to hear today rape survivor’s plea to marry convicted former priest today||The Supreme Court is scheduled to take up on Monday the plea filed by a Kerala-based rape survivor who has sought permission to marry her accused, former Catholic priest Robin Vadakumchery, who is currently serving a double life term.The case came to light in 2017, when Vadakumchery, a senior priest at the church-run senior secondary school in Kottiyoor who was set to become a bishop, was accused of raping a 17 -year-old girl student of the school. The girl later gave birth to a son.In her petition filed on July 17, the rape survivor, now 22, has sought SC’s permission to marry the accused citing the enrolment of her five-year-old son in a school, which requires a marriage certificate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-take-up-rape-victim-s-plea-to-marry-convicted-former-priest-today-101627843042249.html
02-08-2021||India||Parties oppose Tamil Nadu CM’s plans to demolish PWD quarters||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu on Sunday objected to the DMK government’s move to demolish the staff quarters of the Public Works Department (PWD) in Madurai for constructing a world-class library in memory of late DMK patriarch and chief minister M Karunanidhi. The opposition AIADMK and its allies, the PMK and the BJP wanted the government to pick another site stating that the late British engineer, Colonel John Pennycuick lived there. In a joint statement, AIADMK leaders O Panneerselvam and Edappadi Palaniswami said the PWD quarters is being maintained by successive governments for the past 100 years. “The structure has to remain so that the younger generations learn about Pennycuick,” their statement read. Pennycuick’s legacy comes from his design for the construction of the Mullaiperiyar dam following a famine which he submitted to the then officials of the Madras Province in 1882, which is considered an engineering marvel. Work began in 1887, and the dam opened in 1895, but the waters and issues over the dam continue to be a dispute between Tamil Nadu and Kerala to this day. In 2014, when the Mullaiperiyar dam touched 142 feet, farmers garlanded the statue of Pennycuick in PWD as it irrigates agricultural regions of Madurai and Theni. The local farmers had also raised this as an issue stating that Pennycuick lived there, but the district officials have rejected the claims. In a statement, Madurai district collector S Aneesh Sekhar said that the building in PWD was constructed in 1912, a year after Pennycuick’s death, so he could not have lived there. On June 3, chief minister M K Stalin had announced that the library, to be named Kalaignar M Karunanidhi Memorial Library, will be established at a cost of ₹70 crore and that it will be modelled on the lines of the Anna Centenary Library in Chennai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parties-oppose-tamil-nadu-cm-s-plans-to-demolish-pwd-quarters-101627842982192.html
02-08-2021||India||GST kitty rebounds to ₹1.16L cr in July||The Goods and Services Tax (GST) collection surged to ₹1.16 lakh crore in July, a 33% year-on-year jump, signifying the easing impact of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy which saw the revenue plunge below ₹1 lakh crore in the previous month for the first time since October 2020.The GST revenue in July this year, which indicates the actual volume of business transactions in June, is also about 14% up compared to ₹1.02 lakh crore collected in July 2019, pointing at rapid economic recovery after the second wave that raged in the months of April and May, according to official data.The GST collections, after posting above ₹1 lakh crore for eight months in a row, dropped below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021 as the collection in the month was predominantly related to business that took place in the month of May 2021, when most of the states and Union territories (UTs) were under complete or partial lockdown due to the pandemic, the finance ministry said.“With the easing out of Covid restrictions, GST collection for July 2021 has again crossed ₹1 lakh crore, which clearly indicates that the economy is recovering at a fast pace. The robust GST revenues are likely to continue in the coming months too,” it said in a statement.The International Monetary Fund (IMF) last week slashed India’s growth forecast for FY-22 to 9.5% from 12.5% projected in April, citing the severe second wave of the pandemic, and expected slow recovery in business confidence. Most of the professional forecasters also reduced their growth projections for India. Last month, global rating agency S&P lowered India’s GDP growth forecast to 9.5% in the current fiscal year compared to its prediction of 11% in March, which was just before the second wave.The GST collections, which dropped for seven consecutive months from March 2020 after a 68-day nationwide lockdown since March 25 to check the first wave, showed recovery from October last year. The revenue surpassed the ₹1 lakh crore mark for eight consecutive months since October 2020. The second wave of the pandemic, however, led to the GST collections dipping below ₹1 lakh crore in June 2021. The revenue, however, bounced back quickly as there was no nationwide lockdown this year, according to experts.Aditya Singhania, partner at consultancy firm Singhania’s GST Consultancy Co, said: “Collection during the July ’21 majorly relates to supplies taken place in June ’21 whose collection has bounced back to mark of ₹1 lakh crore, which certainly indicates the economic activities restoring steadily.”The gross GST revenue collected in July 2021 is ₹1,16,393 crore — ₹22,197 crore central GST (CGST), ₹28,541 crore state GST (SGST), and ₹57,864 crore integrated GST (IGST), including ₹27,900 crore collected on import of goods. ₹7,790 crore was collected as the GST cess, including ₹815 crore collected on imports.“During the month, revenue from import of goods was 36% higher and the revenues from domestic transaction (including import of services) are 32% higher than the revenues from these sources during the same month last year,” the finance ministry said. MS Mani, senior director at Deloitte India, said: “The improvement in GST collections both on domestic transactions and imports, accompanied by the fact that major producing states have shown significant increases, would indicate that the economic activities have resumed across the country.”According to the official data, barring Daman and Diu, Lakshadweep and Puducherry, all other states and UTs have shown positive year-on-year growth in July GST collections. The revenue of Maharashtra in July jumped 51% at ₹18,899 crore; Gujarat saw a 36% growth at ₹7,629 crore; Karnataka 12% ( ₹6,737 crore); Tamil Nadu 36% ( ₹6,302 crore); Uttar Pradesh 18% ( ₹6,011 crore) and Haryana 53% ( ₹5,330 crore).Rajat Bose, partner at law firm Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co, said the collection in July has seen a sharp uptick due to unlocking of businesses in June. “If the country is able to resist the third wave, the GST collections should increase from hereon,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gst-kitty-rebounds-to-1-16l-cr-in-july-101627842922804.html
02-08-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram defuse border row||Guwahati/SilcharThe political standoff between Assam and Mizoram over a violent showdown at their disputed border that killed seven people and injured 41 others last Monday appeared to abate on Sunday after chief ministers of both the states agreed to resolve the issue through talks.Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga urged the people of his state to “avoid posting sensitive messages” on social media, as his Assam counterpart, Himanta Biswa Sarma, spoke of keeping “the spirit of the North-east alive”.“…we agreed to resolve the Mizoram-Assam border issue amicably through meaningful dialogue. In the meantime, in order to prevent any possible escalation of the situation, I request the people of Mizoram to avoid posting sensitive messages and make judicious use of their social media platform,” Zoramthanga, who is in quarantine after contact with a Covid-19-infected person, said on Twitter.Sarma, in his tweet, said that the chief ministers are likely to hold another round of discussions after Zoramthanga is out of quarantine.“Our main focus is on keeping the spirit of North-East alive. What happened along the Assam-Mizoram border is unacceptable to the people of both states. Honble CM Zoramthanga has promised to call me post his quarantine,” Sarma said.“Border disputes can only be resolved through discussion,” he said, a day after seeking a probe into the clashes by a “neutral agency”.The Mizoram police filed an FIR against Sarma and six Assam officials in Kolasib district, under various charges including those related to attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy.Mizoram chief secretary Lalnunmawia Chuango, however, on Sunday said the state’s chief minister has frowned upon charges levelled against Sarma, and indicated these are likely to be withdrawn.“I will discuss with the concerned police officer who filed the FIR and if there’s no legal fit in that, we would like to remove name of Assam chief minister from the FIR,” Chuango told reporters in Aizawl.Kolasib superintendent of police Vanlalfaka Ralte said that the police will not proceed with the case against Sarma. “The case is not withdrawn, but we are not going to investigate matter against Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma in order to have a peaceful atmosphere,” Ralte said.Later in the day, Sarma said he is ready to report to Mizoram Police if summoned and faced arrest but will not allow state government officials whose name appeared in the FIR along with his to face any probe by the neighbouring state.“If I am served a summon, I will go on a padyatra from Silchar to Vairengte and join the probe. If they (Mizoram Police) arrest me and that brings the situation to normal, I am ready for that. I will not seek bail from Gauhati High Court,” he told reporters.“I have to protect my officers. I cannot allow them to be investigated by Mizoram Police for an incident which occurred in Assam. We will not accept the summons issued to them,” Sarma added.The Assam Police have also issued summons to six officials of the Mizoram government, including the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of Kolasib district.Newly appointed Cachar district superintendent of police Ramandeep Kaur said none of the Mizoram officials had appeared to record their statements so far. “None of them has come today. We will send notices to them again and if they fail to appear, we will send summons through court. The situation on the ground is normal, but while our security personnel have withdrawn from the border areas and it is being manned by CRPF personnel, Mizoram is yet to call back their forces,” she said.Sunday’s development came after Union home minister Amit Shah spoke to Sarma and Zoramthanga telephonically earlier in the day to defuse the border tension between the two North-eastern neighbours.The situation on the ground, however, remained tense, with Mizoram alleging that Assam was imposing a blockade in the Barak Valley region, and blocking medical supplies. “As per our information, a state-sponsored economic blockade has been clamped in Assam. Vehicles carrying consignments of essential commodities and life-saving medicines are stranded in the Dholai-Lailapur area in Assam. We will approach the Centre again to take the initiative for resumption of movement of traffic,” Mizoram health minister R Lalthangliana said. Assam has refuted reports of an economic blockade.The gunbattle at the border on Monday came two days after the chief ministers shared a stage with Shah and spoke of resolving the border dispute amicably. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is in power in Assam and Mizoram is ruled by the Mizo National Front, a part of the North East Democratic Alliance headed by the BJP.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972 when it became a Union Territory. It became a state in 1987. The territorial dispute has festered since then and fuelled sporadic clashes, the latest of which rocked the region in August 2020 and February 2021.The dispute stems primarily from a difference in perception. Mizoram goes by an 1875 border agreement but Assam follows a 1933 demarcation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-defuse-border-row-101627842922214.html
02-08-2021||India||Opposition to raise concerns over Insurance bill||With chances of a settlement between the government and the Opposition ebbing with each passing day in Parliament, the opposition parties have now flagged The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, as their new concern.West Bengal finance minister Amit Mitra has written to Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, expressing his “shock and alarm” at the policy direction of the Centre “to privatise public insurance companies”. In his letter, Mitra argued that the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC), has 17.4 million retail insurers and provides employment to more than 13,000 employees. “We must recognise that LIC’s quantum investment in our economy is a staggering ₹36.76 lakh crore out of which ₹23.75 crore is in government securities… it is evident that privatising LIC would lead to opening a Pandora’s Box, throwing into insecurity 30 crore policyholders.”While Mitra termed the legislation, tabled last week in the Lok Sabha, as anti-people, opposition parties made it clear that the Pegasus snooping row would be their top issue in this session.“We are clear that the only resolution can be that either the Prime Minister or the home minister has to reply to a debate on the Pegasus in Parliament,” said Derek O’Brien. “All opposition parties are on the same page,” he added.Various Opposition leaders are submitting notice for debate on subjects that include the words “national security” or “espionage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-to-raise-concerns-over-insurance-bill-101627842205935.html
02-08-2021||India||House panel’s Ladakh, J&K visit from August 17||The parliamentary standing committee on home affairs will travel to Ladakh and Jammu & Kashmir from August 17 to 21 for a detailed study on matters relating to the administration, development and people’s welfare in the two Union Territories.According to a communication from Rajya Sabha secretariat, the committee members will hold meetings with select stakeholders related to the subject along with representatives from the ministry of home affairs and administrations of the UTs. While the committee headed by Congress Rajya Sabha MP Anand Sharma has 28 members, it is not yet known how many will travel to the two UTs.The panel has also desired to review and brief about the working conditions of the three armed forces — Indo-Tibet Border Police, Central Reserve Police Force and Border Security Force — which are deployed in the region, it added.The committee is also likely to visit the border outposts (BoPs) manned by the ITBP and BSF along the Indo-China and Indo-Pakistan border, respectively, officials said.The visit comes over a month after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a high-level interaction with mainstream political parties of Jammu and Kashmir. The June 24 meeting was the first outreach by the Centre since it revoked the region’s special status on August 5, 2019, bifurcating the erstwhile state into two Union territories (UT).Congress’ Ghulam Nabi Azad, National Conference leaders Dr Farooq Abdullah and Omar Abdullah and Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti were among the leaders present at the meeting, who called for restoration of statehood to J&K.On Wednesday, the MHA informed Parliament that full statehood to J&K will be restored at an appropriate time once normalcy is restored.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/house-panel-s-ladakh-j-k-visit-from-aug-17-101627842146619.html
02-08-2021||India||Government plans Covaxin trials in Bangladesh to enhance its recognition abroad||New Delhi: The Indian government, in a bid to enhance the recognition of indigenous coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), plans to facilitate its clinical trials in Bangladesh, according to an internal government document.The document, which has been reviewed by HT, adds that the government has secured approval for funding the clinical trials in Bangladesh. The Indian government, through its missions abroad, also facilitated the regulatory approval of Covaxin by drug regulators in various countries, the document said.“To enhance the recognition of Covaxin abroad, especially in the neighbourhood, a proposal was mooted for its trials in Bangladesh. Towards this end, MEA (ministry of external affairs) facilitated the visit of a team of officials from Department of Biotechnology and Bharat Biotech to Dhaka to discuss the proposal with Bangladeshi officials. MEA also obtained approval for funding the clinical trials in Bangladesh. The trials can begin upon approval by Bangladeshi authorities.”Reuters reported in January, citing an official at Bangladesh’s medical research body that Bharat Biotech applied to conduct trials for Covaxin in the country.No Covaxin doses have been supplied to Bangladesh. India has so far provided 3.3 million Covishield doses as grant and 7 million doses commercially to Bangladesh, according to the vaccine supply web portal maintained by the external affairs ministry.According to people familiar with the developments in New Delhi and Dhaka, the Bangladesh Medical Research Council (BMRC) approved the trials of Covaxin in the country on July 18.BMRC chairman Syed Modasser Ali, the former health adviser to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, signed off on the move, the people said.The approval apparently followed a push from the Indian side. However, the people cited above said that there wasn’t much interest in Covaxin in some quarters in Bangladesh as the country has signed agreements with China for 30 million doses of Sinopharm vaccine and is set to ink a separate deal for millions of doses of Russia’s Sputnik V.The Bangladeshi side is also upset over the Serum Institute of India’s inability to deliver 30 million doses of the Covishield vaccine under a contract signed last November. Vaccine exports from India were halted in April amid a devastating second wave of infections. Under the agreement with SII, Bangladesh was to get five million doses each month from January to June 2021.HT reached out to Bharat Biotech for a comment but did not get a response immediately.Bangladesh is one of five countries (the others are Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Nepal, and Pakistan) that are part of the China-led China South Asian Countries Emergency Supplies Reserve and the Poverty Alleviation and Cooperative Development Centre, both formed earlier this month. The first is expected to make vaccines easily available to its members.Earlier this month, the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech released data from the final analysis of Covaxin and said that the vaccine demonstrated overall efficacy of 77.8% against symptomatic infection. It added that Covaxin has now received emergency use authorizations in 16 countries including, Brazil, India, Philippines, Iran, Mexico, etc. with EUA’s in process in 50 countries worldwide. The company is in discussions with WHO to obtain emergency Use Listing for COVAXIN, it noted. Bharat Biotech has cancelled its agreement with two firms, one based in Brazil, and another in Dubai, for the supply of Covaxin to Brazil after the country scrapped a deal to buy Covaxin following graft allegations. Late last week, the country’s drugs regulator also rejected Bharat Biotech’s application for an emergency use licence. In a response to a Parliament query last wee the health ministry said it is “aware of media reports of some controversy around contracts and regulatory approvals for supply of Covaxin to Brazil. This however relates exclusively to an agreement between a commercial entity i.e. M/s Bharat Biotech and a foreign country.”Bharat Biotech’s repeated announcements about enhancing capacity have not resulted in an increase in output of Covaxin. Health minister Mansukh Mandaviya said in Parliament last week that the company would deliver 25 million doses in July and 35 million in August.The government document also mentions the foreign ministry’s efforts to take Covaxin global.“MEA, through its Missions abroad, facilitated the regulatory approval process of COVAXIN by drug regulators in various countries. We facilitated meetings of regulatory authorities of various countries with Bharat Biotech…Our Missions continue to facilitate the approval process in several other countries by reaching out to the host government at various levels and sharing various technical data as provided by Bharat Biotech. Foreign Secretary held a meeting with the leadership of Bharat Biotech and assured full support of MEA in its application process for WHO Emergency use listing (EUL) of COVAXIN,” it said.HT on May 1 reported Centre is exploring the possibility of offering the locally developed coronavirus vaccine, Covaxin that has been jointly developed by Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), for production abroad through a technology transfer between commercial entitiesIndia has also received enquiries from other countries for the export of Covaxin, HT reported on May 24. New Delhi has been approached by at least two countries, Hungary and Paraguay for the commercial export of 1 million doses of Covaxin, with the first holding forth the possibility of access to the EU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-plans-covaxin-trials-in-bangladesh-to-enhance-its-recognition-abroad-101627842144380.html
02-08-2021||India||No passport, jobs’ clearance for stone pelters: J&K Police||The Criminal Investigation Department (CID) of the Jammu and Kashmir Police has issued an order, denying security clearance for passport and other government services to all those involved in “law and order and stone pelting cases”.“All the field units of CID SB Kashmir are hereby directed to ensure that during verification related to passport, services and any other verification to government services/schemes, the subjects involvement in law and order, stone pelting cases and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into and same must be corroborated from the local police station records,” said the order issued by the senior superintendent of police (SSP), CID.The order added that any digital evidence like CCTV footage, photographs, videos and audio clips, quadcopter images available in the records of the police, security forces, and security agencies be also referred during the verification process. “Any subject found involved in any such cases must be denied the security clearance.”The J&K wing of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) welcomed the move, saying that it would serve as a severe blow to those conspiring against the country and fleeing abroad to escape accountability.Talking to news agency PTI, BJP chief Ravinder Raina said some “anti-national powers” in Jammu & Kashmir support terrorism and Pakistan and “use passports to flee the country and also get absorbed in government jobs besides getting contracts of (developmental) projects. As per the new order, they will not get the security clearance which is a good step and will serve as a severe blow to such elements”.National Conference (NC) vice-president Omar Abdullah, however, criticised the order, saying: “An ‘adverse police report’ cannot be a substitute for being found guilty in a court of law. A year and a half ago J&K police were able to create an ‘adverse police report’ to justify my detention under the Public Safety Act that would never have stood up to legal challenge,” the NC leader wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-passport-jobs-clearance-for-stone-pelters-j-k-police-101627842144879.html
02-08-2021||India||Heavy rains to persist in central, northwest India: IMD||Many parts of central and northwest India, particularly east Rajasthan, have seen extremely heavy rain in the last 24 hours, which, scientists at the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predict will last for the next two or three days. However, apart from bringing relief to the parched region, the heavy monsoon showers have also caused flooding and damage to roads at a few places.IMD scientists said Saiwad in Jaipur district recorded exceptionally high rainfall of 30cm between Saturday and Sunday. Makrana in Nagaur followed closely behind with 24cm rainfall and Hurda in Bhilwara with 22cm. Other places that also received significant rainfall were North Lakhimpur in Assam with 17cm; Rewa in Madhya Pradesh, Danta Ramgarh and Bhinai in Rajasthan with 15cm each; Pali, Jaitram and Ajmer in Rajasthan with 14cm each; and the Delhi Ridge with 14cm.Between June 1 and July 31, northwest India recorded 2% rain deficiency but Haryana, Chandigarh and the Delhi region recorded 50% excess rain, with Delhi and Haryana recording 43% and 51% excess rain, respectively. “As predicted, east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh are recording extremely heavy rain that is likely to continue for the next 2-3 days. Parts of northwest India will also get good rain. Saiwad in Jaipur district has possibly made a historical record with 30cm rain in 24 hours. There is a low-pressure area south of Delhi that is likely to become less marked while another low-pressure area is likely to move towards east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh. That will bring very heavy rain to Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh,” said RK Jenamani, senior scientist, national weather forecasting centre, IMD.Rain distribution has been skewed in June and July. Northeast India has a rain deficiency of 13% with Arunachal Pradesh recording a 37% deficiency. Assam and Meghalaya have 24% deficiency while Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura have recorded 35% deficiency. Gujarat and the Kutch region have recorded 32% and 36% deficiency, respectively, while Kerala and Lakshadweep have recorded 28% and 49% shortfall. Overall, the country has recorded a 1% rain deficiency.Parts of the country can look forward to more rain in the days to come. A well-marked low-pressure area is lying over southeast Uttar Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is likely to move westwards to east Rajasthan across north Madhya Pradesh and adjoining southwest Uttar Pradesh during the next two days. A low-pressure area is also lying over the southern parts of Haryana and its neighbourhood. It is likely to become less marked during the next 24 hours.IMD is expecting normal to above-normal rain over many parts in August due to La Nina conditions, a global meteorological phenomenon that brings about harsh winters and above-normal monsoon in India. O P Sreejith, head, climate monitoring and prediction group at IMD, said that in the past 50 years, there has been a trend of reduced rain in August, but this year could buck that trend due to the cooling of Pacific waters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rains-to-persist-in-central-northwest-india-imd-101627842082738.html
02-08-2021||India||Indian, Chinese armies set up hotline in eastern sector||The Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Sunday established a new hotline in the eastern sector to enable local commanders from both sides to speak directly and resolve differences on the ground, officials familiar with the development said.The hotline has been established between commanders of the Indian Army at Kongra La in North Sikkim and the PLA at Khamba Dzong in Tibetan Autonomous Region, the Indian Army said in a statement.The latest hotline was activated a day after the two armies held the 12th round of talks in the Ladakh sector to cool tensions along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). The setting up of the hotline in the eastern sector coincided with the PLA Day.This is the sixth hotline for local commanders between the two armies — two in eastern Ladakh, two in Arunachal Pradesh and two in Sikkim.The hotline has been established to “further the spirit of trust and cordial relations along the borders,” the Indian Army statement said.Such hotlines are used routinely to resolve differences at the local level, including the Ladakh sector, where the two armies have been locked in a border row for almost 15 months and negotiations are on to ease tensions.The two hotlines in the Ladakh sector have been activated more than 1,450 times since May 2020 to sort out differences at the ground level.“The armed forces of the two countries have well-established mechanisms for communication at the ground commander level. These hotlines in various sectors go a long way in enhancing the same and maintaining peace and tranquillity at the borders,” the army statement said.Top Indian and Chinese commanders on Saturday met in the Ladakh sector in the latest attempt to reduce border tensions between the two countries, amid hopes in some quarters of reaching an understanding on the disengagement of rival soldiers from Hot Springs and Gogra.The 12th round of military talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) began at 10.30am and ended at 7.30pm at Moldo on the Chinese side of the LAC. The outcome of the dialogue is not yet known, with officials saying that a statement is likely to be issued on Monday.India and China have been locked in a border row since May 2020, a phase that witnessed a deadly skirmish in the Galwan Valley and heightened tensions between the rival armies on the north and south banks of Pangong Tso last year. The two armies kicked off talks to reduce border tensions in June 2020.Before Saturday, the corps commander-ranked officers met on April 9 when the Indian Army told the PLA that disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border was crucial for the de-escalation of the conflict.Some forward movement is expected in hammering out a disengagement agreement for Hot Springs and Gogra, as reported by HT on Friday.While the Indian and Chinese armies began negotiations to resolve the border row in eastern Ladakh on June 6, the talks have only had limited success so far.The only significant outcome has been the disengagement of front-line troops and weaponry from the Pangong Tso sector in mid-February after the ninth round of talks. Problems at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang are yet to be resolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hotline-set-up-between-indian-chinese-armies-in-eastern-sector-101627841964421.html
02-08-2021||India||Minorities must be treated as ‘weaker sections’: NCM||The National Commission for Minorities (NCM) has told the Supreme Court that minorities have to be treated as the “weaker sections” in India, where Hindus are “predominant,” as the body justified the Union government’s various schemes for religious minorities.“In our country like India where the majority community is predominant, the minorities have to be treated as the weaker sections within the meaning of Article 46,” said NCM’s affidavit submitted in the Supreme Court before a bench headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman. Article 46 obligates the State to promote educational and economic interests of the weaker sections.Responding to a petition filed jointly by six members of the Hindu community against the creation of the commission and special schemes meant exclusively for religious minorities, NCM maintained that “numerically smaller or weaker classes are bound to be suppressed and overpowered by the dominant majority groups” if special provisions and schemes were not framed by the government.It added that the pertinent constitutional provisions on framing special schemes could not be limited to caste-based identities and must include in its fold religious minorities to ensure practical and empirical equality of all groups and classes in the society.The Centre and the NCM have notified Muslims, Christians, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains and Parsis as minority communities in India. Contending that only Hindus, Sikhs and Buddhists could get benefits as scheduled castes, the commission argued that if these special provisions were valid despite being religion-specific, special provisions for religious minorities were also justified in the same manner.The commission emphasised that the interpretation of the Constitution coupled with judicial trends would demonstrate that religious and linguistic minorities “have to be” treated as specific identities entitled to special protection by the state.Creation of NCM, the affidavit said, was the manifestation of a pre-existing human rights organisation to oversee the enforcement of the human rights of religious minorities and that there was nothing in the Constitution that made it doubtful whether minorities based on religion or language could be lawfully identified as particular classes of citizens requiring special protection and safeguards. Rejecting a contention in this regard by the petitioners, NCM submitted that it was for the government to declare any community as a minority and it was unlikely that the government resorted to “instigation” of any community to claim minority status to benefit from various schemes.The petition filed through advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain contended that the petitioners were being unconstitutionally deprived of benefits available to similarly situated members of religious minorities in violation of their fundamental rightsEarlier, the Centre also defended the welfare schemes for religious minorities. The case came up for hearing on July 30, when the Centre sought time to file some additional documents. The court will examine the replies of NCM and the Centre on August 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/minorities-must-be-treated-as-weaker-sections-ncm-101627841542072.html
02-08-2021||India||Tamil Nadu and Karnataka raise curbs at Kerala border||As a surge in Covid-19 cases continues in Kerala, with more than 100,000 cases over the last five days, neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have restricted the entry of travellers from the state. Winding queues are visible at border checkpoints as both states tighten security measures.Nearly one in every two new Covid-19 infections recorded in India over the past week have come from Kerala, defying the national trend of falling infections since the decline of the country’s brutal second wave of infections.On Sunday, Kerala recorded 20,728 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday, pushing the caseload to 3,411,489, while 56 new deaths took the toll to 16,837.The coastal state’s test positivity rate (TPR) also remained high at 12.14%, while the national average is 2.34%.According to the data released by the state health ministry, active cases also surged to 167,379, accounting for more than one-third of the active cases of the country.Amid the surge, the Tamil Nadu government on Sunday announced a special surveillance measure, mandating a negative RT-PCR certificate for people arriving to the state from Kerala from August 5.Till Sunday, Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 2,561,587 with 1,990 new cases, while the toll reached 26 with 34,102 fresh fatalities.Earlier, the Karnataka government also issued an order, mandating a negative RT-PCR certificate for those arriving from Kerala and Maharashtra.Karnataka on Sunday logged 1,875 new cases, taking its tally to 2,906,999. The state recorded 25 deaths on Sunday.According to the data released from the state health ministry, in at least four Kerala districts, the reproduction number (R value) is above 1.2%. R value is an indicator on how quickly the infection is spreading and gives a clear picture on how many people on an average get infected from a Covid-19 patient.“The latest sero survey shows at least 50 per cent of the population is vulnerable. We have noticed the presence of new Delta variants in different parts of the state,” said Kerala health minister Veena George, adding that the government is also planning to redraw its strategies as the next three weeks are crucial.Meanwhile, as frequent lockdowns cripple normal lives, the government is planning to focus on micro-containment zones and allow shops and business establishments to function as usual. A majority of the shops open alternately, while there is a complete lockdown on weekends. An expert panel from the Centre for Disease Control visited some of the worst-affected districts in north Kerala and has asked health officials to tighten curbs only in micro-containment zones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-and-k-taka-raise-curbs-at-kerala-border-101627841483625.html
02-08-2021||India||‘Alice in Wonderland’ syndrome: 63-year-old from Pune treated for “one in a million” Lilliputian hallucinations||A 63-year-old man, Pramod Patil, (name changed) started having recurrent bouts of hallucinations of being attacked by a hundreds of men. The strangest thing about his episodes, was the size of the imaginary men attacking him, no bigger than the size of his fingers. He started getting these hallucinations around six months ago. His family ignored the episodes at first, but with increased recurrence he was taken to a city hospital. After months of treatment the hallucinations have stopped and doctors say he has almost recovered. He was diagnosed with Lilliputian hallucinations, with which people or things seem smaller than their actual size. The rare neuropsychological condition sees the patient experience it often, not knowing that the distorted perception and hallucinations are an illusion. It is also called the “Alice in Wonderland” syndrome, a condition where visual perception is altered. Named after the famous children’s book “Alice in Wonderland”, where the main character Alice goes through metamorphic changes after eating or drinking particular foods and liquids. Patil would get at least two episodes a day lasting five minutes each, and was taken for a psychiatric evaluation. Patil said, “Around 200 people used to attack me. They were very small in size. My family members say that I then used to shout at them in a very loud voice. I am a retired person, and I stay home all the time. In a day, at least twice, I used to get a thought that I am being attacked by tiny people. Now, I can sleep peacefully and I do not get any thoughts that I am being attacked.”Dr Dharmendra Kendre, a neuropsychiatrist from Noble Hospital who treated the patient, said, “This is a very rare case with one in one million seen with such a disorder. Lilliputian hallucination is nothing but a false perception about things without stimulus. This can happen because of intake of certain drugs like cocaine and cannabis. Metabolic or electrolyte imbalance can also cause this hallucination. We can also see such cases in people with temporal lobe brain tumours, dementia and schizophrenia. Treatment is offered according to the cause behind the hallucination.” Dr Kendre added, “In Pramod’s case this might have been caused by some post-traumatic stress. He has been taking treatment for the last three months. We have prescribed him antipsychotic medicines and counselling sessions. In the case of senior citizens, even post-traumatic stress or prolonged sleeplessness can cause Lilliputian hallucination. In such cases, patients should immediately visit a psychiatrist for early recovery.” The doctor mentioned that after several months of medications, counselling, the occurrence of hallucinations slowly reduced with medications and he is no longer experiencing hallucinations now. Dr Shrikant Pawar, psychiatrist working at the Maharashtra Institute of Mental Health, Sassoon hospital, said, “It is a very rare disorder and because of a stigma attached and discrimination. Cases related to such hallucinations are poorly reported in India. However, people must note that such hallucinations and conditions are a treatable disorder with proper medications and counselling.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alice-in-wonderland-syndrome-63-year-old-treated-for-one-in-a-million-lilliputian-hallucinations-101627836621807.html
02-08-2021||India||Former Manipur Congress chief Govindas Konthoujam joins BJP ahead of polls||After resigning from the primary membership of the Congress party and the Manipur assembly, former president of Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee, Govindas Konthoujam on Sunday joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in New Delhi ahead of the state assembly elections next year.Konthoujam’s entry to the BJP was announced by the party’s national media in-charge and national spokesperson Anil Baluni in the presence of Manipur chief minister Nongthombam Biren Singh, senior party leader Sambit Patra and Manipur Pradesh chief A Sharda Devi. “Giving a major boost to @bjp4Manipur, former Manipur Congress President, Shri @KonthoujamG joined Bharatiya Janata Party today in presence of Shri @sambitswaraj,Prabhari BJP Manipur and Smt @AShardaDevi, President BJP Manipur,” the chief minister tweeted. With Konthoujam’s resignation last week, the 60-member Manipur assembly has been reduced to a strength of 53 members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-manipur-congress-chief-govindas-konthoujam-joins-bjp-101627811481071.html
