03-08-2021||India||Nagaland assembly adopts resolution, NSCN (IM) protests against Centre’s silence||Nagaland assembly on Tuesday adopted a resolution asking all Naga political groups to unite to expedite the peace process while the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN-IM) registered its protest against the Centre’s “silence” on the Framework Agreement which they had signed six years ago to resolve the Naga issue.Major towns in Nagaland including the streets of state capital Kohima bore a deserted look on Tuesday morning after the NSCN (IM) called for a 12-hour closure of shops and business establishments across Naga inhabited areas to protest against the Center’s alleged “delay in fulfilling its commitment” on the Naga peace process, made through the Framework Agreement which was signed on 3rd August 2015. The issue dominated the opening day of the monsoon session of the state assembly too, resulting in the adoption of a five-point resolution calling for various Naga political groups to come together and to expedite the peace process.The house appealed to the negotiating parties of the Indo-Naga political issue to resume the peace talks with a positive approach and mutual respect by setting aside pre-conditions, in deference to the Naga people’s cry for long term peace, and resolve the contentious issues of the competencies at the earliest. “The House appeals to all Naga political groups to make serious efforts towards unity and reconciliation. The constant antagonism against each other, especially in public space and the media is sending out a wrong message to the masses, considering the fact that we are all pursuing the same aspiration of peace and political solution. Taking the positive example set by the elected members of the Nagaland Legislative Assembly, who have risen above party affiliations to unite for the Naga political issue, the Naga political groups should make concerted efforts, and listen to the voice of the people for unity and oneness,” stated the resolution, which was moved by chief minister Neiphiu Rio and later adopted unanimously by a voice vote.The House also appealed to the mass-based organisations and the Tribal bodies to make renewed efforts towards creating a conducive atmosphere for the early realisation of a political solution by pursuing unity, reconciliation and oneness. The house also resolved that all the elected members were prepared to make any sacrifices for an inclusive, honourable and acceptable solution. “The House, therefore, appeals to the Naga political negotiating groups to come together in order to hammer out their differences, and give the people One Solution and One Agreement,” the resolution further stated.Meanwhile, the NSCN (IM) issued a statement thanking owners of shops and business establishments in Nagaland and other Naga inhabited areas for “exhibiting the courage to show solidarity to the Framework Agreement”, the Naga people and public for bearing with the inconveniences during the 12-hour closure shutdown.Besides the NSCN (IM), which has been in a ceasefire agreement with the Centre since 1997, a conglomeration of seven different Naga national political groups (NNPGs) were also involved in separate talks with the Centre since 2017. The Centre signed a Framework Agreement with NSCN (IM) in 2015 and it also inked an “agreed position” with the NNPGs in 2017. While it is largely claimed that negotiations have concluded, the NSCN (IM)’s demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution has been a delaying factor in signing a final deal on the Naga peace process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-assembly-adopts-resolution-nscn-im-protests-against-centre-s-silence-101628014832086.html
03-08-2021||India||Delhi not adequately accessible for its residents, finds study||Delhi has ignored the needs of low-income settlements by providing access to adequate public transport and sufficient street space, thereby distancing them from centres of economic opportunity and state-of-the-art services that the national capital offers to planned and richer neighbourhoods, a recent study conducted by policy think-tank Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) found.The study also sheds light on the elephant in the room: Less-then-ideal last-mile connectivity and haphazard urban designs distance cities from sustainable mobility solutions that emerge from the travel patterns of the poor.The report, How accessible are low-income settlements: The case of Delhi, released on Tuesday showed that unplanned, low-income areas in the national capital region have very limited access to affordable and efficient public transport services while the planned and swankier areas are comparatively better connected, but are still not up to the mark."If all settlements of Delhi — planned and unplanned — are not equally well connected with public transport services and are not made accessible, the capital will fail to implement fully its sustainable, low-emission forms of travel such as walking, cycling or public transport," the report highlighted.As per the estimates of the draft Delhi Master Plan 2041 (MPD 2041), the city’s population is expected to touch 27-to-30 million by 2041, and 50% of this increase would happen on account of migration. By then, Delhi would generate 46.2 million motorised trips every day.“If such a massive load of daily motorised travel trips are not shifted to public transport to achieve the MPD 2041 target of a modal split of 80:20 in favour of public and shared transport, Delhi will remain locked in pollution and carbon trap,” says CSE executive director Anumita Roychowdhury.The CSE conducted a ground-level assessment of infrastructure for accessibility in 16 settlements in the southern part of Delhi and took into account neighbourhoods of varying economic status, with a special focus on the vulnerable urban poor.The diverse settlements included unauthorised colonies that have been subsequently regularised such as Tughlakabad Extension, Tigri Extension, Govindpuri, Kalkaji, Khanpur, Pooth Kalan and Khirki Extension; resettlement colonies like Garhi and Zamrudpur in East of Kailash; and slum clusters like Jawaharlal Nehru Camp in Kalkaji. There are also villages that have become part of the urban system like Shahpur Jat and Tughlakabad village.On the other hand, the study also focussed on planned settlements and neighbourhoods of higher-income groups, including East of Kailash, Kailash Colony, Greater Kailash and Chittaranjan Park."While it is challenging to quantify the differences in absolute terms, indicators have been derived from national policies, guidelines, service-level benchmarks, the Ease of Living Index of the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, and a few global indexes related to liveability and accessibility – the aim was to broadly assess the qualitative differences between settlements, the CSE said, adding, "This is a rapid diagnostic study of equity of access, ease and affordability of movement and what determines access in different settlements."The study found that the planned settlements and higher-income neighbourhoods perform better on most criteria compared to unplanned settlements inhabited by the people from the economically weaker section of the society. However, even planned colonies were found to be falling short of the benchmark for accessibility as provided in guidelines and standards and are deficient in public transport-oriented design.Experts warned that the trend is an indication of over-dependence on personal vehicles in these neighbourhoods.“These indicators bring out the relative differences in local conditions related to transport, mobility patterns and connectivity, the status of infrastructure and services, accessibility, and the increase in interchanges due to poor connectivity that has a bearing on journey costs,” says Anannya Das, deputy programme manager with the sustainable mobility programme at CSE.Unplanned colonies, on the other hand, are hugely burdened with legacy problems as they have grown incrementally and without any planning support. They are already very densely built with hugely constrained infrastructure. There is barely any space left to manoeuvre as all vacant and open spaces have ceased to exist.The study found out that the planned areas have, on average, 1.6 times more road space and 1.4 times more open qualitative spaces than the unplanned parts of the city mostly inhabited by people from the economically-weaker section of the society.It further pointed out that planned settlements are about 1.3 times better connected than low-income unplanned settlements. Within the low-income settlements, planned low-income settlements have relatively better chances of being located strategically in relation to a major economic hub and important locations within a city."In unplanned low-income settlements, inter-modal transfer requirement increases the waiting time for a mode by 1.1–1.6 times. Most importantly, this increases the cost of the journey. In fact, the monthly cost of transport increases by 1.5–3.5 times," the CSE finding read.Meanwhile, Roychodhury said the need of the hour was an immediate improvement in neighbourhood-scale accessibility to bus and metro services and minimisation of interchanges."The expectation of MPD 2041 that 50% of Delhi’s population will be within the influence zone of mass transit by 2041 and mixed-use development will encourage a shift towards public transport, can be fulfilled only if neighbourhood-level design and infrastructure improvements for safe and efficient access,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-cse-study-urban-mobility-planned-settlements-transport-facilities-101627998519185.html
03-08-2021||India||BJP arms party MPs with factsheet on Covid response ahead of assembly polls||Expecting the Centre’s handling of the second wave of the Covid pandemic to become a major poll issue in the 2022 state assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has armed its lawmakers with a 34-page booklet, detailing the actions that were taken by the Union government during the crisis. The booklet, drafted by the union ministry of health and family welfare was handed out to the MPs at the BJP’s parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday with the instruction to publicise its contents widely to “counter” the Opposition’s charges against the government’s performance. A party functionary said the details in the booklet will help the lawmakers answer the questions on the government’s response when the party hits the ground for electioneering in states such Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttarakhand, Goa and Manipur, where the impact of the pandemic is expected to be a major poll issue. Apart from these states, elections will also be held in Himachal Pradesh and Punjab next year. Systemic deficiencies exposed during the pandemic resulted in shortfall of oxygen, essential drugs and hospital beds across several states; the Opposition has accused the union government of being unprepared and for focusing on elections in West Bengal instead of containing the spread of the virus that took many lives in the second wave in April and May. The document also lists the quantities of essential medicines such as Remdesivir, Amphotericin B, medical oxygen and the grants that were supplied to each state and UT. As per the document, ₹1,113 crore was sanctioned to 36 states and UTs in the financial year 2019-20 under the national health mission for management and containment of the pandemic while ₹8,257 crore was sanctioned under the emergency response and health system preparedness package in the financial year 2020-21. Referring to the challenges faced during the second wave by the government, the document says, “Due to ongoing field activities in terms of increased testing, surveillance, clinical management and other activities for more than one year, the health system witnessed fatigue.…” It also says that the Health systems in peri- urban and rural areas were strained due to sudden surge in cases amid limited capacity of beds, testing, drugs, oxygen and logistics. Since the Opposition has also questioned the country’s vaccination policy, the booklet has an annexure that details how the vaccination drive has been carried out across India and how it compares to other nations. It says, by July 31, India has administered 456 million doses of the vaccine, of which 120.3 million were administered in July alone. In the corresponding time, UK has administered 84 million doses, the US 343 million doses and Brazil 137 million doses, the booklet says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-arms-party-mps-with-factsheet-on-covid-response-ahead-of-assembly-polls-101628012852601.html
03-08-2021||India||Serosurveys can’t be deduced to estimate undercounting of Covid-19 cases: Centre||Serosurvey reports cannot be deduced to estimate mortality rates of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) or the undercounting of people infected with the virus as they are not meant to cover granularity at state level, NITI Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said on Tuesday. “This isn't the way interpretation of data should be done or convey misleading information,” he added.The statements came amid claims by opposition leaders regarding undercounting of coronavirus cases by the Centre.During the Covid-19 press briefing earlier in the day, Dr Paul, on being asked about the fourth round of Indian Council of Medical Research’s (ICMR) national serosurvey, said that it is carried out with the “specific purpose of enunciating how many people have previous experience of Covid-19.”Dr Paul further explained that all the serosurveys that have been done till now have been done to portray the “national picture of Covid-19.” “Having said that, remember if the antibody is found in any person, it shows that the person has been exposed to Covid-19,” the NITI Aayog member said, adding that mere exposure doesn’t mean it was a case of a “serious disease” or indicates a “life-threatening situation.”Moreover, if in such scenarios, the person in question hasn't got the Covid-19 test done, it is more likely that the case may have been asymptomatic or totally known to the individual, Dr Paul said.“In most cases, above 80%, there are no symptoms; you are totally unaware. This situation cannot be equated with a situation where there is a significant chance of mortality,” he added.The government official further pointed out that serosurveys involve a large number of people who are asymptomatic, and extrapolating those is “irrational and biased.”He said that coronavirus vaccination could also be the reason why antibodies are found in an individual. “At least some part of it has come from the vaccine, and the vaccine is protective. Making a mathematical calculation and drawing a picture of your own is not scientifically valid. This is not a way of data interpretation,” Dr Paul said during the press briefing.The recently released results of the fourth round of national serosurvey, which was conducted across 70 districts in June to July, revealed about 40 crore Indians are still vulnerable to coronavirus as they didn’t have antibodies.The latest serosurvey also included children aged between six and 17, and it showed that two-third of the general population – above six-years-old, had developed Covid-19 antibodies.ICMR director-general, Dr Balram Bhargava, said that the total seroprevalence stood at 67.6%, of which, those between 45 and 60 accounted for the highest at 77.6%. Citizens between 18-44 had 66.7% seroprevalence, while those in the six to nine-year age group and 10-17 years were found to have 57.2% and 61.6% seroprevalence, respectively.Meanwhile, at the same press briefing, joint secretary of Union ministry of health and family welfare, Lav Agarwal said that as many as 18 districts in India are showing an upward trend in daily Covid-19 cases. A total of 10 districts are in Kerala, while three are in Maharashtra – two of the most-affected states in India.Also Read | 18 districts showing rise in daily Covid-19 cases; 10 are in Kerala: CentreBesides, these two states account for 60% of the total active case count in the country, with Kerala’s tally currently at 1,65,834 and Maharashtra’s at 78,700, he further told the media persons.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serosurveys-can-t-be-deduced-to-estimate-undercounting-of-covid-19-cases-centre-101628011923606.html
03-08-2021||India||Assam declares part of border along Mizoram no drone zone citing security threat||Assam’s Cachar district administration on Tuesday declared its bordering areas with Mizoram as no-drone-zone citing security threats, four days after Mizoram issued a similar order declaring its area on Assam border as a no-drone-zone.The district administration has also issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) in areas bordering Mizoram and Bangladesh that prohibits assembly of more than four people.According to the order issued by Cachar deputy commissioner, Keerthi Jalli, security in border areas in the district is under threat as some drones were seen crossing from Mizoram’s side of the border recently. It is a matter of concern because anti-social elements in border areas can plan attacks on common people in Assam using these drones, the official order said. “We have declared all the areas under Sonai Revenue Circle and those bordering Mizoram state as no drone zones, where flying of drones and any other unnamed aerial vehicles will be strictly prohibited.... The decision has been taken considering the present situation,” Cachar deputy commissioner Keerthi Jalli said.After the firing between Assam and Mizoram police on July 26, the border areas in both the states are tense. Several political delegations have been stopped from visiting the Lailapur area where the firing killed six Assam cops. A delegation of All Assam Students’ Union from Guwahati was stopped at Dholai Police station on Monday about 10 kilometres from the border citing security reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-declares-part-of-border-along-mizoram-no-drone-zone-citing-security-threat-101628011232448.html
03-08-2021||India||‘Games of skill’: High court scraps TN law that banned online games with stakes||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday struck down an amendment to the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act that banned online games including online rummy and online poker with stakes, ruling that the amendment first inserted in the law by the previous AIADMK government via an ordinance in November 2020, was “ultra vires” to the constitution.The bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said the state completely failed to meet the “least intrusive” measure test by imposing a wide-ranging blanket ban, and therefore, the amendment falls foul of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution which gives people the right to practise any profession.The verdict came on a batch of petitions by online gaming companies challenging the blanket ban.The court said the legislation “has to be regarded as something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and without adequate determining principle such that it is excessive and disproportionate…”The court also drew in international sportspersons to make the distinction in skills of playing sports and games physically on the field, board games such as cards and scrabble and playing in cyberspace.“It is true that Arnold Palmer or Severiano Ballesteros may never have mastered how golf is played on the computer or Messi or Ronaldo may be outplayed by a team of infants in a virtual game of football, but Viswanathan Anand or Omar Sharif would not be so disadvantaged when playing their chosen games of skill on the virtual mode,” the court said.This distinction, the court ruled, is completely lost in the amending Act as the original scheme in the 1930 law to confine gaming to games of chance has been turned upside down and all games were outlawed if played for a stake or for any prize.“There appears to be a little doubt that both rummy and poker are games of skill as they involve considerable memory, working out of percentages, the ability to follow the cards on the table and constantly adjust to the changing possibilities of the unseen cards,” the court said.The bench added that though poker may not have been recognised in any previous judgment in India to be a game of skill, an American case even convinced the Law Commission to accept poker as a game of skill in its 276th Report.The previous AIADMK government brought in the amendment on the ground that teenagers and young adults were losing money in online betting games and cited instances where some of them died by suicide.“All that can be said is that the Amending Act is so unequivocally audacious that it rules out any element of choice that an individual may exercise,” the court said adding that some regulation can still be exercised.The All India Gaming Federation, an apex industry body whose self-regulation charter includes Fantasy Sports, Online Poker, Rummy, welcomed the judgment.“It iterates that the court is not against online gaming, and calls for the government to devise a regulatory framework to provide clarity to the sunrise online gaming industry with a view to encourage investments leading to technological advancements as well as generation of revenue and employment,” said Roland Landers, CEO, All India Gaming Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/games-of-skill-high-court-scraps-tn-law-that-banned-online-games-with-stakes-101628009611854.html
03-08-2021||India||No arrests made in connection with 2020 JNU violence: Centre||On Tuesday, the Central government informed Parliament that Delhi Police haven’t arrested anyone so far in connection with the violence that took place in the Jawaharlal Nehru University in January 2020.While replying to the question of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) Member of Parliament (MP) Dayanidhi Maran, minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said the Delhi Police have constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Crime Branch to investigate three cases registered at Vasant Kunj police station in south Delhi regarding the January 2020 violence in JNU campus. “The investigation conducted inter-alia includes the examination of witnesses; collection and analysis of footages; and examination of identified suspects. As reported by Delhi Police, no arrest has been made in these cases” Rai further said in Lok Sabha.Tagging the reply, the DMK leader tweeted, “Sad to see that a year and a half later, no progress has been made to deliver justice to the students of JNU.”On January 5, 2020, around 100 masked individuals, armed with rods and hammers, unleashed violence at the JNU campus, attacking students and ransacking hostels and other buildings for four hours before the police intervened, leaving 36 students,staff and teachers injured. An FIR against the attack was filed and the case was transferred to the Crime Branch.Several witness accounts and videos indicated that in most places, police personnel present at JNU did almost nothing to stop the violence, and, in fact, allowed the attackers to exit the university without apprehending them.JNU Students Union president Aishe Ghosh was among the several students who suffered severe injuries in the attack and her photos with a bleeding head triggered widespread anger across the nation.Soon, the JNU students launched major protests against the attack both inside and outside the boundaries of the campus. Several student unions and colleges stood in solidarity and protests emerged in various cities like Mumbai, Chennai, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata and Ahmedabad.Several opposition leaders had denounced the violence and accused the central government of being involved in the attack on students. However, the BJP had said that the violence was “ a desperate attempt by forces of anarchy, who are determined to use students as cannon fodder”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-arrests-made-in-connection-with-2020-jnu-violencecentre-101628009551788.html
03-08-2021||India||Violence in Afghanistan could affect neighbourhood and beyond: Jaishankar||The violent transition underway in Afghanistan has exacerbated the challenge posed by terrorism and its impact will be felt in the neighbourhood and beyond if it is left unattended, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Tuesday. In a virtual address to the inaugural session of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) Academic Forum, Jaishankar reiterated India’s concerns about the legitimacy of any dispensation that comes to power in Kabul through force and called for an inclusive set-up that ensures peace and stability. India has been concerned by the Taliban’s violent campaign to capture territory across Afghanistan, which last week expanded to key cities such as Herat, Lashkargah and Kandahar. New Delhi has maintained that any regime that seeks to capture power through military force will not be legitimate. In his speech, Jaishankar said terrorism thrives in some of the gaps that emerged after multilateral institutions were disadvantaged by “structural inertia, competitive gridlocks, uneven resourcing and skewed navigation”. The nursery of terrorism “lies in conflict-ridden spaces made fertile for radicalisation by malign players, including states”, Jaishankar said, in a tacit reference to Pakistan’s role in backing the Taliban. “The transition in Afghanistan that we are seeing today and the warfare that has yet again been forced upon its people has sharpened this challenge. Left unattended, its edge will be deeply felt not just in Afghanistan’s neighbourhood but well beyond,” he said. “We are, therefore, all stakeholders in the quest for a clear, coordinated and undifferentiated response to terrorism. In the 21st century, legitimacy cannot be derived from mass violence, brutal intimidation or covert agendas. Representation, inclusion, peace and stability are inextricably linked,” he said. The Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent normative breakdown have “rudely reminded us that institutions built to tackle problems of the 1940s desperately need to be upgraded and made fit-for-purpose for our century”, Jaishankar said. An expansion of the permanent membership of the UN Security Council is not sufficient to address the gaps that have emerged because multilateral institutions are unable to cope with contemporary challenges, he added. “Too often, we obsess with one or the other response, more effort and action is actually required to fill the gaps,” Jaishankar said. India’s presidency of Brics in 2021 has come at an “inflection point” for the grouping and the pandemic has “demanded a price in terms of economic growth” and challenged timelines for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). “Technology could help us now recover ground and time. India is optimistic on this score, and ready to share what it has harnessed, innovated and learnt in these last years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-in-afghanistan-could-affect-neighbourhood-and-beyond-jaishankar-101628008111799.html
03-08-2021||India||'Congratulations to my young friends': PM Modi wishes CBSE class 10 graduates||Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the students of the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) who received the results of their class 10 board exam on Tuesday.Taking to Twitter, PM Modi wrote, "Congratulations to my young friends who have successfully passed the CBSE Class X examinations. My best wishes to the students for their future endeavours."Congratulations to my young friends who have successfully passed the CBSE Class X examinations. My best wishes to the students for their future endeavours.As many as 20 lakh students across the country had registered themselves for CBSE class 10 board examinations this year, of which 99.04% have cleared it. The results of as many as 16,639 were under process, the CBSE said.CBSE has not released the merit and the topper list for the class 10 board exam as it was cancelled this year owing to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Earlier in the day, Union education minister Dharmendra Pradhan congratulated the students who cleared the examination and wished them success.The students can check their results of their CBSE class 10 board examination on http://cbseresults.nic.inTrivandrum region was adjudged the best-performing region out of the 16 regions, with a 99.99% success rate, while Delhi secured a 98.19% pass rate.The CBSE said while 2,00,962 students secured between 90% and 95% marks, a total of 57,824 class 10 examinees (2.76% of the total students) secured 95% marks and above.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-cbse-class-10-board-exam-results-2021-wishes-success-101628004422764.html
03-08-2021||India||Helmets, I-card recovered from Army chopper crash site, pilots missing||The fate of two Indian Army pilots, one a lieutenant colonel and another a captain, was not known after their Rudra helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot on Tuesday, even as search and rescue crews recovered the wreckage of the chopper along with some pilot gear, officials familiar with the development said.The items recovered by search parties included chopper skids, fuel tanks, stabilizer, helmets and the identity card of one of the two pilots, said one of the officials cited above.The Rudra helicopter, built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake, said a second official.The Rudra--being an army helicopter—didn’t have an emergency flotation gear (EFG) and the crew was unlikely to be wearing life preservers, said commander KP Sanjeev Kumar (retd), a military aviation expert and former experimental test pilot.“If the helicopter is operating within gliding distance of shore/land, life preservers, EFG and life raft are not mandated. Occasionally, such helicopters may be required to operate over water. That’s ‘risk exposure,’ he said.The helicopter belonged to the army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021. Four Rudra helicopters have been involved in mishaps in as many years.The Rudra is a weaponised version of the indigenously built advanced light helicopter Dhruv. The army operates six Rudra squadrons with 10 helicopters each.Search and rescue involved specialized divers and Dhruv and Cheetah helicopters. In the evening, a heavy-lift Chinook helicopter also joined the search.Locals claimed the chopper used to hover over the dam and drop a pipe into the water every day. The moment it dropped the pipe on Tuesday morning, it crashed, they added.Kathua SSP Ramesh Kotwal said the chopper crashed around 10.45 am. “While deep water divers are on the job, the operation will take time. Police and local boatmen retrieved some floating material from the lake. It will take time to retrieve the entire wreckage. We retrieved two helmets,” he said, adding that the lake was up to 250 feet deep.“The area where the chopper crashed has been zeroed in. Special Forces of the army, deep water divers are on the job, but the water is not clear,” he said.Army ambulances, two helicopters, senior army officers and civil administration officials were present on the spot. The dam is located about 30 km from Pathankot.There are four weapon stations on the Rudra with a turret gun in its nose area. The helicopters are also equipped with air-to-air missiles, 70 mm rockets and 20 mm turret guns. Capable of firing anti-tank guided missiles, it is also equipped with infrared jammers and obstacle avoidance systems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/helmets-i-card-recovered-from-army-chopper-crash-site-pilots-missing-101628005351709.html
03-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Chhattisgarh makes negative RT-PCR report must for flyers and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Chhattisgarh makes negative RT-PCR test report must for flyers from August 8Flyers who have taken both the shots of Covid-19 vaccine are also required to furnish report of Covid-19 test done within 96 hours and showing them as negative. Read moreRS member seeks govt intervention to address issue of travel ban by Saudi, other Gulf nationsExternal affairs minister S Jaishankar told the Rajya Sabha member that the Centre is speaking to the GCC states for a solution to the flight ban, according to a release issued by Kumar’s office. Read moreBJP says 2 workers killed in Bengal after attack on Abhishek Banerjee’s carBengal BJP chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya has accused TMC leader Udayan Guha of instigating ‘violence’ against BJP workers in the state after an attack on Abhishek Banerjee’s car in Tripura on Monday. Read moreCan India's batters return to their defensive strengths?A five-match Test series in the age of T20s is a rarity, but we have one starting today in England. A country that still loves Test cricket the most playing hosts. Read moreYo Yo Honey Singh's wife Shalini accuses him of domestic violence, 'casual sex with multiple women'Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife Shalini has accused the singer-rapper of domestic violence. She has filed a plea against him in Delhi's Tis Hazari court. Read moreWhatsApp's got your back! A new feature is all set to safeguard users; here is howWhatsApp is the most widely used encrypted messaging service across the world, and the service is adding useful new features to ensure they do not migrate to nifty rivals like Telegram. Read more'Had warned of consequences': Ghani laments as Taliban fear grips AfghansAfghan president Ashraf Ghani has blamed "abrupt" U.S withdrawal for the ongoing security scenario in Afghanistan. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-chhattisgarh-makes-negative-rt-pcr-report-must-for-flyers-and-all-the-latest-news-101628002197670.html
03-08-2021||India||Free ration scheme helping poor, earlier govts paid lip service: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday claimed that the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) had helped millions of poor people hit by Covid-19 pandemic across the country when a plethora of cheap ration schemes by earlier governments since Independence had proven ineffective.Modi was addressing the scheme’s beneficiaries in Gujarat through video conferencing as part of the celebrations to mark five years of chief minister Vijay Rupani in office.The PMGKAY was a ₹1.70 Lakh Crore package first announced in March 2020 meant to provide food and money to meet essential needs of the poorest of the poor in the country. It targeted nearly 800 million people with provision for 5 kg wheat or rice and 1 kg of preferred pulses for free for 11 months in total during the two waves of the pandemic. It also offered monetary assistance to Jan Dhan accounts holding women, poor senior citizens, widows and disabled and increased MNREGA wages to labourers. The government had previously claimed that it was highly successful, however, one study suggested the scheme may not have delivered the full quantum of benefits to a large section of the targeted people. On Tuesday, the Prime Minister said a continuous increase in the budget and spread of cheap food grains schemes for 70 years have had a limited impact because of “selfish elements and ineffective delivery systems.”Modi said this was the reason for increase in starvation and malnutrition despite a huge expansion in food storages.As against this, the PMGKAY helped millions of poor people through free distribution of free rations during the pandemic with the use of new technology to make the delivery more effective, Modi said.“Since Independence, almost every government has talked about providing cheap food to the poor. The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes increased year after year, but the effect it should have had remained limited. The country’s food reserves increased, but hunger and malnutrition did not decrease in that proportion,” he said.He said because earlier governments remained ineffective, “Some sickness crept into the system and selfish elements ruled the roost.”Modi claimed that after he took over in 2014, crores of fake beneficiaries were removed using new approach and new technology, and ration cards were linked with Aadhar cards along with adoption of digital technology in government fair price shops.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/free-ration-scheme-helping-poor-earlier-govts-paid-lip-service-modi-101628003011542.html
03-08-2021||India||Chhattisgarh makes negative RT-PCR test report must for flyers from August 8||The Chhattisgarh government on Tuesday made production of negative report of RT-PCR tests for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) mandatory for air travellers touching down in the state from August 8 onwards.The latest order also included those who have taken both doses of vaccines against Covid-19. Such travellers would have to produce a negative report of the Covid-19 test conducted on samples collected with 96 hours of flying to Chhattisgarh.The order comes after Chhattisgarh reported 236 cases of Covid-19 infection, pushing the total count to 10,02,458, and three fatalities in the previous 24 hours. The active cases in the state stood at 1,918 while 13,528 have succumbed to the viral infection since the beginning of the pandemic.Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh reopened schools for students of classes 10 and 12 with 50% capacity on Monday in districts reporting a positivity rate of 1% for the previous seven days, amid criticisms from parents.The decision, taken during a recent cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Bhupesh Baghel, led to a provision of students attending offline classes on alternative days. The order also said that online classes will continue and it will not be mandatory for students to attend schools.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-rt-pcr-test-report-air-travel-mandatory-covid-19-vaccine-101628000301079.html
03-08-2021||India||18 districts showing rise in daily Covid-19 cases; 10 are in Kerala: Centre||As many as 18 districts in India have been witnessing a rising trend in the daily new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the past four weeks, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Tuesday.Addressing a press briefing, joint secretary of health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said, “These 18 districts account for 47.5% of the total cases.”Of these 18 districts, as many as 10 are in Kerala, whereas three are situated in Maharashtra. Among the remaining five districts, two are in Manipur, and one each in Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram.The Centre further stated that the 10 districts of Kerala accounted for 40.6 per cent of the total number of coronavirus cases in the country in the last one week. Furthermore, these 18 districts are reporting 10 weekly average Covid-19 cases as of August 1.Stressing fresh coronavirus cases are being reported from a “limited trajectory or area,” the Centre highlighted that 49.85% of total cases in India last week were reported from Kerala.Addressing the active cases of Covid-19 in the country, the Centre said that the case count has dipped from 4,14,188 on May 7 to 30,549 on August 3. Notably, the second wave of the pandemic was at its peak between April and June this year.As far as state-wise data is concerned, as many as eight Indian states and Union territories (UTs) currently have 10,000 to 1,00,000 active cases. Kerala is the only state where the active caseload is more than one lakh (1,65,834) — constituting 40.95% of the total active case count of India. Maharashtra, on the other hand, has 78,700 active cases, which comprises 19.43% of the total active caseload.Those coronavirus patients, who are either under home isolation or under the active supervision in a healthcare centre, constitute a state or UT’s active case count, the Centre explained.“Looking at the scenario from this understanding, it is to be noted that even in terms of active cases, Kerala and Maharashtra constitute 60 per cent of the total caseload,” Agarwal said.Besides Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram and West Bengal are the states where active caseload currently stands between 10,000 to 1,00,000.As many as 27 states and UTs, however, have shown significant drop in the number of active cases and currently have less than 10,000 infections.The Centre further pointed out that the weekly positivity rate has declined to less than 2% in India – 1.98% as of last week, for the first time in three months. This rate climbed up to 21.3% during the week of May 10 when the second wave of Covid-19 hit India.“This declining trend of weekly positivity is being maintained on a national level,” Agarwal added.However, there are as many as 44 districts that have 10% per cent weekly positivity rate. These are from Kerala, Manipur, Mizoram, Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Rajasthan, Puducherry, Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Assam.Meanwhile, the Centre said that the number of districts where more than 100 new Covid-19 cases are being reported in the country have decreased to 57 now from 279 on June 1. The government added that number cases saw a downward swing in 222 districts.Referring to Worldometer data, Aggarwal added that as many as 4,77,903 fresh coronavirus cases are still being reported every day across the globe. “The daily Covid-19 caseload reported worldwide is still very high…and as far as the second wave in India is concerned, it is not over.”Also Read | Covid third wave likely this month, may peak in October: ReportIndia on Tuesday reported 30,549 fresh infections, thereby taking the overall tally of the country to 31,726,507, according to the bulletin data of the Union health ministry. A total of 422 patients lost their lives owing to the virus in the past 24 hours, while 38,887 recoveries were recorded in the same period of time.Tuesday’s figures are an improvement from Monday’s when 40,134 new cases were logged. The total number of recovered patients in the country has reached 30,896,354 and the death toll stands at 425,195.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/18-districts-showing-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-10-are-in-kerala-centre-101628000231176.html
03-08-2021||India||Army chopper crashes in Ranjit Sagar dam, massive search for missing pilots||An army helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kathua on Tuesday morning followed by a massive search operation to trace the missing pilots, a senior police officer said. The dam is located about 30 km from Pathankot. Kathua’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Ramesh Kotwal said as per local residents, the crash took place around 10.43 am when the advanced light Dhruv helicopter was on a routine sortie after taking off from Mamun cantonment.Kathua.“We have pressed into service divers and motorboats but there is no clue so far,” Kotwal said. In the evening a heavy lift chopper, Chinook was also pressed into search and rescue operation. The SSP pointed out that the depth of the lake was between 200 to 250 feet in the area of the crash and while the rescue team including specialised forces had recovered some floating objects from the lake, retrieving the wreckage will take time. “Deep water divers are at the job, but the operation will take time. We have also retrieved two helmets, which are most likely of the two pilots, who were flying the helicopter,” Kotwal said, adding that the water was not clear. Army ambulances, two helicopters, senior army officers and civil administration officials were also on the spot. An army officer said that a pilot and co-pilot were flying the chopper when it went down into the dam all of a sudden. The chopper belonged to the 254 Army Aviation Squadron.“Searches are on to trace and rescue the two pilots but chances of their survival look very grim,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chopper-crashes-in-ranjit-sagar-dam-massive-search-for-missing-pilots-101628000251510.html
03-08-2021||India||RS member seeks govt intervention to address issue of travel ban by Saudi, other Gulf nations||A Rajya Sabha member on Tuesday sought intervention from the ministry of external affairs to address the issue of Indian expatriates facing problems due to flight bans and other entry restrictions imposed on India by Gulf nations, reported news agency PTI.In a letter to external affairs minister S Jaishankar, M V Shreyams Kumar, a Rajya Sabha member and a former MLA from Kerala, expressed concerns over the likelihood of thousands of Indian expatriates losing their jobs and suffering huge losses in businesses if these Gulf nations maintain the current entry restrictions on India."A state like Kerala will face social and economic chaos if Gulf NRIs have to suffer job loss in a big way and forced to remain in their houses,” he wrote to Jaishankar.All member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council, except Qatar, have imposed strict travel restrictions on India in the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic driven by the highly transmissible Delta variant. Many Indians returned home in the wake of the pandemic and are now stuck here due to the entry restrictions."I request your earnest intervention in this grave matter concerning the valued expatriates who fill our exchequer with their hard earned foreign exchange," Kumar added.The minister told the Rajya Sabha member that the Centre is speaking to the GCC states for a solution to the flight ban, according to a release issued by Kumar’s office.Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates has announced a change in its travel guidelines, allowing health workers and fully vaccinated nationals from six countries, including India, who hold residency permits to return to the Gulf country from August 5. Both vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers from several other categories, including students, employees of federal and local government bodies, and those working in the education sector, will be allowed into the UAE. The latest directive will apply to citizens of India, Nepal, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nigeria, and Uganda.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-member-seeks-govt-intervention-to-address-issue-of-travel-ban-by-saudi-other-gulf-nations-101627999104697.html
03-08-2021||India||UAE residents from 6 countries including India can return after vaccination||NEW DELHI: Nationals of six countries, including India and Nepal, who hold residency permits of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and are fully vaccinated, and health workers will be allowed to return to the emirates from August 5, authorities announced on Tuesday.The directive from UAE’s National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) and General Civil Aviation Authority will also apply to citizens of Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nigeria and Uganda. The move will allow UAE residents from these six countries to return, provided 14 days have elapsed since they received the second vaccine dose. The travellers must possess vaccination certificates issued by authorities in their countries.According to the latest directive, both vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers from several other categories will also be allowed into the UAE from August 5.These categories include health workers such as doctors, nurses and technicians employed in the UAE, those working in the education sector, students, humanitarian cases with valid residency permits, and employees of federal and local government bodies. India has been pushing the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states, including the UAE, to allow Indian professionals and other workers to return to their jobs in West Asia by easing Covid-19 related travel restrictions. Some recent reports earlier suggested that the UAE could extend the restrictions into August.The UAE alone is home to 3.42 million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. A large number of doctors and nurses in the UAE are of Indian origin.The UAE imposed fresh travel restrictions on India and suspended flights following a second wave of Coronavirus infections earlier this year. Other categories of travellers from these six countries will continue to be barred from entering the emirates. Travellers will have to apply online through the website of the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship to get approval. Besides vaccination certificates, the applicants need to submit a negative PCR test result within 48 hours of the date of departure. A lab test will be conducted before they board the planes, and a PCR test will be done on arrival in the UAE. This will be followed by home quarantine. The UAE will also lift a ban on transit passenger traffic from the six countries from August 5. NCEMA said on Twitter that passengers from these countries will be able to transit through UAE airports as long as they present negative PCR tests taken 72 hours before departure.Final destination approval would also have to be provided and UAE departure airports will arrange separate lounges for transiting passengers, NCEMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-residents-from-6-countries-including-india-can-return-after-vaccination-101627999051766.html
03-08-2021||India||Indian student’s family mourns his death in China; waits for his body in Bihar||Uday Paswan, a farmer in Bihar’s Gaya, is distraught after the death of his only son, Aman Nagsen, whose body was found in mysterious circumstances in a Chinese university last Thursday. A pall of gloom has descended upon the family house in Gaya. “He was so good in studies and always remained in touch. We cannot believe he is no more,” said a family member. Nagsen’s body was found by the staff of Tianjin Foreign Studies University (TFSU) in his room on the university campus. The 20-year-old was enrolled for the International Business Studies course.Nagsen’s mother, Rita Devi, is inconsolable. “The last time he talked to us was on July 24. There was no communication after that,” she said. Nagsen’s sister, Jyotsna Chandra, a second-year student at DJ Dental College, Ghaziabad, alleged that her brother was murdered. “It is strange that despite Beijing town being barely half-an-hour drive from the university, no one from the Indian embassy went there [where the body was found],” she said to HT over the phone on Tuesday.Also Read | Foreign student in custody for murdering Indian student at university in ChinaOn the intervening night of July 29-30, the victim’s uncle, Ram Kishore Paswan, a BJP activist, got a call from the Tianjin Foreign Studies University, informing them about Nagsen’s death. He said he also got a mail from the Indian Embassy that the ministry of external affairs got a communication from Tianjin authorities about Nagsen’s death. This Monday, said Paswan, the embassy received another communication from the Tianjin local authorities that a suspect has been held in connection with Nagsen’s death. The family has met Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh with a request to initiate steps to bring back the body. Singh told HT that the family has sent their consent for Nagsen’s postmortem to the MEA. Currently, no flights are operational between China and India because of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-student-s-family-mourns-his-death-in-china-waits-for-his-body-in-bihar-101627998151477.html
03-08-2021||India||BJP says 2 workers killed in Bengal after attack on Abhishek Banerjee’s car||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday alleged that two of its workers were murdered in Bengal by members of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC). A day earlier on Monday, TMC national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee posted a video in which some miscreants, alleged to be BJP workers, were seen shouting slogans against him while a man hit his car with a bamboo stick. The incident was condemned by Bengal BJP’s chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya, who said the attackers were not BJP workers. However, Udayan Guha, a senior TMC leader from Dinhata in north Bengal’s Cooch Behar district, later wrote on his Facebook page that BJP workers and leaders in Dinhata would be “well taken care of” after what happened in Tripura. On Tuesday, the Bengal BJP alleged that Tapan Khatua, a party worker from Egra in East Midnapore district and Indrajit Sutradhar, another party worker from Khoyrasol in Birbhum district, were murdered by TMC workers between Monday night and Tuesday morning. While Khatua’s body was fished out from a pond, Sutradhar’s was found hanging in an abandoned house. “Khatua’s body has been sent for post-mortem examination. There was no apparent sign of violence but a probe is on,” an officer from Egra police station said on condition of anonymity. An officer from Khoyrasol police station said, “Sutradhar’s family said he left home on Monday night. There are reports that he had a dispute with some local villagers.” In both districts, TMC workers alleged that the BJP was trying to pass off unnatural deaths as murders to gain political mileage. Reacting to this, Samik Bhattacharya said, “It is unfortunate that every time a BJP worker dies in Bengal the ruling party says it is a case of suicide. There is no rule of law. Udayan Guha instigated this violence. The BJP has moved court and carried out democratic movements but post-poll violence has not stopped.” “If BJP workers attack Abhishek Banerjee’s car with bamboo sticks, should we greet them with sticks of tuberose? The BJP should be careful,” Guha told HT. Bhattacharya also alleged that a BJP office at Jalpaiguri in north Bengal was vandalized. Kisan Kalyani, president of the TMC’s Jalpaiguri district unit denied the allegation. “We have no such information. In the past, BJP workers ransacked their own offices and put the blame on us. Since morning, we have been holding peaceful demonstrations in protest against the attack on Abhishek Banerjee’s car in Tripura,” Kalyani said. North Bengal, especially Cooch Behar district, has been witnessing unrest since the state polls held in March-April. Union minister of state for home affairs, Nisith Pramanik, is the BJP Lok Sabha member from Cooch Behar. Pramanik contested the Dinhata assembly seat and defeated Guha, who was the sitting legislator, by 57 votes. Guha suffered multiple fractures in his right arm and two of his security personnel were injured when they were attacked, allegedly by BJP workers, on May 6. Denying the charge, BJP leaders said the attack was a fallout of infighting in TMC. Assembly polls will be held again in Dinhata as Pramanik resigned from the assembly to retain his Lok Sabha seat. On May 13, governor Jagdeep Dhankhar faced demonstration by TMC workers at Dinhata which he visited to meet alleged victims of post-poll violence despite a strong advisory from chief minister Mamata Banerjee. During the trip, Dhankhar was accompanied by Pramanik and the party’s district unit president Malati Rava Roy. They took the governor to some villages where people alleged that TMC workers attacked them and ransacked their homes after the poll results were announced on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-says-2-workers-killed-in-bengal-after-attack-on-abhishek-banerjee-s-car-101627997371503.html
03-08-2021||India||‘Not decided yet but…’: Goa’s MGP chief confirms alliance talks with AAP||PANAJI: Goa’s Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) has discussed the possibility of a pre-poll alliance with Arvind Kejriwal’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) but the two parties have not taken a decision yet, a senior MGP leader said on Tuesday.MGP chief Sudin Dhavalikar ruled out an alliance with the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party or the opposition Congress, insisting that his party will only team up with a “good party”. The AAP appeared to make the cut on this benchmark.“If we do an alliance it will be with a good party. There is no way we will align with either the BJP or the Congress. AAP has discussed this with me... We have not decided anything yet,” former deputy chief minister Dhavalikar told reporters.The lawmaker from Marcaim in north Goa said his party had an invite from AAP to travel to Delhi for further discussions.“They have invited us -- the committee -- to go to Delhi, see the work that they have done and then we can again have a discussion.… I also want to go to Delhi to see that work, and either this month or next I will go to Delhi”.Dhavalikar’s statement after a quiet meeting with AAP national convener Arvind Kejriwal during his two-day visit to Goa beginning July 13. Both leaders had then insisted that their meeting was a courtesy visit and they did not discuss a possible alliance between their parties.Notwithstanding the denials, their meeting did spark buzz about a possible alliance. Political analysts say an alliance would make sense since the MGP is strong in areas where the AAP has little or no presence.The Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party was once a powerful regional party that ruled Goa through the 1960s, 70s and 80s giving Goa its first chief minister Bhausaheb Bandodkar. The party has a large vote base among the state’s politically powerful Bahujan Samaj. However, the MGP has been losing ground to the BJP which has grown at its expense, reducing the party to a minor coalition partner.But the MGP nevertheless remained a kingmaker in successive coalition governments led by the BJP and Congress.The AAP, on the other hand, has a visible presence only in constituencies where the Catholic vote holds sway, where the MGP is known to be weak.AAP state convener Rahul Mhambre said that his party was ‘open’ to alliances but for now there was nothing. “We are working to strengthen our party and they are working to strengthen theirs. We are open to alliances,” Mhambre said. Kejriwal’s party contested all 40 seats in the 2017 Goa legislative assembly elections but didn’t win a single seat. To be sure, all its candidates except one lost their security deposit. The lone candidate who secured more than one-sixth of the total votes polled has since moved to the Congress. AAP leaders suggest that an alliance will help them improve their performance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-decided-yet-but-goa-s-mgp-chief-confirms-alliance-talks-with-aap-101627997011157.html
03-08-2021||India||Tribunal Reforms Bill passed in LS as govt, Oppn trade charges||Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed the Tribunal Reforms Bill which seeks to dissolve certain existing appellate bodies amid protests by the Opposition. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman criticised the Opposition for creating a “constitutional impasse” by neither allowing the Bills to pass and nor allowing any discussion on them.“If the Opposition is ready for a discussion… We are also ready to respond...but sadly, instead of taking part in a discussion, they are creating disturbance and not even not taking any steps to stop it,” she said.The Tribunal Reforms Bill, replacing the ordinance issued in April this year, seeks to withdraw and then replace the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act, and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act. The government said this would reduce another layer of litigation by abolishing tribunals or authorities under various laws.Opposition leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said, “This kind of legislation will further an ominous system in our country. This (Bill) is nothing but a serious encroachment upon the judiciary. It violates (judiciary) rights.”However, before Chowdhury could complete his statement, the Speaker appealed to the members to vote on all the clauses of the Bill which were then passed with a voice vote.Reacting to the passing of the Bill, Congress spokesperson and MP Manish Tewari said it was a “daylight murder of democracy”. He said that the Opposition wanted a discussion on said Bill “for it encroaches on the domain of judiciary” but their demand was ignored.“It is the right of every member to ask for a vote. The demand was not heeded and an important legislation was passed in the din,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribunal-reforms-bill-passed-in-ls-as-govt-oppn-trade-charges-101627996291431.html
03-08-2021||India||UAE to allow entry of health workers from India from August 5||Nationals of six countries, including India and Nepal, who hold residency permits of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and are fully vaccinated, and health workers will be allowed to return to the emirates from August 5, authorities announced on Tuesday. The directive from UAE’s National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority (NCEMA) and General Civil Aviation Authority will also apply to citizens of Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nigeria and Uganda. The move will allow UAE residents from these six countries to return, provided 14 days have elapsed since they received the second vaccine dose. The travellers must possess vaccination certificates issued by authorities in their countries. According to latest directive, both vaccinated and unvaccinated travellers from several other categories will also be allowed into the UAE from August 5. Also Read | Philippines extends travel ban on India, 9 other nations due to Delta variantThese categories include health workers such as doctors, nurses and technicians employed in the UAE, those working in the education sector, students, humanitarian cases with valid residency permits, and employees of federal and local government bodies. India has been pushing the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states, including the UAE, to allow Indian professionals and other workers to return to their jobs in West Asia by easing Covid-19 related travel restrictions. Some recent reports had suggested that the UAE could extend the restrictions into August. The UAE alone is home to 3.42 million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. A large number of doctors and nurses in the UAE are of Indian origin. The UAE had imposed fresh travel restrictions on India and suspended flights following a second wave of Coronavirus infections earlier this year. Other categories of travellers from these six countries will continue to be barred from entering the emirates. Travellers will have to apply online through the website of the Federal Authority for Identity and Citizenship to get approval. Besides vaccination certificates, the applicants need to submit a negative PCR test result within 48 hours of the date of departure. A lab test will be conducted before they board the planes, and a PCR test will be done on arrival in the UAE. This will be followed by home quarantine. The UAE will also lift a ban on transit passenger traffic from the six countries from August 5. NCEMA said on Twitter that passengers from these countries will be able to transit through UAE airports as long as they present negative PCR tests taken 72 hours before departure. Final destination approval would also have to be provided and UAE departure airports will arrange separate lounges for transiting passengers, NCEMA said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-to-allow-entry-of-health-workers-from-india-from-august-5-101627995511401.html
03-08-2021||India||Known for Chipko, Raini village now unfit to stay in||Raini village in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand from where the Chipko movement started in 1973, and which bore the brunt of a glacial lake outburst flood in February is likely to be shifted elsewhere on the recommendation of geologists working for the Uttarakhand government who found the slope on which the village stands unstable, and therefore, unfit for habitation.On February 7, Raini suffered extensive damage on account of the flood, which swept away the Rishiganga hydel project and National Thermal Power Corporation’s Tapovan Vishnugad project and killed around 200 people. The incident, according to a report by geologists from the Uttarakhand Disaster Recovery Initiative (UDRI) submitted to the Chamoli district magistrate in July, destabilised Raini, whose most famous resident to this day remains Gaura Devi, one of the founding members of an environmental movement that started when she and a few other women hugged trees to prevent them from being felled for timber.“The Raini village is facing serious slope stability problems where the whole area is affected by active subsidence whereas downslope is affected by toe erosion. During investigation wide cracks were observed in the walls and floors of many houses indicating active slope movement in the area. It is therefore advisable to rehabilitate Raini village to an alternative safe location,” said the report, a copy of which has been seen by HT.Located at the confluence of the Rishiganga and Dhauliganga rivers, Raini saw wide cracks (5-10cm) on the roads. The report said the high-flow intensity of the flood may have disturbed the slope. On top of the slope face, there is an active slide zone from where large rock chunks continue to fall.During a field visit by the geologists, they observed that the material that forms the slope is highly saturated due to incessant rain. Chamoli district received heavy rain in mid-June that triggered landslides at many places. On June 14, about 40 metres of the road at Raini broke off and was engulfed by the Dhauliganga on the Joshimath-Malari route, cutting off Army and Indo Tibetan Border Police posts and villages along the India-China border.“There are several slope instability-related concerns in Raini following the February 7 glacier breach. It’s up to the government now to take forward our recommendation to rehabilitate the village,” said Manish Semwal, slope stabilisation expert, UDRI.But the villagers aren’t keen on being relocated. “First, the villagers have to agree to relocation and rehabilitation. They haven’t agreed yet. They are looking for suitable government land to relocate. They have to find that land first, have a gram panchayat meeting approving rehabilitation and then send the proposal to state government for us to process it,” said S A Murugesan, secretary, Uttarakhand State Disaster Management Authority.Climate Trends, a Delhi-based communications organisation that is tracking Raini’s case study, said the climate crisis and unplanned development in recent years has made several parts of Uttarakhand extremely vulnerable.Professor Y P Sundriyal, head of department, geology, HNB Garhwal University, said: “Higher Himalayas, both climatically and tectonically, are highly sensitive, so much so, that construction of mega hydro-projects should be avoided. Or else they should be of small capacity. Secondly, the construction of roads should be done with all scientific techniques...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/uttarakhands-raini-village-declared-unstable-and-unsuitable-for-habitation-101627995151451.html
03-08-2021||India||India's power demand hit all-time high of 200.57 GW on July 7, says govt||India witnessed its highest ever demand of 200570 MW (or 200.57 GW) for power at on July 7, the Union power ministry said in a release on Tuesday. The figure is based on the system operations highlights for July 2021, put out by the Power System Operation Corporation Ltd (POSOCO), the ministry added.This number was 17.6 per cent higher than the country's demand for power in July last year, according to power ministry.The POSOCO report also showed that average energy consumption per day recorded in July this year was 10.6 per cent higher than the figures in July last year.India has been pushing for use of green energy sources, and in this regard, renewable energy sector saw impressive gains in the month of July, the ministry said."Average solar generation recorded in Jul’21 (158MU/day) was 7.6% higher than in Jul’20 (147MU/day). Average wind generation recorded in Jul’21 (349MU/day) was 64.5% higher than in Jul’20 (212MU/day). Additionally, solar and wind generation recorded an all-time high of 43.1 GW on 27th July 2021. Earlier, the record was 41.1 GW on 11th Jun’21," the ministry said in the release.The power consumption had dipped across the country due to lockdowns - both in the first and second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The economic activity was impacted due to lockdowns, which in turn led to fall in energy demand.Power consumption had recorded a 4.6 per cent year-on-year growth in September 2020 and 11.6 per cent in October 2020. In November 2020, the power consumption growth slowed to 3.12 per cent, mainly due to the early onset of winters. In December 2020, power consumption grew by 4.5 per cent while it was up 4.4 per cent in January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-power-demand-hit-all-time-high-of-200-57-gw-july-7-101627993385999.html
03-08-2021||India||Covid-19: 8 states showing high Reproductive Number, warns Health ministry||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) warned on Tuesday there are eight states where value of Reproductive Number for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) exceeds 1, adding that the worry is not just the high value of the number but also its rising trend. The eight states with a high Reproductive Number value, as highlighted by the ministry, are Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala.Also Read: Covid-19 R-value rising steadily in India; Kerala, N-E states tops listAmong these, the number is at its highest in Himachal Pradesh and J&K, where it is at 1.4 for each, followed by 1.3 in Lakshadweep. It is at 1.2 in Tamil Nadu, Mizoram and Karnataka, while the corresponding figure for both Puducherry in Kerala is 1.1. Additionally, nine states have a Reproductive Number value at exactly 1: Delhi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Goa, Jharkhand, Nagaland and Meghalaya.“Whenever this number is at more than one, this means that the case trajectory is increasing and thus needs to be brought under control,” Lav Agarwal, a joint secretary in the Union health ministry, said at a press briefing on current Covid-19 situation in the country. Agarwal also pointed that, at 1.2, the average figure is same for the United States, Canada, Australia and India. Few days back, India's Reproductive Number was at 0.88, he said.Reproductive Number, which is also known as R-factor or R-value, is the reproductive rate of a virus, in this case SARS-CoV-2. It denotes the speed at which the infection is spreading, or, as Agarwal explained, the number of people to whom the virus was passed by an individual at the time he/she was infected with it. An R-value of more than 1 means an infected individual further infected more than one individual.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-showing-high-reproductive-number-warns-health-ministry-highest-in-himachal-jk-101627991262207.html
03-08-2021||India||Covishield output to be increased to 120 million, Covaxin to 58 million: Govt||The government on Tuesday said that the monthly production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased to more than 120 million doses and of Covaxin to around 58 million doses by December.The information was provided by Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya while responding to a question in the Rajya Sabha on the current capacity to manufacture the two vaccines in the country."As communicated by the manufacturers, the monthly vaccine production capacity of Covishield is projected to be increased from 110 million doses per month to more than 120 million doses per month and the production capacity of Covaxin is projected to be increased from 25 million doses per month to around 58 million doses per month," the minister said in a written reply while talking about the August-December period.The minister further said that India has administered 470 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine so far and the Centre is making efforts to inoculate the entire country at the earliest.The government expects that by October-November, four more Indian pharmaceutical companies will start production of indigenous vaccines that will help meet the domestic demand, he said.Biologicals E and Novartis vaccines will also be available in the market in the coming days, while Zydus Cadila will soon get an emergency-use nod from an expert committee, the Union health minister said.Currently, Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India (SII) are providing vaccines to the government. Sputnik vaccine is also available and production of which has begun, he added.The Centre is buying 75 per cent of the vaccine produced to give free jabs to people, while 25 per cent is allocated for the private sector, the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-output-to-be-increased-to-120-million-covaxin-to-58-million-govt-101627991930948.html
03-08-2021||India||No permission for India-based foreign journalists to travel via Wagah||Indian authorities have turned down Pakistan’s request to allow a group of New Delhi-based foreign journalists to travel to Islamabad via the Wagah-Attari border crossing, which is closed for most categories of travellers, people familiar with developments said on Tuesday. Pakistan had planned to take a group of five foreign journalists to Islamabad during August 3-7 for interactions with Prime Minister Imran Khan and other senior leaders and officials. The group included representatives from The New York Times, Reuters and The Economist. The visit by the New Delhi-based journalists was to have been a follow-up to a visit last month by a group of Afghan journalists that interacted with Khan. The visits are part of Pakistan’s overall effort to shape the narrative on Afghanistan and the country’s role in the stalled peace process. Also Read | Speed of Taliban’s assault on key cities exceeds Indian assessmentThe people cited above said on condition of anonymity said the Wagah-Attari border crossing is currently open to very limited categories of travellers, including diplomats and people travelling for essential reasons, because of Covid-19-related restrictions. The Pakistani side had sought permission for the five foreign journalists to travel via Wagah along with Jamil Baitu, the spokesperson of the Pakistan high commission in New Delhi. The Pakistani side had been planning the trip by the New Delhi-based foreign journalists for the past few weeks. Another plan by the Pakistani side to take a group of Indian journalists to Islamabad in March was subsequently dropped. The Wagah-Attari border crossing was closed last year following the Covid-19 outbreak. Pakistan recently increased restrictions on travellers from India after the country was hit by a devastating second wave of infections earlier this year. Both Pakistan and India have imposed restrictions on each other’s journalists in recent years after bilateral ties plunged to an all-time low following the military standoff in the aftermath of the 2019 Pulwama suicide bombing that killed 40 Indian troopers. The attack was blamed on Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammed. Pakistan also often denies visas to Indian journalists for reporting assignments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-permission-for-india-based-foreign-journalists-to-travel-via-wagah-101627990111157.html
03-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: J&K Police release list of 'top 10' active terrorists and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5pm. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'Top 10 targets': Jammu and Kashmir Police release list of active terroristsThe Jammu and Kashmir Police has released a list of top 10 terrorists that it aims to target. The list was posted on Twitter by the Kashmir Zone Police on Monday night. It includes seven terrorists who have been active for some time and three relatively new recruits. Read more.Border dispute with Assam can be resolved with MHA help: Nagaland CMNagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Tuesday said the border issue between Nagaland and Assam can be resolved with close supervision of the Union home ministry. Read more.No additional quota for paralympic shooter Sharma, SC sends matter back to HCThe Supreme Court has allowed paralympic shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma to pursue his appeal before the Delhi high court after the International Paralympic Committee refused to allow Sharma’s name to be sent as an additional participant. The top court had on Monday directed the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to recommend Sharma’s name for the Tokyo Paralympics. Read more.Speed of Taliban’s assault on key cities exceeds Indian assessmentThe speed of the Taliban’s assault on key cities in Afghanistan has exceeded an Indian assessment, with hundreds of fighters of the group engaging Afghan forces over the past week in a bid to capture provincial capitals such as Herat and Lashkargah. Read more.Quality concerns delayed Covaxin supply, says top govt advisorThe supply of indigenously manufactured anti-coronavirus vaccine Covaxin has been delayed over quality issues in the first few batches of the doses that were produced at the company’s most recent facility in Bengaluru, a senior advisor to the government has said. Read more.BMW Individual 740Li M Sport launched at ₹1.42 crore. Here's what's specialBMW India on Tuesday announced the launch of Individual 740Li M Sport Edition. The special edition BMW 7-Series sedan gets a host of exclusive features that make it distinctive compared to the standard 7-Series. Read more.'He is the one who is going to win it for India': Brad Hogg makes big prediction for England Test seriesIt's finally time. The five Test series between India and England starts tomorrow with Nottingham hosting the first game. India will look to break their barren run in England, which has seen them lose the last three Test series – 0-4 in 2011, 1-3 in 2014 and 1-4 in 2018. Many believe this is India's best chance of beating England on their soil, including former Australia spinner Brad Hogg. Read more.Watch: When Padmini Kolhapure greeted Prince Charles with garland and kiss, was 'left embarrassed' laterBack in 1980, when Bollywood was hiding their kisses behind dancing flowers and meadows, actor Padmini Kolhapure made jaws drop as she leaped in and confidently planted a kiss on Prince Charles' cheek during his visit to India. Read more.Sonakshi Sinha slays it in a sexy green blouse and thigh-slit skirt worth ₹14kBhuj: The Pride of India actor Sonakshi Sinha asked her followers to go green but in style. Sonakshi's wardrobe is populated with the chicest outfits, be it the recent faux leather printed dress or pinstriped pantsuit. Her latest look in a co-ord sage green set is getting major approval from the fashion police. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-j-k-police-release-list-of-top-10-active-terrorists-101627987377216.html
03-08-2021||India||Farm unions prepare to take on BJP in the political arena||At Jantar Mantar, an 18th century observatory in India’s national Capital, a farmers’ mock parliament is in session, barely a kilometre from India’s imposing Parliament. “Lawmakers” in the mock parliament unanimously sign off on a series of “legislations”, from repealing real-world “anti-farmer laws” and enacting “legal guarantees” for assured farm prices. Protests in New Delhi by farm unions against three agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government last year are full of colourful acts of high symbolism, backed by nearly 200 cultivators from various food-bowl states. Elsewhere in the hinterland, however, farm unions are preparing to doggedly resist agricultural policies of the Narendra Modi-led government. The protests have continued, after they began in November 2020, from Punjab to Haryana and Rajasthan, and most importantly Uttar Pradesh, where assembly elections will be held next year. On the face of it, the farmers have had little success in convincing the government to scrap three laws that provide for freer agricultural markets, allowing big supermarkets and food businesses to directly source produce from farmers. The legislation also permit traders to stock large quantities of food for future sales and lay down a new format for contract farming. Also Read | Farm laws: SAD-BSP MPs give wheat stalks to parliamentarians“Aside from the question of repealing the laws, we are ready to talk on any provision of the laws at any time,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar has said twice this month. The Modi government has argued that the laws are important to boost rural investments and farm incomes. Allowing food businesses to stock large quantities, for instance, is aimed at spurring private investors to build spacious, modern silos, according to the government. These changes have riled farmers, who say the new laws will expose them to exploitation by big buyers. They prefer to rely on highly regulated government-backed markets, which are not corruption free, but allow farmers to get assured prices for cereals. These markets are also interlocked, meaning farmers depend on middlemen to not just sell their produce but also for credit to meet cultivation costs, which some studies have shown to be a reason for market inefficiencies. Farmers have demanded a flagship law that will legally guarantee benchmark rates, known as minimum support prices, for all produce, regardless of market conditions. “You will see the impact (of the farmers’ agitation) in elections. Please wait,” Rakesh Tikait, a farm leader representing the Bharatiya Kisan Union outfit, said. Behind the curtains, strategies are being drawn to campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules both at the Centre and states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Farmers from both these states are heavily participating in the protests. A core group of farm leaders make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella outfit coordinating the protests that are now well-organised in at least five large states: Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab. The first two are ruled by BJP. The SKM’s coordinating committee is the engine of the politically challenging spell of protests. And as elections in Uttar Pradesh and Punjab approach, it is crafting a campaign especially directed at the BJP. The SKM’s decision-making body comprises regional farm leaders who have their own turfs of influence and have, therefore, been assigned jurisdictions. Tikait is influential in western Uttar Pradesh. He belongs to the Baliyan khap, a dominant clan among the Jat agrarian community in western UP, most of which is made up of sugarcane growers. They voted overwhelmingly for the ruling BJP in the 2014 and 2019 Lok Sabha, and the 2017 assembly elections. Tikait has built a groundswell of support for the agitation by raising local farm issues, such as the problems of pending payment from millers to sugarcane growers, aside from the larger demand of scrapping the farm laws. “We are saying repeal these laws. The government is not listening. We are opposing the BJP because it has brought these laws and is refusing to drop them.” Tikait makes it clear that he will work to defeat the BJP. His organisation has planned at least 100 mahapanchayats, or traditional clan-based rural rallies, in Uttar Pradesh. “Lucknow ko Dilli banayenge (will turn Lucknow into another Delhi,” he said. The rallies could be embarrassing for the BJP for they purport to reveal numbers. “The state government had said they would procure every grain produced by farmers. Uttar Pradesh produced nearly 30 million tonne of wheat this time but the government procured just about 6.5 million tonne, figures till July 26 show,” said Yogendra Yadav, another key farm leader, addressing crowds last week. Such statistics are repeated ad nauseum. The BJP, which won a landslide in the 2017 assembly polls and grabbed 76% of seats in recent local body polls, hopes its policies for farmers will pay off. “The political fallout (of these protests) is not very concerning. Steps taken by the government to improve farm incomes, cash transfers for farmers, linking of markets, building of warehouses, expansion of procurement, funding for agricultural markets known as mandis…all these together will counter any negative fallout,” said Gopal Aggarwal, the BJP’s national spokesperson overseeing economic affairs. Farm leaders like Gurnam Singh Charuni, a linchpin of the agitation, want to openly back candidates and even toyed with the idea of fighting polls with a joint farmers’ party. The SKM has shot down Charuni’s proposals, suspending him twice for breaching a promise to keep the agitation apolitical. But he is too important to let go and so the suspensions each time were for a week. “There are ways to intervene electorally by highlighting farmers’ issues,” said Darshan Pal, a medical doctor who coordinates the protests. Charuni, a firebrand, is credited with expanding the farmers’ agitation into Haryana, before it made its way into camps along Delhi’s borders. “What I have decided is that we will back specific candidates of various parties who will voice only farmers’ issues. That is my Mission Punjab. That should be done in all states,” Charuni said. Punjab faces elections next year. In Rajasthan, one of the key lieutenants of the farm agitation is Amra Ram, who belongs to the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), a left-affiliated organisation. The AIKS wields considerable influence in the Shekhawati belt of Rajasthan, an agriculturally and politically significant belt. “Rajasthan is all clear. No farmer wants the farm laws,” Ram said. However, the BJP spokesperson Aggarwal said his “understanding” from interactions with farmers from states such Karnataka, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh was that “farmers not only support the farm reforms but have also shown commitment to them”. In 2017, a big farmers’ uprising failed to make any dent in the BJP’s fortunes, despite thousands marching into Delhi and sharing stage with key Opposition leaders. The Modi government won handsomely in the national election of 2019. At the time, asked why the farmers’ agitation did not succeed in influencing voting patterns, Yogendra Yadav, a professional psephologist and political analyst before assuming his current role as farm leader, had said: “The issue is farmers don’t vote as farmers. They vote as Brahmins, Muslims, Dalits etc.” Yadav was referring to the well-known pattern of voting along caste and religious lines. “This time it will be different,” Tikait said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farm-unions-prepare-to-take-on-bjp-in-the-political-arena-101627989752444.html
03-08-2021||India||Want them to be together: Lalu triggers buzz on Tejashwi-Chirag ties in Bihar||Lalu Prasad said on Tuesday that he wants his son, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav, to form an alliance with Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) leader Chirag Paswan in Bihar."I want them to be together," Lalu was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. The former Bihar chief minister and the RJD chief also said that despite the rift within the LJP, Chirag Paswan continues to be the leader of the party.Meanwhile, Chirag Paswan said discussions on possible alliance in Bihar or Uttar Pradesh would be done close to the elections. "I respect his (Lalu's) feelings but my priority is the 'Ashirwad Yatra' and making my organisation strong," Chirag Paswan was quoted as saying.Earlier in the day, Lalu called on Loktantrik Janata Dal leader Sharad Yadav along with his daughter Misa Bharti at his Delhi residence.वरिष्ठ समाजवादी नेता शरद भाई से मुलाक़ात कर स्वास्थ्य लाभ संबंधित जानकारी प्राप्त की।सामाजिक, आर्थिक, शैक्षणिक और राजनीतिक असमानता के विरुद्ध हमारा लंबा संघर्ष रहा है। हम समाजवादियों का संघर्ष ही संस्कार है। सांप्रदायिकता और ग़ैर-बराबरी के ख़िलाफ अंतिम दम तक लड़ाई जारी रहेगी। pic.twitter.com/W93QWwa5wIOn Monday, too, Lalu had met Samajwadi Party (SP) supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav in Delhi where his son, the incumbent SP chief Akhilesh Yadav, was also present. Lalu called his visit to Mulayam Singh Yadav a "courtesy call" to enquire about the health of the ailing former Uttar Pradesh chief minister.Calling Mulayam Singh Yadav country's most-veteran socialist, Lalu took to Twitter from his official handle to post photos from the meeting and write that the country needs equality and socialism as opposed to capitalism and communalism.देश के वरिष्ठतम समाजवादी साथी आदरणीय श्री मुलायम सिंह जी से मुलाकात कर उनका कुशलक्षेम जाना।खेत-खलिहान,ग़ैर-बराबरी, अशिक्षा,किसानों,गरीबों व बेरोजगारों के लिए हमारी सांझी चिंताएँ और लड़ाई है।आज देश को पूंजीवाद और सम्प्रदायवाद नहीं बल्कि लोकसमता एवं समाजवाद की अत्यंत आवश्यकता है। pic.twitter.com/XWA2goMjG8Taking a swipe at JD(U)-BJP coalition government in Bihar, Lalu said his party was close to forming a government in Bihar 2020, but couldn't because it was "cheated and defeated" by "10-15 votes". NDA had secured 125 seats in the assembly while the Mahagathbandhan, a coalition of anti-BJP parties, including RJD, Congress and Left Front parties, won 110. RJD couldn't form the government despite emerging as the single-largest party after securing 75 seats, followed by 74 of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and 43 seats of JD(U). LJP which is part of the NDA coalition at the Centre chose to contest the assembly elections separately and managed to keep it foothold on only one seat in the 243-seat Bihar assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lalu-prasad-triggers-buzz-on-tejashwiyadav-chirag-paswan-alliance-in-bihar-101627986381106.html
03-08-2021||India||400 units of free power, discount on diesel: SAD's promises for Punjab polls||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) chief Sukhbir Singh Badal made a series of promises and announced a slew of schemes, as his party prepares for next year's assembly elections in Punjab. SAD is contesting the upcoming assembly polls in alliance with Mayawati's Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).Badal promised that if SAD is voted to power, 400 power units of electricity will be given free of cost to residential consumers across all categories. He also announced a discount of ₹10 per litre on diesel for tractors and agriculture purposes.Badal said that education and health will be top priority of SAD. He further announced ₹10 lakh medical insurance for all families"All Scheduled Caste scholarships will be revived, and the government would insure college level education to Scheduled Caste students free of cost," said Badal.He also said that it voted to power, the SAD plans to introduce a student card, offering a loan of ₹10 lakh to all students, with guarantee from state government. The interest on loan will be paid by the government with moratorium of three years.Finally, Badal termed the three farm laws passed by the Centre as 'black laws' and said they will be rejected if the alliance of SAD and BSP comes to power.Both the parties have joined hands after 25 years. SAD had contested the 2017 assembly elections in alliance with Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).While SAD will contest on 97 seats, the BSP will field candidates on 20. Punjab has 117 assembly seats.Of the 20 seats given to the BSP, eight are reserved for Scheduled Castes candidates and 11 are ones which SAD would leave for the BJP when the two parties were in an alliance.In the 2017 assembly elections, the BSP contested on 111 seats and managed a vote share of 1.59%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/400-units-of-free-electricity-discount-on-diesel-sad-s-promises-for-punjab-pol-101627987580146.html
03-08-2021||India||Border dispute with Assam can be resolved with MHA help: Nagaland CM||Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu Rio on Tuesday said the border issue between Nagaland and Assam can be resolved with close supervision of the Union home ministry.Responding to a query by a Naga People’s Front MLA on the first day of the monsoon session of the state assembly, Rio said it was the desire of the Union home minister Amit Shah that all inter-state border disputes in the northeast be resolved before the 100-daycelebration of the 75th Independence Day is over.Rio said he recently spoke to his Assam counterpart Himanta Biswa Sarma on how to maintain peace in the disputed area. Also Read | Following HC intervention, Nagaland modifies compulsory vaccination orderOn a query whether Assam plans to set up battalion camps at strategic locations along the border, the government replied no official communications have been received on the same.Assam and Nagaland share a 547-kilometre stretch of inter-state border. Disputes along the border were stated to have been going on since 1963 when Nagaland attained statehood.The Supreme Court attempted to resolve the dispute amicably through mediation in 2010 but both the state governments rejected the report by the mediators.Most recently, following a fresh standoff between forces of the two states in the Dissoi Valley reserved forest and Tsurangkong valley, a chief secretary-level meeting was held on July 31 where an agreement was signed to de-escalate the situation. It was agreed that both states would withdraw their respective forces from the disputed area. The process of widrawal of forces was completed on August 1, Rio told the House.The July 31 agreement was jointly signed by Nagaland chief secretary J Alam and his Assam counterpart Jishnu Barua, Nagaland’s deputy chief minister Y Patton and Assam minister Ranoj Pegu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-dispute-with-assam-can-be-resolved-with-mha-help-nagaland-cm-101627987110905.html
03-08-2021||India||Quad special forces to wargame off Guam in Indo-Pacific||The Quad navies will be conducting amphibious operations involving special forces, live firing and anti-submarine warfare operations off the coast of Guam in the Indo-Pacific as part of Malabar 2021 exercises. The harbour phase of the Malabar naval exercises is scheduled on August 21-24, while the sea phase of the annual exercise will be held on August 25-29.According to South Block sources, US Navy is bringing in no less than three warships including destroyers, maritime reconnaissance aircraft P 8, anti-submarine warfare helicopters and special forces. Indian Navy will be represented by two surface combatants led by Guided Missile Destroyer INS Ranvijay and Frigate INS Shivalik along with maritime reconnaissance aircraft P8I, ASW helicopters and special forces. The Japanese Navy is bringing in three surface combatants, a submarine mine-layer, maritime reconnaissance aircraft, ASW helicopters and special forces. The Australian Navy will participate in Malabar with one ship, ASW helicopter and special forces. The last Malabar exercise off the coast of Guam was held in 2018 with Japanese, Indian and US Navy participating in the advanced naval war games. The Australian Navy joined the Malabar exercises as part of Quad last year.The Quad navies, according to officials, will be interacting with each other during the Malabar exercises with notes being exchanged on how to enforce the rule of law in the Indo-Pacific in wake of an aggressive Chinese Navy. The exercises will involve freedom of navigation operations with the Indian Navy conducting bilateral exercises with Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia and Australian Navy both in South China Sea and the Indo-Pacific.While the Quad exercises are expected to rankle the PLA Navy and Beijing, the Chinese propaganda machine will also be hyperactive by show-casing the DF-26 intermediate range ballistic missile also called the Guam killer in reference to the US Naval base in the far Pacific territory.The Malabar exercises comes just before the much awaited Quad summit in US in which Australian, Japanese and Indian leaders will meet the US President Joe Biden in October. The dates and venue of the Quad summit are being worked out, keeping in mind the Japanese general election in that month.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to attend the G-20 summit in Italy, the COP26 in UK, the UNGA and the Quad summit this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quad-special-forces-to-wargame-off-guam-in-indopacific-101627986615822.html
03-08-2021||India||'Top 10 targets': Jammu and Kashmir Police release list of active terrorists||The Jammu and Kashmir Police has released a list of top 10 terrorists that it aims to target. The list was posted on Twitter by the Kashmir Zone Police on Monday night. It includes seven terrorists who have been active for some time and three relatively new recruits."Top 10 #targets: #Old #terrorists- Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani & Ashraf Molvi. #New #terrorists- Saqib Manzoor, Umer Mustaq Khandey & Wakeel Shah," the Kashmir Zone Police tweeted. It was attributed to IGP Kashmir Vijay Kumar.Top 10 #targets: #Old #terrorists- Salim Parray, Yousuf Kantroo, Abbas Sheikh, Reyaz Shetergund, Farooq Nali, Zubair Wani & Ashraf Molvi. #New #terrorists- Saqib Manzoor, Umer Mustaq Khandey & Wakeel Shah: IGP Kashmir@JmuKmrPoliceIn March, the police had release a similar list of wanted terrorists and announced reward for those who will provide information about them.The March 13 tweet from Jammu and Kashmir Police also had the photographs of the terrorists along with their names.Meanwhile, a terrorist Babar Ali was killed in an encounter with the security forces on Tuesday in the Chhandaji region of Bandipora, the police said."On 23/24 July, an operation was carried out at Shokbaba forest area in which three terrorists were killed, including one Pakistani terrorist. Another terrorist escaped from the jungle and was being tracked ever since," informed Dilbagh Singh, Director General of Police (DGP), Jammu and Kashmir."Last night information about his presence in village Chhandaji was received and an operation was launched during the course of which a Pakistani terrorist Babar Ali of Pakistan's Punjab has been killed," the DGP added.The three terrorists neutralised in Jammu and Kashmir's Bandipora in July were members of Pakistan-based terror outfit Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).On July 16, the police said that they have neutralised 78 terrorists in Kashmir since January this year. These included some of the top commanders involved in attacks on the forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/top-10-targets-jammu-and-kashmir-police-release-list-of-active-terrorists-101627985525816.html
03-08-2021||India||No additional quota for paralympic shooter Sharma, SC sends matter back to HC||The Supreme Court has allowed paralympic shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma to pursue his appeal before the Delhi high court after the International Paralympic Committee refused to allow Sharma’s name to be sent as an additional participant. The top court had on Monday directed the Paralympics Committee of India (PCI) to recommend Sharma’s name for the Tokyo Paralympics. Appearing for Sharma, senior advocate Vikas Singh informed the court, “PCI has said that Tokyo refused to allot an additional quota for the petitioner as there is a quota for eight male athletes within the bubble.” On Monday, after the SC directed Sharma to be added as an additional participant in the list being sent for R-7 event in Tokyo Paralympics, PCI issued a statement saying, “The selection criteria and process is totally at the discretion of International Paralympic Committee and PCI has no active role to play in it apart from conducting selection as per the guidelines.” Also Read | 30 Covid hospitals put on notice over fire safety certificate, Gujarat to SCSharma, an Arjuna awardee, was not included for the Tokyo Paralympics beginning August 24. As the last date for sending the names was August 2, he approached the Supreme Court for an urgent intervention. According to Sharma, the PCI had recommended the name of just one shooter Deepak under the R-7 event when there is provision for sending three names for each event. Singh requested the court that since Sharma’s name has been added to the list by the top court’s order, he would like to pursue his appeal pending before a division bench of the Delhi high court and seek an order if Deepak has to go or if Sharma can be sent as a reserve. The top court disposed Sharma’s appeal in order to allow him to pursue his pending case before the High Court. The bench further requested the HC to take up the petition expeditiously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-additional-quota-for-paralympic-shooter-sharma-sc-sends-matter-back-to-hc-101627983691008.html
03-08-2021||India||Opposition does not want to raise farmers’ issues: Speaker Om Birla||On Tuesday, Lok Sabha began with the Opposition’s protests as they flashed placards in the House demanding a discussion on the Pegasus issue . However, amid the din, Question Hour, which involved questions mostly about farmer welfare, continued without the Opposition’s participation. Speaker Om Birla alleged the Opposition was not interested in the issues of farmers.Addressing the protesting Opposition members who huddled in front of the chair with placards, Birla said, “Today, I took up more than seven issues about farmers in the Parliament. I wanted you to question the (agriculture) minister about their issues in the Question Hour so that their problems would be resolved. But you don’t want to debate or question (the government) about their issues.”He added that the Opposition also had a responsibility to respect the House and maintain decorum. “You have been chosen by the people of this country so that you can voice their issues here (in Parliament) … so that you speak about the issues of farmers. But you (Opposition) are just sloganeering… This is not right,” he said. Following this, the Speaker adjourned the House.Also Read | Leaders from Cong, 14 other parties meet as Oppn launches offensiveMembers of the Opposition have been protesting in both Houses of Parliament since day one of the Monsoon Session which began on July 19, over the government’s management of the Covid-19 pandemic, Pegasus spyware snooping allegations, and three controversial farm laws. In the meantime, several key bills have been passed by Parliament without discussion in either of the Houses. Thousands of farmers have also been protesting on the borders of the national Capital against these laws since late November last year. They have been demanding the laws be repealed as they are aimed at privatising agriculture. The Opposition has seconded their demand.On July 26, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi drove a tractor to the Parliament. The vehicle was mounted with a banner demanding that the three “anti-farmer black laws” be repealed.On Tuesday, Shiromani Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Badal distributed wheat stalks to her colleagues as part of a protest at Parliament over the Centre’s farm laws||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-does-not-want-to-raise-farmers-issues-speaker-om-birla-101627983210638.html
03-08-2021||India||'Publicity interest litigation': Delhi high court dismisses plea against EVMs||The Delhi high court on Tuesday dismissed a petition seeking direction to the Election Commission to stop the use of electronic voting machines (EVMs). The bench of Chief Justice DN Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh imposed a fine of ₹10,000 on the petitioner, a lawyer.“Nothing in argued by the petitioner concretely on the working of the EVM. We see no reason to entrain the writ petition,” the court said.The judges also said that C R Jaya Sukin, the lawyer, filed a "publicity interest litigation" based on hearsay and "baseless allegations and averments".The lawyer had used four documents in his petition, out of which one was a news item."The petitioner has read the news item the filed the writ petition without looking at the EVM and working of the EVM...which is approved by the Election Commission as well as Parliament," the court said.The court said Sukin may file a fresh petition on the issue after conducting research and making proper averments.“The writ petition is dismissed with costs of ₹10,000 to be deposited in four weeks towards Delhi State Legal Services Authority,” the judges said.Sukin, who appeared in-person, argued that "democracy was in danger" by the use of EVM as the machine was prone to be hacked.The use of EVMs always comes in focus during the time of election and these machines are often slammed by political parties. Many of them have claimed that these EVMs can be hacked to show results in favour of a particular party, a claim dismissed by the Election Commission repeatedly.The commission has though allowed the use of voter-verifiable paper audit trail - short for the commonly used VVPAT - in elections along with EVMs to ensure transparency, it has ruled out reverting to the paper ballot system. It even organised a hackathon in 2017 in a bid to end the raging debate over devices.But in April-May assembly elections in four states and union territory of Puducherry, EVMs were again targeted by the politicians, especially in Bengal. But the EC said that results recorded in EVMs and VVPATs are same.The EVMs were introduced in India in 1982 for a bypoll in Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/publicity-interest-litigation-delhi-high-court-dismisses-plea-against-evms-101627982303217.html
03-08-2021||India||Speed of Taliban’s assault on key cities exceeds Indian assessment||The speed of the Taliban’s assault on key cities in Afghanistan has exceeded an Indian assessment, with hundreds of fighters of the group engaging Afghan forces over the past week in a bid to capture provincial capitals such as Herat and Lashkargah. According to the Indian assessment done last month, officials were expecting the Taliban to expand its sustained campaign of violence from rural areas to urban centres and provincial capitals by the end of August, when the US is set to complete the drawdown of its troops in Afghanistan. The Indian side had also expected the Taliban to step up its offensive in more provinces by the end of the month, including Paktia, Ghazni, Helmand and Kandahar, the southern province which is of symbolic and historic importance to the group because it served as the Taliban headquarters in the 1990s. Also Read | Afghan forces fight Taliban in Lashkargah, clashes intensify in HeratHowever, the Taliban began its assault on Herat, the third-largest Afghan city and capital of the western province of the same name, and Lashkargah, capital of the key southwestern province of Helmand, late last month – much earlier than the Indian assessment, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. These attacks follow the Taliban’s campaign to capture a swathe of rural areas in order to strengthen its position before any possible negotiations, and to gain control of international border crossings with Iran, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan and Pakistan to maximise the collection of funds by extorting money from exporters. Clashes began around Herat – located some 100km from the Islam Qala border crossing with Iran – almost a week ago and Afghan forces in the city have been bolstered by support from local militias and 75-year-old warlord Ismail Khan, whose group had fought alongside American forces to topple the Taliban in 2001. “If Herat doesn’t fall, this might become a turning point in the Afghan war,” Avinash Paliwal, associate professor in the department of politics and international studies at SOAS University, who closely tracks developments in Afghanistan, said in a tweet. The situation in Lashkargah is more serious, with media reports stating that the Taliban had made inroads into the western city. Tolo News channel cited local residents as saying on Tuesday that heavy fighting had been going on since last night close to the city’s police headquarters, the provincial governor’s compound, the office of the National Directorate of Security (NDS) or the spy agency and a prison in the capital of Helmand province. The local residents also said all other areas of Lashkargah are under the control of the Taliban and that air strikes were being carried out in many parts of the city. The people cited above said air support will be crucial to efforts by Afghan security forces to push back the Taliban offensive in many key areas, both in terms of air strikes on the Taliban and for logistics, supplies and casualty evacuation. Such support is also crucial in view of the backing for the Taliban from the Pakistani side, the people added. “The supply lines from the Pakistani side remain open. Funds are being raised in Balochistan and Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa for the Taliban and madrasses in these provinces are calling on people to join the jihad in Afghanistan,” said one of the people cited above. “All forms of logistical and tactical support from the Pakistani side are still active,” the person added. Numerous videos and images have also emerged in social media in recent weeks about injured Taliban fighters being brought for treatment to Pakistani cities such as Peshawar, Chaman and Quetta and of funerals being held for Pakistani fighters killed on Afghan soil. The Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC) has documented extra-judicial killings in areas captured by the Taliban, such as Spin Boldak, a border crossing with Pakistan. Following the emergence of videos of Taliban fighters summarily executing pro-government civilians in Spin Boldak after capturing the district on July 14, AIHRC investigated the incidents and interviewed families of victims and witnesses. “The evidence indicates that the Taliban, in violation of international humanitarian law, committed retaliatory killings of civilians and looted the property of several local residents, including the properties related to former and current government officials,” AIHRC said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/speed-of-taliban-s-assault-on-key-cities-exceeds-indian-assessment-101627982430863.html
03-08-2021||India||Quality concerns delayed Covaxin supply, says top govt advisor||The supply of indigenously manufactured anti-coronavirus vaccine Covaxin has been delayed over quality issues in the first few batches of the doses that were produced at the company’s most recent facility in Bengaluru, a senior advisor to the government has said.As the vaccine shortage crisis continues to hit the nationwide inoculation drive, Dr NK Arora, chief of the National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group (NTAGI), said the government was initially hoping for a much scaled-up production of Covaxin, but the initial glitches, including that of quality, slowed down the entire process.Covaxin, backed by the state-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), is one of the two main vaccines, the other one being Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, that are being administered in the country against the virus."The test batches from the Bengaluru plant were not satisfactory and got rejected and it led to a delay in ramping up production, but now the batches have been approved by the competent authority and will be available for public consumption," he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Dr Arora said Bharat Biotech will soon be able to scale up its production to about seven-10 crore doses per month in the coming weeks. "Almost 47crore doses have been administered so far. In August, availability should increase significantly overall and it is expected that Bharat Biotech will be able to provide seven to 10 crore doses per month in the coming weeks," he said."Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute are our major vaccine suppliers and we hope they will drive our mission to complete the adult immunisation programme in this country by the end," he added.Regarding the present status of vaccine supplies, he said, "Serum Institute produced almost 8- 10 crore doses, 3-3.5 crore from Bharat Biotech and a small contribution from (Russia-made) Sputnik V."Dr Arora also expressed hope that ZyCoV-D, being manufactured by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, will be available soon.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/quality-concerns-delayed-covaxin-supply-says-top-govt-advisor-101627979351809.html
03-08-2021||India||Shivraj Chouhan reviews flood situation in MP, says 1,600 people rescued||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday held a review meeting with officials on the flood situation in the state, after which he said that 1,600 people have been rescued till now by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and their state-level counterparts.Chouhan also said that the state government has requested for more teams."Due to heavy rain and floods, around 1,171 villages in Shivpuri, Sheopur, Datia, Gwalior, Bhind and Rewa areas have been affected. 800 mm of downpour was received in two days. Rescue operations by Air Force will commence once weather gets better," the chief minister said."NDRF and SDRF teams have rescued 1,600 people till date, along with 11 by Air Force. 70 SDRF teams are engaged in rescue operations. We have requested for more teams. 200 villages have been surrounded. Our ministers are in contact. I want to reassure people stuck in floods," he added.Two people were killed due to heavy rain in Shivpuri and neighbouring Sheopur districts.Nearly 60 people, who were stranded in a flooded building located near the Vijaypur bus stand in Sheopur district following heavy rains, were rescued on Monday after a rescue operation which lasted more than seven hours.They had gone to Vijapur to attend a marriage on Sunday night, but got stuck as floodwaters entered the premises, officials said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued red and orange alerts for 25 districts in Madhya Pradesh forecasting heavy to extremely heavy rainfall. The red alert predicted very heavy to extremely heavy rainfall, ranging between 115.6 to 204.5 mm or more and thundershowers accompanied by lightning strikes, at isolated places in eight districts namely Gwalior, Shivpuri, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Datia, Sheopur, Morena and Bhind.The red alert effectively means the situation might worsen in rain-battered Shivpuri and Sheopur districts. Both the alerts are valid till Tuesday.The orange alert warning of heavy to very heavy rainfall, thundershowers and lightning strikes has been issued for isolated places in 17 districts including Bhopal, Raisen, Rajgarh, Sehore, Vidisha, Ujjain, Dewas, Ratlam, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Mandsaur and Neemuch, besides Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Sagar, Niwari and Hoshangabad.Rivers, drains and other water bodies are in full spate in Sheopur and Shivpuri districts, news agency PTI reported quoting officials, who added that many water bodies are overflowing in large parts of Madhya Pradesh. Several areas of Sheopur, located around 400 km from the state capital Bhopal, were inundated after the Parvati river breached its banks following heavy showers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shivraj-chouhan-review-flood-situation-in-mp-says-1-600-people-rescued-101627978480630.html
03-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India may lead the world by 2030, says ex-US envoy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Ex-US envoy says India may lead the world by 2030, lists areasFormer US ambassador to India Richard Verma has said India may lead the world in every category and with the youngest workforce in the region, the South Asian country will hold that advantage until 2050. Read moreLeaders from Cong, 14 other parties meet as Oppn launches offensiveThe Congress and 14 other Opposition parties decided there would be no change in their stand on the Pegasus snooping issue and resolved to continue protesting during the remaining Monsoon Session of Parliament, two leaders told HT. Read moreOlympic medalist Mirabai inaugurates sports medicine machine at RIMS ManipurSaikhom Mirabai Chanu, who won India’s first silver medal in women’s 49kg weightlifting at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, inaugurated a new arthroscopy machine at Regional Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), a premier medical institute in Imphal, Manipur, on Monday. Read moreBrazil's electoral court to probe Prez Bolsonaro for attacking voting systemBrazil's Superior Electoral Court announced Monday it will investigate far-right President Jair Bolsonaro for his constant and baseless attacks on the country's electronic voting system. Read moreR Madhavan imagined Saif Ali Khan 'socking' his face for kissing Soha Ali Khan in Rang De BasantiR Madhavan has revealed that during his romantic scene with Soha Ali Khan in Rang De Basanti, the actor couldn't help but think of her brother, actor Saif Ali Khan. Read moreKiara Advani looks like a goddess in white backless gown for Shershaah promotionsShershaah actor Kiara Advani knows how to pull together the perfect red carpet look no matter what the occasion. In the past, we've seen her in bold tangerine pantsuits and charming embroidered sarees. Read more'You'd never see Ganguly do that': Anderson on India batsman's 'fearlessness'Commenting on how IPL has given rise to a new generation of ‘fearless’ cricketers, England legend James Anderson cited the example of India wicketkeeper-batsman Rishabh Pant. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-may-lead-the-world-by-2030-says-ex-us-envoy-101627975096338.html
03-08-2021||India||Free ration helping lakhs of poor amid Covid: Modi tells PM-GKAY beneficiaries||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Tuesday the government is making all effort to provide all possible help to citizens during the coronavirus pandemic. Speaking with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) in Gujarat via video conferencing, Modi said free ration is being distributed to lakhs of families under the scheme and it has helped lessen the worries of poor during pandemic. "I'm satisfied that your family's ration problem is solved now," he told a beneficiary.An official release from the Prime Minister's Office said a public participation programme is being launched in Gujarat to create further awareness about the scheme.The PM said since Independence, almost every government talked about providing cheap food to the poor. "The reach of cheap ration schemes and budget increased during these years, but the effect remained limited. Food storage kept increasing, but starvation and malnutrition did not decrease in that ratio," Modi said. One of the main reasons behind this was the lack of effective delivery system. To change this situation afresh work was started after 2014. Crores of fake beneficiaries were removed from the system. Aadhaar was linked to ration card and digital technology was endorsed in government ration shops," he said, adding the new scheme ensures nobody sleeps on empty stomach even during the pandemic."Today, in addition to the quota of wheat at ₹2 per kg and rice at ₹3 per kg, 5 kg of wheat and rice is being given free to every beneficiary. This scheme is going to last till Diwali. In Gujarat, around 3.5 crore people are benefitting from this scheme," Modi said.Modi said empowerment of the poor is a top priority of his government. "Today, the country is spending lakhs of crores on infrastructure, but at the same time, it is also setting new benchmarks to improve the quality of life of the common man,” he said.The PM-GKAY is a food security welfare scheme that was envisaged by the PM to provide assistance and help mitigate the economic impact of Covid-19.Under the yojana, additional foodgrain of 5 kg per person is given to all beneficiaries covered under the National Food Security Act.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani addressed the beneficiaries before the PM interacted with them. Deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel is also present on the occasion.Nearly 948 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain was allocated last year which is 50 percent more than a normal year to ensure food security during COVID. About ₹2.84 Lakh crore food subsidy incurred during 2020-21.More than 3.3 crore eligible beneficiaries in Gujarat got 25.5 lakh metric tonnes of foodgrain, incurring a subsidy amount of more than ₹5000 crores. To further strengthen food security for migrant beneficiaries, the One Nation One Ration Card has been implemented so far in 33 states/Union Territories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-interacts-with-pm-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana-101627973677674.html
03-08-2021||India||BJP parliamentary party meeting: PM Modi flags disruptions, calls for restraint||PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday asked Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers to maintain sanyam (restraint) during Parliament sessions even as he slammed the Opposition for disrupting both the Houses. Addressing the BJP’s parliamentary party meeting, PM said the lawmakers should ensure that the dignity of the House is maintained. Since the beginning of the session on July 19, the Opposition parties have been protesting in both Houses of Parliament, affecting the transaction of the listed business. Parties such as the Congress, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), the Aam Aadmi Party and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam have been demanding a discussion and a reply from the PM or home minister Amit Shah on the Pegasus snooping controversy and for the rollback of the three farm laws. Briefing media on the PM’s speech, parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said he expressed anger at the conduct of some Opposition members and said it was an insult to democracy. The conduct of the Opposition is an “insult” to Parliament and the Constitution, they have an “undemocratic” attitude and are not keen on meaningful debates Joshi said, quoting the PM. The PM is also learnt to criticised a tweet by TMC’s Derek O’Brien without referring to the MP’s name. O’Brien tweeted on Monday, “#MASTERSTROKE #Parliament. In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill…Passing legislation or making papri chaat!” Also Read | Leaders from Cong, 14 other parties meet as Oppn launches offensiveUnion minister V Muraleedharan said the PM, while referring to the tweet, called it “derogatory” and an “insult of parliamentary procedure and esteem of elected representatives.” According to an MP, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman gave a presentation on how the economy, that has been severely impacted by the Covid pandemic, has picked up in June and July. “She said that the government has given ₹4.5 lakh crore for MSME support and the foreign reserves have increased to an all-time high,” a BJP functionary said. The FM also gave details of the GST collections last month that have crossed ₹1.16 lakh crore and how the banking sector has a profit of ₹31,816 crore. “She said the core sector growth is good and free ration will be distributed till Diwali. The minister also said all the eight economic indicators are showing improvement and the government has released five mini budgets to boost economy,” the functionary said. While the Opposition met over breakfast hosted by Congress MP Rahul Gandhi, signaling their intent of presenting a combined front, the government has been critical of the protests on the floor of both the Houses. In the Rajya Sabha, TMC MP Santanu Sen was suspended for tearing the statement of IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus issue, in the Lok Sabha several Opposition members tore papers and flung them in the air, towards the Chair. Responding to the Opposition’s criticism of the rushed passage of bills, Joshi tweeted, “Glaring Irony. Derek O’Brien accuses Govt of rushing Bills & fails to note: TMC & Congress are continuously disrupting Parliament, 13 bills passed without discussion in 1 day in Rajasthan, 16 bills passed without discussion in RS during UPA’s regime, Selective Amnesia?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjpparliamentary-party-meeting-pm-modi-flags-disruptions-calls-for-restraint-101627972770289.html
03-08-2021||India||Indian Army chopper crashes in J-K's Kathua, search on for survivors||A helicopter of the Indian Army's aviation corps with at least five people on board crashed near the Ranjit Sagar Dam in the Basohli area of Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua, a senior police official said on Tuesday. “We have received information that an army helicopter has crashed in the lake. We have rushed our teams to the spot,” superintendent of police of Punjabs' Pathankot, Surendra Lamba, said over the phone.There were no immediate reports of any casualty, he said, adding that more details are awaited. The dam is located about 30km from Pathankot.Kathua's SSP Ramesh Kotwal said citing local residents that the chopper crashed in the dam around 10.43 am. "Prima facie it appeared to be an army aviation chopper. We have pressed into service divers and motorboats but no clue so far about many were on-board," Kotwal added.Senior administration and police officers are on the spot as is an ambulance.Local residents claimed the chopper used to hover over the dam and drop a pipe into the water every day. The moment it dropped the pipe on Tuesday morning, it crashed, they added.(With inputs from Ravi Khajuria)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-army-chopper-crashes-near-ranjit-sagar-dam-in-j-k-s-kathua-101627972232382.html
03-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi hosts breakfast meet with opposition party leaders, calls for unity||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for opposition unity, underlining that more it is united the more difficult it will be for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to suppress this voice.Gandhi made the remarks at a breakfast meeting he hosted at Constitution Club in Delhi. The Congress leader had invited members of 17 opposition parties to the meeting to formulate a joint strategy to take on the government over various issues."The single motive to invite you is that we should unite.The more this voice unites, the more powerful it will become, the more difficult it will become for the BJP and RSS to suppress this voice," Gandhi said at the meeting."We should remember the foundation of unity and it is important that now we start to come up with the principles of this foundation," he told the opposition leaders.After the meeting, Gandhi and other opposition leaders cycled to Parliament to highlight the issue of high fuel prices."As far as fuel prices are concerned, the people of India are struggling and if we cycle from here to Parliament, it will have an impact," Gandhi said.#WATCH | Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders ride bicycles to the Parliament, after the conclusion of their breakfast meeting. pic.twitter.com/5VF6ZJkKCNThe leaders of 15 parties, including the Trinamool Congress (TMC) which skipped the last such meeting, were present at today's gathering. The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), however, skipped it.Besides Gandhi, senior Congress leaders Mallikarjun Kharge, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, KC Venugopal and Jairam Ramesh were also present at the meeting."Nobody in the government is listening. So we have decided to get together. The opposition is united and we are all together," Kharge said.Among the leaders who attended the meeting were Kalyan Banerjee, Mohua Moitra (TMC), Sanjay Raut and Priyanka Chaturvedi (Shiv Sena), Manoj Jha (RJD), Kanimozhi (DMK) and Ram Gopal Yadav (SP).Parliament has not been able to function due to ongoing protest by the opposition over alleged snooping issue, farmers' protest and other things. The opposition has demanded a discussion in Parliament and a Supreme Court monitored probe in the snooping matter.The government is, however, saying that this is a non-issue and does not want it to be discussed in Parliament.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-hosts-breakfast-meet-with-opposition-party-leaders-calls-for-unity-101627970520507.html
03-08-2021||India||Ex-US envoy says India may lead the world by 2030, lists areas||Former US ambassador to India Richard Verma has said India may lead the world in every category and with the youngest workforce in the region, the South Asian country will hold that advantage until 2050. “… the most populous nation, the most college graduates, the largest middle-class, the most cell phone and Internet users, along with the third-largest military and third-largest economy, all coexisting in the world's largest democracy, with 600 million people under the age of 25,” Richard Verma said on Monday, news agency PTI reported.Verma made the remarks during the commencement address to the Jindal University School of Banking and Finance in Haryana's Sonipat.“That's on top of the massive development that is taking place in India today right before our eyes. Some $2 trillion will be spent on infrastructure in just the next decade,” he said. "The bulk of the infrastructure needed for 2030 is yet to be built. That's why some 100 new airports are under planning or construction today alone," he added.He told students that India has the youngest workforce in Asia. “…and you'll hold that advantage until 2050. That's pretty formidable,” he said.Also read | US announces additional $25 million to support India's vaccination programVerma, who was the first-ever Indian American envoy to India, said the modern US-India relationship was quite young. “We mark the start of this era with President Clinton's visit to India in the year 2000. It was a breakthrough visit after decades of being somewhat distant, and even at times, estranged,” he said.Verma asserted that it was now time for the relationship between India and the United States to deliver. “We can no longer look decades into the future. The time to deliver results for our people is now – it's today – that's a big challenge, but it's also exciting, for us here in America, and for all of you in India, especially as you start out on your studies and then careers,” he said.Also read | India, US should stand together as threats to democracy, freedom rise: BlinkenThe former US envoy said the ties between India and his country is the "most consequential relationship of this century." "We can do so much together. Whether it's battling a pandemic, countering terrorism and proliferation, or bringing to market all those new innovations and solutions that will make people's lives easier, safer, greener, more prosperous, more inclusive and more secure,” he explained. "We can do that. We are not there yet, but can we get there."Richard Verma's comments came days after US secretary of state Antony Blinken said during his visit to the country last month that there are few relationships more vital than the one between India and the United States. Blinken also said the two countries should continue to stand together as leading democracies amid rising global threats to democracy and international freedoms.He told the students that they will have "the world at your fingertips". “Your country will have a leading seat in international institutions, your businesses will continue to power economic growth and innovations globally, and all of you can choose what role you want to play today and in the future.”Richard Verma, a lawyer, served as the US ambassador to India from 2014 to 2017.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exus-envoy-says-india-may-lead-the-world-by-2030-lists-areas-101627968009671.html
03-08-2021||India||Monsoon Session: Here are some of the Bills passed without discussion||In the current monsoon session of Parliament, the Opposition has accused the NDA government of “bulldozing” Bills by denying them their “legitimate right” of discussion.Here are some of the Bills that have been passed without much discussion in Parliament in the recent past:Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Amendment Bill, 2021: Cleared in this session, the Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill provides district and additional district magistrates the power to issue adoption orders and examine the work of various child welfare authorities, including the child welfare committee and district child protection unit. It also categorises many undefined crimes where no minimum sentence was prescribed.Factoring Amendment Bill, 2021: The Bill was passed in just 15 minutes after it was introduced in the Rajya Sabha on July 28. It aims to aid the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector and was scheduled to be taken up a week ago as well but could not because of Opposition protests over the alleged targeting of politicians, journalists, and constitutional authorities by Israeli spyware Pegasus.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament session todayThe General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021: On Monday, Lok Sabha passed the Bill which will allow the government to reduce its share in the state-owned general insurance companies, helping achieve its divestment targets. Divestment refers to the government’s selling of part of its ownership in state-run corporations.While the government said it would generate income, the Opposition had protested against it, saying the Bill is “anti-people”.Tribunal Reforms Bill, 2021: The Bill was cleared by Lok Sabha on August 2 without a discussion even when the Opposition specifically asked the government for one. The Bill seeks to abolish tribunals or authorities under various laws by amending various statutes to streamline the justice delivery system. These include the Cinematograph Act, the Copyright Act, the Customs Act, the Patents Act, the Airport Authority of India Act, the Trade Marks Act and the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act.The government said it believes many tribunals only add to another additional layer of litigation.“By riding over the legitimate right of the Opposition, the government has been bulldozing one after another legislation without a discussion… There has been no enlistment of this Bill… by the BAC (business advisory committee),” Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said while opposing the Bill.Trinamool MP Derek O’Brien tweeted, “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill. Passing legislation or making papri chaat!” .The government has maintained that it was the Opposition that stalled the House and meaningful discussion on Bills.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-here-are-some-of-the-bills-passed-without-discussion-101627968570107.html
03-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 477 million Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered at least 477 million Covid vaccine doses by Monday, August 2. In a related development, a study has revealed that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin can effectively neutralise the Delta Plus variant of Covid-19.Johnson & Johnson also said on Monday that they were still in talks with the Centre over their Covid vaccine after the country’s drug regulator announced that the company had pulled its proposal seeking an accelerated approval for local trials.Also Read | Covid in Maharashtra: Cong demands resuming local trains for vaccinated peopleMeanwhile, by 7pm on Monday, 477,800,587 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,367,190 doses were administered on the day.In the 18-45 age group, 2,776,234 were given the first dose while 482,253 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 159,907,360 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 9,386,280 have received their second dose as well since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-477-million-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101627963949821.html
03-08-2021||India||India's daily Covid tally falls with 30,549 new cases; 422 deaths recorded||India’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,726,507 after 30,549 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 422 patients succumbed to the viral disease and 38,887 recovered in the same period, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 425,195 and 30,896,354 respectively. The active cases stand at 404,958, a fall from 413,718 cases on Monday.Tuesday’s case count in India is 9,585 less than that of Monday’s when 40,134 people were detected Covid-19 positive. On the other hand, the toll on Tuesday is same as that of Monday's.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 471,294,789 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till now of which 1,649,295 were tested in the last 24 hours.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes @PIB_India @mygovindia @COVIDNewsByMIB #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/2ueWEMf7pEAuthorities have administered vaccine doses to 472,223,639 people so far of which 367,994,586 have received the first dose and the remaining 104,229,053 have received both doses, meaning they are fully vaccinated against Covid-19, the health ministry’s update also showed.Currently, a majority of the citizens above the age of 18 across the country are being administered doses of either Serum Institute of India’s (SII's) Covishield or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. However, some cities including the national capital Delhi, Gurugram, Bengaluru, Guwahati, Kochi, Kolkata have also been inoculating people with Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine.Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, which is supplying Sputnik V to states and Union Territories (UTs), said on Monday that the locally manufactured doses will be available in India by September or October.“We have received 31.5 lakh doses of component 1 and 4.5 lakh doses of component 2 of the Sputnik V vaccine in India. We are working closely with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to ramp up supplies. We are also working closely with our partners in India for manufacturing readiness,” Dr Reddy’s Laboratories said in a press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-daily-covid-tally-falls-with-30-549-new-cases-422-deaths-recorded-101627956472190.html
03-08-2021||India||UGC declared 24 'self-styled' universities as fake: Dharmendra Pradhan in Parl||Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan said on Monday the University Grants Commission (UGC) has declared 24 "self-styled" universities as fake and found two more in violation of norms.Replying to a written question in the Lok Sabha, Pradhan said the steps were taken after complaints were received from the students, parents and general public. Some information came through electronic print media as well, he said."Two more institutes, namely Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow, UP, and Indian Institute of Planning and Management (IIPM), Qutub Enclave, New Delhi, are also found functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956. The matters of Bhartiya Shiksha Parishad, Lucknow and IIPM, New Delhi are sub-judice in the court," he added.The highest number of such fake institutes are based in Uttar Pradesh, followed by Delhi. These are Varanaseya Sanskrit Vishwavidyalaya, Varanasi; Mahila Gram Vidyapith, Allahabad; Gandhi Hindi Vidyapith, Allahabad; National University of Electro Complex Homeopathy, Kanpur; Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Open University, Aligarh; Uttar Pradesh Vishwavidyalaya, Mathura; Maharana Pratap Shiksha Niketan Vishwavidyalaya, Pratapgarh and Indraprastha Shiksha Parishad, Noida.Delhi has seven such fake universities — Commercial University Ltd, United Nations University, Vocational University, ADR Centric Juridicial University, Indian Institution of Science and Engineering, Vishwakarma Open University for Self Employment and Adhyatmik Vishwavidyalaya (Spiritual University).Odisha and West Bengal have two fake universities each -- Indian Institute of Alternative Medicine and Institute of Alternative Medicine and Research in Kolkata and Nababharat Shiksha Parishad in Rourkela and North Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology in Mayurbhanj.Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry and Maharashtra have one fake university each.They are — Sree Bodhi Academy of Higher Education, Puducherry; Christ New Testament Deemed University, Andhra Pradesh; Raja Arabic University, Nagpur; St John's University, Kerala and Badaganvi Sarkar World Open University Education Society, Karnataka.Speaking on the steps taking by the UGC against these universities, Pradhan said public notices are issued about the list of fake universities/institutes in national Hindi and English newspapers.He said, "The commission writes letters to state chief secretaries, Education secretaries and principal secretaries to take action against such universities located in their jurisdiction"."Show cause and warning notices are issued to the unauthorized institutes awarding invalid degrees when any self-styled institution is found or noticed functioning in violation of the UGC Act, 1956."(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ugc-declared-24-self-styled-universities-as-fake-dharmendra-pradhan-in-parl-101627960404764.html
03-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Heavy rains to continue in central, northwest India till Aug 6 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Widespread, heavy rain to continue over central, NW India till August 6Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of central and northwest India for the next 3-4 days, according to India Meteorological Department. There is a well marked low pressure area over southwest Uttar Pradesh and its adjoining northwest Madhya Pradesh which is likely to move westwards gradually during the next three days. Read moreShops to operate on all days till 10pm from today in MaharashtraFrom Tuesday, all essential and non-essential shops can stay open till 10pm everyday in Mumbai on, while restaurants will be allowed to operate at 50% seating capacity till 4pm in the city, the civic body said. Read morePM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of PMGKAY in Gujarat todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Gujarat through video conferencing. Read moreAfghan forces fight Taliban in Lashkargah, clashes intensify in HeratAghan forces battled the Taliban in Lashkargah as the fighting intensified in the city in southern Helmand province and the frontline was in District 1 where the US conducted an airstrike on Monday morning. Read more3.2 million salaried people became jobless in JulyAt least 3.2 million salaried people lost their jobs in July despite the ebbing of the pandemic’s second wave and improved economic activity underscoring structural weakness in core sectors. Read moreArjun Kapoor credits Janhvi, Khushi for evolved relationship with Boney Kapoor: 'We've confronted many of our demons'Arjun Kapoor has said that had it not been for his bond with Janhvi Kapoor and Khushi Kapoor, he would have 'resented many things' and might have not reconnected with his father, producer Boney Kapoor in the way he presently does. Read more'They convert broken road into highway for the Ferraris': Gavaskar picks India's opening pair for first England TestKL Rahul is at peace with himself. The soft-spoken batsman is one of those rare cricketers who is fighting a constant, sometimes fierce battle with his inner self. The strive for excellence, the sheer zeal of outdoing his own self, has at times left Rahul drained out. Read moreNora Fatehi in pink sequin saree and bralette will make your heart skip a beatDancer-turned-actor Nora Fatehi may have made a name for herself in the film industry with her swoon-worthy dance moves. However, one cannot ignore her sartorial journey also. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-heavy-rains-to-continue-in-central-nw-india-till-aug-6-101627959990694.html
03-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain to continue over central, NW India till August 6||Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over parts of central and northwest India for the next 3-4 days, according to India Meteorological Department.There is a well marked low pressure area over southwest Uttar Pradesh and its adjoining northwest Madhya Pradesh which is likely to move westwards gradually during the next three days.The monsoon trough has shifted slightly north of its normal position. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Madhya Pradesh till August 6.Isolated extremely heavy rain (over 20cm) is also likely over west Madhya Pradesh on August 3. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls is very likely to continue over East Rajasthan till August 6. Scattered rainfall with isolated heavy rainfall is also very likely over West Rajasthan during August 2 to 4. The current spell of scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over rest parts of north India with isolated heavy rain very likely over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh during the next five days. Isolated heavy rain is likely over Haryana during the next three days and Himachal Pradesh during August 4 and 5. Reduced rainfall activity is likely to continue over Peninsular India and the adjoining east Central India, Maharashtra and Gujarat during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-to-continue-over-central-nw-india-till-august-6-101627959749694.html
03-08-2021||NA||Parliament Monsoon Session highlights: Both Houses adjourned till 11am tomorrow||The ongoing monsoon session of Parliament saw more adjournments and disruptions during the day as 14 Opposition parties planned a 'mock parliament' against the government's refusal to hold discuss the Pegasus snooping row, Covid-19 pandemic, farm laws and spiralling fuel prices. The leaders met over breakfast, hosted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, to discuss a strategy for the remaining part of the session.On Monday, defence minister Rajnath Singh reached out to at least two senior Opposition leaders to bring the ongoing session back on the rails, but the latter refused to give in, stating a debate on the Pegasus snooping controversy is a must for the disruptions to end.Amid repeated adjournments and fierce protests, the productivity of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha now stands at just 14% and 20%, respectively. Both Houses faced repeated disruptions and protests even on Monday.Amid the din, the government introduced the Tribunals Reforms Bill in the Lok Sabha and passed the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 before it was adjourned for the day. The Rajya Sabha approved the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021.Follow all the updates here:Lok Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowLok Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on August 4, 2021.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 11am tomorrowRajya Sabha has been adjourned till 11am on August 4, 2021.Insolvency & Bankruptcy Amendment Bill, 2021 passed in Rajya SabhaInsolvency & Bankruptcy Amendment Bill, 2021 has been passed in Rajya Sabha while Opposition continues to protest. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman thanked members of Parliament who participated in the debate.The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 passed in Lok SabhaThe Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021 has been passed in Lok Sabha amid protest by Opposition. The House was adjourned till 4pm immediately after the bill was passed without any discussion.Govt conducted no study on Covid impact on suicides: MHAThe government has not conducted any study to assess the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on suicides in the country, the ministry of home affairs told Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The ministry said that the government, however, has taken a number of initiatives during the pandemic to provide psychological support to people.Lok Sabha adjourned till 4pmLok Sabha adjourned till 4pm amid sloganeering from Opposition partiesLok Sabha adjourned till 2 pmLok Sabha adjourned till 2 pm.Not invited to Oppn meet, SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur BadalSAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal says her party was not invited for the opposition meeting called by Rahul Gandhi."The entire opposition is united on the issues like farm laws. Why is Centre running away from discussions? This is a government of dictatorship," Badal says. SAD MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal offers wheat stalk to BJP's Hema Malini#WATCH | Shiromani Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal offers wheat stalk to BJP MP Hema Malini, as SAD-BSP continue to protest at Parliament over Centre's farm laws pic.twitter.com/TnBlGHPjlwShiromani Akali Dal MP Harsimrat Kaur Badal offers wheat stalk to BJP MP Hema Malini as SAD-BSP MPs protest at Parliament over Centre's farm lawsLok Sabha adjourned till 12 pmLok Sabha adjourned till 12 pm following a ruckus by Opposition MPs, who are protesting in the House over different issues.Govt has to agree to debate on Pegasus row for Parl to function normally: Oppn A senior leader from the Opposition said it was decided at the breakfast meeting hosted by Rahul Gandhi that the government would have to agree to a debate on the Pegasus report if it wants to run the monsoon session of Parliament. "It was we will stick to our position on issues like the Pegasus row and farm laws," he said.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm amid uproarRajya Sabha adjourned till 12pm amid uproar in the House. Opposition MPs gathered at the Well of the House, protesting over various issues.Not apologising after tearing papers in Parliament is arrogance: PMUnion Minister Pralhad Joshi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish over a tweet posted by TMC MP Derek O'Brien. PM said it is an insult to people who elected the MPs. "...Making 'papri chaat' was an insulting comment. Tearing of papers, throwing them and not apologising is arrogance, the PM said at the BJP parliamentary meeting," Joshi said.PM Modi slams Oppn for Parliament disruptionsAt the BJP parliamentary meeting, the PM said lawmakers should ensure the dignity of the House is maintained. He slammed the opposition for disrupting the monsoon session and said this is an insult to Parliament, the Constitution, democracy and the people of the country, an insult to the people.PM Modi urges BJP MPs to maintain restraintAt the BJP parliamentary meeting, Modi asked his party colleagues to maintain restraint during House sessions even as though disruptions by Opposition MPs have become order of the day.PM Modi, Shah, Rajnath, Nadda attend BJP parliamentary meetingPrime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence minister Rajnath Singh, BJP national president JP Nadda and other leaders attend party's parliamentary meeting held today in Delhi.Oppn MPs ride on bicycles to reach Parliament#WATCH | Delhi: Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition leaders ride bicycles to the Parliament, after the conclusion of their breakfast meeting. pic.twitter.com/5VF6ZJkKCNCongress leader Rahul Gandhi and other Opposition MPs ride bicycles to reach Parliament after their breakfast meeting comes to an end.Rahul Gandhi calls for stronger united OppositionAt the Opposition leaders' meeting, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi says single-most important thing, in his view, is to unite this force. "The more this voice (of the people) unites, the more powerful this voice will become, the more difficult it'll become for BJP-RSS to suppress it," he says.Leaders from Congress, NCP, Shiv Sena, TMC and other Oppn parties attend breakfast meeting at Constitution ClubMPs from the Congress, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), Samajwadi Party (SP), Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M), CPI, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), Kerala Congress (M), Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), National Conference (NC), Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) took part in the breakfast meeting hosted by Rahul Gandhi.AAP stays away from Rahul Gandhi-hosted Oppn meetThe Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) skips the breakfast meeting being hosted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for leaders of Opposition parties at Constitution Club in Delhi.Union ministers hold BJP parliamentary meetingDelhi: EAM Dr S Jaishankar, MoS MEA V Muraleedharan, Union Ministers Sarbananda Sonowal and Jyotiraditya Scindia and other leaders arrive for the BJP Parliamentary party meeting. pic.twitter.com/IZ3mBsZgcLUnion ministers S Jaishankar, V Muraleedharan, Sarbananda Sonowal and Jyotiraditya Scindia and other leaders arrive for the BJP Parliamentary party meeting.Rahul Gandhi reaches for breakfast meeting with Oppn leadersCongress leader Rahul Gandhi arrives at Constitution Club for a meeting with Opposition party floor leaders from the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha.CPI MP Binoy Viswam gives suspension of business notice in RS to discuss Pegasus snooping reportCPI MP Binoy Viswam gives suspension of business notice under rule 267 in the Rajya Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.Oppn leaders meet for breakfast to discuss Parliament strategyDelhi: Opposition Party floor leaders from Lok Sabha & Rajya Sabha arrive for a breakfast meeting being hosted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Constitution Club. Strategy for Monsoon session to be discussed. pic.twitter.com/TaIa8CRFj9Floor leaders from Opposition parties in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha arrive for a breakfast meeting being hosted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi at Constitution Club. The leaders are scheduled to discuss the strategy for the remaining Monsoon session.Congress' Deepender Singh Hooda wants discussion on farm laws in RS, gives suspension of business noticeCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives suspension of business notice under rule 267 in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the three Central farm laws against which farmers have been protesting for months along the borders of Delhi.Lok Sabha Manish Tewari give adjournment notice for discussion on Pegasus controversyCongress MP Manish Tewari gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.Congress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in LS to discuss Pegasus issueCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in the Lok Sabha for discussion on 'Pegasus Project' media report.Congress' Ripun Bora gives suspension of business notice in RS to discuss Assam-Mizoram border clashCongress MP Ripun Bora gives suspension of business notice under rule 267 in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the Assam-Mizoram border clash last week that led to the death of six Assam Police personnel and caused injuries to several others.Congress MP Shaktisinh Gohil gives notice to discuss minor's rapeCongress MP Shaktisinh Gohil has given notice in the Rajya Sabha to discuss the issue of alleged rape and killing of a minor girl in Delhi's Nangal area.Breakfast meeting of Opposition leadersLeader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha and Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge said a breakfast meeting will be held around 9:30 am at the Constitution Club in Delhi. “All floor leaders and other MPs will join the meeting," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-2021-101627956235353.html
03-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Pentagon reopens after brief lockdown due to Metro station firing||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news:> CBSE Class 10 results declared, over 2.5 lakh score above 90%> Indian Army chopper crashes in J-K's Kathua, search on for survivors> BJP holds parliamentary party meeting; PM Modi slams Oppn for disrupting both Houses> MP CM Shivraj Chouhan review flood situation in state> Bill Gates, Melinda French officially divorced: Report> PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana> India's daily Covid tally falls with 30,549 new cases; 422 deaths recordedFollow all the updates here:Pentagon reopens after brief lockdown due to shooting at Metro stationThe Pentagon has lifted the lock down and has reopened. Corridor 2 and the Metro entrance remains closed. Corridor 3 is open for pedestrian traffic.Pentagon on lockdown after gunshots fired at nearby Metro station, reports APThe Pentagon currently is on lock down due to an incident at the Pentagon Transit Center. We are asking the public to please avoid the area. More information will be forthcoming.Maharashtra's daily Covid-19 case count rises to 6,005; 177 new deaths reportedThe new coronavirus cases reported in Maharashtra saw a spike to 6,005 on Tuesday, a day after reporting less than 5,000 new infections. Meanwhile, fresh fatalities rise to 177.Union sports minister Anurag Thakur felicitates PV Sindhu and her coach Park Tae-SangDelhi: Olympic #BRONZE medallist PV Sindhu and her coach Park Tae-Sang felicitated by Union Sports Minister Anurag Thakur#TokyoOlympics pic.twitter.com/68FhgQxAiiMumbai's Dharavi reports zero new Covid-19 cases, says BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Tuesday said that Asia's largest slum, Dharavi, located in Mumbai has reported no new coronavirus cases. The active case count in the area stands at 38, news agency ANI reported.Chhattisgarh govt makes negative RT-PCR report mandatory for air travellers entering the state from Aug 8Passengers flying to Chhattisgarh have to mandatorily display a negative RT-PCR report starting August 8. Fully-vaccinated passengers are also required to produce a negative Covid-19 report not older than 96 hours, the state government said.Bollywood singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh's wife files domestic violence case against himBollywood singer and actor Yo Yo Honey Singh's (Hirdesh Singh) wife Shalini Talwar has registered a case under "the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act". The Tis Hazari Court has issued a notice to Singh for August 28, 2021. Read more.Delhi reports 50 new Covid-19 cases; four fresh fatalities, reports PTIDelhi has reported 50 new COVID-19 cases along with four fresh fatalities, and 65 recoveries in a day, the health department's bulletin data showed. The positivity rate of the national capital stands at 0.08 per cent, news agency PTI reported.No interim relief for Gehana Vasisth in pornography caseMumbai Sessions court has denied interim relief to actor Gehana Vasisth in the pornography case, and has set the next date of hearing to August 6. Read more.Centre to expend ₹19,000 crore to 9 crore farmers on Aug 9 in fresh installment under PM-Kisan schemeThe central government are set to disburse a sum of ₹19,000 crore to 9 crore farmers in the August 9 tranche under the PM-Kisan scheme.R-factor of virus is more than 1 in 8 states, says Union health ministryThe Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said that the R-factor or reproductive factor of Covid-19 is above 1 in as many as 8 states in India.Two BSF personnel lost their lives during exchange of fire with militants in TripuraBSF sub-inspector Bhuru Singh & Const Raj Kumar lost their lives during an exchange of fire b/w BSF patrolling party & militants at 6.30 am today at Border Outpost RC Nath in Dhalai, Tripura. As per the blood strains at the spot, militants reportedly sustained some injuries: BSF pic.twitter.com/RkOwrKX8TKWay 'Adani Airport' was displayed before Chhatrapati Shivaji's statue, hurt people's sentiment: Maha minister Nawab MalikReferring to Shiv Sena workers vandalising Adani signboard at the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Airport in Mumbai, Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik said on Tuesday that Adani group took over the management control of the airport, but the way 'Adani Airport' was displayed before Shivaji's statue, hurt people's sentiments.Kerala Assembly LoP Satheesan blames state govt for laxity in Covid-19 curbsKerala | Govt is depending on test positivity rate that is also unscientific. Earlier shops were open for 6 days and if you open for 1 then it increases crowd. Such restrictions are increasing the crowd that further creates the spread of Covid: VD Satheesan, LoP Kerala Assembly pic.twitter.com/YhBh8UkftdPM Modi to invite Indian Olympics contingent to Red Fort as special guests on Independence Day, reports ANIOn 15th August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will invite the entire Indian Olympics contingent to the Red Fort as special guests. He will also personally meet and interact with all of them around that time.#Olympics pic.twitter.com/Sw0rbENdVbMP CM Shivraj Chouhan reviews flood situation in state, says 1,600 people rescuedMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday held a review meeting with officials on the flood situation in the state, after which he said that 1,600 people have been rescued till now by National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and their state-level counterparts. Read moreCBSE Class 10 results declared; over 2.5 lakh score above 90%The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday released the results of the class 10 examinations and 2,50,000 lakh students have secured 90% and above marks.Indian Army chopper crashes in J-K's Kathua, search on for survivorsA helicopter of the Indian Army's aviation corps with at least five people on board crashed near the Ranjit Sagar Dam in the Basohli area of Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua, a senior police official said on Tuesday. Read moreEx-US envoy says India may lead the world by 2030, lists areasFormer US ambassador to India Richard Verma has said India may lead the world in every category and with the youngest workforce in the region, the South Asian country will hold that advantage until 2050. Read moreCBSE Class 10 results to be announced at 12pm todayThe Central Board of Secondary Education said on Tuesday that the results of Class 10 examinations will be announced at 12pm today.India's daily Covid tally falls with 30,549 new cases; 422 deaths recordedIndia’s daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 31,726,507 after 30,549 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare. As many as 422 patients succumbed to the viral disease and 38,887 recovered in the same period, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 425,195 and 30,896,354 respectively. Read moreChina to test all residents of Wuhan after first Covid-19 cases in more than a yearAuthorities in Wuhan told news agency AFP on Tuesday that they will test all the residents of the city for Covid-19 after the first local infections were reported in more than a year.The city of 11 million is "swiftly launching comprehensive nucleic acid testing of all residents", senior Wuhan official Li Tao said at a press conference.Encounter breaks out in Jammu and Kashmir's BandiporaAn encounter started between terrorists and security forces in Chandaji area of Bandipora, the Kashmir Zone Police said on Tuesday."Encounter has started at Chandaji area of Bandipora. Police and security forces are on the job. Further details shall follow," the police tweeted.Covid in Maharashtra: Cong demands resuming local trains for vaccinated peopleAs the Maharashtra government on Monday announced ease in the ongoing Covid restrictions in 22 districts of the state, Mumbai Congress chief Bhai Jagtap demanded that the local train service should at least restart for those inoculated with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine. Read morePM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of PMGKAY in Gujarat todayPrime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Gujarat through video conferencing. Read moreUS reaches goal of administering one vaccine dose to 70% adultsThe United States on Monday reached President Joe Biden’s goal of getting at least one dose of the Covid-19 vaccine into 70% of American adults - a month late and amid a massive surge in cases by the delta variant that is swamping hospitals and leading to new mask rules and mandatory vaccinations around the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-3-2021-101627953940657.html
03-08-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of PMGKAY in Gujarat today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Tuesday interact with the beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) in Gujarat through video conferencing. “At 12:30 PM tomorrow, 3rd August, I will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Gujarat. It would be wonderful to hear their views and experiences,” PM Modi posted on Twitter on Monday.Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and deputy chief minister Nitinbhai Patel will also be a part of the virtual event.According to a statement by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), a public participation programme is being launched in the state to create further awareness about the Centre’s scheme.The Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana is a food security welfare scheme that was announced by the Centre in March last year due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. The scheme is operated by the department of food and public distribution under the Union ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution.At 12:30 PM tomorrow, 3rd August, will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Gujarat. It would be wonderful to hear their views and experiences.The main objective of the PMGKAY is to provide food grains to the poorest citizens through the public distribution system. Under the scheme, the Centre provides five kilos of rice or wheat and one kilo of pulses free every month.The Centre informed Parliament in July that around 278 lakh metric tonnes of food grains had been provided to nearly 80 crore National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries under PMGKAY for a period of seven months from May to November 2021.“During the year 2021 for the period of 7 months, that is from May to November 2021, about 278 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) foodgrains have been allocated free of cost to approximately 80 Crore NFSA beneficiaries under PMGKAY,” minister of state Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti told the Lok Sabha on July 27.Meanwhile, in June, the World Food Programme, which is a food assistance wing of the United Nations (UN), praised PMGKAY as a notable step to combat hunger by any developing country during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-pmgkay-in-gujarat-today-101627950462009.html
03-08-2021||India||Toddler with rare genetic disorder gets ₹16 cr injection free from US firm||A toddler from Nashik in Maharashtra has got a ₹16 crore life-saving injection, the most expensive drug in history, for a rare genetic disorder from a company in the US free of cost. The parents of Shivraj Daware said their son is the first patient of Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) from India to get Zolgensma, a gene replacement therapy, through a lottery, according to news agency PTI.PTI reported citing Shivraj's parents that he got the injection, which doctors say is the most effective drug for SMA patients, ahead of this second birthday. Shivraj was referred to Mumbai's Hinduja Hospital after the initial diagnosis. Vishal Daware told PTI that Hinduja Hospital neurologist Dr Brajesh Udani suggested Zolgensma could save his son's life. Vishal Daware, who runs a photocopy shop in Nashik, said arranging the huge amount was impossible.Also read | US approves world’s costliest drug to treat rare childhood disorderVishal Daware said Dr Udani suggested they could apply for a lottery to be brought out by the US-based firm for conducting clinical trials and that they could get the injection free of cost if they are lucky. Shivraj was selected by the company in the lucky draw on December 25, 2020, and was administered the injection at the Hinduja Hospital on January 19, 2021.“SMA 1 is a genetic disorder. One out of 10,000 children gets affected by the disorder. It slows down the movement of the child and the muscles stop working. Later, it leads to the death of the child," Dr Ramant Patil, who treated Shivraj, before, was quoted as saying by PTI.Also read | Hyderabad couple raises ₹16 cr for son battling rare diseaseIn July, the Centre offered a special exemption from payment of customs duty and GST for importing the life-saving drug for a two-year-old girl from Tamil Nadu. The Union finance ministry said in a statement that import taxes on 55ml of drug Zolgensma have been exempted under exceptional circumstances and in the public interest.Also read | Crowdfunding raises ₹18 crore to treat Kerala child with rare genetic disorderBefore that, Hyderabad-based couple mobilised ₹16 crore in three-and-a-half months through crowd-funding to buy the injection for their three-year-old son with SMA.Last year, Novartis said it had received approval from US regulatory for Zolgensma. The Swiss pharmaceutical company said Zolgensma was a one-time treatment for SMA, a disease that affects about 1 in 10,000 births and which results in death or the need for permanent ventilation by the age of two in 90 per cent of cases.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/toddler-with-rare-genetic-disorder-gets-rs-16-cr-injection-free-from-us-firm-101627951512872.html
03-08-2021||India||IAF undertakes rescue ops in flood-hit Bengal, Madhya Pradesh||The Indian Air Force (IAF) carried out rescue operations in the Midnapore and Hooghly districts of West Bengal and Shivpuri in Madhya Pradesh and evacuated more than 40 people, officials said on Monday. In West Bengal, the IAF undertook missions in the flood-affected areas of Dhanyaghari of Khanakul Block 2 on Monday, rescuing 31 people from rooftops using two helicopters. the force said in a release. IAF helicopters were also deployed in the Shivpuri area of Madhya Pradesh, where 10 people were rescued and brought to safety, it added.IAF was earlier involved in the rescue operation in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar district and distributed relief material in the cloud-burst hit area of Honzar. "Three IAF helicopters -- one each from Jammu, Udhampur, and Srinagar -- were utilised for airlifting joint teams of the NDRF and the SDRF to Kishtwar," Jammu-based Indian Army spokesperson Lt Col Devender Anand told news agency PTI.The helicopters flew a total of eight sorties and transported a relief load of 2,250kg. It also transported 44 National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel, four medical assistants, and two patients in critical conditions for specialised treatment.IAF also aided in relief and rescue efforts in Maharashtra during the recent spate of flooding and landslide. An IAF helicopter flew from Ratnagiri and rescued two individuals from flood-affected areas on July 23. The IAF also positioned two Mi-17V5s and two Mi-17s for flood relief operations and kept a helicopter on standby in Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-undertakes-rescue-ops-in-flood-hit-bengal-madhya-pradesh-101627926978126.html
03-08-2021||India||Covid-19 norms flouted amid rush at UP temple||Over a hundred thousand devotees thronged Varanasi’s Kashi Vishwanath temple to take a holy dip in the Ganga river on the second Monday of ‘Sawan’ month, ignoring warnings issued by authorities to adhere to the Covid-19 guidelines. Most visitors were seen walking without face masks or maintaining social distance.“Baba Bholenath takes care of one and all. His devotees are safe. Corona is nothing in front of the power of Baba Bholenath,” said Raju Rai, one of the devotees, as he joined loud chants of “Har Har Mahadev” heading to take a dip in Ganga. Prasad Dikshit, a priest, expressed a similar sentiment. “Baba will take care of all,” he said.A senior official of the temple administration assured that adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour is a priority. “It is being ensured that the devotees maintain physical distance in the temple premises,” said chief executive officer of the temple, Sunil Kumar Verma.A devotee, however, said: “The crowd was so huge that it was virtually difficult to maintain social distance as queues stretched for nearly two kilometres.”The month-long celebration of Sawan, also known as Sharvan, is dedicated to Shiva and Monday is considered as the most auspicious day for worshipping Lord Shiva.As per tradition, devotees collect gangajal (Ganga water) from the river and walk to the temple to offer the water to the deity.Many devotees take a holy dip in the Ganga and collect Gangajal in pitchers and then go to the temple.This year, owing to Covid-19, the annual kanwar yatra, which is usually carried out in the month of Sawan, has also been cancelled amid warnings over a possible third wave.“We have appealed to the people several times to wear masks, follow physical distance and avoid visiting crowded places,” said Varanasi’s chief medical officer Dr VB Singh.Till Monday, Uttar Pradesh’s tally of Covid-19 cases reached 1,708,500, with 24 new cases. Of these, Varanasi reported two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-norms-flouted-amid-rush-at-up-temple-101627936793941.html
03-08-2021||India||30 Covid hospitals put on notice over fire safety certificate, Gujarat to SC||NEW DELHI: The Gujarat government told the Supreme Court on Monday that 30 out of 328 Covid-19 hospitals in the state have been issued notices to comply with fire safety measures while the remaining 298 have a valid no objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department.Gujarat, which witnessed two major fire incidents at Covid hospitals last year. faced scrutiny by the Supreme Court which noticed that a July 8 notification by the government permitted the state’s hospitals to acquire building use (BU) permission by March 2022. On July 19, the court asked the government to explain if its notification violated a Supreme Court order of December 18, 2020 ordering mandatory fire safety audit for hospitals across the country.A fire at Shrey hospital in Ahmedabad killed eight people while another at Uday Shivanand hospital in Rajkot left five people dead.In its affidavit, the Gujarat government said its July 8 notification extending the deadline for compliance with BU permission did not grant any extended time limit for hospitals to obtain a valid fire safety certificate. “While Fire Safety Certificate is one of the necessary pre-requisite for grant of BU Permission, there is no requirement of BU Permission for granting the Fire Safety Certificate,” the affidavit said. To make this point clear, the state said it issued a clarificatory notification on July 23 to this effect.As on date, Gujarat said that out of 328 hospitals serving as Covid hospitals, 298 have a valid Fire NOC. Pursuant to the fire audit ordered by the top court in December 2020, the state said that out of 5,705 hospitals in the state, 4,604 possess valid Fire NOC under the Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013.“All the requirements of fire safety norms related to fire systems and provisions for equipment related to fire safety or any building in the state, are mandatory and must be complied with. The authorities competent to take action under Gujarat Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2013 shall continue to take all actions, including coercive actions, in case of non-compliance,” the state added, citing its July 23 notification.But the Gujarat government did itself in trouble over its new notification.The bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said: “How can the government say by issuing a notification that provisions of law will not apply. The BU permission is under the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976. You cannot stay the provisions under the Town Planning Act.”The court wondered who advised Gujarat to issue its July 23 order which categorically suggested that the July 8 notification applied only to BU permission and not fire clearance. The bench, which posted the matter after a week, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to advise the state on this issue.On July 19, the court while dealing with a suo moto petition on the issue of proper treatment to Covid-19 patients and dignified handling of dead bodies had remarked: “Hospitals have become a large industry. They survive on human distress. They cannot be protected at the cost of citizens whom they are meant to subserve.” The July 8 notification was seen as an attempt by the state government to provide a long rope to hospitals. On the previous day, the court had even directed the state to supply a copy of the report prepared by Justice DA Mehta Committee, which gave suggestions following the two fire incidents at Covid hospitals. The report was presented to the court on Monday in a sealed cover.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30-covid-hospitals-put-on-notice-over-fire-safety-certificate-gujarat-to-sc-101627934728410.html
03-08-2021||India||‘Ball in Centre’s court’: NSCN-IM on eve of anniversary of Framework Agreement||KOHIMA: On the eve of the sixth anniversary of the Framework Agreement signed between the Union government and the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN I-M) on August 3, 2015, to resolve the protracted Naga political issue, the NSCN (IM) has called upon the Centre to execute the agreement with “all honesty” and not resort to misinterpretation to suit its convenience.In a statement on Monday, the Naga armed group said the framework agreement was entering six years without any follow-up action by the Centre to concretize the agreement into a solid official document as a transitional arrangement for the final settlement of the Naga political issue.“Six years waiting is a long period in any sense of the term. Given the complexity of the issue, Naga people are, however, patient enough waiting for GoI (government of India) to act upon its own commitment. The ball is, therefore, with the court of the Government of India, and not with the NSCN,” the statement said.The outfit, which has been in a ceasefire agreement with the government since 1997, maintained that the framework agreement was the fruition of gruelling rounds of discussions to set the “Indo-Naga political talks” on firm footing to take the Naga peace process to an honourable and acceptable conclusion for both parties.“It was after more than ten years of negotiation following the official recognition of the unique history and situation of the Nagas when the talks reached deadlock-like situation with no side willing to compromise as both the Indian and Naga leaders took their respective parallel stands never to meet whatsoever. The stand of the GoI was – ‘solution within the parameter of the Indian Constitution and Union of India’, whereas the stand of the Nagas was-‘nothing to do with India, nothing short of total independence and total sovereignty. Finally, after a long series of talks, the Government of India proposed the Framework Agreement as a formula of win-win solution (sic),” the NSCN (IM) statement said.The statement pointed out that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is now being carefully watched if he would live up to his “high profile Framework Agreement speech” where he is said to have mentioned that the Nagas and the people of India have continued to look at each other through the prism of false perception and old prejudices, but the signing of the Framework Agreement was a shining example of what can be achieved when both parties dealt with each other in a spirit of equality and respect, trust and confidence and leave the path of the dispute to take the high road of dialogue.The group maintained that in order to find a “lasting Naga solution”, the Centre will have to look through the prism of the Framework Agreement and no other way.“Prime Minister Modi had shown his confidence and pride in signing the FA that he made it sure that the signing ceremony is live-telecast to make the whole world witness the historic agreement. He even generated much amusement among the opposition parties when he informed them that he had solved the longest-running insurgency movement in Southeast Asia by the stroke of a pen signing the Framework Agreement,” the NSCN (IM) stated while underscoring that PM Modi should appoint his representatives to take the agreement to a logical conclusion.“There is no point talking with the officials of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), GoI as the informal talk is leading to nowhere other than beating around the bush,” it asserted.“It is our conviction that only the principle of the Framework Agreement is the key to an honourable and acceptable solution for durable peace. Neither economic packages nor imposed political packages will bring about a lasting solution. There are no other tangible options we can conceive,” the statement further said.The delay in signing the final pact to seal the Naga peace process under the aegis of the Framework Agreement was widely attributed to the NSCN (IM)’s resolute demand for a separate Naga flag and constitution (Yehzabo), which, the outfit holds strongly that they represented the unique history and political identity of the Nagas.“Without the Naga national flag and Yehzabo, everything discussed and agreed upon shall be nullified,” it stated.The NSCN (IM) has also announced protests against the Centre “for keeping silent” on the Framework Agreement, by calling for a total closure of shops and business establishments in Nagalim (all Naga inhabited areas) for 12 hours on August 3 till noon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ball-in-centre-s-court-nscn-im-on-eve-of-anniversary-of-framework-agreement-101627933828170.html
03-08-2021||India||2.5 lakh people rescued as flood-like situation hits six districts of Bengal||Nearly 2.5 lakh people had to be rescued and relief material had to be rushed as a flood-like situation hit six districts in south Bengal due to heavy rainfall in the state and its neighbouring areas and release of water from barrages and dams. A top official of the West Bengal government said that Indian Air Force choppers had to be deployed at Khanakul in Hooghly district to rescue people. At Khanakul in Hooghly a 101-year-old woman was rescued and taken to a relief shelter. A low pressure, which triggered heavy rainfall in south Bengal last week moved in the northwest direction across Jharkhand and southern parts of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh triggering rain in the adjoining districts, said a senior official of the India Meteorological Department’s regional weather forecasting centre (RWFC) in Kolkata. This prompted the Damodar Valley Corporation to release a huge amount of water from the barrages over the past few days. The water, flowing down the rivers, flooded multiple areas such as Udanarayanpur in Howrah, Khanakul in Hooghly and Ghatal in West Midnapore. “We have shifted around 2.5 lakh people to rescue shelters in Hooghly, Howrah, Purba Bardhaman, Paschim Bardhaman, Paschim Medinipur, and South 24 Parganas districts. Over one lakh tarpaulin, around 1,000 MT of rice, thousands of drinking water pouches and clothes have been sent to the rescue shelters,” a senior official said. Javed Ahmed Khan, disaster management minister and Dushyant Nariala, secretary of disaster management and civil defence could not be reached despite repeated attempts. State panchayat minister Subrata Mukherjee visited some of the flood-hit areas of Ghatal in Paschim Medinipur to take stock of the situation. “Some places have been completely inundated and thousands of people have been stranded. The chief minister has asked me to look into the matter. After conducting this survey, I will report to her,” he said. A DVC official said that water was last discharged from its dams on July 31. The corporation had 1.14 lakh cusec of water on Saturday, he said. “We haven’t yet estimated the loss incurred due to the flood. As of now, our sole priority is to rescue the affected,” the official underlined. “Due to extremely heavy rainfall on July 30 and 31 at DVC area and in the upper reaches in Jharkhand and release of huge amount of water from the Tenughat dam by the Jharkhand government, DVC had to release up to 1.14 lakh cusecs on Saturday. This has now been brought down to 80,000 cusecs. The West Bengal government was informed beforehand that DVC would be releasing water from Maithon and Panchet dams,” said a senior official of DVC. Water from several rivers, including Rupnarayan, Dwarakeswar, Shilabati rivers have overtopped banks and entered residential areas, flooding homes in districts. At Khanakul IAH choppers rescued around 27 people who were stranded. At Ghatal, there were multiple breaches in the embankments of River Shilabati. The river water inundated several villages and the municipal area too. People had to take shelter in the first floor of two-storey houses. At Udanarayanpur in Howrah at more than 40 villages were hit by water of the River Damodar. The water entered the villages through breaches in the embankments. At least 80 villages were inundated. There was knee-deep water at the campus of the state general hospital in Howrah. At Kalimpong in north Bengal, three people, who were swept away on Friday when the water level in the River Mam Khola rose due to heavy rains, could not be traced even on Monday. Seven people working for the Sevoke-Rungpo railway project were swept away. While two died, two others were rescued and were undergoing treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/25-lakh-people-rescued-as-flood-like-situation-hits-six-districts-of-bengal-101627932570020.html
03-08-2021||India||Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, hockey and the legacy that he could be building||Bhubaneswar: Moments after the Indian women’s hockey team beat the much-fancied Australians in Tokyo Olympics’ quarter-final on Monday morning, 74-year-old Naveen Patnaik stood on the verandah of his official residence Naveen Niwas in Bhubaneswar to record a congratulatory video message for the Indian eves.“What a terrific game by our women’s hockey team against Australia,” said Patnaik, wearing a black tee and pyjama. The previous evening, Patnaik was seen standing and clapping for the Indian men’s team that beat Great Britain to enter an Olympics semifinal after a gap of 49 years.It was a game that Patnaik helped when not many others came forward. Like when Sahara backed out from sponsoring the Indian hockey teams in 2018, the Odisha government signed a ₹100 crore deal with Hockey India to sponsor the men’s and women’s hockey teams over the next 5 years. Describing the 5-year sponsorship deal as Odisha’s gift to the nation, Patnaik then described the game as a way of life in his state’s tribal region “where children learn to walk with hockey sticks”.There was recognition on and off social media for the critical support his government extended to the game that he once played as a member of the Doon school hockey team. He was then the goalie.India dominated the world hockey scene as hockey wizard Dhyan Chand led the national team to three successive Olympic gold medals in 1928, 1932 and 1936. But after the defeat in the 1980 Moscow Olympic finals, the game lost much of its popularity in India. Odisha helped give the game a much-needed push starting with the Champions Trophy hockey tournament in 2014.In 2017, his government also sponsored Kalinga Lancers club that won the Hockey India League in January and followed up by hosting Hockey World League in December 2018 when Bhubaneswar’s Kalinga Stadium hosted World Cup Men’s Hockey tournament. The following year, Odisha hosted FIH Men’s Series Finals and Olympic Hockey Qualifiers 2019 and even the FIH Pro League in 2020. India is set to host the 2023 edition of the FIH Men’s Hockey World Cup, after successfully organising it in 2018.In 2023, Bhubaneswar and Rourkela will again host the World Cup Hockey for Men for the second time. In Rourkela of Sundargarh district, Patnaik government is building the country’s biggest hockey stadium with a seating capacity for 20,000 spectators that will be named after tribal leader Birsa Munda. To further strengthen the hockey ecosystem in Sundargarh, Odisha is also planning to lay a synthetic hockey turf in each of the 17 blocks of the district.“Odisha is the sports capital of India thanks to the vision of Naveen Patnaik,” said Odisha sports minister Tusharkanti Behera. “It’s not just hockey, but our government is patronising many other sports disciplines starting from rugby to football.”Just before the pandemic hit India last year, the first-ever Khelo India University Games was held in Odisha in which 4,000 athletes from 176 universities participated in 211 events in 17 sports events over a period of 10 days. In 2019, the state government tied up with Olympian gold medallist Abhinav Bindra to start a Targeting Performance Centre at the Kalinga Stadium complex. The centre’s services would include performance enhancement, injury prevention and management, biomechanics, physiology testing and training, recovery as well as strength and conditioning training.In his home district of Ganjam, Patnaik is setting up an integrated sports complex that would have a synthetic athletic track, multi-purpose indoor hall, aquatic complex, basketball and volleyball courts, yoga hall, medical room and a 150-bed sports hostel, with a proposed expenditure of ₹43 crore. In November last year, his assembly constituency of Hinjili got a 500-seating capacity centrally air-conditioned stadium.Rishabh Jaiswal, who runs Sporting Ethos, a sports science and medicine institute in New Delhi, said Odisha’s government’s sponsorship of games including hockey was a key element in creating a healthy sports ecosystem in the country.“Odisha government deserves a lot of credit for the rise of an Indian hockey team over last 5 years. The Naveen Patnaik government’s public-private partnership for sports is a model for all states to follow,” said Jaiswal.Some believe that Naveen Patnaik generous support may be an effort to create a legacy for the politician who has ruled Odisha for 21 years on the trot. To be sure, his father Biju Patnaik is credited as one of the makers of modern Odisha for delivering signpost projects such as Paradip port, Rourkela Steel plant, Hirakud dam and Bhubaneswar airport.“Naveen perhaps wants to leave a legacy through sports and erase the image of Odisha as a state that is known for its poverty or punching bags of natural disasters,” said Gyana Ranjan swain, a political science professor. Incidentally, he was the first CM in Odisha to have made a hockey player a Rajya Sabha MP.Of course, Patnaik won’t be the first to use sports to make a political statement. In 1995, Nelson Mandela used the Rugby world cup to get South Africa out of the isolation of world sports. The celebration of the Olympic Games in Greek city-states was an occasion for the rulers to discuss important political issues and form political and military alliances. While the Olympic games of 1964 sought to present a new, pacific Japan to the world, South Korea in 1988, China in 2008 and Brazil in 2016 have used the Olympics to mark their emergence on the world stage.Back home, Patnaik’s critics agree that his decision to support hockey made a world of a difference. “He has given hockey a new lease of life through sponsorship and raised the profile of the state in the process. I only wish the money could be spent more on grassroots,” said Prasad Harichandan, former Odisha Congress president.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odishas-naveen-patnaik-hockey-and-the-legacy-that-he-could-be-building-101627931849033.html
03-08-2021||India||Chennai civic body to set up park dedicated to covid victims||Chennai: The Chennai civic body is planning to set up a memorial park for Covid-19 victims in the city, where families will plant saplings in memory of their loved ones who succumbed to the coronavirus, officials said. For the proposed park, the Greater Chennai Corporation has selected a 3-acre empty space under a flyover which turned into a dumping ground. Officials are also planning to have an obelisk in the park for engraving names of the Covid victims. “The idea is yet to be approved but the saplings could be provided from government nurseries and each family could be given a unique number; in future they could also add their names to the trees,” said a senior civic official. Besides being an initiative that’s a reminder for the generations to come on how Chennai, the Covid-19 hot pot in Tamil Nadu, fought the pandemic, the park is being planned to offer comfort to those who are living with the loss and to honour communities coming together to help one another during the crisis. Several countries are planting native trees as a memorial to remember people whose lives were cut short abruptly due to Covid-19. Since the virus outbreak in March 2020, as many as 8,318 people have lost their lives in Chennai, the highest among all districts in Tamil Nadu. The state death toll is 34,102 as of August 1, according to the health department data. The proposed site is under Mint flyover in Royapuram, the northern region of Chennai. During the first wave, the Covid-19 caseload was the highest in north Chennai, which is densely populated. Chennai corporation commissioner Gangandeep Singh Bedi and regional deputy commissioner (North) D Sneha inspected the site last week. “The components of the Covid memorial park are being discussed and we are coordinating the work between the headquarters and the region (north),” said Sneha. “We have cleared the garbage and debris in anticipation that work will begin soon.” A budget estimate of ₹5 crore has been prepared for the memorial park. One of Chennai’s oldest civic movements, Exnora International, which has spearheaded tree plantation drives in the city, is for the idea of planting tree saplings. “The trees would be a living memory to Covid-19. Planting saplings also connects people to trees which are being felled everywhere,” said MB Nirmal, founder of Exnora. “Usually, VVIPs plant saplings and it’s good to pass on the ownership to people, so they can take care of these trees.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chennai-civic-body-to-set-up-park-dedicated-to-covid-victims-101627931547366.html
03-08-2021||India||Delta variant detected in 90% of samples in Kerala, reveals genome study||With Covid-19 cases showing no signs of plateauing in Kerala, the latest genome sequencing study has shown that the highly contagious Delta variant is playing havoc in many areas and its presence has been detected in nearly 90 per cent of the samples collected from the state during May to July. When 835 samples were collected from the least affected to worst-affected areas randomly, the Delta variant was found in 735 samples, said the study jointly conducted by the Institute of Genomic and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi and the state health ministry. Samples were collected from almost all districts and the variant was detected widely in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. Except Wayanad, all other districts have shown an alarming presence of the variant in May end and June, it said. Malappuram still topped the pandemic chart in the country with over 3,500 daily average cases. The study shows-- in March, the less contagious Alpha variant was widely prevalent in many districts but later the Delta variant took its place aggravating the situation. Dr Vinod Sacria, principal scientist at the (IGIB), said findings of the new study point to the need of intensifying virus-control measures and surveillance in the state. Three variants-- Alpha, Kappa and Delta-- have been detected in the state and the presence of the highly-contagious last variant is a cause for concern, the study pointed out. Another study conducted by the health department with the help of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology also found that the Delta variant is dominating in the state. It also found in areas where the Delta variant dominates other variants were not found abundantly. “All studies point to the increased presence of the Delta variant. The next three weeks are crucial for the state,” said state health minister Veena George. Kerala reported 13,984 cases on Monday with a test positivity rate of 10.93% tests were low (1,27, 903) due to weekend closure. It also clocked 118 deaths taking the total fatality to 16,955, according to the statistics released by the health ministry. The active caseload currently stands at 1,65,332. For almost a week, the state has been reporting nearly half of the total cases found in the country. The central team visiting the state met top officials of the health ministry on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-detected-in-90-of-samples-in-kerala-reveals-genome-study-101627931371264.html
03-08-2021||India||Madras HC sets deadline to complete the trial in IPS officer’s sexual harassment case||Chennai: Madras high court on Monday set a deadline till December 20 this year to complete the trial in a sexual harassment complaint of a woman IPS officer in Tamil Nadu. The court directed the chief judicial magistrate of Villupuram to conduct the trial on a day-to-day basis. Justice Anand Venkatesh passed the orders in the suo moto writ petition he initiated on March 1.The alleged sexual harassment took place on February 21, when the woman IPS officer was travelling in the car of the special DGP of Tamil Nadu while they were on duty for former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s tour. The superintendent of Chengalpattu was accused of colluding with the main accused and for using the police force to prevent the victim from entering Chennai to file the complaint. Both officers were suspended. On February 27, the CBCID in Villupuram district registered an FIR against the special DGP on several charges under the Indian Penal Code and the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act, 2020. Later, an FIR was also registered against the Chengalpattu SP. The Internal Complaints Committee submitted its preliminary report to the government. “Ultimately, in a case of this nature, the criminal proceedings must reach its logical conclusion at the earliest possible time by holding proceedings on a day-to-day basis,” the court said in its orders. “The effectiveness of the criminal justice system largely depends upon the completion of the proceedings at the earliest and certainty of either punishment or acquittal, as the case may be, of the accused persons.” The court also ordered for a compliance report to be filed on December 23. In case the Villupuram magistrate requires an extension of time, a memo could be filed before the high court for its consideration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-sets-deadline-to-complete-the-trial-in-ips-officer-s-sexual-harassment-case-101627931370153.html
03-08-2021||India||Amid stir, Lakshadweep floats bids on ecotourism||Thiruvananthapuram: Despite protests over new regulations and concerns expressed by many scientists, the Lakshadweep administration has floated global tenders for developing ecotourism projects and water villas in Minicoy, Suheli and Kadmat islands. The global tender was issued on July 31. The Save Lakshadweep Forum, comprising political parties and others opposing new regulations, has decided to step up its protests against the move. The administration on Sunday issued a statement, saying that three premium water villa projects were identified in three islands and the last date of application is September 2. It said a survey by the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management and Niti Aayog has cleared the projects. “Scientific approach adopted in each stage of the project will strike a clear balance between protection of fragile ecosystem of corals and need to improve livelihood opportunities of islanders,” said a statement from the collector’s office. It also said all mandatory clearances, including costal regulation zone norms and environment impact assessment report, are in final stages and all stakeholders will be taken into confidence. Lakshadweep MP Mohammad Faisal, who has been opposing the regulations, said people are not against development but it should be executed with proper environmental clearance after clearing doubts and apprehensions of local people. “We are against crass commercial development in the fragile group of islands. Many scientists have warned that rising sea level triggered by global warming may destabilise permanent structures and affect marine biology,” said UCK Thangal, a leader of the Save Lakshadweep Forum. Earlier, a group of civil servants and many scientists, including herpetologist Romulus Whitaker, have written to President Ramanth Kovind, urging him to withdraw the draft Lakshadweep Development Authority Regulation (2021) that seeks to develop the island as a major tour destination undermining the region’s unique geography and ecology. For more than three months, residents of the archipelago have been protesting against three draft regulations brought in by new administrator Praful Khoda Patel, saying they will affect the unique culture and tradition of the island. People are opposing the move to make the island a tourist destination, ban on cattle slaughter, two-child norm for local body members, liquor licence, goonda law and other new rules. But BJP leaders from the island said some vested interests were stoking fire and provoking local people to stall the developmental projects in the island. Earlier, the Kerala high court had stayed some of the new regulations, including demolition of houses and structures situated close to the sea. Many pleas are pending in the high court now. The local administration also slapped a sedition case against filmmaker and activist Aisha Sultana. She landed in trouble after she made a remark in a TV panel discussion in early June that the union government’s decision to relax Covid-19 restrictions and appointment of new administrator Patel were a bio-weapon against the people of the archipelago. On June 11, Kavaratti police registered a case against her under sections 124 (A) (sedition) and 153 (B) (acts against national interests) of the Indian Penal Code. The case was based on the complaint of Lakshadweep BJP president C Abdul Khadar Haji who said her words were in bad taste and hurt many. Though Sulatana later expressed regrets and withdrew her words, the union government took a strong position saying that her words were used widely by foreign media to portray the country in bad light. The Kerala high court had granted anticipatory bail to her but it refused to quash the case against her.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-stir-lakshadweep-floats-bids-on-ecotourism-101627931368392.html
03-08-2021||India||Delta variant found in 90% samples in Kerala: Study||Thiruvananthapuram: Amid the surge in Covid cases in Kerala, the latest genome study shows the impact of the highly contagious Delta variant, as its presence was detected in 90% of the samples collected from the state during May to July. Out of 835 samples collected randomly from least affected to worst affected areas, the Delta variant was found in 735 samples, said the study, jointly conducted by the Institute of Genomic and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi and the state health ministry. The samples were collected from almost all the districts and the variant was detected widely in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and Malappuram. Except Wayanad, all other districts have shown alarming presence of the variant between May end and July, the study said. Malappuram topped the pandemic chart in the country with over 3,500 daily average cases. According to the study, the less contagious Alpha variant was widely prevalent in many districts in March, but was later taken over by the Delta variant aggravating the situation. Dr Vinod Sacria, principal scientist at the (IGIB), said that the findings of the new study points to the need of intensifying virus-control measures and surveillance in Kerala. Three variants - Alpha, Kappa and Delta - have been detected in the state and the presence of highly-contagious Delta variant is a cause of concern, the study shows. Another study conducted by the health department with the help of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology also found the Delta variant to be dominating in the state. It further shows that other variants are not found in abundance in areas where the Delta variant is dominant. “All studies point to the increased presence of Delta variant. The next three weeks are crucial for the state,” said state health minister Veena George. Meanwhile, Kerala reported 13,984 cases on Monday with a test positivity rate of 10.93% (1,27, 903 tests were conducted due to weekend closure). Active cases stood at 1,65,332. The state also clocked 118 deaths taking the fatality to 16,955, according to the health ministry data. The state has been reporting almost half of the total cases of the country for about a week. The central team visiting the state met top officials of the health ministry on Monday. According to the data released from the state health ministry, in at least four Kerala districts, the reproduction number (R value) is above 1.2%. R value is an indicator on how quickly the infection is spreading and gives a clear picture on how many people on an average get infected from a Covid-19 patient. “The latest sero survey shows at least 50% of the population is vulnerable,” said George.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delta-variant-found-in-90-samples-in-kerala-study-101627931367893.html
03-08-2021||India||Musical pillars, floating bricks adorn 800-year-old Ramappa temple||Hyderabad: If one had to feature a list of modern engineering marvels around the world, then the Palm Islands and Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the Channel Tunnel between England and France, and closer home, the Statue of Unity in Gujarat, would figure on the list. But, imagine constructing such architectural marvels with the most basic tools, such as a knife, chisel, hammer, jaggery and tree bark, and using an elephant as your crane.That, in a nutshell, is how the stunning Kakatiya Rudreswara Temple, popularly known as the Ramappa temple, was sculpted way back in the 13th century. It’s no wonder that the 800-year-old monument in Telangana has now been inscribed as a Unesco World Heritage Site, the 39th in India.According to Unesco (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), a monument gets recognised as a heritage site when it has an “outstanding universal value and represents a masterpiece of human creative genius.” The temple is located in Palampet village in Mulugu district, which is about 230 kms away from Hyderabad. Even its builder, Recherla Rudrayya, acknowledged it and had a warning inscribed on the temple itself for his foes. “I can be an enemy to anyone. But, not this temple. Do not destroy it,” it said.Views on some unique featuresSand-box technology: This is one of the key reasons why the temple got the heritage tag. A general of Kakatiya dynasty, Recharla Senapati Rudrayya had commissioned the temple and famous sculptor Ramappa was its chief architect. It took 40 years (1173 to 1213 AD) for Ramappa to complete the construction. The temple stands majestically on a six-foot-high, star-shaped platform which was constructed using sandstone, granite, dolerite, and lime. “The technology involved filling a pit with a mixture of sand-lime, jaggery (for binding) as foundations before the stronger structures were constructed on ‘sandboxes’ to absorb the waves of the earthquake as the site is located under a seismic zone of the Godavari belt. Elephants were used as cranes to construct the ‘shikara’ roof of the temple,” said Prof M Panduranga Rao of the Kakatiya Heritage Trust who played a stellar role in coordinating with the Unesco to get the heritage tag for the temple.Floating bricks: “The bricks used in the construction of the temple shikhara or gopuram weighs 0.85 to 0.9 gms/cc which is lower than the density of water (1 gm/cc). It is made of clay mixed with acacia wood, chaff and myrobalan (a fruit), making it sponge-like, thus being able to float on water,” Rao said.Pillars reflect light onto sanctorum: “The presiding deity in the temple is Lord Shiva. In a significant architectural feat, daylight is reflected by the four granite pillars in the sanctorum which is diverted towards the inner sanctum, keeping it illuminated the whole day,” explained BV Papa Rao, a retired IAS officer, who along with the professor floated the heritage trust.Musical pillars: A pillar has the sculpture of Lord Krishna. He can be seen sitting on a tree playing his flute denoting the mythological tale of Gopika Vastrapaharanam. Saptaswaras (Sa Ri Ga Ma Pa Da Ni Sa) can be heard by tapping the sculpture of the lord.Warding off the evil eye: A portion of the main pillar inside the sanctorum is a little flawed. The carvings are misplaced. In fact, the portion also has a slight dent to it. Sculptor Ramappa intentionally left the space blank to ward off the evil eye, according to locals.13 needle holes: There is a fine carving on one of the pillars which is shaped like a bangle. It has 13 holes which, according to legend, indicate Lord Shiva’s Trayodashi (13 in Sanskrit). “According to Hindu mythology, Lord Shiva defeated demons on Trayodashi to save other sages. The 13 thin-threaded holes between the stone pillars reflect the richness of the architecture of Kakatiya kings. Only a small thread or a needle can pass through the holes of the sculpture. It is unclear as to how there were specific tools in the 13th century to carve this out,” said Papa Rao.Optical illusion: There is one carving where there are three dancers in the middle but there are only four legs. If you close the body of the middle dancer, you can see two girls dancing. But when you close the bodies of the girls on either side, the middle legs become the legs of the dancer in between.Thank you, elephants!: “There are 526 elephants (adding up to 13, the significance of which is explained above), carved on the outer walls of the temple. The startling fact is that each elephant is chipped differently. This was done to acknowledge the contribution of elephants in building the temple and transporting the granite stone. Also, the elephants face clockwise, indicating the ritual of Hindus walking in that direction around a shrine,” said Prof Panduranga Rao.Egyptian and Persian carvings: The figurines carved in sandstone all around the temple feature Persian men, Egyptian Pharaohs, among others, pointing to the trade relations the Kakatiyas had with these countries during the 13th century. There are also some sculptures of Jains and Buddhists.Mandakinis: There are 12 black stone statues of mandakinis (dancing figures) perched atop pillars of the temple. Each figure has a distinct feature with the one named, Ragini, wearing high heels. “The work is so intricate that on one mandakini, there is a shadow of a necklace worn by her which looks natural but is actually carved out. Irrespective of the angle of the sun, we can see the shade on her body,” explained Papa Rao.Kakatiya emblem: “You can also find carvings and statues of elephants and lions on the walls and pillars here. The foot is shaped like an elephant trunk, in the middle is a human shoulder and the top is a lion’s face. That is called Gaja Kesari which is the Kakatiya dynasty’s emblem. It is symbolic of their valour,” Papa Rao said.The temple is built with three different coloured stones (red, white and brown), with the colours merged on a single stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/musical-pillars-floating-bricks-adorn-800-year-old-ramappa-temple-101627931307894.html
03-08-2021||India||Political circles abuzz after CM calls on former mentor Gowda||Bengaluru As chief minister Basvaraj Bommai on Sunday met Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former prime minister HD Deve Gowda in Bengaluru as a courtesy to his former mentor but the decision, in the middle of the intensifying political drama over the formation of the cabinet, has raised the possibility of using the family-run party as a stabiliser of sorts should the situation turn rocky with simmering dissent boiling over in the coming days within the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), an analyst who didn’t want to be named said.JD(S) has 32 legislators in the lower house, the BJP has 118 and the Congress has 68. While in the Upper House, the BJP has 32, the JD(S) has 12 and the Congress has 29 members.While the obvious reasons are that the BJP needs the JD(S) for smooth passage of bills and consolidate their support bases in the upcoming Zilla and Taluk Panchayat elections apart from other urban local body polls, including Bengaluru corporation, the analyst cited above said that the reasons are more than what meets the eye.One is this is BS Yediyurappa’s way of challenging the high command and keeping control over the state. “They are putting together an alliance which asserts local power over the high command,” said one Bengaluru-based political analyst, requesting not to be named.The analyst said that despite the change in personalities “those who control power are the same”, referring to Yediyurappa, Gowda and Siddaramaiah. The JD(S) and the BJP have a very good working relationship, especially since the two parties consider the Congress as its common enemy, stitching local alliances in several regions of the state to tip the scales in its favour.But this is the party position but the personalities operate in a rather contrasting manner, observers said.A Narayana, political analyst and faculty at the Azim Premji University uses marketing language to state that the two parties are “hedging their bets”.Narayana said that if it was just a courtesy meeting then Bommai missed meeting SM Krishna, who is more senior to Gowda and with the BJP.n the unlikely event of this (cabinet formation) leading to some serious problem where several prominent senior leaders do not figure, this move (of stitching up an alliance with Gowda) is to state how they can keep the government going,” Narayana said.Unlike other states, where leaders of major parties barely see eye-to-eye, Karnataka’s turbulent politics has rested on local coalition building at least in the last two decades where the likes of BS Yediyurappa, Siddaramaiah and HD Deve Gowda have maintained healthy personal working relationships to remain relevant and aren’t hesitant to call for personal or political favours from time-to-time.The three have firmly resisted the “interference” by Delhi into Karnataka’s affairs as a way to keep control over a state.The cabinet expansion will force some legislators to lash out for being left out and the future of the turncoats, who engineered the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led coalition government and backed Yediyurappa to power, hinges on a thin and uncertain thread.“We and this government, when it comes to crisis, we will give them our support,” Gowda said in Bengaluru on Sunday after his meeting with Bommai.Bommai was with the Janata Dal and later with Janata Dal (Secular) and even served as its deputy leader of the opposition in the legislative council from 2000 to 2004.But his personal equation has little to do with the meeting, people aware of the developments said, as it remains a show of strength and outreach to a party leader who has played “kingmaker” for over two decades now.Gowda(89) has remained central to the political discourse in Karnataka--and the country--over the last three decades, tactically maneuvering every hurdle that has come his way by stitching up alliances with both national parties to keep his party not just afloat but thrive.Gowda and the JD(S) also have almost the full backing of the dominant Vokkaliga community, believed to be the second largest caste group after the Lingayats, which firmly backed the regional outfit in the 2018 assembly elections after nursing a feeling of neglect under Siddaramaiah-led Congress rule from 2013.Analysts add that though BJP leaders rush to Delhi during any crisis situation, the last thing they want is for the Centre to dictate terms which has effectively “decentralised” power in Karnataka which is very different from how the saffron outfit operates in other parts of the state.Yediyurappa has rarely ever pushed for Hindutva and has based his entire politics on caste-based reservations, making it easier for him to use this card to get the powerful and influential Mathas or monasteries to his side, which no leader with all the backing of even the central leadership is likely to challenge, people aware of the developments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-circles-abuzz-after-cm-calls-on-former-mentor-gowda-101627931187372.html
03-08-2021||India||B’luru civic body buckles up to tackle Covid spread||Bengaluru: The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Monday made institutional quarantine mandatory for those coming from Kerala and Maharashtra without carrying a RT-PCR negative test certificate. The move comes after the government on Saturday made negative test report mandatory for those entering Karnataka from these two neighbouring states. “Those coming from these states (Kerala and Maharashtra) must bring an RT-PCR test result. Those who come without it, will be tested and will be kept in quarantine until the results are available. those who will be quarantined pending results, will have to undergo institutional quarantine and not home quarantine,” said BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta. The state on Monday recorded a slight dip in new Covid cases as it logged 1,285 infections as against 1,875 cases on Sunday. The active caseload in the state now stands at 24,021. Bengaluru accounted for 290 new infections, taking its active cases to 8,670. As many as 25 fatalities were reported across the state on Monday, which took the state’s toll to 36,612. Bengaluru’s toll jumped to 15,885, with 5 more deaths being reported on Monday, according to the state health department. When asked if there are any plans to impose a weekend curfew, Gupta said, “We need to control the spread of the pandemic and make sure the economy returns to normalcy. We need to strike a balance on both fronts. The government will take a call on this (weekend curfew),” he said. He stressed on the need to follow the night curfew imposed in the city from 10 pm to 5 am. Police cooperation is key to ensure night curfew is followed properly, he added. The government on Saturday extended the existing restrictions till August 16 and said a decision on night curfew or weekend lockdown will be taken after 15 days after reviewing the progression of the situation. Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Saturday had also informed that stringent border checking and random testing have also begun in the state. “I have reviewed the Covid status of 8 districts today. Last time the second wave came from Kerala and Maharashtra. Now again, Kerala is witnessing a surge in cases in the last few days. I have instructed to DCs to take care of it. And the testing unit has to be medical infrastructure has to be improved in these districts. Vaccination has to be done,” the chief minister had said following a review meeting on Saturday. Almost a month after lockdown restrictions in the city were eased, there has been an increase in the total number of Covid-19 cases, deaths, case fatality rate and positivity rate. The number of fresh Covid-19 cases registered in Bengaluru in the week between July 25-31 was 2,988 compared to 2,571 cases the previous week, as per the data released by the BBMP. Similarly, the number of deaths in Bengaluru was 48 in the week ending July 31 while the number of deaths in the previous week was 36. The positivity rate has increased from 0.62% to 0.72% in the week ending July 31. Meanwhile, the number of tests conducted in Bengaluru over the last two weeks have remained around 413,000 to 415,000 per week. However, the number of admissions in all hospitals in Bengaluru under government quota was 127 for the week ending July 31, lower than 143 in the previous week. “It not possible to say if this is the third wave or not, but the easing of lockdown will have an impact on the case. The important point here is that the government should not wait and watch but prepare aggressively for the worst-case scenario. The restrictions should be brought back slowly, instead of waiting till the last moment. The expert committee is constantly advising the government,” said a Technical Advisory Committee member, who didn’t want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-civic-body-buckles-up-to-tackle-covid-spread-101627931067926.html
03-08-2021||India||300 dogs poisoned in Andhra village, say activists||At least 300 stray dogs were allegedly poisoned to death by the local panchayat body and their bodies buried in a pit near Lingapalem village in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, the police and activists said on Monday. The police have booked Lingapalem panchayat secretary M Sugunraj and the sarpanch under section 429 of IPC and Section 11(l) of Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960.“It all started with a tip-off during Bakrid (July 21) that dog meat was being sold in the village. We immediately formed a team of four activists and started our investigation. After a few days, we were informed by the locals that a foul smell was emanating from the lakebed, on the outskirts of the village. We dug up and found at least 300 dog carcasses there. Looking at the decay, we are guessing all the dogs could have been poisoned and killed around July 26,” said Challapalli Srilatha, an activist for Fight for Animals. “We started gathering evidence and found out that poison was purchased from stores nearby. It was smeared onto darts and dogs were shot at by hired catchers. It is quite evident that the local panchayat is involved in it. They (panchayat body) receive money for vaccinating stray dogs, and they pay around ₹100 per animal to a dog catcher to kill them,” the activist alleged.Animal activists went the following morning along with evidence to the Dharmajigudem police station to register a complaint.“No one supported us. We were told that dogs being killed were not important, and they were preoccupied with murder cases. I sat there for 12 hours till they filed a zero FIR,” said Srilatha.Confirming that the FIR has been lodged, Dharmajigudem sub-inspector, P Ramesh, under whose jurisdiction the area comes, said carcasses of close to 300 dogs were found. “Postmortem was conducted on Sunday on 14 dogs, and we have sent samples to a forensic lab. We can only comment once we receive the post mortem and forensic report,” he said.Lingapalem panchayat secretary M Sugunraj denied the involvement of the panchayat body in the gruesome crime. “Local pig catchers informed me that stray dog carcasses were found buried in a pit near Perantam tank on July 29. I was the one who immediately went to the local police station to file a complaint at night. This is gruesome, and I know that killing dogs is against the Panchayati Raj Act. I suspect aggrieved locals must have hired dog catchers to kill the stray dogs,” he claimed.The activists claimed that the case was registered against the accused only when they approached district collector Karthikeya Misra and superintendent of police, Rahul Dev Sharma. The activists said they would take up the issue in court. “We are waiting for the postmortem report. We will approach the local court if the accused aren’t brought to book,” said Srilatha.ends||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/300-dogs-poisoned-in-andhra-village-say-activists-101627931067310.html
03-08-2021||India||Bommai calls on BJP brass in Delhi amid Cabinet rejig talks||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Monday continued his meeting with the national leadership of the BJP in his bid to finalise the new Cabinet. Bommai rushed to Delhi on Sunday night and is expected to remain in the national capital till Tuesday. The chief minister said that he will finalise the Cabinet after returning to the state. “We will discuss the whole process comprehensively on Cabinet formation including whether it should be in stages or at one go, regional and social representations,” he told reporters in Delhi on Monday before his meeting with the national leaders. Bommai, who met BJP national president JP Nadda on Monday night to finalise a list of probables for his new cabinet, after the meeting said that he has shared all relevant information about the ground realities with the national president and the latter has also given some advice and directions. “I have had a detailed discussion with our national president JP Nadda ji and have explained the ground situation in the state. They have also expressed certain things. We want to give a very proactive, credible cabinet and they have said that they will have a detailed discussion tomorrow. Since Parliament session is going on, so they might give us a final list by tomorrow evening or night and the list will be presented by the high command itself,” Bommai said. He added that there was no question of the turncoats being treated differently since they are no longer ’outsiders. Earlier, the CM added that not everyone can become ministers and that the final decision of the national leadership would be to find some balance and take everyone forward collectively. Bommai, however, indicated the possibility that the party is likely to form the Cabinet in phases to assess the disgruntlement as the list of aspirants continue to grow. The CM hinted that the Cabinet formation, at least the first phase, could be completed by Wednesday. As soon as speculations over Cabinet formation started doing the rounds, several leaders started making a beeline at former chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s residence, indicating how the 78-year-old continues to hold the reins of the new government under his confidant. Bommai was flanked by legislators from his own party who have been trying to retain their seats in the cabinet. This included the likes of Laxman Savadi and CC Patil while several others like Shashikala Jolle, Arvind Bellad and CP Yogeshwara among others are reportedly in Delhi trying to make a case for themselves. Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal), the firebrand legislator and critic of Yediyurappa, on Monday said that there is no guarantee of landing a ministerial berth by visiting Delhi. The rumblings within the BJP is unlikely to die down anytime soon as there are several senior legislators who are likely to be dropped which could antagonise them further and add to the already simmering tensions within the party, people aware of the developments said. “It is totally Delhi’s decision and we have to just wait for it,” said one three-time MLA, requesting anonymity. This legislator is in the running for a possible berth in the cabinet, according to at least three people aware of the developments. The national leadership has taken complete control over the formation of the Cabinet which, until a few years ago, was a consultative process with the chief minister being given the courtesy of at least presenting a list of probable choices. People aware of the developments said that the possible carving out of more posts for deputy CMs, has added to the uncertainty on who the likely candidates will be in the new Cabinet. Leaders like Gulihatti Shekar, an independent who helped form the first BJP government in Karnataka in 2008, has reminded the state and national leadership of their “sacrifices” that has helped the party grow from strength to strength over the years. The likes of Raju Gouda, Sunil Kumar and Apachu Ranjan among others who identify with the core-ideology of the party are expected to make the list, people aware of the developments said. Though there is still no clarity, several leaders like Shekar have batted for retaining the 13 turncoats who helped Yediyurappa to power in 2019. Shekar said that there should be no “injustice” of any kind to these 17 persons who are the reasons behind BJP coming back to power in Karnataka. “The 17 people should not face any kind of injustice. They have to be given primary importance,” the legislator from Hosadurga said on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-calls-on-bjp-brass-in-delhi-amid-cabinet-rejig-talks-101627931008494.html
03-08-2021||India||Congo man’s death in police custody sparks outrage among Africans in city||The death of a 27-year-old African man in police custody has sparked outrage among the African community in the city. Joel Shindani Malu, who worked under the alias Jon according to police, was a Democratic Republic of Congo national and was arrested by the JC Nagar police on Sunday. As per the police’s claim, he died due to cardiac arrest while in custody, following which, a protest was held by some members of the African community on Monday morning in front of the police station. A minor scuffle between police and protesters was also reported. Hours after the incident, additional commissioner of police (West) Soumendu Mukherjee said that as per the National Human Rights Commission guidelines, a case has been registered, and investigation has been handed over to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) from the local police. Police have also filed a complaint against some protesting Congo nationals for allegedly attacking the policemen on duty. As per the police’s claim, around 10.30 pm on Sunday, JC Nagar police received information regarding a drug peddler and a team was dispatched to the location. Police had sent an informer and some policemen in mufti as decoys to arrest suspects on the pretext of buying drugs. “A police team led by sub-inspector Raghupati laid a trap to catch a drug peddler Jon near 10th Cross, Banjara Layout. The Police team kept watch and waited till around 12:30 pm. Due to the sudden arrival of regular police patrolling van to the said place, the drug peddler named Jon changed the location of trade to Babusah Palya locality in Hennur PS limits,” read a statement issued by Dharamender Kumar Meena, deputy commissioner of police, north. The police team then proceeded to the new location, and around 12.30 am, two foreign nationals approached them on a scooter. “Once the police informant identified pillion rider as Jon, the policemen in mufti apprehended him. In that scuffle as Jon was trying to flee, few small plastic packets containing white colour substance fell on the ground which was suspected to be narcotics substance,” the officer claimed. The foreign national refused to give details or produce any document regarding his identity on enquiry by the police. On further enquiry, he confessed it to be MDMA, an illegal narcotic. Jon was brought to the police station, along with seized suspected narcotics substance, and bike at around 2.15 am and an FIR was registered against him. Around 5.10 am, in charge SHO (Station House Officer) informed the PSI Raghupati that Jon suddenly started complaining of chest pain. “PSI Raghupati immediately acted on this information and shifted him to nearby Chiraayu Hospital for treatment at around 5:30 am. On preliminary medical examination, he was diagnosed with Bradycardia and administrated several rounds of CPR and other lifesaving interventions. At around 6.45 am, he was declared dead due to suspected cardiac arrest,” said the DCP’s narrative of the events. The Congo nationals who protested in front of the police station claimed he was not a drug peddler and the police torture resulted in his death. “We got a call from our brother (Joel) that police had picked him up, and he needed money for bail. We arranged the money and came to the police station in the morning (Monday), then the police told us that he died. How can anyone believe this?” said one of the protesters who refused to identify himself. He further added that they were not allowed inside the police station and none of the officers provided any answers to their questions. They were later dispersed by the police. “We are students, we are here to study. We want a case registered against the officers responsible for his death,” said another student. Police claimed that on verification, it was found his visa had expired in 2015, and his passport had expired in 2017. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant said that all procedures laid out by NHRC have been followed. “Postmortem by two doctors, inquest by a judge and the entire process has been recorded on video. Despite us following procedures, some Africans had tried to attack the police. We have arrested them, and the cases have been filed,” said Pant. He also pointed out that more than 90 foreign nationals have been arrested for drug peddling in the city this year.Meanwhile, CM Basavaraj Bommai while reacting on the incident on Monday said, “There are many African nationals (living in Bengaluru) and several of them who have overstayed beyond their visa. We are taking very strict action against this.” He added that they have asked for a CID probe and that protestors are attacking the police unnecessarily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congo-man-s-death-in-police-custody-sparks-outrage-among-africans-in-city-101627931007329.html
03-08-2021||India||Five journalists on Pegasus list move top court||Five journalists, who were reported to be on the potential list of alleged surveillance using Israeli Pegasus spyware, have moved the Supreme Court, ruing violation of their right to privacy and free speech.The petition, filed jointly by Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, SNM Abdi, Prem Shankar Jha, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Ipsa Shataksi, has demanded an unequivocal statement from the Union Government on use of Pegasus spyware and adduce before the top court all documents relating to authorising its use and investigation conducted into the alleged surveillance.The petition has requested the court to put in place a judicial oversight mechanism to deal with any complaints on illegal breaches of privacy by hacking and punish all government officials responsible for violations.A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana, will on August 5 consider a clutch of three other petitions that have demanded a court-monitored investigation into the alleged snooping of Indian citizens using Pegasus and to identify the entities responsible for this. The fresh plea filed by the journalists is likely to be taken up along with these petitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-journalists-on-pegasus-list-move-top-court-101627930768437.html
03-08-2021||India||Opposition likely to hold parallel Parliament as a mark of protest||Opposition parties are likely to consider an idea to hold a “parallel parliament” near Vijay Chowk to highlight their protests over Pegasus snooping row, spiraling fuel price and the contentious farm laws.Revolutionary Socialist Party(RSP) lawmaker NK Premachandran is one of the few leaders who have floated the idea.“Our protests are being blacked out. We are not getting any chance to speak in the House. Even the Leader of Opposition is not getting a chance to speak. A parallel parliament can be conducted at Vijay Chowk by Opposition parties to speak freely on our issues,” said Premachandran.While no final decision has been taken, some other leaders might consider it during the breakfast meeting of Opposition leaders convened by former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi.Parliament is reeling under Opposition protests since the beginning of the monsoon session. So far, only the Covid issue has been discussed in Rajya Sabha while the Lok Sabha could not take up a single structured discussion.Recently, the protesting farmers conducted a mock parliament session over the farm laws at the Jantar Mantar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-likely-to-hold-parallel-parliament-as-a-mark-of-protest-101627930707291.html
03-08-2021||India||ISRO to expand reach of navigation system globally: New draft policy||Indian Space Research Organisation plans to expand the reach of its regional satellite-based navigation system globally, and make it interoperable with other systems such as the GPS (global positioning system), according to its new draft policy.“ISRO/DOS (Department of Space) shall work towards expanding the coverage from regional to global to ensure availability of NavIC standalone signal in any part of the world without relying on other GNSS and aid in wide utilisation of Indian navigation system across the globe,” read the policy document.It also said, “ISRO/DOS shall put continuous efforts towards ensuring the Indian navigation and augmentation signals are interoperable with other free-to-air navigation.”All navigation constellations use the same radio frequency bands for broadcasting their navigation signals. The International Telecommunication Union regulated the allocation of frequencies so that there is no interference between signals from different systems. The interoperability of the systems allows a user to seamlessly switch from one constellation system to another and results in improved navigation signal, especially in a situation where an area is obscured from one satellite system.“The interoperability is an important step, and it is the right time to do it. It took several years for ISRO to complete the navigation constellation. Now chipsets have also started coming in; this was the logical next step. ISRO will have to ensure that the signal and data provided is better than the already existing system so that users have an incentive to switch to NavIC,” said Ajay Lele, senior fellow working on space security and strategic technologies at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses.The Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS), also known as Navigation with Indian Constellation (NavIC), is a constellation of seven satellites that together provide navigation support over India and 1,500km around it. The first of the seven satellites was launched in 2013, and the constellation was completed in 2018. New smartphones in India running on Qualcomm chipsets released in 2020 can use IRNSS signals for navigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-expand-reach-of-navigation-system-globally-new-draft-policy-101627930648368.html
03-08-2021||India||Can’t detain a person on breach of law apprehension: Supreme Court||An apprehension of possible breach of law and order cannot provide a “springboard” to invoke the preventive detention law and arrest a citizen, the Supreme Court said on Monday, ordering the immediate release of a 34-year-old Telangana resident who has been held for 10 months.Banka Ravikanth has been in detention under the Telangana Prevention of Dangerous Activities Act 1986 on orders of the Cyberabad police commissioner in September 2020 after he secured bail in five criminal cases accusing him of cheating, criminal breach of trust and criminal intimidation under the Indian Penal Code.The Telangana police reasoned that Banka Ravikanth’s detention was ordered because there was every possibility that he would commit similar offences, which would again certainly affect public order. The Telangana high court, which ruled on a petition by Ravikanth’s wife Banka Sneha Sheela, agreed with this argument and rejected her petition in March this year.On Monday, the Supreme Court disagreed.“It is clear that at the highest, a possible apprehension of breach of law and order can be said to be made out if it is apprehended that the detenu, if set free, will continue to cheat gullible persons. This may be a good ground to appeal against the bail orders granted or to cancel bail but certainly cannot provide the springboard to move under a preventive detention statute,” a bench of justices Rohinton Fali Nariman and Hrishikesh Roy said on Monday.Arguing for the petitioner, advocate Gaurav Agrawal said the detention order was issued nine months after the last FIR registered in December 2019 and showed no proximate connection between the acts complained and ground for detention.The state government, represented by senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, submitted that Ravikanth was a habitual fraudster who “created fear amongst the gullible public”. Since he was likely to commit similar offences in future, it was important to preventively detain him as there was no deterrent available under any other law.The bench, on a close reading of the detention order, said that the “reason for the said order is not any apprehension of widespread public harm, danger or alarm but is only because the detenu was successful in obtaining anticipatory bail/bail from the courts in each of the five FIRs.”The bench noted that “mere contravention of law such as indulging in cheating or criminal breach of trust certainly affects ‘law and order’ but before it can be said to affect public order, it must affect the community or the public at large.” If a person accused of any crime is granted anticipatory bail/bail wrongly, the state can always appeal against the bail order granted or seek cancellation of bail, which, the court noted, was not done in the present case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sccant-detain-a-person-on-breach-of-law-apprehension-101627930648912.html
03-08-2021||India||Extreme rainfall events may increase: Experts||Extreme rainfall events during monsoon months are likely to only increase in all emission scenarios and are expected to spike further where the current global emission trends continue and no efforts are made to cut down emissions, a senior scientist from the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM) said on Monday.IITM’s climate model, Earth System model is contributing to Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 6th Assessment Report. It is the first Indian model to contribute to IPCC’s evaluation.“Most climate models agree that extreme rainfall events during monsoon months will increase. We are already seeing a rise in these trends in recent years. Our model is also showing similar results that extreme events will increase in future. Not every extreme rainfall event can be attributed to climate change directly. Natural variability is combining with anthropogenic climate change to create this complex scenario,” Professor Ravi Shankar Nanjundiah, director, IITM, said during a press conference.He added that due to the long residence time of greenhouse gas emissions like carbon dioxide in the atmosphere its difficult to say when the occurrence of extreme rainfall events stabilise. On whether we have crossed the threshold on moderating extreme rainfall events, he explained: “We have already crossed 400 PPM of globally averaged carbon dioxide (CO2) concentrations. This cannot be reversed soon...if we continue with business as usual, we are in for very tough times and are likely to see a rapid increase in extreme rainfall events during monsoon months in India.”Nanjundiah’s comments come ahead of IPCC presenting its report, the Climate Change 2021: the Physical Science Basis. The IPCC is meeting remotely from July 26 to August 6 to approve the report.India experienced a spate of extreme rainfall events this July leading to flooding, landslides and loss of life in the Konkan and Madhya Maharashtra region and towards end of July there were several cloudburst events in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir which caused widespread devastation.IITM is presently hosting International Conference on Clouds and Precipitation 2021 where international scientists and cloud physicists will discuss latest research on clouds, convection and rain with particular focus on the monsoon. “Clouds are a major uncertainty in climate change projections, so their role is very important,” said Prof Andrea Flossmann, President, ICCP Commission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/extreme-rainfall-events-may-increase-experts-101627930588362.html
03-08-2021||India||JD(U) delegation meets Shah over caste census||NEW DELHI: As calls for a caste-based census grow, a delegation of Janata Dal (United) MPs, led by party president Lalan Singh, met Union home minister Amit Shah on Monday. The demand comes ahead of the upcoming assembly elections in five states, including in Uttar Pradesh where caste composition is perceived to play a key role in determining electoral outcome.On Saturday, the JD(U) passed a resolution in support of the caste-based counting of population, a move with potentially wide political ramifications, during its national executive meeting. The Bihar assembly has passed unanimous resolutions, in 2019 and 2020, favouring a census on the caste lines.“Bihar assembly has passed a resolution favouring caste-based census twice, which was supported by the BJP as well. All the party MPs from Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha signed the memorandum and explained all the benefits of caste-based census pointwise to the home minister,” Singh told reporters after the meeting, stressing that it is now up to the central government to take the final decision.According to a person aware of the details, Shah is learnt to have told the delegation that the government will discuss the issue.On Sunday, Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar said that he will seek an appointment with Prime Minister Narendra Modi to discuss the issue of a caste-based census. Kumar, who is the de facto leader of the JD(U), however, asserted that divergent stands adopted by his party and the BJP, which heads the Union government, on the issue will not affect the coalition. Apart from JDU, another ally of the BJP, the Republican Party of India, has also demanded a caste-based census.The last caste-based census was conducted in 1931. In 1941, however, the data was collected but not made public. In 2011, a Socio Economic Caste Census for collecting data on the basis of caste and economic status of every household in the country was carried out but the caste data was again not made public, citing “discrepancies”. At present, apart from the Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes, the other backward castes are grouped under the OBC category.The Centre has said, as a matter of policy, there will be no enumeration as per caste other than that for Scheduled Castes (SCs) and Scheduled Tribes (STs) for the census. It has cited the provisions of the Constitution and reservation of seats for SCs and STs in Lok Sabha and in the assemblies as per their proportion in the population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jdu-delegation-meets-shah-over-caste-census-101627930528350.html
03-08-2021||India||Political row erupts over J&K govt order on Davinder Singh||A political controversy broke out on Monday over a Jammu and Kashmir government order in May dismissing former police officer Davinder Singh, who was held last year for alleged involvement in terrorism and espionage.Singh was dismissed from service by lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha in a May 20 order that said the L-G “was satisfied” that the activities of Singh, a suspended deputy superintendent of police at the time,warranted his dismissal from service.The same order also said that Sinha was “satisfied that in the interest of the security of state, it is not expedient to hold an enquiry in the case of Mr Davinder Singh.”The order, which was issued by the commissioner secretary of the general administration department on behalf of Sinha, cited clause 2 of Article 311 of the Constitution, which carves out an exception for holding an inquiry before dismissing a person from service.”If the president or the governor, as the case may be, is satisfied that in the interest of the security of the state, it is not expedient to hold such inquiry,” the clause says.The Opposition accused the government of hiding facts and double standards.“Innocent Kashmiris arrested under anti-terror laws rot in jails for years. For them the trial becomes the punishment. But GOI (Government of India) doesn’t want an enquiry against a cop caught red-handed with militants. Is it because he colluded with the system to orchestrate certain dodgy incidents?” former CM Mehbooba Mufti tweeted.In another tweet, Mehbooba said, “Kashmiris are considered guilty until proven innocent... But when a policeman is known to have facilitated militants, he is let off the hook. The double standards & dirty games is (sic) obvious,”.“Who is J&K Dy. SP Davinder Singh? Why can’t government hold an enquiry? Why does the enquiry threaten national security? What is his role,if any, in Pulwama? Who was he arrested with? What’s the name of his accomplices? What is the Modi govt hiding? Nation has a right to know!”tweeted Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala on Sunday.A senior government officer said on condition of anonymity that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) had investigated Singh and there was nothing hidden about his role.“All those involved in this case have been arrested. The case against Davinder Singh and the terrorists arrested with him has already been thoroughly investigated,” he elaborated.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dismissed the allegations and said anyone involved or affiliated with terror activities faced action.“The case of Davinder Singh is already being investigated by the NIA so everything about the case will come out,” said BJP leader Altaf Thakur.In January last year, Singh was intercepted and arrested by security forces on the way to Jammu along with two Hizbul Mujahideen commanders, Naveed Babu and Rafi Ahmed Rather. A third man arrested with them was Irfan Shafi Mir, a local lawyer.The NIA probed the case and filed a 3,064-pages charge sheet and accused the officer of “waging war against India”.Former J&K law secretary, Mohammad Ashraf Mir said one of the three exceptions to the protection granted to civil servants under Article 311 is for reasons of national security. “There are concerns like security of the state and secrecy and the enquiry may open these things. Where the government thinks it is not expedient to hold inquiry in the interest of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/political-row-erupts-over-j-k-govt-order-on-davinder-101627930528968.html
03-08-2021||India||Parliament impasse on, Opposition to frame its strategy today||Defence minister Rajnath Singh reached out to at least two senior Opposition leaders on Monday in an effort to bring the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament back on the rails, but with both the government and the Opposition sticking to their respective positions, chances of this happening are fast slipping away.The defence minister spoke to the Rajya Sabha’s Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress and the Trinamool Congress’s Lok Sabha chief Sudip Bandopadhyay. Both reiterated that a debate on the Pegasus snooping row is a must for disruptions to end, people familiar with the matter said. As many as 13 opposition parties have been protesting from the first day of the monsoon session over the Pegasus controversy, the three farm laws and spiraling fuel prices.“ I told him (Singh) that Pegasus is not a personal issue but the party’s issue and a debate should take place,” said Bandopadhyay.Amid repeated adjournments and fierce protests, productivity of the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha now stand at just 14% and 20%. Both Houses faced repeated disruptions and protests on Monday. The government managed to introduce the Tribunals Reforms Bill in the Lok Sabha amidst the din. During the day, the Lower House passed the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 before it was adjourned for the day. The Rajya Sabha approved the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will meet all Opposition MPs over breakfast in a bid to consolidate the Opposition’s new-found unity and discuss the strategy for the remaining part of the session. The Akali Dal’s Naresh Gujral said his party has not been invited for the meeting.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software, Pegasus, with a forensic analysis of 10 of the targets proving they had been hacked or that there had been attempts to do so.But the long spell of disruptions have also led to underlying tension within the Opposition ranks.“A section of the Opposition is of the view now that marathon disruption is hurting Opposition’s interest as the government is clearing two bills daily,” said a senior leader of an opposition party.The government’s floor managers, however, said the opposition was given a chance to discuss the Pegasus issue but instead opted to disrupt the House. The Opposition wants Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to be in the House during the debate. The BJP leader added that the opposition had a chance to ask questions when IT Minister Ashwani Vaishnaw made a statement on the controversy in both houses of Parliament. “The government did not run away from addressing the issue. A statement was made by the minister in charge on the floor of the House in Parliament...”Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh maintained that the government has offered no proposal for a debate so far and there’s no outreach. “The Opposition has told the government managers to call a meeting chaired by Singh in a bid to end the stalemate,” Ramesh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-impasse-on-opposition-to-frame-its-strategy-today-101627930111107.html
03-08-2021||India||Judge death case: SIT submits report, two sent to judicial custody||The Dhanbad police on Monday sent the two accused in the additional district judge Uttam Anand death case into judicial custody after questioning. The special investigation team (SIT) constituted to probe the incident submitted its report with the Jharkhand high court, which is likely to hear the case on Tuesday. The high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident on Thursday and directed the policeto submit an investigation report by August 3. Later on Friday, the Supreme Court also took cognisance of the incident and sought a report from the state, even after clarifying it was interested in the high court hearing related to the matter. Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjiv Kumar confirmed the police have submitted the report to the high court but refused to share the details.Additional director general (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar told reporters that all possible angles to understand the reason behind the road accident that killed Anand is being investigated. The CCTV footage of the incident casts doubts over the nature of the accident as the auto-rickshaw that killed Anand is seen swerving to the extreme left of the road from the centre before hitting the judge down and fleeing from the spot. The two persons -- Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma--- riding the allegedly stolen three-wheeler, were arrested a day later, and the vehicle recovered. However, the police are yet to officially disclose the motive of the two persons behind the accident. “Different teams are looking into the incident. They have been given specific leads to work on. We are leaving no possible angle to crack the case,” Lathkar told reporters after a marathon meeting in Dhanbad on Monday. On a specific question, if the police would go for narco test of the two accused arrested in the case, Lathkar said, “As of now, the two have been sent into judicial custody. But if required, we will use all scientific techniques in the course of the investigation.”Meanwhile, since the SIT took over the case, around 250 persons were picked up for questioning in connection with the case. “Altogether, 243 persons were picked up for questioning. Most of these men were those who have had a criminal history in the past. Some have been convicted in different cases. However, all of them were released after questioning. Till now, only two persons have been arrested in the case,” SSP Sanjiv Kumar said. The Hemant Soren government on Saturday has recommended a CBI probe in the incident. However, the central investigation agency is yet to begin a probe in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/judge-death-case-sit-submits-report-two-sent-to-judicial-custody-101627929747281.html
03-08-2021||India||PM Modi launches e-RUPI for digital payment||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched a “person and purpose-specific” one-time cashless and contactless digital payment vouchers ‘e-RUPI’ that aim to catalyse the direct transfer of subsidies to beneficiaries without any leakage.Although the e-RUPI vouchers will initially be available for health services, they will gradually cover other welfare schemes of the government, and can also be used by the corporate sector.“In addition to the government, if any organisation wants to help someone in their treatment, education or for any other work, then they will be able to give an e-RUPI voucher instead of cash. It will ensure that the money given by him, is used for the work for which the amount was given,” PM Modi said.The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) in association with the Department of Financial Services (DFS), the National Health Authority (NHA), the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), and commercial banks, have developed the digital solution.“The users of this seamless one-time payment mechanism will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the merchants accepting e-RUPI. e-RUPI would be shared with the beneficiaries for a specific purpose or activity by organisations or government via SMS or QR code,” NPCI said on its website.So far, more than ₹17.5 lakh crore have been transferred directly to the accounts of the poor via DBT, benefiting 900 million Indians in the form of cooking gas subsidy, ration, medical treatment, scholarship, pension and wage disbursal.Bharat Panchal, CRO at fintech firm FIS, said: “The new digital payment mode-- e-RUPI-- is basically a prepaid voucher that can be issued directly to citizens after verifying mobile number and identity. e-RUPI voucher will be delivered in the form of a QR code or SMS string-based e-voucher to the beneficiary’s mobile number.”“The beneficiary can redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider. This would be very useful instrument for those who are not privy to use to the digital platform yet the government can extend monetary support in digital form directly to citizens in a ‘leak-proof manner’ in the form of prepaid e-voucher powered by UPI [Unified Payment Interface].”TV Narendran, president, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), said the new payment mechanism would ensure monetary support to citizens without the involvement of intermediaries. “It will also be an excellent tool for the corporates, through which they can extend employee and community welfare schemes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pmlaunches-e-rupi-for-digital-payment-101627929629516.html
03-08-2021||India||Supreme Court rejects pleas by rape survivor, convict to marry each other||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to facilitate marriage between a woman and her rapist, a former Catholic priest from Kerala who is undergoing 20 years’ jail term for the crime committed on her when she was a minor.A bench of justices Vineet Saran and Dinesh Maheshwari dismissed the petitions moved separately by the woman and Robin Vadakkumcherry Mathew.Mathew was the vicar of St Sebastian’s Church at Kottiyoor in Wayanad district when the crime occurred. He was the manager of a church-backed school where the survivor, then a Class XI student, was studying. She got pregnant due to the crime and gave birth to a girl child in February 2017.A childline agency that worked among schoolchildren met the survivor and she told them about her ordeal. Accordingly, they filed a complaint based on which a rape case was registered against Mathew. He was convicted in February 2019 and sentenced to 20 years in jail. The Vatican, too, defrocked him.Citing several Supreme Court judgments that lay down that a rape case cannot be settled, the Kerala high court had refused to suspend Mathew’s sentence for marriage, saying that a judicial approval cannot be granted to a marriage when the woman he intended to marry is the one whom he had raped.Against this order, Mathew and the survivor approached the top court, asking for bail to Mathew to enable him to come out and marry. While the woman emphasised that the marriage will give legitimacy to the child born to her, Mathew argued that the courts must not stop him from exercising his “fundamental right to marry”.Senior advocate Kiran Suri appeared for the woman and advocate Amit George represented the former priest in the apex court. Suri said that the child was of school-going age, and hence the father’s name needed to be mentioned in the school admission application form.On his part, George argued that the Kerala high court order made scathing and sweeping observations against his client, virtually foreclosing all possibilities for Mathew to walk out of jail even for a brief period. “How can my fundamental right to marriage be restricted while deciding a bail application?” asked the lawyer.But the bench was unmoved. “You invited it yourself. The high court order is a well-reasoned order. It has made the observations after considering all aspects of the matter. We do not want to disturb the findings of the high court,” said the bench.It also asked George about the age of his client and the survivor, and he said Mathew is 49 and the woman 25.At this, the bench said that it would not interfere in a matter like this and that Mathew should resort to other remedies available to him under the law, including raising his grievances before the high court where his appeal against the sentence imposed by a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) court in 2019 was pending.Mathew was arrested on February 27, 2017, from near Kochi international airport while trying to slip out of the country. He was sentenced to 20 years’ imprisonment on February 17, 2019 by a court in Thalassery after he was tried under the POCSO Act.During the trial, the survivor and her mother turned hostile. But the trial court proceeded on the basis of evidence collected already and handed out the guilty verdict for Mathew. Mathew had also argued during the trial that the girl was impregnated by her own father. However, the DNA of the child, which clearly attributed paternity to Mathew, acted as a clinching piece of evidence, resulting in his conviction.Four nuns, another priest and one more woman attached to the convent, who were made co-accused in the police chargesheet, were let off due to lack of evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-pleas-by-kerala-rape-survivor-convict-to-marry-each-other-101627929507190.html
03-08-2021||India||Permanent commission to women: Implement order instead of seeking clarifications, says SC to govt||The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain requests for clarification on the grant of permanent commission to women short service commission officers (WSSCO) and said that any clarification on its March 25 judgment should be addressed to the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT).“As judges, we get fed up with miscellaneous applications (MA). There are human limitations on us. We have laid down the law for a broad class of individuals. How can we entertain individual cases of officers?” the bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah said. Before the judges were two sets of applications filed by the Centre and women officers seeking clarifications on the implementation of the Supreme Court’s March 25 verdict.In its March 25 ruling, the Indian Army was directed to positively grant permanent commission to all WSSCOs who obtained 60% marks in their assessment subject to their meeting the medical criteria prescribed by the army’s August 1 2020 order and receiving disciplinary and vigilance clearance. The court gave the government three months to complete this exercise.The Centre’s application asked whether permanent commission should be granted to WSSCOs who obtained the benchmark 60% marks as laid down by the court but were found “unfit” on discipline or vigilance grounds by a selection board that considered their case in September 2020.The army said that out of 529 WSSCOs who opted for permanent commission, 514 fulfilled the 60% grade criteria.But 72 of the 514 women officers were ineligible for grant of PC under the two army policies of September 30, 1983 and February 24, 2012, that require WSSCOs to be “fit” and secure at least 60% marks and wanted the court to spell out if it meant permanent commissions had to be granted irrespective of the criteria being met.“Government should not have filed this application. We do not want to encourage this. Everything was argued before us and now we won’t entertain it,” the bench said.Women short service commission officers who were denied permanent commission (PC) and face the prospect of being released from service next month were also before the court with a prayer to stay their release.The bench asked them to approach the tribunal. “The Government has given benefits to a large mass of people (among WSSCOs). By mistake, if the benefit may have been left out for some, for that the AFT is there.”“What is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. You have not yet gone to the tribunal,” the bench remarked, noting that some women officers have already approached the tribunal.Senior advocates Huzefa Ahmadi and Meenakshi Arora, appearing for WSSCOs, agreed to the suggestion but sought a time-bound decision on their case. The bench disposed of their request, ordering that their petitions seeking “substantive and interim relief” shall be considered expeditiously by the tribunal.The Centre’s application contained other prayers too including a two-month extension to implement the order.It also sought to expunge remarks of “systemic discrimination” made against the army with regard to the annual confidential report (ACR) assessment and career progression of WSSCOs. The direction requiring the army to reconstitute the same selection board which originally considered the batch mates of the affected WSSCOs was also sought to be modified.Appearing for the Centre, additional solicitor general (ASG) Balbir Singh and senior advocate R Balasubramanian said it will be better for the top court to clarify these aspects to avoid multiplicity of proceedings.The bench responded: “You must implement the judgment as it stands. There is an attempt on part of your client (Centre) to go around our judgment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/permanent-commission-to-women-implement-order-instead-of-seeking-clarifications-says-sc-to-govt-101627929389758.html
03-08-2021||India||Covaxin effective against new Delta Plus variant, says study||Covaxin can effectively neutralise the Delta Plus (AY.1), the vaccine’s manufacturer Bharat Biotech said citing laboratory studies it carried out along with the Indian Council of Medical Research. The study, which is yet to be peer-reviewed, showed that the vaccine’s ability to neutralise the variants was lower than what was seen with the ancestral version of the Sars-Cov-2, similar to what has been seen with the case of other vaccines.The scientists carried out lab tests with antibodies derived from three groups of people – those who had two doses of vaccines but no infection, those had both doses of the vaccine after recovering from Covid-19 and those who had Covid after getting both doses (breakthrough infections).These antibodies were then made to react with three variants – Delta, Delta Plus and B.1.617.3, as well as the B.1 (the version prior to the mutation).The study found neutralising antibodies, which bind to the Sars-CoV-2 virus, was the higher in people who had the infection along with vaccination, rather than those who just received the vaccines. But, the authors said, there wasn’t significant reduction in antibody levels against the variants as compared to the original one in those who received only the vaccine. The blood serum of recovered cases with vaccinations and breakthrough cases had considerable fold-reductions, said the study.“Vaccine is showing very high neutralizing titre in all three categories of sera whether it’s full vaccinated, recovered cases with vaccination or breakthrough cases. The titres of recovered cases with vaccination or breakthrough cases are very high... Natural infection offers good protection,” said Dr Pragya Yadav, senior scientist at Natio-nal Institute of Virology and one of the authors of the paper.“But after some time the antibody titres drop; immunization boosts it. That is why people should get immunized after recovery.”To be sure, neutralising antibody titers do not reflect efficacy rates, which are based on a vaccine’s real-world ability to prevent symptomatic infection. Bharat Biotech in June said the final efficacy estimates, based on its phase 3 trials, showed Covaxin had an efficacy rate of 77.8% against the Sars-Cov-2 virus that most closely resembles the origin virus, and 65.8% against the Delta variant, which is now predominant in India.The reduction in neutralising activity in the latest study was observed in fully vaccinated individuals who never had Covid-19 was seen to be 1.3, 1.5, 1.9-fold against Delta, AY.1, and B.1.617.3. Similarly, the reduction in neutralising titre in those who had an infection and were then immunised was 2.5, 3.5, 3.8-fold, and in those who had a breakthrough infection it was 1.9, 2.8, 3.5-fold when compared against the corresponding neutralisation levels seen in people with the ancestral version of variants.“What this essentially means is get vaccinated. It is great news that all the vaccines seem to be working against all the variants...,” said Dr T Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at Christian Medical College-Vellore||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-effective-against-new-delta-plus-variant-says-study-101627928429192.html
03-08-2021||India||Supreme Court notice to states on use of scrapped Section 66A||The Supreme Court on Monday observed that police cannot continue to lodge cases under the scrapped Section 66A of the Information Technology Act, seeking an explanation from all states and Union territories on steps taken by them to comply with the court’s March 2015 judgment which declared the provision null and void.A bench of justices Rohinton F Nariman and BR Gavai accepted the central government’s argument that the states were issued repeated reminders by the Union ministry of home affairs, and that the onus was on them and their police departments to stop lodging fresh cases under the scrapped provision.“Ultimately, police is a state subject. States will have to be put on notice...this (registration of cases) cannot continue,” said the bench while seeking replies from states and UTs in four weeks.Earlier this month (on July 5), the bench said it was “shocking” and “distressing” that there was a fivefold increase in the registration of cases under Section 66A though the provision was quashed as it heard an application by NGO People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL). The NGO highlighted that the situation on the ground did not change even after the Supreme Court in February 2019 asked the chief secretaries and directors general of police of all states and UTs to ensure that the 2015 judgment was widely publicised.On Monday, attorney general KK Venugopal and solicitor general Tushar Mehta appeared for the Union government and pointed out that the MHA has been sending letters to the states to instruct their police departments to stop registering cases under Section 66A, and that the latest communication to this effect was on July 13. The SG added that the police and law and order were state subjects.On his part, senior counsel Sanjay Parikh, representing the NGO, submitted that apart from the police departments, directions will have to be issued to the district judiciary as well to ensure that whenever such cases are brought before the trial courts, they dropped the charges under the said provision.The court acknowledged this problem. “Yes, you are right. We will take the issue of judiciary independently and will also ask registrar generals of the high courts,” responded the bench, also issuing notices to the registrar generals of all the 24 high courts.“We want to pass a concrete order after hearing all of them,” emphasised the bench while directing that along with the notices, states and the registrar generals of the HCs should also be sent PUCL’s application and the affidavit filed by the Union government.The bench was hearing PUCL’s application that revealed that after the law was quashed by the SC in 2015, the police in different states went on to lodge 1,307 new cases under the same provision. This demonstrated a fivefold hike as there were only 229 cases pending in 11 states when the Supreme Court struck down the provision that authorised police to arrest people for social media posts construed as “offensive” or “menacing”.On July 5, the bench sought a reply from the Union government on measures undertaken to ensure implementation of its 2015 judgment. In its reply, the Centre maintained that it was the primary duty of states and UTs to desist from lodging any fresh cases under Section 66A of the IT Act and withdraw prosecutions from all such cases. It said that 21 states wrote to the IT ministry between January and April of 2019, saying they issued suitable directions to the police departments and complied with the 2015 verdict.The Centre’s affidavit, however, disclosed that these 21 states did not include Maharashtra, which topped the list in registration of cases after the judgment with 381 cases, followed by Jharkhand (291), and Uttar Pradesh (245). Also, while the Rajasthan government reported compliance with the 2015 verdict, the NGO’s application stated that there were more than 70 cases still pending prosecution in the state under the scrapped provision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-notice-to-states-on-use-of-scrapped-section-66a-101627928367200.html
03-08-2021||India||India-made Sputnik V Covid vaccine may be available from September: Dr Reddy’s||Locally manufactured Sputnik V vaccines against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are expected to be available in India within September or October, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories told news agency ANI on Monday."We have received 31.5 lakh doses of component 1 and 4.5 lakh doses of component 2 of the Sputnik V vaccine in India. We are working closely with the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) to ramp up supplies. We are also working closely with our partners in India for manufacturing readiness,” ANI reported quoting a release by the company.The company further stated that the Russian vaccine launch has seen a “gradual and steady commercial scale-up and roll-out” all over India since its soft pilot in May and now spreading to around 80 Indian cities.“We have partnered with major hospitals around the country and set up our cold chain infrastructure across more than 300 locations since the vaccine requires -18°C temperature,” the release added.Notably, the RDIF said on Saturday that the production of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccines in India is expected to come “fully on stream” in September.“RDIF expects India to become a major production hub of Sputnik V,” a statement issued by Russia’s sovereign wealth fund read.In the statement, the RDIF mentioned the Pune-based world’s largest vaccine manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII) among several pharmaceutical companies with which it has joined hands to manufacture Sputnik V jabs in India.Notably, SII will produce over 300 million doses of the Russian vaccine annually, starting this year. On the other hand, RDIF has entered a partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs to market the first 250 million doses of Sputnik V in India.The vaccine is a two-dost shot, but as opposed to other two-dose coronavirus vaccines, both the jabs of the Sputnik V vaccine is unidentical. It has been found 91.6% effective against Covid-19 as was observed in its phase 3 clinical trials.The Russian vaccine’s soft launch rollout commenced initially in Hyderabad on May 14, and since then it has reached many major cities of India such as Bengaluru, Delhi-NCR, Chennai, Pune, Kolkata, Mumbai, Indore, Bhopal, Nagpur, Patna, Lucknow, Guwahati, Bhubaneswar, and Jaipur, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiamade-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-may-be-available-from-september-dr-reddy-101627927337311.html
03-08-2021||India||A week later, Assam-Mizoram dispute hits economic activities on both sides of border||A week after the clash between Assam and Mizoram at Lailapur border on July 26, an undeclared economic blockade prevails against the latter, with most truck drivers admitting they are afraid to move towards Mizoram, even as protests against the killing of six Assam policemen in the incident, dot the Barak Valley in the state.Hundreds of trucks carrying essential goods for Mizoram are stranded in various parts Assam’s Cachar district . Most of these trucks can be seen parked on the 43-km-long highway from Silchar to Lailapur.M Ravi, 45, a truck driver, is a resident of Hyderabad who travelled for almost a week from Chennai to Cachar district of Assam, but he has been waiting near the Mizoram border since July 27. His truck is carrying liquid milk packets. “I have travelled to Mizoram several times in past but never witnessed a situation like this. There were tensions in border area in past and I have faced some economic blockades in Assam’s side a few times. But this year, it seems the end is not near...”Drivers and cleaners on Sonai Road, Nagatilla, Sonabarighat, Kabuganj or Dholai can be seen cooking or resting by the roadside and some claim they are running out of money.Mukesh Kumar Jat, a truck driver from Rajasthan, said, “We are short of money and also food... We have been stranded on the road for the past six days. We just want to leave.”But the blockade cuts both ways, if unequally.In the border areas of Assam, for instance, it has hit small businesses. The Monday market at Channi Ghat area under Dholai constituency of Cachar, around 2.5 km from the Khulicherra border between Assam and Mizoram, was patronised by well-off Mizos. “Initially Covid-19 hit sales, and now this. Mizos loved to buy dry fish from our market,”said a seller at the market.Near the Dholai police station is Aizawl FC (Mizo Dawr), another shop patronised by Mizos. “I can speak Mizo language and have so many friends in Mizoram... Government’s policies have created a situation where common people are suffering,” said the owner, a Bengali.There also appears to be a breakdown in trust.Abdul Ali , 25 was shot in the forehead with an air gun. After a week, he has returned home. But everything has changed. “Now we are afraid to talk to the Mizos... It seems we are sharing border with a different country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-week-later-dispute-hits-economic-activities-on-both-sides-of-border-101627928307949.html
03-08-2021||India||Assam, Mizoram drop cases as key N-E leaders call on PM Modi||Mizoram and Assam withdrew police cases against each other as key leaders from the North-East met Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, underlining that interstate ties bruised by an unprecedented gunbattle last week are on the mend after central intervention.Mizoram governor K Hari Babu met Modi in Delhi and said the Centre was trying to find a solution to the standoff that killed seven people and left 41 others injured. “The home minister is trying to defuse the tension and he is trying to find the solution. Both chief ministers have committed that peace will be restored,” said Babu.Separately, a group of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmakers and two Union ministers – law minister Kiren Rijiju and shipping minister Sarbananda Sonowal -- also met the PM, who assured the leaders of an amicable solution to the dispute.The leaders — 12 from Assam, two from Arunachal Pradesh and one each from Manipur and Tripura — submitted a memorandum praising the BJP’s efforts and accused the Opposition of fanning tensions.“We assured him (PM Modi) unity of Northeast & that the unfortunate incident at Assam-Mizoram border won’t be allowed to affect his vision to develop NE region,” tweeted Rijiju after the meeting.The easing of tensions was also marked by the withdrawal of cases in both states.Mizoram said it won’t proceed against Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and six other officials on attempt to murder and criminal conspiracy charges. “In order to build a conducive atmosphere for amicable solution to the Mizoram, Assam border dispute and to reduce the plight of suffering citizens. I have directed Mizoram Police to withdraw FIR dated July 26 filed at Vairengte, Kolasib in Mizoram...,” Mizoram CM Zoramthanga tweeted on Monday.Assam responded by withdrawing police cases against Mizoram MP L K Vanlalvena and two senior officials, but said proceedings against four other officials will continue. “I learn that hon’ble CM Zoramthanga has asked Mizoram Police to withdraw FIR dated July 26 against our officers. I heartily reciprocate this positive gesture and ask Assam Police to withdraw cases against DC, Kolasib and SDPO Vairengte,” Sarma tweeted.He also announced that two Assam cabinet ministers will travel to Mizoram’s capital Aizawl to hold talks on August 5.The developments came a day after Shah spoke to Sarma and Zoramthanga to defuse tensions.Assam’s Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164.6km-long border with Mizoram’s Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit districts. The decades-old border dispute escalate on July 26 when police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle, in which six Assam policemen and a civilian died.Silchar MP Rajdeep Roy said the PM assured the delegation that an “amicable solution” will be found to the problem. “All channels of negotiations, not just between the two CMs, but with all the relevant people have been opened. And de-escalation is already happening at the border since this evening,” Roy added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-mizoram-drop-cases-as-key-n-e-leaders-call-on-pm-101627928188170.html
03-08-2021||India||S Jaishankar may attend Iran Prez’s swearing-in||External affairs minister S Jaishankar is expected to represent India at the inauguration of Iran’s president-elect Ebrahim Raisi on August 5, reflecting the convergence between the two countries on key issues such as the situation in Afghanistan.Iran had extended an invitation to India to attend the swearing-in when Jaishankar met Raisi during in Tehran on July 7 while travelling to Moscow, and there were earlier indications that the country would be represented at the ceremony by some other minister, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.However, India is now expected to be represented by the external affairs minister at the ceremony to signal the importance attached by New Delhi to its ties with Tehran, the people cited above said. A visit by Jaishankar will also be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange notes on regional developments, especially the security situation in Afghanistan, the people said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-represent-india-at-swearing-in-of-iran-s-president-elect-ebrahim-raisi-101627917267119.html
03-08-2021||India||Bill for amendment of general insurance law passed in House||Lok Sabha on Monday passed a Bill to amend the general-insurance law and allow the government to offload its stake in state-run insurance corporations, clearing its first hurdle without discussion as Parliament continued to witness pandemonium.The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021 seeks to permit the government to cut its stake in prominent state-owned general insurance corporations, helping achieve its divestment targets. Divestment refers to the government’s selling of part of its ownership in state-run corporations.The Bill aims to amend the parent Act, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. Lok Sabha proceedings witnessed disruption by opposition members and had to be adjourned until Tuesday.While presenting the budget 2021-22 in February, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said: “We propose to take up the privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments and I propose to introduce the amendments in this session (Budget) itself.” The government however did not introduce the Bill in the Budget Session in February.The finance minister, while introducing the Bill in Lok Sabha on June 30, sought to suggest that the government was not aiming to fully privatise government-backed insurers.“It is not to privatise, we are certainly bringing some enabling provision so that citizens can have some participation. Our market can give the money from retail funds, through Indian citizens. It can enable faster growth for such insurance companies. The public participation is only going to help us by bringing more resources,” she had said, meaning that the government was looking to pare its stake.According to the Bill, the proposed legislation aims to remove the requirement that the Union government should hold not less than “51% of the equity capital in a specified insurer”.It also lays down the objectives of the Bill, including “greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies”.The government hopes to achieve its planned divestment target of ₹1.75 lakh crore for 2021-22 but the target has hit hurdles posed by the pandemicA panel headed by the finance minister had framed a policy for equity listing of the country’s largest life insurer LIC too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-clears-insurance-divestment-bill-101627905806646.html
03-08-2021||India||After 17 months in office, adviser to PM Modi quits||Amarjeet Sinha, an adviser to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has resigned after serving 17 months in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), people familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity on Monday.There was no official statement on the retired Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer’s resignation. On Monday, Sinha’s name did not figure in the PMO’s list of officers on its website. Sinha did not respond to queries on his resignation.Sinha, a 1983 batch Bihar cadre IAS officer, was one of the two retired IAS officers appointed advisers to the PM in February 2020. His batchmate, Bhaskar Khulbe, was the other officer. Sinha was an Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer of the Bihar cadre. He was appointed as adviser to Modi in February last year, less than two months after he retired as secretary of the rural development department in December 2019.Earlier, Pradeep K Sinha,who was appointed as principal adviser to the PM in September 2019, resigned in March this year, reportedly due to personal reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-s-adviser-amarjeet-sinha-resigns-101627898426490.html
03-08-2021||India||Resolve Krishna water dispute amicably: SC to Andhra Pradesh, Telangana govts||The Supreme Court on Monday advised Andhra Pradesh and Telangana to amicably resolve the dispute on sharing the Krishna river water for drinking and irrigation, “without the involvement of any third party”.Heading the bench, Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana, who was born in the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh, clarified that he would not adjudicate the legal issues involved in the matter but if the states were forthcoming on settling the dispute through talks, the bench could assist the mediation process. “I belong to both the states. I don’t want to hear this matter legally. But if the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that. Otherwise, we will have to send this matter to another bench,” the CJI told senior counsel Dushyant Dave, who appeared for the Andhra Pradesh government, which has filed the petition alleging Telangana government was depriving its people of legitimate share of Krishna water.Dave, on his part, commended the CJI’s views, adding he would have to speak to the competent authorities in the Andhra Pradesh government.Appearing for Telangana, senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan said the Centre has intervened and there was nothing left for the court to adjudicate. Justice Ramana then asked both the lawyers to persuade their client to iron out the issues amicably. “I can only wish for both of you to convince your governments to resolve it without the involvement of any third party,” the CJI said while fixing the matter on Wednesday.The Andhra government, in its petition, has complained that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014, directions of the Krishna River Management Board and those of the Centre.“More significantly, the state of Telangana is clearly in violation of a binding award, popularly known as ‘Bachwat award’ made on May 31, 1976, and express provisions of the 2014 Act whereby the state of Andhra Pradesh was bifurcated into Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” stated the petition.The petition urged the SC to direct the Centre to take control of the common reservoirs of Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar, and also Pulichintala and operate the same as per the binding award and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resolve-krishna-water-dispute-amicably-sc-to-andhra-pradesh-telangana-govts-101627887505983.html
03-08-2021||NA||Breaking News: BMC allows shops in Mumbai to open till 10pm||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks. Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.In the last 24 hours, India logged 40,134 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 422 deaths related to it, the Union health ministry said on Monday. Also on Monday, prime minister Narendra Modi inaugurated via videoconferencing, e-Rupi, a new digital payment system.Follow all the updates here:Shops in Mumbai to open till 10pm: BMCBMC issues notification allowing shops in Mumbai to open till 10pm and restaurants till 4pm. All sports except swimming, and those in which players come in close contact, allowed as well.2 unidentified persons spotted near Jammu railway station#WATCH | Two unidentified persons spotted running in uniform at Mangal Market near Jammu Railway Station, earlier today. "They had come for a haircut, were wearing Army uniform. When asked for their identities, they fled," said a local barberVideo source: CCTV footage pic.twitter.com/fVvbuEwAaxTwo unidentified persons spotted running in uniform at Mangal Market near Jammu Railway Station, earlier today. They were wearing Army uniform.Will continue to work as MP, says Babul SupriyoI will continue to work as MP in Asansol. There is politics beyond constitutional post and I withdraw myself from it. I will not join any other party. I will vacate the MP bungalow in Delhi and release security personnel from their duties soon: Babul Supriyo, former Union ministerMaharashtra records 4869 new Covid-19 cases and 90 deathsMaharashtra's daily Covid-19 cases and deaths fall to 4869 and 90 respectively. Mumbai logs 259 new infections and nine deaths.Andhra Pradesh reports 1546 new Covid-19 cases and 15 deathsAndhra Pradesh reports 1,546 fresh #COVID cases, 1,968 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours. Active cases: 20,582Total recoveries: 19,36,016Death toll: 13,410 pic.twitter.com/g2szpx52R4Andhra Pradesh reports 1546 fresh Covid-19 cases, 1968 recoveries, and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra relaxes Covid-19 curbs in 14 districtsMaharashtra govt announces relaxations in Covid-19 curbs in 14 districts, excluding Mumbai, Mumbai suburban and Thane. The decision for Mumbai and Thane will be taken by the local disaster management authorities.Class 12th students not satisfied with marks can appear in exams: CBSECBSE notifies that "Class 12th students who are not satisfied with the marks, awarded to them on basis of the 'Policy of Tabulation' will be given an opportunity to appear in examinations to be conducted by the board. Marks scored in the later examination will be considered as final."PM Modi to interact with Anna Yojana beneficiaries of GujaratAt 12:30 PM tomorrow, 3rd August, will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Gujarat. It would be wonderful to hear their views and experiences."At 12:30pm tomorrow, will interact with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna," tweets PMM Modi Yojana in Gujarat. It would be wonderful to hear their views and experiences.Mizoram CM orders withdrawal of FIR over Assam border clashIn order to build a conducive atmosphere for amicable solution to the #MizoramAssamBorder dispute & to reduce the plight of suffering citizens,I have directed @mizorampolice to withdraw FIR dt. 26.07.2021 filed at Vairengte,Kolasib District,Mizoram against all the accused persons pic.twitter.com/IlQ65jssIL"I've directed the Mizoram Police to withdraw FIR dated 26.07.2021 filed at Vairengte, district, Mizoram against all the accused persons," tweets Mizoram CM Zoramthanga.Kerala logs 13,984 new Covid-19 cases and 118 deathsKerala reports 13,984 new Covid-19 cases, 15,923 recoveries and 118 deaths; positivity rate drops to 10.93%.BJP, Congress protest against Kerala education minister#WATCH | Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, BJP and Kerala Students' Union, Congress today staged a protest to Kerala Assembly demanding resignation of Education Minister V Sivankutty ; several detained pic.twitter.com/sUMC3WTWXEBharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, BJP and Kerala Students' Union, Congress, today staged a protest to Kerala Assembly demanding resignation of Education Minister V Sivankutty; several detained.It seems many people want schools to reopen: Manish SisodiaWe are reviewing the suggestions from public, some demanded reopening of schools, some didn't. A decision will soon be taken on the basis of various factors and feedback. Largely it seems that many people want: Delhi deputy CM Manish SisodiaPM Modi launches e-RUPI payment systemPrime Minister Narendra Modi launches e-RUPI, an electronic voucher promoting digital payment solution, via video conferencing pic.twitter.com/n7a1wSiuTuPrime Minister Narendra Modi e-RUPI, an electronic voucher promoting digital payment solution, via video conferencing.Zika virus: Health ministry rushes team to MaharashtraUnion Ministry of health rushes a multidisciplinary team to Maharahstra to monitor the Zika virus situation and support the state government in management of Zika cases.Bombay HC reserves order in porn caseBombay high court reserves order in petitions of businessman Raj Kundra and Ryan Thorpe challenging their arrest by Mumbai police.NIA re-registers case over Israel embassy blastNational Investigation Agency (NIA) takes over and re-registers the case pertaining to a blast that took place outside the Israel Embassy in Delhi on January 29 this year: StatementKey advisor to PM Modi steps downAn advisor to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, 1983-batch Bihar cadre Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer, Amarjeet Sinha resigned today. While there was no official statement, Hindustan Times confirmed this from an official in the Prime Minister's office (PMO).Maha CM rules out allowing local trains immediately"We are allowing shops to operate till 8pm. Local trains cannot be allowed for general public immediately. Relaxations would not be applicable in districts with high positivity rate and high number of Covid-19 cases. A committee will be constituted for recommendations on development in eco sensitive zones," says Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray.SC to hear petition against Rakesh Asthana's appointment as Delhi CP on August 5Supreme Court to hear on August 5 contempt petition filed by a lawyer, against the Prime Minister, Home Minister, and Ministry of Home Affairs challenging the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Delhi Police Commissioner.Rajya Sabha lauds Sindhu's bronze at OlympicsThe Rajya Sabha on Monday congratulated badminton ace P V Sindhu for winning a bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics, saying that she has scripted history by becoming the country's first woman to win two individual Olympics medals.When the House met for the day, Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu congratulated Sindhu for her gritty performance on behalf of the House and himself.SC to hear shooter Naresh Sharma's plea challenging Delhi HC order todayThe Supreme Court will hear today at 2 pm the plea of five-time Paralympian shooter Naresh Kumar Sharma challenging an order of the Delhi High Court which had posted his plea relating to his non-selection for the upcoming Tokyo Games for hearing on August 6.A three-judge bench headed by Justice AM Khanwilkar will hear the plea.India's monsoon rains to be average in August, SeptemberIndia is likely to receive an average amount of rainfall in August and September, the state-run weather office said on Monday, raising expectations of higher crop yields in Asia's third-biggest economy, which relies heavily on the vast farm sector."As per most parameters, we expect monsoon rains to be normal in August and September this year," Mrutyunjay Mohapatra, Director General of the state-run India Meteorological Department (IMD), told a news conference.Schools reopen in Punjab for all classesSchools for all classes reopened in Punjab on Monday, with physical classes resuming after a gap of a few months for pre-primary levels.The state government on Saturday had allowed reopening of schools for all classes from August 2 as it further relaxed Covid restrictions in the wake of declining number of cases.Officials said schools reopened for all classes across the state.More than 49.64 cr Covid-19 vaccine doses provided to States, UTs so farUnion health ministry on Monday informed that more than 49.64 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been provided to States and Union Territories till date."More than 49.64 crore (49,64,98,050) vaccine doses have been provided to States and UTs so far, through all sources and a further 9,84,610 doses are in the pipeline," read the official release by the ministry.Russia to scale up military drills near Afghan border: ReportRussia will send an additional contingent of 800 troops to take part in military exercises at the Afghan border and use two times more hardware there than originally planned, Interfax news agency reported on Monday citing the defence ministry.The drills, which are set to take place on Aug. 5-10 and involve Uzbek and Tajik forces, come as the security situation had rapidly deteriorated in Afghanistan amid a US troop withdrawal.India’s unemployment rate drops to 4-month lowIndia’s jobless rate fell to the lowest level in four months in July, adding to signs of a nascent recovery in the economy where sales tax collections and demand for some commodities have signaled a rebound.The unemployment rate dropped to 6.95% last month from 9.17% the previous month, according to latest data from private research firm Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy Pvt. While the rural jobless rate slid to 6.3%, urban unemployment stayed above 8%, showed the data, which is based on surveys and is widely accepted in the absence of timely government data.Almost 300 stray dogs killed with poisonous injections in West Godavari of Andhra PradeshIn a horrific incident of animal cruelty, almost 300 stray dogs were poisoned to death and buried in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, an animal rights group alleged.While speaking to ANI, Dharmajigudem Sub Inspector Ramesh said, "Lingapalem village panchayat staff have got killed almost 300 stray dogs in the village on July 24. The matter came to light when an animal rights activist named Challapalli Srilata complained to Dharmajigudem police on July 29."India records 40,134 fresh Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursSuspected drone activity reported from three places in J-K's SambaSuspected drone activity was reported from four places in the Bari Brahmana area of Samba district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday night, informed Samba Superintendents of police (SSP) Rajesh Sharma on Monday.Earlier on Friday, suspected drones were spotted at three different places in the Samba district.Pelosi, Democrats call on Biden to extend eviction banHouse Speaker Nancy Pelosi and the House Democratic leaders on Sunday called on the Biden administration to immediately extend the nation's eviction moratorium, calling it a “moral imperative” to prevent Americans from being put out of their homes during a COVID-19 surge.An estimated 3.6 billion Americans are at risk of eviction, some as soon as Monday.Congress was unable to pass legislation swiftly to extend the ban, which expired at midnight Saturday, and the Democratic leaders said in a statement that it was now up to President Joe Biden's administration to act. They called on the administration to extend the moratorium through Oct. 18.4 killed in helicopter crash in remote California regionFour people aboard a helicopter were killed when it crashed in a remote area of Northern California, the Colusa County Sheriff's Department said.The department confirmed the deaths to the KXTV station. The four people died at the scene on Sunday, said the department, which did not release their identities.The Robinson R66 crashed around 1:15 p.m. in Colusa County north of Sacramento, the Federal Aviation Administration said in a statement.Assam CM directs police to withdraw FIR against Mizoram MP K Vanlalvena as goodwill gestureAssam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Monday said he has directed state police to withdraw FIR against Rajya Sabha MP K Vanlalvena as a "goodwill gesture" after border clash with Mizoram on July 26 in which six police personnel died.However, he further said that cases against the other police officers will be pursued.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-2-2021-101627863074221.html
