04-08-2021||India||Kerala’s high caseload, double digit TPR worries medical experts||Kerala, a small state with barely 3% of India’s population, has been accounting for more than half of country’s Covid-19 virus cases recently, and the medical experts feel that the trend of rising cases in the state is not a good sign. However, the government has pointed out that the health infrastructure in the state is not overburdened.Statistics show that there has been no sign of flattening of the curve and cases have increased steadily for more than two months in the state, a grim reality, which is also reflected in the state’s double digit test positivity rate for more than a month now.What adds to Kerala’s intriguing battle with the pandemic is the fact that the state claims to have done well in managing the case fatality rate, vaccination drive, testing and tracing of contacts and hospitals have not been overflowing with patients recently. But before the state could get a handle on its challenges, some experts are already warning about the possible onset of a “third wave”.“The consistent surge indicates that this may be the beginning of a fresh wave. [Whether] you name it the second or the third wave, it is a fact [that the] cases are going up alarmingly,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal, who earlier worked with the World Health Organisation.Internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun, who has been studying the case trajectory of the state, agreed. “The state is going through a fresh wave and if the cases [continue to] rise like this, [the] system will drain,” he said.Out of the 18 worst affected districts in the country, 10 are in Kerala, where districts such as Malapppuram have over 15% TPR (test positivity rate). The district also has an active caseload of 21,603 as on Tuesday and its recovery rate is also slow. The TPR is the percentage of all Covid tests that turn out to be positive.Malappuram, Thrissur, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Palakkad and Kasarago are the six districts where the average TPR has stayed in double digits for more than a week. Experts note that most infections are spreading through home isolation cases. According to the state’s latest sero survey, around 50% of the population is still susceptible to the virus.“Since half of the population is not affected, we have to vaccinate them on a war footing. We are in touch with the Union government,” said health minister Veena George.Government claims that despite the high volume of cases, pressure is not visible on the health system. Out of the 4,250 ICU and ventilator beds available in both private and public facilities, 2,300 are occupied, including by 1,500 critically ill patients and 800 requiring ventilator support. The state also has 250 metric tonne oxygen in stock.Kerala reported 22,414 Covid cases on Wednesday with a TPR of 11.37%. It also reported 108 deaths, taking total Covid fatalities to 17,211. Malappuram district topped the chart again with 3,691 fresh cases of the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-high-caseload-double-digit-tpr-worries-medical-experts-101628101066216.html
04-08-2021||India||Will withdraw cases against Gorkhas in foreigners’ tribunals: Assam CM Sarma||GUWAHATI: The Assam cabinet has decided not to prosecute members of the Gorkha community under the Citizenship Act and withdraw all cases against community members in foreigners’ tribunals, chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said in a tweet after the cabinet meeting on Wednesday.The decisions, which were part of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party’s vision document ahead of the 2016 assembly polls, have been welcomed by the Gorkha community in Assam. According to the Assam unit of Bharatiya Gorkha Parisangh (BGP), nearly 22,000 Gorkha people in the state have been declared as ‘doubtful voters’ or D-voters, issued summons to appear before foreigners’ tribunals to prove citizenship and some even put in detention centres meant for illegal immigrants under the citizenship law.“Nearly 2,500 Gorkhas actually faced charges as D-voters, some were issued summon and some even spent time in detention centres. With our efforts, most of these cases have been resolved, but some are still pending,” Nanda Kirati Dewan, national secretary of BGP said. Dewan said the cabinet decision will come as a huge relief for Gorkha families who were prosecuted under the citizenship law. “It would also remove the tag of illegal immigrants or foreigners from members of the community who are residents of Assam and are Indian citizens. We want that the D-voter tags of Gorkhas removed so that they can exercise their right to vote,” he added. Persons against whom cases are pending in foreigners’ tribunals and their family members apart from those who are called D-voters in electoral rolls due to questions about their citizenship were not included in the updated National Register of Citizens (NRC) for Assam. The complete NRC, published in August 2019, also excluded names of 1.9 million of the 3.3 million people in the state who applied to include their names in the list that sought to weed out illegal immigrants. While most of those excluded were people who had roots in East Pakistan (later Bangladesh), the list also left out several people from the Gorkha community including Sahitya Academy Award winner Durga Khatiwada.In October 2018, the Union home ministry clarified that members of the Gorkha community who were Indians at the time of commencement of the Constitution, those who are Indian citizens by birth or those who have acquired citizenship by registration or naturalization are not ‘foreigners’ as defined by Foreigners Act, 1946 and Registration of Foreigners Act, 1939 and their cases should not be referred to foreigners tribunals. Citing the 1950 India-Nepal friendship treaty, the MHA clarified that members of the Gorkha community of neighbouring Nepal who entered India by land or air, with or without passport or visa and stayed in India for any length of time shall not be treated as illegal immigrants as long as they have some identity documents issued by Nepal government. They too shall not be referred to foreigners’ tribunals, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-withdraw-cases-against-gorkhas-in-foreigners-tribunals-assam-cm-sarma-101628099625887.html
04-08-2021||India||PM Modi congratulates Indian Navy on Vikrant's maiden sea trial. 5 things about India’s first IAC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday congratulated the Indian Navy and Cochin Shipyard Limited for the maiden sea trial of India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant. With a planned induction of Vikrant in less than a year, India is set to join a select group of countries having the capability to indigenously design and build an aircraft carrier. Taking to Twitter, PM Modi said that Vikrant is a “wonderful example” of the country’s quest for the ‘Make in India’ initiative."The Indigenous Aircraft Carrier 'Vikrant', designed by Indian Navy's Design Team and built by @cslcochin, undertook its maiden sea sortie today. A wonderful example of @makeinindia. Congratulations to @indiannavy and @cslcochin on this historic milestone," the prime minister posted on Twitter, along with the images of Vikrant.The Indigenous Aircraft Carrier 'Vikrant', designed by Indian Navy's Design Team and built by @cslcochin, undertook its maiden sea sortie today. A wonderful example of @makeinindia. Congratulations to @indiannavy and @cslcochin on this historic milestone. pic.twitter.com/AjnafkxOaTEarlier today, the ministry of defence said in a statement that the warship has been designed with a “very high degree of automation for machinery operation, ship navigation and survivability.” “This is a major milestone activity and historical event. Reaching this milestone is significant as they have been achieved barring the current pandemic challenges and imponderables,” it added.Watch: First made-in-India aircraft carrier Vikrant begins sea trialsHere’s all you need to know about India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-congratulates-indian-navy-on-vikrant-s-maiden-sea-trial-5-things-about-india-s-first-iac-101628097739701.html
04-08-2021||India||India for speeding up connectivity projects with Asean||India on Wednesday called for the speeding up of regional connectivity projects with members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean), including the trilateral highway with Myanmar and Thailand and the Kaladan transit transport project. While speaking at the virtual Asean-India foreign ministers meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said New Delhi was also looking to an early review of the trade in goods agreement. In a set of tweets, Jaishankar described the meeting as “substantive and fruitful”. India, he tweeted, was looking forward to “accelerate our connectivity projects, especially trilateral highway and Kaladan project”. He didn’t give details. The Indian side has helped construct two key stretches of the 1,360-km trilateral highway in Myanmar, but work on several other sections and the upgrade of nearly 70 bridges has been held up by a variety of factors. India believes the highway, which will run from Moreh in Manipur to Mae Sot in Thailand, will allow it to access markets across the Asean region and boost people-to-people ties. Work on the $484-million Kaladan project, which will connect Kolkata port with Sittwe port in Myanmar’s Rakhine state, has been affected by the activities of militant groups such as the Arakan Army and land acquisition issues on the Indian side. New Delhi has been pushing for a review of the India-Asean trade in goods agreement, which entered into force in January 2010. Under the pact, the Asean states and India agreed to open their markets by progressively reducing and eliminating duties on 76.4% coverage of goods. The Indian side believes an early review of the agreement will help achieve the true trade potential between the two sides. The review is expected to include issues such as customs procedures, exchange of data and further liberalisation of trade. “Much of India’s interests and relationships now lie to its East, a testimony of its ties with Asean,” Jaishankar said in a tweet. India also seeks convergence between its Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and the Asean outlook on the Indo-Pacific, he said. At the same time, India will support the initiative for Asean integration through capacity-building initiatives and also contribute through Mekong-Ganga cooperation and quick impact projects, he added. Jaishankar noted that the two sides had been strong partners in the Covid-19 response, including on medicines, oxygen, equipment and logistics. While backing the Asean position on resolving maritime issues, Jaishankar said India believes the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) sets out the “accepted legal framework for all maritime activities”. The minister subsequently addressed the virtual East Asia Summit foreign ministers’ meeting that was joined by the representatives of Australia, China, Japan, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, the US and the 10 Asean members. Jaishankar highlighted the growing convergence of approaches on the Indo-Pacific among the members, and stressed that the “Code of Conduct on South China Sea should be fully consistent with UNCLOS 1982”. The code, he said, “should not prejudice legitimate rights and interests of nations not party to discussions”. Asean and China plan to draft the Code of Conduct to serve as a framework with rules and standards to cope with long-standing disputes in the South China Sea. Jaishankar also supported Asean’s five-point consensus for the situation in Myanmar and welcomed the appointment of a special envoy by the grouping to deal with the issue. The five-point consensus, adopted at an Asean leaders’ meeting in April following the military coup in Myanmar, called for an immediate cessation of violence and utmost restraint from all parties, constructive dialogue to find a peaceful solution, the appointment of a special envoy to facilitate mediation, provision of humanitarian aid, and visit to Myanmar by the special envoy. Asean on Wednesday announced Brunei’s second minister for foreign affairs, Erywan Yusof, had been appointed as the special envoy. The appointment was delayed by divisions within the grouping.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-for-speeding-up-connectivity-projects-with-asean-101628098065595.html
04-08-2021||India||Number of waves doesn't matter: What experts say on Covid 3rd wave in India||If in any particular area, the number of Covid-19 cases is increasing, it does not matter whether it is the second wave of the pandemic or the third wave as the interventions will be similar, experts said amid ongoing speculations over the 3rd wave of the pandemic which, according to several projections, may hit India in August."The wave or cycle is of academic significance only. If cases are rising, it does not matter whether that is a continuation of the second wave or the start of the next wave," Delhi-based physician-epidemiologist and health systems expert Chandrakant Lahariya told PTI.Researchers of IIT Hyderabad and Kanpur, who had predicted the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, have said the third wave may peak in October. Reacting to this, joint secretary of the Union health ministry Lav Agarwal has said that the second wave is still not over in India as around 40,000 new Covid-19 infections are being recorded every day.There have been several projections and opinions regarding the third wave in India. Here is all we know:> Mathematically, the timing of the third wave in India can be predicted and July-August was predicted as the arrival time of the wave while the peak may come in October.> The ground situation may be different from the mathematical model as the wave will depend on human behaviour and vaccine coverage.> The impact of the wave will not be the same across the country, as vaccination coverage, exposure to the virus is different.> The severity of the third wave will not be like that of the second wave. It will be a "blunted" wave compared to the devastating second wave, Scientist Gautam Menon told PTI.> Several states are witnessing a small spike in Covid-19 cases. But this can't be confirmed as the third wave, experts have opined. This spike can be a result of the lifting of the restrictions soon after the intensity of the second wave lessened.(With PTI Inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-of-waves-doesn-t-matter-what-experts-say-on-covid-3rd-wave-in-india-101628096821470.html
04-08-2021||India||Govt refused. So Odisha man built 3 km road through hills. He took 30 years||Bhubaneswar: Thirty years ago, residents of Tulubi, a remote village in Odisha’s Nayagarh district, petitioned the administration for a three km stretch of road through the hills ad forest that would link their village to the main road. They just needed a walkable road so that people didn’t lose their way.But the request was rejected by the administration. The minister reportedly told them it was impossible.That is when Harihar Behera and his brother Krushna figured that if they needed the road, they would have to build it themselves. And they got down to work. With nothing more than a hammer, hoe and a crowbar.Harihar was then in his mid-twenties.Harihar Behera spent the next 30 years with his brother chipping the hills with a hammer to build the road, day after day, after finishing work on his fields.The brothers first cleared part of the forest and tried to blast the large rocks with small explosives and carry the small rocks with the help of carts. But the blasting had a detrimental effect on the environment, so they stopped the blasting and again fell back on hammering large rocks.After Krushna Behera died due to a kidney ailment, Harihar carried on with his work all alone.“We could finally get a road a few years ago thanks to Harihar and his brother,” said Dinabandhu Jani, a local.Harihar said he saw no choice before him.“There was no way we could go to nearby town. Relatives, while visiting our village, used to forget the route and get lost in the forest. Around 30 years ago, we asked the district administration for roads in the village but as no one listened, I and my brother started making the road.... I and my elder brother worked on the road after finishing the agricultural work. Later, other villagers also helped,” said Harihar.Once he was finished with this stretch, Harihar Behera figured others needed his help. There were dozens of inaccessible villages in his district.Harihar selected Nepal, another inaccessible village inhabited by tribals. But this time, the administration stepped in after he had laid around 300 metres using rocks and build an all-weather road using concrete.His village too is going to get an all-weather road.Nayagarh sub-collector Lagnajit Rout said Harihar has done wonderful work to make his village accessible.“Only a man possessed can keep on doing such things for 30 years. There are several such villages in the district that are not easy to travel to due to the hills. The construction of road from Rohiba village on Bhanjanagar road to Tulubi village will be completed soon,” said Rout.To be sure, Behera isn’t the first to demonstrate the power of ‘one’. There have been others as well.Like ‘Mountain Man’ Dasrath Majhi who took 22 years to single-handedly carved out a 110-metre passage through the Gehlaur hill in 1982 that reduced the distance between Atri and Wazirganj blocks of Gaya district from 75 km to just 1 km. Or Daitari Nayak of Keonjhar district who carved a 3-km-long canal through a mountain and Jalandhar Nayak, also in Odisha, who constructed a 15-km road to connect his village Gumsahi to the main road in Kandhamal district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-refused-so-odisha-man-built-3-km-road-through-hills-he-took-30-years-101628096626248.html
04-08-2021||India||India has discussed air bubble with Saudi Arabia: Government||India has discussed finalisation of an air bubble arrangement with Saudi Arabia to allow travel between the two countries amid the Covid-19 pandemic, minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan informed Parliament on Wednesday. India currently has air bubble arrangements with 28 countries around the world, ranging from Afghanistan to Uzbekistan. In West Asia, such arrangements have been finalised with Bahrain, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Saudi Arabia is home to about 2.6 million Indian nationals, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. About nine million Indians live in the Gulf states, a majority of them workers and professionals. In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha, Muraleedharan said: “Government has discussed finalisation of a draft air bubble arrangement with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which would enable people from both countries to undertake travel between India and Saudi Arabia during the Covid-19 pandemic.” Since Saudi Arabia suspended the entry of incoming passengers from India due to the pandemic, negotiations on the air bubble arrangement are “currently on hold”, he said. “The issue continues to be taken up by the government with Saudi Arabia,” Muraleedharan added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-discussed-air-bubble-with-saudi-arabia-government-101628094945655.html
04-08-2021||India||This road at 19,300 ft in Ladakh is world's highest motorable road||The Border Roads Organisation, which functions under the Union ministry of defence, has constructed the highest motorable road in India, smashing the previous record held by Bolivia. The road is at the height of 19,300 feet and it passes through Umlingla Pass in Eastern Ladakh. It is a black-topped, 52-kilometre road which connects many important towns in the Chumar sector of Eastern Ladakh, the ministry said in a statement. As the ministry said, the altitude of this road is higher than the base camps of Mount Everest as the South Base Camp in Nepal is situated at an altitude of 17,598 ft, while the North Base Camp in Tibet is at 16,900 feet. This road is much above the altitude of Siachen Glacier which is at 17,700 ft.The road offers an alternative direct route connecting Chisumle and Demchok from Leh and will be of great significance to promote tourism in Ladakh."Infrastructure development in such harsh and tough terrain is extremely challenging. During the winter, the temperature dips to -40 degrees and the oxygen level at this altitude is almost 50 per cent less than at normal places. The BRO has achieved the feat due to the grit and resilience of its personnel who work in treacherous terrain and extreme weather conditions," the defence ministry said in its statement.The project was underway since 2017 and now, four days ago, the blacktopping has been done, marking the completion of the project. The road is at a very strategic point as the villages that will be connected by the road are very close to the India-China border in the eastern sector. This road was constructed under Project Himank.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/this-road-at-19-300-ft-in-ladakh-is-world-s-highest-motorable-road-101628093907305.html
04-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: ₹301cr spent on New Parliament building and Central Vista, Parliament told and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times. ₹301cr spent on New Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue till dateThe minister added that the estimated expenditure on these two projects over financial year 2021-2022 was ₹1,289 crore. Read more here.Cloudbursts linked to climate change, say experts; Centre asks for proofA rise in temperature in the Himalayas and its relation to cloudburst is a subject of research, but warming of the Indian Ocean is a clear indication of climate change, experts said. Read more here. Tokyo Olympics: India go down 1-2 in semis to Argentina; will fight for bronze in women's hockeyTokyo Olympics: Indian women will fight for the bronze medal, just like the men's team. Rani Rampal's team will take on 2016 Rio Olympics gold medallists Great Britain in the bronze medal match, as the GBR team had lost the first semi-final to Netherlands. Read more here. Allegations made by Honey Singh's wife in her 120-page plea: Beat her for leaking marriage pics, hid wedding ringSinger and rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh has been accused by his wife Shalini Singh of domestic abuse and adultery. She has filed a 120-page petition, detailing all her allegations against him. Read more here. Suhana Khan channels Boho Chic vibes in ₹3k outfit with Gauri Khan in SerbiaWhile Gauri Khan went for shorts and sneakers, Suhana Khan opted for a more Bohemian and breezy look, wearing a floral and paisley printed, full sleeved tie up crop top along with a matching skirt that had a thigh-high slit. Check it out.‘I had objected in writing when PM Modi’s interview was edited’: Jawhar Sircar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-301cr-spent-on-new-parliament-building-and-central-vista-101628089821474.html
04-08-2021||India||Consider curbs for Muharram, Durga Puja: Centre to all states amid 3rd wave fear||A few days ago, the Union health ministry warned 10 states over their increased contribution to India's daily Covid-19 caseload. On Wednesday, the Centre wrote to all states to actively consider imposing local restrictions in public observation of occasions like Muharram, Onam, Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja.These occasions are lined up from August to October starting with Muharram on August 19, Janmashtami on August 30, Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10 and Durga Puja between October 5 and October 15. "Indian Council of Medical Research and National Centre for Disease Control have expressed concern regarding the potential mass gathering events during festivals turning into superspreader events, thereby, leading to a spike in Covid cases...I would like to reiterate that any laxity in ensuring strict adherence to the five-fold strategy of test-track-treat-vaccinate and ensure Covid appropriate behaviour may result in losing the impetus that our country has gained so far in managing the pandemic," health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to the chief secretaries of all states.Though the Covid-19 situation is steadily improving in India, the second wave of the pandemic which reached its peak in May is not yet over as several states are reporting a rise either in the number of fresh infections or in the positivity rate, the Centre warned earlier.The Centre has sent its team to Kerala to probe into the rise of the cases. Another team has been sent to northeastern states, where the situation is equally worrying.10 states where Covid-19 cases and case positivity rate are risingKerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur have been warned by the Centre for the worsening situation of Covid-19.Eight states where the infection spreading rate is alarmingHimachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry are the eights states/UTs where the infection is spreading at a higher rate than the other states, the Centre has said.Covid-19 restrictions make a comebackSeveral states including Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh have made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for specific travellers. Weekend lockdown, night curfews are also making a comeback in specific areas as it has been observed that the present surge is only confined to smaller ar||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/consider-curbs-for-muharram-durga-puja-centre-to-all-states-amid-3rd-wave-fear-101628089420653.html
04-08-2021||India||Puri’s Jagannath Temple to reopen for visitors from August 16||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) on Monday decided to reopen the gates of the 12th century Jagannath Temple to devotees from August 16. The administration said that devotees will have to be fully vaccinated or present a negative RT-PCR report not older than 96 hours.However, SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar said that devotees from the rest of the country will be allowed to visit the temple after August 23. The temple will remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays and devotees will be allowed to visit the temple 7 am to 8 pm on weekdays.The move comes after Odisha allowed the reopening of religious institutions with appropriate Covid-19 restrictions from August 1. The meeting was attended by SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar and Puri's magistrate-cum-collector, superintendent of police, chief district medical officer and members of the temple coordination committee. Temples and religious places in several districts including Cuttack, Koraput, Sambalpur and Balasore will open for devotees from August 5.Chief minister Naveen Patnaik while addressing a press conference also warned people against complacency and asked people to follow Covid-19 preventative measures in order to prevent the third wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puris-jagannath-temple-to-reopen-for-visitors-from-august-16-101628089089115.html
04-08-2021||India||CBI takes over probe into Dhanbad Judge’s death; forms 20-member SIT||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday took over the probe into the death of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand, who died after being hit by a three-wheeler while on his daily morning jog last week, and formed a 20-member Special Investigation Team (SIT) in the matter.The SIT, along with Central Forensics Science Laboratory (CFSL) experts from Delhi, were leaving for Dhanbad “immediately” to take case files from Jharkhand police, interrogate suspects arrested so far and collect other evidence, people familiar with the development said.The Supreme Court as well as high court of Jharkhand had taken suo motu cognizance of the incident after the CCTV footage of the hit-and-run incident suggested Anand was deliberately run over by the driver of the vehicle.Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren had, on Saturday, recommended a CBI probe in the matter.CBI officials, who didn’t want to be named, said after receiving a notification from the department of personnel and training (DoPT), they have re-registered the First Information Report (FIR) filed by Jharkhand police.Jharkhand police too had formed a SIT in the matter and arrested two persons -- Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma – who were riding the three-wheeler, suspected to be stolen. However, the motive for them killing the judge is not known yet. The cops have so far picked up around 250 persons for questioning in connection with the case.The premier investigation agency has expertise in investigating complex heinous crimes including Bhanwari Devi murder case, murder of Aarushi Talwar and servant Hemraj, Badayun suicides, Unnao rape case, custodial deaths in Tamil Nadu etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-into-dhanbad-judge-s-death-forms-20-member-sit-101628089063249.html
04-08-2021||India||Over 58% of eligible population vaccinated against Covid in Puducherry, says L-G||Puducherry’s lieutenant governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan said on Wednesday that the Union territory has administered vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to more than 58% of its eligible population, adding the government is aiming for a 100% coverage of beneficiaries by August 15.“Puducherry has covered more than 58 per cent of the population eligible for vaccination,” Dr Soundararajan said while speaking to reporters after she had participated in the World Breastfeeding Week Awareness programme at the Rajiv Gandhi Government Women and Child Hospital. She also urged residents to understand the importance of getting the jab.The lieutenant governor pointed out that there is an adequate stock of vaccine doses in Puducherry and medical teams have been ordered to make door-to-door visits to ensure all beneficiaries are inoculated.According to the Union health ministry’s dashboard, 728,479 beneficiaries in Puducherry have been administered vaccine doses till now of which 13,058,068 have received the first dose and the remaining 4,003,379 have received both doses. The government has organised four vaccination festivals to inoculate all residents above 18 years in the Union Territory with the fourth one held between July 29-August 1. The first vaccination festival was held for six days from June 16 while the second was for three days from July 10 and the third was from July 23-24.Meanwhile, Puducherry’s caseload has climbed to 121,252 of which 118,547 patients have recovered, nearly 1,800 have died. The active cases stand at 907 of which 162 are in hospitals and the remaining 745 are in home isolation, according to the health department’s bulletin. The daily cases in the Union Territory have been witnessing a slight increase. On Wednesday, 120 cases were reported and 73 cases were seen on Tuesday while 54 people had tested positive for the viral disease on Monday.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-58-of-eligible-population-vaccinated-against-covid-in-puducherry-says-lg-101628087786370.html
04-08-2021||India||₹301cr spent on New Parliament building and Central Vista Avenue till date||The Union government told Parliament on Wednesday that it has so far spent ₹301 crore on the Central Vista redevelopment project including ₹238 crore on the new Parliament building, which is estimated to cost ₹971 crore. The remaining ₹63 crore has been spent on the Central Vista Avenue, being redeveloped at an estimated cost of ₹608 crore, it added.The government response was to a question by Rajya Sabha members G C Chandrashekhar and Rajmani Patel, who wanted to know the total estimated cost of the Central Vista redevelopment project and the expected number of years to complete it. They also wanted to know the cost of demolition of old structures and the estimated costs to be incurred on the Central Vista redevelopment project for the financial year 2021-22.Minister of state of housing and urban affairs Kaushal Kishore said, “Under the Central Vista Redevelopment/ Development Master Plan, only 2 projects viz. construction of New Parliament Building and Redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue are being implemented, as on date.” The minister added that the estimated expenditure on these two projects over financial year 2021-2022 was ₹1,289 crore.He added that the estimated cost of razing down existing structures “has not been worked out separately.”Regarding the time taken for completion, the minister said the Central Vista Avenue was to be completed by November this year while the new parliament building will be completed in October next year.While the government mentioned the cost of two specific projects, the revamp of the Rajpath and associated new constructions in the area will see the establishment of a new SPG (special protection group) building, vice president’s enclave, Central conference center, ten common secretariat buildings and an automated people mover which will serve as a transit system to ferry employees to these ten secretariat buildings during peak hours. The total cost for these projects is estimated to be nearly ₹13,500 crore, as estimated by the Central Public Works Department.As per the documents accessed by HT in the past, the vice president’s new office and the new parliament building will be the first structures to be completed while all the others are scheduled to be completed by December 2026.Earlier, HT had also reported that currently, the completion schedules are finalised only for the Central Vista Avenue –which comprises Rajpath, leading from Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate — and the new Parliament.Also, according to a proposal given to the environment ministry in 2020, nearly 458,820 square metre of the built-up area will be razed down. These structures include the building housing Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts (IGNCA) which sits on almost 25 acres of land. Besides INGCA, Shastri Bhavan, Krishi Bhavan, Vigyan Bhavan, vice-president’s residence, National Museum, Jawahar Bhavan, Nirman Bhavan, Udyog Bhavan, Raksha Bhavan, and INS Hutments will also be demolished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rs-301cr-spent-on-new-parliament-building-and-central-vista-avenue-till-date-101628086185391.html
04-08-2021||India||Bengaluru Lockdown: Night curfew, Section 144 till August 16; 141 containment zones in city||The Bengaluru Police on Wednesday extended Covid-19 restrictions such as night curfew and Section 144 as the city is witnessing a gradual increase in the number of Covid cases at a time when Kerala is witnessing an unexpected spike in the number of fresh infections. Section 144 of the CrPC, which prohibits the assembly of four or more people, has been imposed till August 16, 6am. Night curfew between 10pm and 5am has also been extended until August 16, the order issued by Bengaluru Police said.Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has 141 micro-containment zones, according to the latest report, which is a significant increase from last week. The authorities are declaring apartments as micro-containment zones where three or more positive cases are being found. Mahadevapura, Bommanahalli and the West divisions of Bengaluru have emerged as Covid hotspots.Earlier, the government extended the regular restrictions till August 16 and said that a decision on weekend lockdown and night curfew will be taken after reviewing the situation. On Wednesday, the state reported 1,769 positive infections.The sudden worsening of the Covid-19 situation set off an alarm bell for Karnataka which made negative RT-PCR mandatory for people travelling to the state from Maharashtra and Kerala.Hello, Naveen. RT-PCR Negative report is mandatory, irrespective of your vaccination status. https://t.co/sUgQrjxiPXBorder checking has also been tightened for travellers coming via road. BBMP commissioner Gaurav Gupta on Wednesday reiterated that RT-PCR tests are mandatory notwithstanding the vaccination status.Why Covid-19 cases are rising in KarnatakaThe rise of Covid-19 cases in districts bordering Kerala can be directly linked to Kerala's Covid-19 situation. Recent studies have found that Bengaluru too is at the tipping point as the rate at which the infection is spreading is quite high in Bengaluru. Delta variant is another factor that is behind the surge of cases in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-section-144-imposed-in-bengaluru-141-containment-zones-in-city-101628085500765.html
04-08-2021||India||CBI forms SIT to probe into death of Dhanbad district judge||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) formed a 20-member special investigation team (SIT) on Wednesday to probe into the death of Dhanbad additional sessions and district Judge Uttam Anand.The move comes after the CBI took over the case at the request of the Jharkhand high court earlier in the day.The SIT, along with Central Forensic Science Laboratory experts from Delhi, left for Dhanbad late on Wednesday, officials familiar with the development said.The former judge was killed after was hit by an auto-rickshaw when he was out for a walk on the morning of July 28. CCTV footage procured during the initial probe showed the auto-rickshaw that killed the judge swerving to the extreme left of the road from the centre before hitting him down and then fleeing from the spot, prompting police to file a murder case.The former judge was reportedly hearing some high-profile criminal cases. He recently rejected the bail plea of a gangster from Uttar Pradesh, who is in jail in connection with a murder case in Dhanbad.A special investigation team led by additional director general of police Sanjay Anand Lathkar was immediately formed and at least 250 people were questioned in connection with the case. Police arrested two people who were riding the reportedly stolen auto-rickshaw and the Jharkhand high court sent them to judicial custody.Meanwhile, the Jharkhand government recommended a CBI probe into the incident on Saturday, a day after the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the incident and sought a report from the state's chief secretary and the director-general of police to submit a complete report in a week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-forms-sit-to-probe-death-of-dhanbad-district-judge-101628084062725.html
04-08-2021||India||Health minister speaks to Kerala CM, assures Centre’s help to fight Covid||Union health and family welfare minister Mansukh Mandaviya spoke to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday regarding the surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state and sought the state government’s cooperation in managing the pandemic. Mandaviya also said he wrote to Vijayan for taking more proactive measures and precautions to control the present situation.“The central government’s team headed by NCDC has returned from Kerala and submitted its report.I have spoken with the chief minister of Kerala, Shri @VijayanPinarayi ji, over the phone and discussed the matter of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state,” Mandaviya tweeted and assured complete support from the Centre.The central team which visited the state recently to assess the Covid-19 crisis said that testing, contract tracing and containment measures should be enhanced to deal with the recent surge in cases, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday. The team also suggested that Intensive Care Unit beds and ventilator beds in hospitals need to be augmented urgently.Kerala, which is currently the worst hit state, is accounting for nearly 50% of the total infections seen across the country. On Tuesday, the state reported another high of 23,676 new cases while 148 patients succumbed to the viral disease, taking the caseload and death toll to nearly 3.45 million and 17,103, respectively. The total recoveries have climbed to 3,258,310 after 15,626 patients were discharged on Tuesday while the active cases stand at 173,221. On Monday, Kerala saw 13,984 getting infected after recording over 20,000 cases for six straight days.The state government on Wednesday announced relaxations in its ongoing lockdown restrictions, allowing shops, markets, offices, factories, financial institutions, industries and other establishments to open six days a week from Monday to Saturday. These relaxations will come into effect from Thursday. However, lockdown on Sundays will continue.Shops can now function from 7 am to 9pm while malls can only open for online delivery. Schools, colleges and educational institutions, movie theatres and in-house dining in restaurants and hotels will remain closed. The government also said that a triple lockdown will be implemented in areas where there are over 10 cases found in 1,000 people in a week.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/health-minister-speaks-to-kerala-cm-assures-centre-s-help-to-fight-covid-101628083294905.html
04-08-2021||India||'Covid recovered people with Covishield jabs safer against Delta variant': Study||With more than 100 countries across the globe affected by the highly transmissible and more virulent Delta variant of Covid-19, a question that remains is who is protected against the strain. A recent study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and National Institute of Virology (NIV) Pune, has found that those who recovered from the virus and have been administered with both doses of Covishield have higher immunity against the Delta variant.For the study titled ‘Neutralization of Delta Variant with Sera of Covishield Vaccines and Covid-19 Recovered Vaccinated Individuals,’ neutralising antibody (NAb) responses of three types of people were accessed.1. Individuals who were inoculated with two doses of Covishield.2. Coronavirus-recovered individuals who were administered both doses of Covishield3. Covid-19 recovered individuals who had contracted breakthrough infections such as Kappa and the Delta variants.The study findings discovered that Covid-19 recovered individuals and the breakthrough cases had “relatively higher neutralising responses against the Delta variant in comparison to the participants who administered either one or two doses of Covishield.”A comparative assessment of Covishield vaccinated individuals’ sera (n=116) in different categories was performed against the prototype strain B.1 (D614G) and the Delta variant of Covid-19. Moreover, under this study, sera was classified into five categories – 1. One dose (n=31), 2. Two doses (n=31), 3. Covid-19 recovered and inoculated with one vaccine dose (n=15), 4. Covid-19 recovered and vaccinated with both jabs (n=19), and 5. Breakthrough coronavirus cases (n=20).The sera from the first four categories were collected from the individuals after four weeks of their vaccination. On the other hand, the sera from the participants of the “breakthrough cases” of coronavirus category was sampled two weeks following their inoculation, the study report stated.Findings revealed that NAbs in individuals with breakthrough cases, and those recovered from Covid-19, with single or both doses of Covishield, had relatively higher protection against the Delta variant of the virus as opposed to those who only took at least one or both doses of vaccine.Notably, it is a test that gauges the presence and number of antibodies in a person’s blood.Meanwhile, in a recent ICMR study, it has been found that India’s first indigenous anti-Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, is effective against the Delta Plus variant of the virus – a subtype of the Delta variant. Last week, Union science and technology minister Jitendra Singh said that as many as 70 cases of Delta Plus variant were detected by INSACOG, a cluster of labs that do genome sequencing.The World Health Organisation (WHO) also warned against the rapidly spreading Delta variant across the globe, and said that it is expected to become the dominant variant amongst all other variants of concern.(With inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-recovered-people-with-one-or-both-doses-of-covishield-are-safer-against-101628082546283.html
04-08-2021||India||Aircraft carrier Vikrant sets sail for sea trials||India’s first indigenous aircraft carrier (IAC) Vikrant, the largest warship to be built in the country with specialised cabins for women officers, set sail on Wednesday for crucial sea trials ahead of its planned induction into the Indian Navy in less than a year, the navy announced on Wednesday.Vikrant has put India in a select league with only the US, the UK, Russia, France and China having the capability to build aircraft carriers.“Most of the ship’s construction activities have been completed and it has entered the trials phase. Readiness of ship’s propulsion and power generation equipment/systems were tested in harbour as part of basin trials in November 2020,” the navy said in a statement.India currently operates a solitary aircraft carrier, INS Vikramaditya, bought second-hand from Russia for $2.33 billion. In contrast, China operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier as it expands its footprint in the Indian Ocean Region.Designed by the Indian Navy’s Directorate of Naval Design (DND), Vikrant has been built at the state-owned Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL).The warship, with a displacement of 37,500 tonnes, will operate MiG-29K fighter jets, Kamov-31 helicopters, MH-60R multi-role helicopters and the indigenous advanced light helicopters. It has been named after aircraft carrier INS Vikrant operated by the Indian Navy from 1961 to 1997.“IAC is a shining example of the nation’s quest for ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ with more than 76% indigenous content. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Navy and CSL to indigenously design and build an aircraft carrier… Around 550 Indian firms, including about 100 MSMEs are registered with CSL, and are providing various services for construction of IAC,” the statement said.After Vikrant is commissioned into the navy, India will have two aircraft carriers --- one each for the western and eastern seaboards and that will mark a quantum jump in maritime capabilities, said former navy chief Admiral Arun Prakash (retd).“It’s a huge step forward for indigenous warship building. But the involvement of foreign consultants delayed the IAC project considerably. We have to try and cut down construction time. China can do it in four years. IAC has been in the making for years,” Prakash said. The construction of the aircraft carrier began in 2009.IAC is 262 metres long, has a beam of 62 metres and a height of 59 metres. It has 14 decks, including five in the superstructure, 2,300 compartments and it can accommodate a crew of 1,700, including women officers.“The ship has been designed with a very high degree of automation for machinery operation, navigation and survivability, Vikrant has a top speed of around 28 knots and a cruising speed of 18 knots with an endurance of about 7,500 nautical miles,” said navy spokesperson Commander Vivek Madhwal.Vikrant will be the fourth aircraft carrier to be operated by the Indian Navy. The first was Vikrant (British origin) from 1961 to 1997, INS Viraat (British origin) from 1987 to 2016 and INS Vikramaditya (Russian origin) 2013 onwards.Vikrant’s sea trials were delayed due to the second Covid-19 wave. “During the maiden sailing, the warship’s performance, including hull, main propulsion, power generation and distribution, and auxiliary equipment will be closely watched,” Madhwal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aircraft-carrier-vikrant-sets-sail-for-sea-trials-101628082283505.html
04-08-2021||India||14 parliamentarians sign joint statement regarding discussion on Pegasus spyware||Fourteen parliamentarians from the Opposition on Monday demanded an open discussion on the Pegasus issues in both the Houses of the Parliament. The 14 MPs who demanded the discussion said that the issue has ramifications on the national security of the country. They also signed a joint statement where they held the government responsible for the impasse in the Parliament. The parties said that the government has been ‘arrogant and obdurate’ as it has not held a debate on the issue.“It is unfortunate that the government has unleashed a misleading campaign to malign the combined opposition and blame it for the continued disruption in the Parliament. The responsibility for the deadlock lies squarely at the doorsteps of the government, which remains arrogant and obdurate and refuses to accept the opposition’s demand for an informed debate in both the houses,” the joint statement said.The statement comes amid both Houses being adjourned as opposition MPs demanded discussion on the Pegasus spyware issue. They also demanded that the government withdraw the three farm laws it passed in the previous monsoon session.The following parliamentarians signed the joint statement:1. Mallikarjun Kharge, Leader of Opposition, Rajya Sabha (INC)2. Sharad Pawar (NCP)3. TR Balu (DMK)4. Anand Sharma (INC)5. Ramgopal Yadav (SP)6. Derek O’ Brien (TMC)7. Sanjay Raut (SS)8. Kalyan Banerjee (TMC)9. Vinayak Raut (SS)10. Tiruchi Siva (DMK)11. Manoj Jha (RJD)12. Elamaram Kareem (CPI(M))13. Sushil Gupta (AAP)14. ET Mohd. Basheer (IUML)15. Hasnain Masoodi (NC)16. Binoy Viswam (CPI)17. NK Premachandran (RSP)18. MV Shreyams Kumar (LJD)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-parliamentarians-sign-joint-statement-regarding-discussion-on-pegasus-spyware-101628081473904.html
04-08-2021||India||630 terrorists killed in Jammu and Kashmir between May 2018 and June 2021||Union minister Nityanand Rai told the Upper House on Wednesday that at least 630 terrorists were killed in Jammu and Kashmir between May 2018 and June 2021. The Union minister of state for home affairs also told the Rajya Sabha that 400 encounters happened in the same time period which also led to the deaths of 85 security personnel.In his reply to Congress MP and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijay Singh, Nityanand Rai said that Jammu and Kashmir continues to face violence at the hands of terrorists who are sponsored and supported by elements from across the border.“In 400 encounters, 85 security personnel were martyred and 630 terrorists were killed from May 2018 to June 2021,” Rai said in a written reply. The minister also said that the government adopted a policy of zero tolerance towards terrorism. Rai said that the government took measures to strengthen the security apparatus, enforce strict laws against anti-national elements and intensified cordon and search operations to deal with challenges posed by terrorist organisations.“Security Forces also keep a close watch on persons who attempt to provide support to terrorists and initiate action against them,” Rai further added. The Union minister also said incidents of 664 ceasefire violations and cross border firing in Jammu and Kashmir were committed by Pakistan till June 2021. There were no reports of cross-border firing or ceasefire violation in Jammu and Kashmir in March.Rai also told the Upper House that 1,948 people were arrested and 34 others convicted under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in 2019 in reply to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MP Tiruchi Siva.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/630-terrorists-killed-in-jammu-and-kashmir-between-may-2018-and-june-2021-101628080448947.html
04-08-2021||India||Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru have Covid R-value over 1, reveals study. What it means||The Union health ministry on Tuesday said the R-value of SARS-CoV-2 virus in eight states is more than one, which is a cause for concern as this value, also known as the reproductive number of the infection, denotes how fast the infection is spreading. Institute of Mathematical Science, Chennai has revealed that Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Delhi too have an R factor of over 1. “The cities of Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Delhi also are showing R above 1. This suggests a rise in the active cases that are coordinated across widely scattered regions which would be hard to contain,” researcher Sitabhra Sinha told PTI.Eight states/UTs with R-value more than 1According to health ministry data, the states with R-value over 1 are Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry.Why is R-value important?R-value is the rate at which the infection is spreading. When a wave is at its peak, it is evident that the virus is spreading at a faster rate. But at a time when the wave is receding, a slight increase of R-value can indicate an impending upward trend in the wave again.What does a value greater than 1 indicate?It indicates that one infected person is spreading the virus to more than 1 person. If this is the situation, then the number of cases will gradually increase. If the value is less than 1, it mathematically means one infected person is spreading the virus to less than one person. For example, if R-value is 0.88, it means 100 infected persons are spreading the virus to 88 people.What is India's present R-value?An analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, said the overall R number in India has crossed 1 for the first time since May 7.What is the R-value of other countries?US, Canada, Australia have a 1.2 R-value, on average. This means, one infected person can spread the virus to more than one in these countries too.Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru's R-valueTamil Nadu and Karnataka have already been put on high alert after Kerala started witnessing a spike since last week of July. The situation in Delhi and West Bengal is under control. But if the infection is spreading at a higher rate in these capital cities, it is a serious challenge to the states.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-chennai-kolkata-bengaluru-have-covid-r-value-over-1-reveals-study-what-it-means-101628078575086.html
04-08-2021||India||High R-value worrying but premature to declare third Covid wave, scientists say||The rise in the effective reproduction number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak is worrying but it is too early to declare the beginning of a new wave, scientists have said. On Tuesday, top government health officials said that the R number, which denotes how many people are contracting the virus from one infected person, is above 1 in eight states and continues to rise.The virus outbreak in these regions has also pushed the country’s overall effective R number to 1.2, which, many say, is an early warning of a growing outbreak. However, several scientists have suggested that the second wave may not be over yet. Gautam Menon, professor at Departments of Physics and Biology at Ashoka University, told news agency PTI that new daily cases in the northeast have not gone down to the levels as reported in Delhi and other northern states."In that sense, we are likely seeing a continuation of the second wave rather than the initiation of a new Covid wave distinct from the previous one," he said, adding that the surge in cases is, however, certainly worrying.Also Read | 'No lockdown on Saturdays but triple lockdown if...': Kerala tweaks Covid rules as infections shoot upIndia reported 42,625 new Covid-19 cases and 562 related deaths over the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed Wednesday morning. While India’s Covid-19 situation currently seems under control, 13 states and union territories recorded a surge in infections last week, with Kerala reporting the highest number of cases among states.Sitabhra Sinha, from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, sounded alarm that the rise in R number seems to be resulting from several states rather than any particular region. “The cities of Chennai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, and Delhi also are showing R above 1. This suggests a rise in the active cases that is coordinated across widely scattered regions which would be hard to contain,” he told PTI.Sanjeev Galande, dean of the School of Natural Sciences, Shiv Nadar University, echoed the view of other experts that it is too early to declare the surge as the beginning of the next wave. Galande noted that the national weekly average hasn’t changed significantly as small increases are seen in a few states.“It is too early to predict whether this is indeed the beginning of the next wave,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-r-value-worrying-but-premature-to-declare-third-covid-wave-scientists-say-101628076472106.html
04-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: No plans to revise CAA, Centre tells Rajya Sabha and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No plans to tweak Citizenship Amendment Act: Centre tells Rajya SabhaThe Centre told the Rajya Sabha in a written response on Wednesday that the government has no plans to revise the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to include other minorities under the purview of the Act. Read moreIncessant rainfall creates flood-like situation in Hadauti region of RajasthanIncessant rainfall has created a flood-like situation in many areas of the Hadauti region of Rajasthan, with road connectivity to over 100 villages has been cut off. At least 500 people have been rescued in Baran district. Read more100-ft-high national flag to be installed at Srinagar’s Hari Parbat fortThe Jammu and Kashmir administration will install the national flag at a height of 100 feet at the historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar. The 18th-century fort, where entry is regulated by security forces, is surrounded by a shrine, a temple and a gurduwara. Read moreChina pushes to vaccinate minors against Covid-19 amid surge in Delta casesChina has begun to urgently promote its Covid-19 vaccination campaign among minors as authorities try to control a surge in cases driven by the Delta variant of the coronavirus. Read moreGauri Khan and Suhana Khan are in Belgrade, check out pics from their day outActor Shah Rukh Khan's wife, film producer and interior designer Gauri Khan is in Serbia. She is joined by their daughter Suhana Khan as they explore the city of Belgrade together. Read moreManushi Chhillar in bralette and distressed denims nails the ultimate summer lookMiss World 2017 winner Manushi Chhillar's latest photoshoot is the ultimate guide to nailing that perfect summer look. Whether you want to lounge by the pool with your friends or go out for a laidback yet classy lunch date, her classic combination of printed bralette and distressed denims is for those occasions you don't want to try too much but still look good. Read moreTokyo Olympics: Ravi Kumar Dahiya ensures at least a silver medal for India; enters men's freestyle 57kg wrestling finalIndia were assured of at least a silver medal in the men's freestyle wrestling 57kg category as Ravi Kumar Dahiya staged a great comeback against Kazakhstan's Nurislam Sanayev to make his way to the final. Read moreDad catches daughter stealing snacks. Her reaction is absolutely hilarious. WatchMost of us are guilty of stealing snacks from fridge or kitchen counter when our parents weren’t paying attention. And what did you do when you got caught? Chances are you tried to mumble some excuse while receiving a good scolding from them. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-no-plans-to-revise-caa-centre-tells-rajya-sabha-101628075789077.html
04-08-2021||India||Rape-murder of Dalit girl: Congress slams AAP, Delhi Police for lack of protection to women||Four days after the alleged rape and murder of a 9-year-old Dalit girl by a priest and three other men in a Delhi crematorium, the Congress on Wednesday slammed the Delhi Police and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government for being careless regarding the protection of women in Delhi. Besides asking for an SC/ST commission in Delhi, they also demanded that the family of the victim be given all necessary support. They said strict punishment should be given to the rapists after a fast-track investigation.Speaking to reporters outside Parliament at Vijay Chowk, Congress leader and member of Parliament Shaktisinh Gohil said, “A poor family used to earn their living through rag picking… They had a daughter... who went to fetch water from a crematorium… where she was raped, murdered and her mother was pressurised to take some money and let her daughter’s body be burned without investigation... The law and order of Delhi is in the control of the Central government… Police imprisoned her mother… when Congress leaders reached there, the mother started crying saying that they (police and criminals) aren’t telling the truth... Only after pressurising the police, they registered an FIR.”He added that Rahul Gandhi and other leaders met the family and assured them that “this fight is the fight of all the daughters of the country and not of this family alone.”“If there had been any humanity in the Prime Minister... would have at least met the family… The PM did not even tweet about it,” Gohil said.Anil Chowdhury, president of the Pradesh Congress Committee, Delhi, said that this incident too would have been suppressed like many others, had Congress leaders not intervened.“These rapists had told the family that their daughter died of electrocution and if they would call the police... they would take out her organs… It is being said that these people have been accused in the past as well which means that police had knowledge of them. Then why was it ignored? This raises doubts about the police. Had it been inquired, they (rapists) would have been behind bars and this child might have been saved,” Chowdhury said.He also hit out the Delhi chief minister saying that since 2014, at least 15,000 sexual assault cases were registered in Delhi, including those of girls as young as 5. “Why has the government not taken any step to protect women here?” He demanded that there be a fast-track investigation in this case and the rapists and murderers be given the death penalty.“Also an SC/ST commission should be set up in Delhi … There are reports that this family was locked up in the police station to pressurise them... There are many such cases where victim families did not get any justice from the police. Setting up of a commission here will help these people who are unable to raise their voice anywhere,” he said.Meanwhile, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) reacted to the incident, saying that the police are working to investigate the case thoroughly. Sambit Patra, BJP spokesperson, said that four people have been arrested in this case and justice will be delivered to the family.Patra, however blamed Congress for being “selective” when it comes to condemning rape. “It is criminal on their (Congress’) part to differentiate between states when it comes to rapes… Yesterday [Tuesday], Rahul Gandhi tweeted that a Dalit’s daughter is a daughter of India, which is not wrong. But is the daughter of a Dalit in Rajasthan not a daughter of India?” he questioned.On Tuesday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had tagged a Hindi news clip reporting the incident and tweeted, “Dalit ki beti bhi desh ki beti hai (A Dalit’s daughter is also the daughter of the country).”Patra also highlighted sexual assault cases in Congress-ruled states and criticised Gandhi for sharing the picture of the parents of the girl, saying Gandhi was resorting to “illegal” means for his “political gains.”Delhi Police said they have registered a case and arrested all accused persons. Ingit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south east) said they are conducting a forensic examination of the clothes of the arrested persons to probe allegations of rape. Police have already collected the clothes worn by the accused persons on the day of the incident. “Apart from the clothes, we are also getting the cooler checked for any sign of electrocution. We are conducting a detailed probe,” said Singh. Separately, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who visited the girl’s family on Wednesday, said there is a requirement to fix the law and order system in Delhi. “I appeal to the Central government that concrete measures be taken in this regard and the Delhi government will fully cooperate with the Centre in order to fix the law and order situation in the city. Delhi is the national Capital. If such incidents take place in the city, it does not send out a good message about the city. It makes people feel unsafe,” he added. A board of three doctors will conduct an autopsy of the girl’s charred remains on Wednesday, even as protests by her family members and political activists continue.The four accused, including a 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were booked under sections related to rape, murder and threats, and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the SC/ST Act. They were sent to jail.The accused maintain that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from an electric cooler, but the family has alleged that the suspects hurriedly cremated the body after threatening the family against informing the police about her death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rapemurder-of-dalit-girl-congress-slams-aap-delhi-police-for-lack-of-protection-to-women-101628077182229.html
04-08-2021||India||Congress in fix over picking MLAs for Rajasthan cabinet expansion||Too many claimants for the nine vacant Cabinet posts in chief minister Ashok Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan has made it difficult to strike the right balance while keeping all factions happy, which is also one of the reasons for the much anticipated expansion to be delayed by close to two months now, senior party leaders said.Party leaders on condition of anonymity said the three factions within the party including Gehlot loyalists, Sachin Pilot followers and the third comprising independents and former Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLAs, who later joined the Congress, have all laid claim to Cabinet vacancies. Senior MLAs and ministers said this “power struggle” could further delay the Cabinet expansion. However, MLAs considered close to Pilot were confident that it would happen before August 15. Party leaders considered close to Gehlot said the CM has told party leadership in Delhi that he will expand the cabinet by filling the nine vacant berths, instead of going for a reshuffle. A senior leader familiar with the developments related to the cabinet expansion, said at present, it was not about the differences between the leaders or their share but striking a balance between the factions. He said there were around 100 MLAs who stood by the government during the political crisis last year, then, there were the six BSP MLAs who merged into Congress and 13 independents. On the other side were the 18 rebels led by Pilot, which included two former ministers.“Now, the catch is striking the balance as there are around 99 MLAs including 13 independents and 18, who went with Pilot, eyeing a ministerial berth. The first cabinet was formed with supporters from Gehlot and Pilot factions. Then, the caste and regional equations took a backseat during the selection. But now the by-polls on two assembly seats are ahead and any decision made in haste could affect the party’s prospects,” he said. An MLA of Pilot faction agreed it was a tight situation and there was a need for balance. “If people in the Pilot group are satisfied then resentment will arise from the other side. Besides, things cannot be managed by mere expansion, the party has to go for a cabinet rejig.” Congress general secretary Ajay Maken, who is in-charge of Rajasthan, recently held a series of meetings with party MLAs and state unit leaders in Jaipur, reviewing performance of ministers, indicating a reshuffle may also be among the options on the table.In an indication that some members of the Gehlot Cabinet may be dropped, Maken on Friday said a few ministers have expressed willingness to quit the state government to work for the organisation.The Gehlot government, which came to power in December 2018, has completed half of its tenure.The demand for a cabinet reshuffle or expansion and political appointments to other posts gained momentum in June after some MLAs close to Sachin Pilot expressed resentment, saying promises made to him by the party high command last year had not been fulfilled.Including Gehlot, there are 21 members in the Rajasthan ministry as of now and up to nine more can be accommodated. Similarly, there are vacancies in party units at the district level.The Congress high command had brought about a truce in the Rajasthan unit after rebel MLAs led by Pilot appeared to bring the Gehlot government to the brink of a collapse last year. A three-member AICC committee was formed to look into the grievances of Pilot supporters. But they claim that this has not happened even after 12 months. Political analyst Manish Godha said the CM was in a catch-22 situation. “The congress has 106 MLAs including six of those who joined from the BSP. The CM would not want a new faction of disgruntled MLAs. Looking at the current situation, he would plan an expansion rather than a reshuffle,” he said.He added that filling all the 9 vacant berths in one go will not be a wise political decision as elections are still 2 years ahead. “Now, the only way out is doing things in the name of high command,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-in-fix-over-picking-mlas-for-rajasthan-cabinet-expansion-101628076581706.html
04-08-2021||India||Got your Covid-19 jab? Now, Himachal Pradesh allows entry for vaccinated people||Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said on Wednesday that cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) are gradually increasing in the state, adding the cabinet decided that apart from allowing people with negative RT-PCR test reports, those who have been vaccinated will also be allowed to enter the state.“Covid cases are gradually increasing. The cabinet has decided that besides allowing the people coming with RT-PCR negative test reports, those who have been vaccinated will be allowed in the state. Another cabinet meeting will be held on August 10,” Thakur was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The chief minister also said that few Covid-19 restrictions will be introduced in Himachal Pradesh to curb the spread of the viral disease. “It is a worrying subject but the increase in Covid-19 is not rapid,” he said.Also Read| Covid-19: 8 states showing high Reproductive Number, warns Health ministryHimachal Pradesh’s caseload of the coronavirus disease stood at 206,589 on Wednesday, which includes 3,523 deaths, 1,414 active cases and 201,652 recoveries. On Tuesday, 220 cases, one death and 108 recoveries were recorded. Kangra district is the worst hit with over 46,400 total confirmed cases followed by Mandi (28,128), Shimla (25,790) among others.Last week, Himachal Pradesh had recorded a Covid-19 positivity rate of 1.3% compared to 0.8% during the week before that. The state also witnessed a 64% increase in new cases last week as compared to July 19-25 week, Hindustan Times reported on Tuesday.The recent spike in infections can be linked to scores of people thronging hill stations in Himachal in July with no adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The chief minister at that time had said that tourists are welcome to visit the state but urged them to follow all virus-related protocols.Authorities have administered vaccine doses to 5,356,517 eligible beneficiaries till now of which 4,048,894 have received the first dose and the remaining 1,307,623 are fully vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19himachal-to-allow-vaccinated-people-to-enter-state-says-cmthakur-101628071360899.html
04-08-2021||India||Incessant rainfall creates flood-like situation in Hadauti region of Rajasthan||Incessant rainfall has created a flood-like situation in many areas of the Hadauti region of Rajasthan, with road connectivity to over 100 villages has been cut off. At least 500 people have been rescued in Baran district. Nine people, including three children, lost their lives in rain-related incidents on Tuesday.Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), and State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) are conducting rescue and relief operations. “Heavy rains have created a flood situation in some areas of Kota, Baran, Bundi, and Jhalawar. Instructions have been given to administration regarding relief and rescue operations,” Gehlot tweeted on Wednesday. In Dholpur, Chambal river is flowing above the danger mark and due to heavy rains in Bharatpur, and there may be a flood situation in some areas. The CM said that district administration has also been put on alert in Bharatpur and Dholpur. Also Read | Widespread, heavy rain to continue over West MP, east RajasthanAccording to India Meteorological Department, from June 1 to August 4, Rajasthan has already received 252.6mm rainfall. The normal rainfall is 225.2mm during this period and the region receives rainfall till mid-September.The department official said many areas in eastern parts of the state have received heavy rains in the last few days. In Baran and nearby areas, extremely heavy rains have cut off many villages. SDRF teams have been deployed in districts such as Baran, Dholpur, Sawaimadhopur, and Karauli. In Dholpur, Chambal is flowing above the danger mark and the bridge has been submerged. The warning level of the Chambal river in Dholpur is 129.79mm and the danger level is 130.79mm while the water was flowing at 143mm on Wednesday morning and the level was still rising, the official said. Widespread rains have continued in eastern Rajasthan. Many areas in Baran, Sawaimadhopur, Kota , and Bundi received extremely heavy rains and several other areas received heavy to very heavy rains till Wednesday morning. In the state, Khatoli (Kota) recorded the highest rainfall at 280mm in the last 24 hours, followed by Bundi where 264mm rains occurred during the same period. The department has predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at some areas in the eastern Rajasthan districts on Wednesday and Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/incessant-rainfall-creates-flood-like-situation-in-hadauti-region-of-rajasthan-101628072201493.html
04-08-2021||India||'No lockdown on Saturdays but triple lockdown if...': Kerala tweaks Covid rules as infections shoot up||A day after Kerala reported 23,676 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike since May 29, the state government on Wednesday tweaked the restrictions and allowed shops to open on all six days a week, relaxing the restrictions. However, there will be a triple lockdown imposed in areas where there are more than 10 Covid-19 cases detected among 1,000 people in a week. In such areas, only shops dealing with essential items be allowed to be open.What are the new Covid-19 rules?In places where the number of weekly infections is below 10 in 1,000 population, all shops will be allowed to operate six days a week. The shops can function from 7am till 9pm.There will be no lockdown on Saturdays.Sunday lockdown will continue, but shops will be allowed to remain open on August 15 and August 22 because of Independence Day and Onam. But there will be a complete lockdown on August 8.Public functions are allowed in open areas with not more than 40 people. 20 people are allowed in weddings and funerals.Educational institutions will remain closed and hotels can open for home delivery.What is a triple lockdown?Triple lockdown is Kerala's tried and tested strategy to contain Covid-19 infections. This strategy involves three locks at three stages. The first lock is at the designated area where a sudden spurt of cases is being noticed. The second lock is generally put at the cluster level. And the third lock is at the house of the infected individuals.Relaxation plus restrictionThe government has decided that triple lockdown will only be imposed in areas where there will be more than 10 cases in 1,000 people in a week. The rest of the areas can come back to normalcy as the present spike in the state is district-specific.Centre versus KeralaTo probe into the sudden increase in cases, the Centre sent a six-member team to Kerala, which highlighted several loopholes in Kerala's approach, like the state is heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests and not the gold standard of Covid-19 testing, RT-PCR. The Central team also pointed out that the state is not maintaining central rules of containment.Health minister Veena George on Wednesday said in the assembly the severity of the Covid-19 pandemic was decreasing in the state as hospital occupancy and ICU occupancy are going down.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-on-saturdays-but-triple-lockdown-if-kerala-tweaks-covid-rules-as-infections-shoot-up-101628071905911.html
04-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi politicising rape, murder of Dalit girl in Delhi: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday accused Congress MP Rahul Gandhi of revealing the identity of a minor who was raped and murdered in Delhi’s Nangal village.Gandhi visited the girl’s family this morning and tweeted a picture of the parents. Referring to that photograph, BJP’s Sambit Patra said the party will urge the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to take cognisance of the tweet as it violates Section 23 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Section 74 of Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act that prohibit revealing a minor’s identity.The victim, a nine-year-old Dalit girl, was allegedly raped, murdered and then hurriedly cremated by the alleged perpetrators who are now in police custody. The four accused, including a 55-year-old priest of the crematorium, were booked under sections related to rape, murder and threats, and under provisions of the POCSO Act and the SC/ST Act. The accused maintain that the girl died of electrocution while fetching water from an electric cooler. The family have alleged that the accused hurriedly cremated the body after threatening them.Also Read | Delhi CM Kejriwal orders magisterial probe into rape, murder of 9-yr-oldFollowing his visit, Gandhi told mediapersons that he will stand by the family till they get justice.The BJP, however, accused him of politicising the issue. Patra said the Congress indulges in double speak on the issue of rapes and crimes against Dalits; maintaining silence when such crimes take place in Congress-ruled states. Citing the case of Rajasthan where the Congress is in power, Patra said, “According to NCRB [National Crime Records Bureau], Rajasthan tops the list of rape cases. Rape cases in Rajasthan have increased by 30% in the last six months. In 2020, there were 13,750 rape cases in Rajasthan.”The BJP leader said the victim (in Delhi) must get justice, but so should those victims who have been raped and subjected to heinous crimes in Chhattisgarh and Punjab, which are also ruled by the Congress.Sambit Patra, this isn't politics, it is humanity, which your cunning leader totally lacks and our leader is filled with. pic.twitter.com/OAaz0FS8DaLater in the day, reacting to BJP allegations, Youth Congress leader Srivatsa tweeted, “Sambit Patra, this isn’t politics, it is humanity, which your cunning leader totally lacks and our leader is filled with.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-politicising-rape-murder-of-dalit-girl-in-delhibjp-101628070040723.html
04-08-2021||India||No plans to tweak Citizenship Amendment Act: Centre tells Rajya Sabha||The Centre told the Rajya Sabha in a written response on Wednesday that the government has no plans to revise the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to include other minorities under the purview of the Act.Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai, in response to a written query by Indian Union Muslim League MP Abdul Wahab, told the Upper House of the Parliament that the those eligible to be covered by the CAA may submit applications for grant of citizenship after appropriate rules are notified by the Centre.The CAA came into force on January 10, 2020, after it was notified on December 12, 2019."The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant extension of time upto 09.01.2022 to frame the rules under the CAA," Rai told the Parliament in writing.The CAA allows persecuted minorities belonging to the Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan to avail Indian citizenship.People belonging to these communities who arrived in India till December 31, 2014, owing to religious persecution in these three countries will not be treated as illegal migrants but will be provided with Indian citizenship, according to the provisions of the act.Earlier this year, Union home minister Amit Shah said the Centre would enforce the CAA after the drive for vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is over. The amended citizenship Act faced fierce protests against its implementation from opposition political parties and citizens' groups across the country soon after it was notified.The opponents of CAA are of the view that the amended citizenship law coupled with the Centre's National Register of Citizens (NRC) exercise is intended to target Muslims living in India, a charge that the Bharatiya Janata Party government have attempted to discredit.Speaking at the Hindustan Times Leadership Summit in 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said that the CAA would ensure access to a secured future to persecuted minorities and stressed that the law would not snatch anyone’s citizenship.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/citizenship-amendment-act-minorities-mha-reply-in-rajya-sabha-101628067272120.html
04-08-2021||India||BSF jawan shoots self with service rifle in Tripura: Police||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan allegedly died by suicide using his own service rifle at Paharmura Border Outpost in Tripura’s Khowai district on Wednesday.The body of 40-year old Baburam Chaudhury, a constable of BSF’s 80 Battalion, was spotted early morning and a police investigation soon began into his death, said a senior police official, wishing not to be identified.“Our preliminary investigation suggests he might have died by suicide. Still, we are investigating the case,” said the police officer. BSF has yet not released any official statement into the incident.The incident happened 24 hours after two BSF personnel, including a sub inspector and a constable, were killed in a militant ambush in Dhalai district.In a reply in Parliament on Wednesday, the Union home ministry disclosed that 680 personnel of the paramilitary forces died by suicide during the last six years and the number of personnel who died in accidents and encounters during the period was 1,764 and 323 respectively for the Central Armed Police Force (CAPFs) and Assam Rifles (AR).Minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai said domestic problems, illness and financial problems could be contributory factors among others behind the suicides. He further said this issue was reviewed by the government from time to time in consultation with professional agencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bsf-jawan-shoots-self-with-service-rifle-in-tripura-police-101628069260853.html
04-08-2021||India||100-ft-high national flag to be installed at Srinagar’s Hari Parbat fort||The Jammu and Kashmir administration will install the national flag at a height of 100 feet at the historic Hari Parbat fort in Srinagar.The 18th-century fort, where entry is regulated by security forces, is surrounded by a shrine, a temple and a gurduwara. To install the flag, the administration needs permission of the Archaeological Survey of India which currently oversees the upkeep of the fort.Also Read | Indian student allegedly murdered on Chinese varsity campusDivisional commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole, chaired a high level meeting recently where the process to start the installation of the national flag was granted consent.“The chair was apprised that Flag Foundation of India have proposed to hoist a big size flag at Hariparbat fort at the height of 100 feet having the description of 24 feet x36 feet and sought all the necessary logistic support from the Divisional administration as well as from the stakeholders viz; Archeological Survey of India, UT J&K, Forest department, Airport Authority of India, Tourism department,” reads the order issued by deputy director, Ashiq Hussain Malik.The fort is located atop the Koh-i-Maran hillock overlooking the Srinagar city. Currently, the CRPF is deployed there and people need permission for a visit. The tourism department has held some musical shows there in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100fthigh-national-flag-to-be-installed-at-srinagar-s-hari-parbat-fort-101628068662682.html
04-08-2021||India||Karnataka new ministers take oath; no deputy CM, no berth for Yediyurappa's son||About 29 new ministers on Wednesday took the oath to be part of the Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai's cabinet. There is no post of deputy chief minister this time. Former chief minister BS Yediyurappa's younger son BY Vijayendara has also been yet given a berth on the cabinet. "The cabinet will be a mixture of both experience and new strength," chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said, adding that in the cabinet there will be 7 OBCs, 3 SCs, 1 ST, 7 Vokkaligas, 8 Lingayats, 1 Reddy, also among them is a woman. Two from the Brahmin community has also figured in the list.Cabinet expansion is believed to be the first challenge of the new chief minister as there are several factions in the state BJP and the cabinet expansion is a balance between old guards and youngsters.Ministers of CM Basavaraj Bommai-led Karnataka government take oath at Raj Bhavan in Bengaluru. pic.twitter.com/EINYkwnItrBommai took oath as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka on July 28 and already visited Delhi twice -- first time to meet PM Modi and the top leadership of the party and the second time regarding Cabinet expansion.Yediyurappa's cabinet had three deputy CMs and, as Bommai said, there was a difference of opinion on whether to continue the deputy CM posts. On the issue of including Yediyurappa's son Vijayendra too, there were discussions with the national leadership."Central BJP leadership will discuss with BS Yediyurappa on the Cabinet expansion. There is a difference of opinion on whether to continue the Deputy Chief Minister post. Regarding BY Vijayendra, the party will take a final call," Bommai had said on Tuesday.Soon after Bommai took the oath, strong lobbying for Cabinet berths began. The final list in which there is no deputy CM post and neither any berth for Yediyurappa's son has been prepared after several rounds of discussion with the party's national president JP Nadda. "The new cabinet will respond to the needs of the people, earn their trust and give good governance," Bommai said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-new-ministers-take-oath-no-deputy-cm-no-berth-for-yediyurappa-s-son-101628066563311.html
04-08-2021||India||Central teams review Covid-19 crisis in Kerala; suggest tracing, containment||The central teams which were recently sent to Kerala to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in the state suggested enhanced testing, contact tracing, containment measures to deal with the recent surge in infection. Along with these steps, proper hospital infrastructure like ICU and ventilator beds also need to be augmented on an urgent basis, said the multi-disciplinary teams sent by the central government to Kerala."Kerala's 14 districts are presently reporting more than 20,000 cases per day and according to May' 2021 data, over 80 per cent of circulating strains are of the Delta variant," read a draft report published by the central multi-disciplinary team that reached Kerala on July 30, 2021.News agency ANI accessed the aforementioned report on Wednesday and revealed the observations made by the central teams during its review.The target of the central team was to specifically look at areas of testing, contact tracing including surveillance and containment, Covid-19 appropriate behaviours, availability of hospital beds, sufficient logistics including ambulances and hospital-wise case fatality analysis, and Covid-19 vaccination progress.In their report, the central teams recommended that clusters and super events, whenever suspected or reported should be investigated by district-level RRT. They also recommended that "RAT testing at an expanded level should be implemented to ensure saturation testing and reduce lag in the report, the re-categorisation exercise should ideally be undertaken every 14 days, vaccination, the system of whole house isolation to break the chain.""It was indicated by State officials that due to effective home isolation and containment strategies followed after the first wave of Covid-19, the population remained largely unexposed. This is also suggested by a recently conducted sero-surveillance study by ICMR. In it, Kerala ranked last with only about 44 per cent of the population showing antibodies against Covid-19," said the report.According to the report, in Kollam, the Positivity rate is relatively lower in coastal and tribal areas but the bed occupancy rate in the district is quite high with nearly 80 per cent of O2 beds occupied (in government setup).Samples sent for whole-genome sequencing (WGS) were lowest in Kollam among all districts of the State.However, in Thiruvananthapuram as per the report and data shared by the State, as of July 30 with the central team, the number of cases/deaths reported was 331147 and 3229 deaths. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) of the district was highest at 0.98 per cent.In the Malappuram District, the report stated, "case detection is mainly through testing of those reporting to health facilities with Covid like illness. There is no active surveillance to detect cases." "The contact tracing is abysmally low with a case contact ratio of 1:1.5. This is more so important as the average family size in this district is above 5, implying even the primary contacts are being missed out. This lack of contact tracing results in an undetected pool of asymptomatic/ mildly symptomatic individuals in the community," the report stated.In Kozhikode District, as per the report, the case detection is mainly through testing of those reporting to health facilities with Covid like illness."There is no active surveillance to detect cases. The contact tracing is abysmally low with a case contact ratio of 1:1.2. The lack of contact tracing results in an undetected pool of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic individuals in the community," the report said.Among those who tested positive, over 85 per cent are in home isolation.In the Kannur district, there are 5998 active cases. The Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is 13.72 per cent (for the week ending 31st July 2021). The case detection is mainly through testing of those reporting to health facilities with Covid like illness. There is no active surveillance to detect cases.The team was divided into Team - 1 for Southern districts of Kerala and Team - 2 for Northern Districts.While Team 1 visited Alappuzha, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, and Thiruvananthapuram districts of Kerala, Team 2 visited Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasargod districts of the state.The Central teams included the following experts, Dr Sujeet Singh, Director, NCDC, Dr P Ravindran, Former DDG, Dr S. K. Jain, Advisor (PH), NCDC, Dr K. Regu, Addl. Director, Kozhikode Branch, NCDC, Dr Pranay Verma, Joint Director, NCDC, and Dr Ruchi Jain, Public Health Specialist.Kerala on Tuesday recorded 23,676 new Covid-19 cases and 148 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-teams-review-covid-19-crisis-in-kerala-suggest-tracing-containment-101628062579964.html
04-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Over 480 million vaccines administered in India so far and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered at least 480 million Covid vaccines till nowIndia had administered at least 480 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 3. In what should cause alarm, the number of cases has started rising across the country, after nearly three months of a steady decline. Read MoreKarnataka cabinet expansion: 29 ministers to take oath today, no deputy CMKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday elaborated on the cabinet expansion in the state, confirming that as many as 29 members of the legislative assembly will take their oaths as ministers in the new cabinet. The post of the deputy chief minister of Karnataka is being done away with, Bommai said. Read More'Don't turn Parliament into fish market': Minister on 'Papri Chaat' tweetUnion minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi slammed Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O'Brien for his tweet on passage of bills in Parliament. Naqvi said it's part of a conspiracy to malign Parliament's dignity. "If he's allergic to 'chaat-papri', he can have fish curry. But don't turn Parliament into fish market," Naqvi was quoted as saying. Read MoreAnkit Gujjar, one of UP's most wanted criminals, found dead in Tihar JailAnkit Gujjar, dubbed one of the most wanted criminals in Uttar Pradesh with multiple counts of homicide and robbery, was found dead in Delhi's Tihar Jail on Wednesday morning, confirmed prison officials. Read MoreWATCH: 'US trying to help India, other countries to produce Covid vaccine': Joe BidenTokyo Olympics: Lovlina Borgohain settles for bronze after losing semi-finalIndia's Lovlina Borgohain on Wednesday went down in the semi-final of the women's welterweight (64-69kg) category to Turkey's Busenaz Surmeneli to settle for a bronze medal. This is India's third medal of the ongoing Tokyo Olympics. Read MoreBadminton gold medal winner Viktor Axelsen exchanges shirt with opponent. How the tradition startedAfter almost 12 months of delay due to the ongoing pandemic, the Tokyo Olympics 2020 is underway. There are several moments from the sporting event which have made their ways online and left people amazed. This incident between Badminton gold medal winner Viktor Axelsen and his opponent Chen Long is one such moment. Read MoreMouni Roy teams shaded pink sequin saree with the sexiest embellished braletteSequinned sarees have always had a stamp of approval from our favourite Bollywood celebrities, and it is unlikely that this voguish attire is going out of style any time soon. Brahmastra actor Mouni Roy's latest look in a shaded pink embellished six yards for the song, Baithe Baithe, is also proving the same. Read MoreVirat Kohli wishes his dad was alive to meet his and Anushka Sharma's daughter, talks about couple's first meetVirat Kohli, cricketer, and husband of Anushka Sharma, has confessed he sometimes wonders what it would be like if his father was around to see Vamika. The Indian cricketer lost his father in 2006 owing to a cardiac arrest. Anushka and Virat welcomed their daughter Vamika earlier this year. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-over-480-million-vaccines-administered-in-india-so-far-and-all-the-latest-news-101628060773836.html
04-08-2021||India||Karnataka cabinet expansion: 29 ministers to take oath today, no deputy CM||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday elaborated on the cabinet expansion in the state, confirming that as many as 29 members of the legislative assembly will take their oaths as ministers in the new cabinet. The post of the deputy chief minister of Karnataka is being done away with, Bommai said, adding that the decision has been taken in accordance with the wishes of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) high command.The new cabinet is set to take oath at 2:15pm on Wednesday, chief minister Bommai had said earlier in the day while speaking to reporters in Bengaluru."I have sent the names to the Governor," Basavaraj Bommai was quoted as saying. "This time the high command has said that there will be no deputy chief minister. So there will be no deputy chief minister."I've sent names to the Governor. 29 MLAs will take oath today. This time High Command has said that there'll be no Deputy CM. So, there will be no Dy CM. 7 OBCs, 3 SCs, 1 ST, 7 Vokkaligas, 8 Linagayats, 1 Reddy and 1 woman are part of the cabinet: Karnataka CM Basavaraj Bommai pic.twitter.com/r1gYZRvNivBommai, while providing further details on the caste distribution of the revamped Karnataka cabinet, highlighted that seven members of the Other Backward Classes (OBC), three members of the Scheduled Caste (SC) community, and one Scheduled Tribe (ST) member will be a part of the new cabinet.Moreover, seven persons of the Vokkaliga community, eight of the Lingayats, and one from the Reddy community have been included. However, the new Karnataka cabinet includes only one woman, according to the statement issued by chief minister Bommai.Everything related to the Karnataka cabinet expansion was discussed with the BJP high command during the chief minister's visit to the national capital Delhi in the past two days. Bommai, who took his own oath as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka on July 28, arrived in Delhi on August 2 to discuss the plans for the state cabinet expansion with the BJP national president JP Nadda.Earlier, Bommai had indicated that there is a "difference of opinion" among party leaders of the state regarding the deputy chief ministers appointed by former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Bommai's predecessor, during his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-29-ministers-to-take-oath-today-no-deputy-cm-101628058469702.html
04-08-2021||India||India has administered at least 480 million Covid vaccines till now||India had administered at least 480 million Covid vaccine doses by Tuesday, August 3. In what should cause alarm, the number of cases has started rising across the country, after nearly three months of a steady decline.In China, all residents of Wuhan will be tested for the virus as three Delta variant cases were reported there.Meanwhile, by 7pm on Tuesday, 484,181,676 vaccine doses were given across the states and UTs. As many as 5,151,891 doses were administered on the day. Also, Uttar Pradesh administered at least 2.2 million doses on the day, as per the provisional report.In the 18-45 age group, 2,943,889 were given the first dose while 387,076 doses were given as the second dose on the day. Cumulatively, 163,485,422 persons in this age group across the country have received their first dose and 9,823,204 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive.Also Read | Nagpur eases Covid-19 curbs, shops allowed to open till 8pm on weekdays Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 10 million vaccine doses in the 18-45 years age group. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 1 million beneficiaries of the age group with the first dose.On Wednesday, India reported 42,625 fresh new cases, taking its total tally to 31,769,132 and the active caseload to 410,353, according to data updated by the health ministry. The death toll also climbed to 425,757 with 562 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-at-least-480-million-covid-vaccines-till-now-101628057559399.html
04-08-2021||India||'Don't turn Parliament into fish market': Minister on 'Papri Chaat' tweet||Union minister and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi slammed Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O'Brien for his tweet on passage of bills in Parliament. Naqvi said it's part of a conspiracy to malign Parliament's dignity."If he's allergic to 'chaat-papri', he can have fish curry. But don't turn Parliament into fish market. Unfortunately, the manner in which work is being done with conspiracy to malign Parliament's dignity, was never seen before," Naqvi was quoted as saying by news agency ANI."If you malign the dignity of the Parliament, such activities are neither in their interest nor ours. It is not even in the interest of Parliament traditions," he added.The tweet had earned Prime Minister Narendra Modi's ire too at the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday. PM Modi deprecated the conduct of the opposition in Parliament, accusing them of insulting the legislature and the Constitution.Referring to passage of bills in Parliament, the TMC leader had said on Twitter, “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill...Passing legislation or making papri chaat!” , referring to a popular street food.An unfazed O'Brien, meanwhile, said on Tuesday that his intention was to use a cultural idiom to connect with the people over the serious issue and asked if the PM would be happier if he used the word "dhokla" instead, referring to a snack popular in Gujarat..He stressed that the real issue was the hurried passing of bills in both the Houses without any discussions and even went on to say that the prime minister's reaction showed that the "TMC is setting the agenda".Parliament proceedings have descended into chaos since the monsoon session commenced on July 19 with the opposition sticking to their demand on a discussion on the potential use of spyware against politicians, journalists, and activists and the farmers' issues. While the opposition is insisting on a structured debate on the alleged snooping in the presence of PM Modi or home minister Amit Shah, the government has maintained that it is a non-issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-turn-parliament-into-fish-market-minister-on-papri-chaat-tweet-101628055332289.html
04-08-2021||India||Jaishankar heads to UNSC, Afghanistan and maritime security on agenda||With India holding the Presidency of UN Security Council this month, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar is travelling to New York on August 18-19 with key focus on Afghanistan, maritime security and counter-terrorism.It is understood that after returning to India from UNSC, Jaishankar will fly again to north America via New York for bilateral visits to Mexico, Panama and Guyana later this month. The dates for the crucial bilateral visits to these Latin American allies of India are still being worked out. Guyana has Indian origin diaspora and has close ties with New Delhi.With India deciding to make maximum contribution to the UNSC as a non-permanent member till 2022, EAM Jaishankar has been keeping constant touch with the multilateral body through its mission in New York. India is also the chair of the 1267 sanctions committee, which has the mandate to declare UN designated global terrorists.The focus of Jaishankar’s UN visit is expected to be Afghanistan, terrorism and maritime security with events in both South China Sea and Persian Gulf in focus as reports of irregulars seizing cargo vessels in the gulf coming in. India along with Quad partners is firm supporter and signatory of UN Convention on the Law of Seas (UNCLOS), which had rejected the nine dash line claims of China in South China Sea in 2016.However, the key issue on the agenda will be UNSC role in the stability of Afghanistan with Pakistan supported Sunni Pashtun insurgent force Taliban trying to conquer the Islamic Republic through force while mouthing peace and negotiations to the international community. Despite initial confusion, the Taliban still resembles a heavily armed militia with medieval ideology and scant respect for minorities and women. Incidentally, Sunni Pashtuns comprises 30 per cent of population in Afghanistan and many among them oppose the barbaric practices of the insurgent force on innocent population.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-heads-to-unsc-afghanistan-and-maritime-security-on-agenda-101628055429282.html
04-08-2021||India||Ankit Gujjar, one of UP's most wanted criminals, found dead in Tihar Jail||Ankit Gujjar, dubbed one of the most wanted criminals in Uttar Pradesh with multiple counts of homicide and robbery, was found dead in Delhi's Tihar Jail on Wednesday morning, confirmed prison officials. Although the exact circumstances surrounding his death is not yet clear, news agencies reported that Ankit's body was found at Jail Number 3 in Tihar this morning.Tihar Jail officials said that an investigation has been launched to probe his death and ascertain the exact cause behind the incident.Ankit Gujjar was said to have been involved in as many as eight murder cases. Both the Uttar Pradesh Police and the Delhi Police had issued rewards on him. While the UP Police had announced a reward of ₹1 lakh, the Delhi Police declared ₹25,000 as a reward for apprehending Ankit Gujjar.Ankit was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh Police back in 2015, but he had come out on bail in 2019. He then shifted his operations to Delhi. The gangster, a resident of Baghpat in western Uttar Pradesh, reportedly joined hands with a Delhi-based gangster, Rohit Chaudhary, to jointly form the Chaudhary-Gujjar gang. They were keen on expanding their network in South Delhi, reports say.Delhi Police in September last year arrested Ankit Gujjar, who by the time had become one of UP's most wanted criminals. Several other gangsters in the South Delhi area had also joined the Chaudhary-Gujjar gang and it was reported that the members of the gang were living together at Neemrana in Rajasthan along with their leaders, Rohit Chaudhary and Ankit Gujjar.Ankit's death is significant because only last month the Delhi high court ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe a case of an inmate named Shrikant Rama Swami's murder inside the prison on May 14.Swami, an under-trial prisoner, was found dead on May 14, 2002, in Barrack No. 4 of Ward No. 2 at Tihar's Jail Number 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ankit-gujjar-one-of-up-s-most-wanted-criminals-found-dead-in-tihar-jail-101628053424595.html
04-08-2021||India||How innovative protests make their mark this Parliament session||This monsoon session has been witnessing protests by the Opposition since day one. While the Opposition has been constantly protesting in the House with placards, there have been some innovative protests outside as well. On their part, farmers have been holding a mock Parliament, just a kilometre from the House. Here’s a look at some new ways that the lawmakers resorted to as they tried to draw attention to some key issues:Driving home the point: On July 26, Rahul Gandhi drove a tractor to Parliament. The vehicle, with a banner demanding that the three “anti-farmer black laws” be repealed, was stopped at the entry gate as it didn’t have a valid pass to be allowed in.But Gandhi managed to make his point. “We have brought the farmers’ message to the Parliament. The government is not allowing any discussions about their demands... All the farmers of India are being suppressed, that is why I have come here on a tractor… These are black laws and they need to be taken back,” he said while seated on the tractor.Back to basics: Harsimrat Kaur Badal, a union minister who resigned following the passing of three controversial farm laws last year, also took to protest in a unique way on August 2. Along with colleagues from Shiromani Akali Dal and Bahujan SamajParty (BSP), Badal handed over wheat stalks to lawmakers to arouse empathy for the farmers who have been protesting on borders of the national Capital since November last year.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedings “It is shocking that a community to which everyone is beholden is being persecuted by the government which refuses to repeal 3 black #FarmLaws. Today, we distributed wheat stalks to MPs to appeal to the conscience of our policymakers to be just to the hand that feeds them,” Badal posted on Twitter. She was also seen handing out a stalk to BJP MP and actor Hema Malini while announcing-‘’Hemaji is with farmers!’’Rallying support: On August 3, Opposition leaders united for a breakfast meet in the constitution club in India. Afterwards, many of these MPs hopped on to bicycles and with Rahul Gandhi leading them, they headed to Parliament on cycles mounted with placards demanding reduction in fuel and LPG prices. Taking to Twitter the same day, Gandhi said, “Neither our faces are important nor our names. The important thing is that we are peoples’ representatives - in every face, there are crores of faces of the people of the country who are troubled by inflation. Are these good days?”Earlier on July 19, MPs from Trinamool Congress also rode cycles to Parliament to protest the fuel price hike. Congress leaders had also ridden horses in recent past to protest the fuel price hike.Holding fort: Protesting farmers have been holding a mock parliament at Jantar Mantar. On Tuesday, some of the farmers who have been protesting against the controversially enacted farm laws posed as lawmakers who signed legislation that repealed the “anti-farmer laws” and also imposed “legal guarantees” assuring minimum support price for crops.Farmers have been holding Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar as part of their agitation since the beginning of the monsoon session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-innovative-protests-make-their-mark-this-parliament-session-101628054862163.html
04-08-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with beneficiaries of free grains scheme in UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with the beneficiaries of the 'Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana' in Uttar Pradesh on August 5 via video conferencing.The PMO noted that the state will celebrate August 5 as Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana Day. A massive awareness programme will be launched throughout the state to ensure that no beneficiary is left out from availing the benefits of the scheme, it added. Almost 15 crore beneficiaries of the state have been getting ration free of cost under the scheme. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in the state have been distributing food grains to the beneficiaries of the scheme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-beneficiaries-of-free-grains-scheme-in-up-101628054304018.html
04-08-2021||India||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move 3 Bills in Rajya Sabha today||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be moving three Bills in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.Sitharaman will move for the passage of the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2020 which seeks to amend the Limited Liability Partnership Act of 2008. The Bill was introduced in the Upper House on Friday by MoS for Corporate Affairs Inderjit Singh Rao amid protests and sloganeering by the Opposition over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. It seeks to encourage the start-up ecosystem and further boost the ease of doing business in the country. The Bill proposes to introduce the concept of “small limited liability partnership” in line with the concept of “small company” under the Companies Act, 2013.Also Read | Fiscal numbers for 2021 first quarter do not inspire confidence about economyThe minister will also seek the passage of the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 or the DICGC Amendment Bill 2021. The Bill proposes three key changes that could vastly improve the working of deposit insurance as it stands today. These changes, if passed into law, will add an extra dimension to the Centre’s landmark move last year to hike the insurance coverage for individual depositors in banks from ₹1 lakh to ₹5 lakh.The third Bill is the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021. The Bill seeks to permit the government to cut its stake in prominent state-owned general insurance corporations, helping achieve its divestment targets. Divestment refers to the government’s selling off part of its ownership in state-run corporations.The Bill aims to amend the parent Act, The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Act, 1972. The Bill was passed in the Lower House on Monday.Rajya Sabha will see an eventful day on Wednesday with two more Bills. Union ministers Jyotiraditya Scindia and Arjun Munda will also move the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021, respectively.Lok Sabha will see the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which will be moved by Narendra Singh Tomar. The Rajya Sabha gave its assent to the Bill on Friday. The Union minister of agriculture and farmers welfare stated the Bill aims at developing coconut cultivation in the country, increase the income of coconut farmers, and extend facilities for them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finance-minister-nirmala-sitharaman-to-move-3-bills-in-rajya-sabha-today-101628052758869.html
04-08-2021||India||Goa govt seeks suggestions on ‘bhumiputra’ Bill already passed in assembly||Facing a severe backlash over the hurried passing of Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarini Bill, 2021 in the recently concluded assembly session, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant has announced that the government will reintroduce the Bill after incorporating suggestionsIn a late evening televised address to the state, Sawant sought suggestions for the Bill which, he said, will be reintroduced in the next assembly session two months from now. He said Bill would be kept open for suggestions from members of the public from August 4.“You can give all your suggestions on goaonline.gov.in. We will accept the valid ones and reintroduce the Bill in the Goa legislative assembly in another session that will be held in two months,” he said.Also Read | Shiv Sena slams BJP for double-standards on cow slaughter“Many people have objected to the use of ‘bhumiputra’ in the title of the Bill...It will be called the Goa Bhumi Adhikarini Bill,” Sawant said.The Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarini Bill, 2021, was tabled and hurriedly passed on July 30. According to the proposed law, any person who is a resident of Goa for more than 30 years qualifies as a ‘bhumiputra’ (son of the soil) and can apply for ownership of a house (up to a plinth area of 250 square metres) s/he has been living in even if the land on which it stands is owned by the government, a private person or commonly owned. Any structure built before April 1, 2019, qualifies for ownership.Sawant told the House last week that the bill provides for a mechanism to give ownership rights to dwellers of small housing units to enable them to live with dignity, self-respect and to exercise their right to life.The Bill was passed amid a walkout by the Opposition, which accused the government of rushing poorly thought out bills without adequate discussion.Besides the Opposition which opposed the Bill, civil society also called it a ‘mockery’ of Goans. Since Saturday, several delegations called on Goa governor P S Sreedharan Pillai, asking him not to grant his assent to the Bill. Some from within the BJP also reportedly called on the CM, asking him that the Bill be amended as it wasn’t acceptable in its present form.The Congress has now demanded that the Bill be withdrawn. “Why this unusual move to rename the Bill and invite suggestions after bulldozing it in the assembly? Is it hurting the BJP across Goa, across India and overseas too? The Bill has to be tabled back in House. Also, is this not strange to invite suggestions after the Bill has been passed? What mockery! He should withdraw the Bill in toto and restore the faith and confidence of the Goans,” Congress spokesperson Carlos Alvares Ferreria said.Goa Forward president Vijai Sardesai tweeted, “@DrPramodPSawant’s inability to grasp either the gravity or the intricacies of governance is making him not only an unmitigated disaster for #Goa but also a laughingstock across the country. Decisions that have far reaching consequences for #Goemkars are treated as child play!”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-govt-seeks-suggestions-on-bhumiputra-bill-already-passed-in-assembly-101628051678526.html
04-08-2021||India||42,625 new Covid-19 cases take India's tally to 31,769,132; 562 new deaths added||India's tally of daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases increased again on Wednesday after 42,625 new cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry update showed. This is at least 12,000 cases more from Tuesday's tally of 30,549.Today's cases took the total number of positive cases in the country to 31,769,132, the health ministry update at 8am showed. India also recorded 562 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll from the start of pandemic to 425,757.India has 410,353 active cases in the country, accounting for 1.28 per cent of the total cases seen so far. The active cases have increased by 5,395 in the last 24 hours. Additionally, 36,668 people recovered from the viral disease on Wednesday, taking the national recovery rate to 97.38. A total of 30,933,022 people have recovered from the disease so far.The increase in daily cases recorded by the health ministry comes amid a warning by the government that the pandemic and the second wave are not over yet. At least eight states in the country have a reproduction number over 1, which means the outbreak is expanding and a growing outbreak is possible at this stage, the health ministry said on Tuesday. Reproduction number - also known as the effective R-number - denotes, on average, how many people each infected person is passing the virus to. This figure should remain under 1 for a disease outbreak to be called under control.In what has been a second concern for the authorities, the daily Covid-19 infections in India have started soaring again after a steady decline of nearly three months. At present, the spike is driven by states like Kerala, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh where the cases are increasing.Officials from the health ministry said on Tuesday that the second wave is not over in the country yet as India is still reporting more than 30,000 cases per day.“These cases are being reported from limited areas but when activities were opened up, there were some areas where Covid-19 safe behaviour wasn’t followed and there could be an increase in cases," Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/42625-new-covid-19-cases-take-india-s-tally-to-31-769-132-death-toll-at-562-101628043523683.html
04-08-2021||NA||Monsoon session Highlights: 4 bills passed but impasses continues||Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha witnessed repeated adjournments on Wednesday but the government was able to pass four bills. The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill and Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill were passed in the Rajya Sabha along with the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill. In the Lower House, the Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021 was passed.Opposition MPs also signed a joint statement demanding discussion on Pegasus spyware and farm laws.Follow all the updates here:Upper House adjourned for the dayRajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day amid opposition uproarUpper House adjourned for 15 minsThe Upper House was adjourned for 15 minutes. Upper House Speaker Venkaiah Naidu spoke to protesting leaders regarding chaos in the Upper House, people familiar with the developments told news agency ANI. Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed in Upper HouseLimited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 passed after brief debate amid opposition uproar in Rajya Sabha, reports PTI. The Rajya Sabha passed Deposit Insurance & Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 as well. Lok Sabha further adjourned till 3:30pmLok Sabha has been adjourned as Opposition protests continue demanding answers regarding the Pegasus spyware issue. Lok Sabha adjourned till 2pmLok Sabha proceedings have been adjourned till 2pm amid continued opposition protests, the third time in a single day that this has happened.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 2pm amid sloganeering by the OppositionRajya Sabha was adjourned till 2pm on Wednesday amid sloganeering from the Opposition MPs over the 'Pegasus Project' media report. The Lok Sabha was also adjourned till 11:30am amid a ruckus over the same issue.Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman to move 3 Bills in Rajya Sabha todayUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be moving three Bills in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. This includes the Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill 2020, which seeks to amend the Limited Liability Partnership Act of 2008.Another Bill, which is lined up for Rajya Sabha, is the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021, or the DICGC Amendment Bill 2021.The third Bill is the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021. The Bill seeks to permit the government to cut its stake in prominent state-owned general insurance corporations, helping achieve its divestment targets.Click here to read more on these Bills.How innovative protests make their mark this Parliament sessionThis monsoon session has been witnessing protests by the Opposition since day one. While the Opposition has been constantly protesting in the House with placards, there have been some innovative protests outside as well. On their part, farmers have been holding a mock Parliament, just a kilometre from the House.Click here for a look at some new ways that the lawmakers resorted to as they tried to draw attention to some key issues.Mallikarjun Kharge slams Centre on Parliament disruption rowRajya Sabha Leader of Opposition (LoP) Mallikarjun Kharge: Rahul Gandhi is committed to the problems of the poor. He is trying to get all political parties together. He requested them to forget regional politics in the interest of our liberty, the Constitution, and democracy. We want to have a discussion on Pegasus and other issues. Besides, what moral authority do you (the Prime Minister) have to say that the Opposition is disturbing the Parliament? When they (the Congress) were in power, almost two sessions were washed out. A few big leaders had even said that "disruption protects democracy".Congress' Deepender Singh Hooda gives Suspension of Business notice in Rajya SabhaCongress MP Deepender Singh Hooda gives Suspension of Business Notice in Rajya Sabha under rule 267, to discuss the central government's three farm laws.TMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay gives adjournment noticeTMC MP Sudip Bandyopadhyay gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.Opposition leaders to meet at Mallikarjun Kharge's office to strategiseOpposition floor leaders from Rajya Sabha of like-minded parties to meet today at Leader of Opposition (LoP) Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge's office in Parliament at 10am today to chalk out floor strategy.Congress MPs give adjournment notice in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.Congress MPs Manish Tewari and Manickam Tagore gives adjournment motion notice in Lok Sabha to discuss 'Pegasus Project' media report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-live-updates-wednesday-august-4-2021-101628049239899.html
04-08-2021||India||No data on vaccinated transgender people: Govt in Lok Sabha||The government does not have data on the number of transgender people above 45 years of age who have had their Covid vaccine shots, the ministry of social justice told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday.The ministry was responding to DMK leader D M Kathir Anand’s question on whether transgender people above the age of 45 have been vaccinated.The ministry added that it has directed states and Union Territories to ensure that the existing vaccination centres are friendly to members of the community and “no discrimination is shown towards transgender persons”. It said they have also requested the ministry of health and family welfare to take necessary steps in ensuring vaccination of transgender persons.Also Read | Farm unions prepare to take on BJP in the political arenaDr Aqsa Sheikh, the nodal officer for Covid Vaccination Centre, Hamdard Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, told HT that a lot of transgender individuals have transitioned and have their desired gender in their document. Therefore, it is wrong to assume that only those who got vaccinated under the others category are transgender people.“When collating the data, the government had to look not only into the ‘others’ column but also into the other two columns which also includes a large number of trans people. The government played it safe by saying they don’t have data,” she said.Dr Aqsa also pointed out the there are apprehensions and hesitation within the transgender community regarding vaccination and its side effects because a lot of trans individuals are on hormones or undergoing treatment for HIV or gender affirmation surgeries. She added that the ministry of health and family welfare has not issued any FAQ or a document answering their queries.In response to another question by the DMK leader, the government said according to its data, only 64,374 transgender individuals have Aadhar cards. As per the 2011 census, there are 488,000 transgender individuals in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-data-on-vaccinated-transgender-people-govt-in-ls-101628048737988.html
04-08-2021||India||News update from Hindustan Times: Karnataka CM Bommai says oath-taking likely today and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka cabinet expansion: CM Bommai says oath-taking likely todayKarnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai has indicated that an expansion of the state cabinet is likely on Wednesday evening if the clearance for the same is received from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) central leadership in the morning. The swearing-in of the new ministers, as part of the cabinet expansion, might take place as early as 5pm on Wednesday, according to reports citing government officials familiar with the development.Read more.Widespread, heavy rain to continue over West MP, east RajasthanWidespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over West Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, which are already dealing with a flood-like situation, for the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department.Read more.Rahul Gandhi likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir next weekCongress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir on August 9, a party functionary said on Tuesday. During an informal discussion with the Opposition leaders at a breakfast meeting in Constitution Club, Gandhi told some of them that he will visit the Union territory soon, a senior non-Congress leader who was sitting at the same table with the former Congress chief said, asking not to be named.Read more. Election Commission to start preparations for five poll-bound statesThe Election Commission of India has kick-started the process to conduct elections in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab, and a special summary revision and updation of the electoral rolls is set to begin next week, people familiar with the matter said. Elections in the five states are due early next year.Read more. Afghanistan asks India to call urgent UNSC meeting after blast rocks KabulAfghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. Atmar spoke on convening a UN Security Council meeting. He also spoke on escalating violence by the Taliban in Afghanistan. India is currently holding the rotating presidency of the UN Security Council.Watch here. 'Last time in Nottingham, he had picked up five wickets': Harbhajan names India player whose absence could be 'fatal'Although India's record in Tests in England isn't one to brag, they begin the five-match series at a venue they have fared better at as compared to others – The Trent Bridge Cricket Stadium. Nottingham has hosted seven matches between India and England in the past with both teams having won two Test matches, while three ended in draws. The last time they toured England for a Test series, India lost 1-4, their only win of the series coming at this very venue.Read more. Kiara Advani promotes Shershaah in the most beautiful organza saree worth ₹48kThe release of her upcoming project Shershaah with rumoured boyfriend, Sidharth Malhotra, has been keeping Kiara Advani busy. But that hasn't stopped the star from showcasing her sartorial prowess with each look donned for the film's promotions. The actor has been promoting Shershaah in full swing wearing impeccable attires, from a bold orange pantsuit to an embroidered saree. Her latest look in another embroidered saree comes on top of this list.Read more.Listen to ‘13 billion years' worth of data’ in this viral video shared by NasaNASA often presents netizens with such space-related images that help us understand what lies beyond our Blue Planet a little better. The space agency has also been encouraging people to experience stars and galaxies through senses other than just sight. It is through sonification. In this process, the astronomical data collected by different space telescopes are converted into sounds.Read more.Salma Hayek loved this Priyanka Chopra film, lists similarities between Mexicans and IndiansSalma Hayek was all praise for Priyanka Chopra's Oscar-nominated film The White Tiger, and for the ease with which non-American actors work. Salma Hayek will soon be seen in Marvel's Eternals, directed by Chloe Zhao and co-starring Indian character actor Harish Patel.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-update-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-cm-bommai-says-oath-taking-likely-today-and-all-the-latest-news-101628046686023.html
04-08-2021||India||Widespread, heavy rain to continue over West MP, east Rajasthan||Widespread and heavy rain is likely to continue over West Madhya Pradesh and east Rajasthan, which are already dealing with a flood-like situation, for the next five days, according to India Meteorological Department.A well marked low pressure area is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood. It is likely to be practically stationary over the same area during the next 24 hours and weaken gradually thereafter. The western end of the monsoon trough is south of its normal position and is likely to shift northwards to north of its normal position during the next 48 hours. Its eastern end continues to run towards Arunachal Pradesh across North Bangladesh which is also very likely to remain north of its normal position during the 4-5 days. Under the influence of these systems, widespread and heavy rainfall is likely over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh during the next five days. Heavy to very heavy falls with isolated extremely heavy rainfall (over 20cm) is very likely to continue over East Rajasthan and West Madhya Pradesh. Current spell of scattered to fairly widespread rainfall activity very likely to continue over rest parts of north India with isolated heavy rain very likely over Uttarakhand and West Uttar Pradesh during the next five days except Punjab where isolated light to moderate rain is likely. Isolated heavy rain is likely over Haryana and Himachal Pradesh during the next three days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-heavy-rain-to-continue-over-west-mp-east-rajasthan-101628045677839.html
04-08-2021||NA||Breaking: Govt to collect sewage samples to check intensity of Covid circulation||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news:> Centre to collect sewage samples to ascertain intensity of Covid-19 circulation in community, detect new variant> States recommended to impose local Covid-19 curbs during festive season, says Centre> Bihar to reopen schools for classes 9-10 on Aug 7, classes 1-8 on Aug 16>PM Modi approves ₹2 lakh ex-gratia each for kin of those killed in Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal floods> Puri’s Jagannath Temple will reopen for devotees from Aug 16> Bengaluru to be under night curfew from 10pm-6am till Aug 16> CBI takes over probe into death of Jharkhand judge Uttam Anand> Kerala extends Covid-19 guidelines with effect from Aug 5Follow all the updates here:Centre to collect sewage samples to ascertain intensity of Covid-19 circulation in community, detect new variantThe central government will now collect sewage samples to ascertain the intensity of Covid-19 circulation in a community and also to detect new variants of the virus. Delhi records zero deaths due to Covid; 67 new cases, 73 recoveries addedThe national capital on Wednesday saw no deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), while 67 more cases were recorded, taking the caseload to 1,436,518, according to the health department’s bulletin. The total recoveries have climbed to 1,410,947 after 73 patients were discharged on Wednesday and the active cases have come down to 513. Read moreStates recommended to impose local Covid-19 curbs during festive season: CentreThe Centre on Wednesday advised states to actively consider imposing local Covid-19 curbs in observation of upcoming festivals such as Muharram, Onam, Janmashtmi, Ganesh Chaturthi, Durga Puja etc, where large public gatherings are expected. Read moreBihar to reopen schools for classes 9-10 on Aug 7, classes 1-8 on Aug 16कोरोना संक्रमण में कमी को देखते हुए दिनांक 07 अगस्त से 25 अगस्त तक सभी दुकानों को साप्ताहिक बंदी के साथ खोलने का निर्णय लिया गया है। नौवी से दसवीं कक्षा 7 अगस्त से एवं पहली से आठवीं कक्षा 16 अगस्त से खुलेगी। (1/3)Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Wednesday that schools for students of classes 9-10 will reopen on August 7. Schools for classes 1-8 will reopen on August 16.PM Modi approves ₹2 lakh ex-gratia each for kin of those killed in Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal floodsPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday approved an ex-gratia of ₹2 lakh each from PMNRF for families of those killed in Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal floods. The injured from both states will receive ₹50,000.Puri’s Jagannath Temple will reopen for devotees from August 16The Jagannath Temple in Odisha's Puri will reopen for devotees from August 16, after it was closed for more than four months due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. Devotees will be allowed entry into the temple only after producing double dose vaccination proof or negative RT-PCR test report which is not older than 96 hours. Bengaluru to be under night curfew from 10pm-6am till Aug 16Bengaluru will be placed under a night curfew from 10pm-6am till August 16 to contain the spread of Covid-19. CBI takes over probe into death of Jharkhand judge Uttam AnandThe Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has taken over the investigation into the death of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand, days after the Jharkhand government recommended a probe by the central agency into the case. MP CM expresses concerns over rising Covid cases in stateMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday expressed concerns over rising cases of the coronavirus disease in the state and urged all residents to follow regulations such as wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. "I urge you to wear masks and follow social distancing compulsorily. It is time to be very cautious. The cases are rising in neighbouring Chhattisgarh," Chouhan said. Covid-19 in Madhya Pradesh: Jabalpur Police begins mask awareness campaign in cityThe Jabalpur Police has started with 'Roko Toko'- a campaign to spread awareness about wearing masks due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "People will be motivated to wear masks. Wearing mask is necessary to prevent threat of third wave. Action will be taken against officials if found flouting Covid rules," Jabalpur SP told news agency ANI on Wednesday. Ram Temple in Ayodhya to open for devotees by December 23Ram Temple in Uttar Pradesh's Ayodhya will open for devotees by December 23, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday. Weekend Covid-19 lockdown in Kerala to be imposed only on Sundays, says state health ministerKerala health minister Veena George said on Wednesday that weekend lockdown in the state will only be imposed on Sundays, adding shops will be allowed to function from 7am-9pm for six days in a week. "A maximum of 20 people will be allowed in weddings & funerals. No lockdown on August 15 and 23, considering Onam," George said. Cong leader Rahul Gandhi to visit Srinagar on August 9Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will visit Srinagar on August 9 where he is expected to meet party workers, news agency ANI reported on Wednesday. Kerala extends Covid-19 guidelines with effect from August 5Govt of Kerala extends #COVID19 guidelines with effect from 12 am of 5th August. pic.twitter.com/q2rEB6OohVAmid a massive sure in daily Covid-19 cases, the Kerala government on Wednesday extended the virus related guidelines in the state which will be in effect from August 5.Karnataka's new cabinet ministers led by CM Bommai take oathOn Wednesday afternoon, Karnataka's new cabinet ministers led by chief minister Basavaraj Bommai took oath. Earlier in the day, Bommai had said that there are seven legislators from backward classes, three from scheduled castes, one from scheduled tribe, seven Vokkaligas and eight Lingayats.Covid-19 cases gradually increasing in Himachal, says CM ThakurCOVID cases are gradually increasing. The cabinet has decided that besides allowing the people coming with RTPCR negative test reports, those who have been vaccinated will be allowed in the state. Another cabinet meeting will be held on 10th Aug: Himachal Pradesh CM Jairam Thakur pic.twitter.com/vvStprrx6CHimachal Pradesh chief minister Jairam Thakur said on Wednesday that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases were gradually increasing in the state, adding the state cabinet decided that apart from allowing people with negative RT-PCR test , those who have been vaccinated will also be allowed to enter the state. "We're closely monitoring the situation, if the situation worsens, further decisions will be taken. It has been issued as an advisory now, it will be made mandatory later," Thakur added. Taliban claim responsibility for attack on minister's house in KabulThe Taliban on Wednesday claimed responsibility for an attack on the residence of Afghanistan's acting defence minister in Kabul.Taliban spokesperson Zabihullah Mujahid said the group targeted the residence on Tuesday night, adding that an important meeting was underway at the time.The defence minister survived, but the attack marked a major escalation in the Taliban's campaign. The attack targeted a heavily fortified area of the capital, which has in recent weeks largely been spared the violence hitting other parts of the country.Kerala follows ICMR, WHO guidelines to report Covid deaths, says Health MinisterThe Kerala government is following the ICMR and WHO guidelines to report covid deaths in the state, Veena George Kerala Health Minister said on Wednesday in the Assembly over the allegations of discrepancies in covid related deaths across the state.A total of 13,325 covid deaths has been reported in the state till June 15, 2021, said Kerala health minister while replying to the questions of MLAs' in the Assembly.PM Modi congratulates Indian boxer Lovlina Borgohain on winning Bronze medalPrime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Indian boxer Lovlina Borgohain after she won the Bronze medal in the women's welterweight category (64-69kg) at the Tokyo Olympics on Wednesday.Taking to Twitter, the Prime Minister said: "Well fought Lovlina Borgohain! Her success in the boxing ring inspires several Indians. Her tenacity and determination are admirable. Congratulations to her on winning the Bronze. Best wishes for her future endeavors. #Tokyo2020".Rajasthan's Ambagarh Fort temple reopens for devoteesRajya Sabha MP Kirori Meena's wife and former minister Golma Devi offered prayers at the Ambagarh Fort temple here on Wednesday as it reopened days after a dispute over the removal of a saffron flag atop the shrine by members of the Meena community.Devi along with several members of the Meena community and supporters offered prayers at the Shiva temple, according to her aide.Rahul Gandhi assures support to family of Delhi's Nangal rape victimCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday assured his support to the family of the minor girl who was allegedly raped, murdered and cremated without her parents' consent in Delhi's Old Nangal crematorium.The Wayanad MP met and spoke with the family of the minor girl today."I spoke with the family, they want justice and nothing else. They are saying that justice is not being given to them and they should be helped. We will do that. I have said that I am standing with them. Rahul Gandhi is standing with them until they get justice," said the Congress leader.A nine-year-old girl was allegedly raped and killed by a priest and three employees of a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment in south-west Delhi on Sunday, the police said.NCPCR seeks action taken report from police in 'rape and murder' of Dalit girl in DelhiThe apex child rights body NCPCR has sought a detailed action taken report from the Delhi Police in the alleged rape and murder of a nine-year-old Dalit girl in southwest Delhi.The Dalit girl died under suspicious circumstances, even as her parents alleged that she was raped and her body was forcibly cremated by a crematorium's priest, according to police.US trying to help India, others to produce Covid-19 vaccine: BidenThe US is trying to provide for countries like India the capacity to produce Covid-19 vaccines themselves, President Joe Biden has said, as he highlighted the efforts of democratic nations to help the world stem the surge of the pandemic.With a need for several billion doses around the world, the US was committed to providing half a billion ( 50 crores) shots, Biden said during a press conference at White House on Tuesday.Light rain likely in DelhiThe capital is likely to witness partly cloudy sky and light rain on Wednesday, the India Meteorological Department said.The Safdarjung Observatory, considered the official marker for the city, recorded a minimum of 25.4 degrees Celsius, two notches below normal.The maximum temperature is predicted to settle around 34 degrees Celsius.Light to moderate rain is expected for the next three to four days, according to the IMD forecast.Congress MPs give adjournment notices to discuss Pegasus issue in Lok SabhaAmid the logjam over the 'Pegasus project' media report, several Congress MPs Manickam Tagore and Manish Tewari on Wednesday gave adjournment notices in the Lok Sabha to discuss the issue.The Opposition has alleged that names of several Indian politicians, journalists, lawyers, and activists have appeared on the leaked list of potential targets for surveillance by an unidentified agency using Pegasus spyware. This comes following reports published in The Wire.Brazil reports 1,209 more Covid-19 deathsBrazil has registered 1,209 more Covid-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, raising its national death toll to 558,432, the health ministry said on Tuesday.Meanwhile, the total caseload rose to 19,985,817 after 32,316 new cases were detected.Brazil currently has the world's second-highest pandemic death toll after the United States, and the third-largest caseload after the United States and India.IAF chief RKS Bhadauria reaches Israel on official visitIndian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria on Tuesday reached Israel in an official visit on the invitation from his counterpart Major General Amikam Norkin."Indian Air Force chief RKS Bhadauria reached Israel yesterday on an official visit on an invitation from his counterpart Major General Amikam Norkin," tweeted Indian Air Force (IAF).Both sides will be discussing enhancement in depth and scope of bilateral exchanges between the two Air Forces.ED arrests businessman and Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar in a money laundering caseThe Enforcement Directorate has arrested Avantha Group promoter Gautam Thapar in connection with a money laundering case, officials said on Wednesday.Thapar was arrested under provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on Tuesday night after the agency carried out raids against him and his linked businesses in Delhi and Mumbai, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-4-2021-101628042959052.html
04-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh: 1,171 villages hit by floods, relief work underway | 10 points||The Gwalior-Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh has been reeling under floods following heavy rainfall on Tuesday, which led to as many as 1,171 villages being affected in the inundation. Most of these areas are located in the Sheopur and Shivpuri districts, news agencies reporting citing officials with the matter. Meanwhile, the Indian Army is participating in the rescue effort to aid disaster management officials at the state disaster response force (SDRF) and the national disaster response force (NDRF), already engaged in the relief operation.Madhya Pradesh floods: Here's all you need to know about the ground situation, in 10 points:1 . As many as 200 villages, especially those in the Sheopur and Shivpuri districts, still remain marooned following heavy rainfall in the Gwalior-Chambal region on Tuesday.2 . Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra has announced that he will personally visit the flood-affected areas in the Datia district on Wednesday to take stock of the ground situation.3 . As many as 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh have been affected due to excessive rainfall, according to the state's chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan.4 . The flooding in the Shivpuri and Sheopur districts is due to an "unprecedented" 800mm rainfall in the past 24 hours, Madhya Pradesh CM Chouhan said while speaking to reporters earlier on Tuesday.5 . The Indian Army has been helping out with relief operations in the districts of Shivpuri, Sheopur, Gwalior, and Datia, according to state additional chief secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora. One column of the armed forces has been mobilised for each of the three aforementioned districts affected by the floods.6 . Despite the bad weather, the Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted as many as four sorties on Tuesday to rescue stranded people from the flood-hit areas.7 . Seven teams of the SDRF have been deployed in the Shivpuri district for relief operations. In the Sheopur and Datia districts, the SDRF has deployed five and two of its teams, respectively.8 . Expressing his gratitude for the prompt response of the armed forces, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan spoke to Union defence minister Rajnath Singh over the issue, also briefing him regarding the flood situation and the rescue work. The chief minister also spoke to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the same issue, with the latter assuring the state government of all necessary help in dealing with the flood situation.9 . Repair work is going on between Padarkhed and Mohana because of which several trains passing through the Shivpuri-Gwalior section are either diverted or terminated at the originating stations, according to a railway official. A major portion of a bridge over the Sindh river near Ratangarh temple close to Datia town washed away due to heavy rains, a police official said.10 . Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan chaired an emergency meeting on Tuesday at the secretariat in the state capital Bhopal to monitor the rescue operations and reviewed the flood situation in Gwalior and Chambal divisions. The CM said he will soon conduct an aerial survey of the flood-affected areas of the state. "I am in touch with collectors and other officials of the flood-affected districts and people were sent on a high-places for safety where relief camps too were started," he said, adding the situation in rain-hit Shivpuri, Sheopur, Bhind and Datia districts is monitored continuously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-1-171-villages-hit-by-floods-relief-work-underway-10-points-101628042597378.html
04-08-2021||India||Will Odisha's Jagannath temple reopen for devotees? Decision expected today||The Shree Jagannath Temple Administration (SJTA) will on Wednesday decided on the reopening of the 12th century shrine in Puri. The SJTA wil hold a meeting today where a decision is expected to be taken on the issue.The Odisha government had allowed the reopening of religious institutions with appropriate Covid-19 restrictions from August 1.The virtual meeting, which will be held later today, has been called by SJTA chief administrator Krishan Kumar. It will be attended by Puri's magistrate-cum-collector, superintendent of police, chief district medical officer and members of the temple coordination committee.The officials will take stock of the Covid situation in the state and decide when to open the Jagannath temple for devotees.The state government, in its guideline for August, has categorically stated that SJTA, Puri and the Shree Lingaraj Temple Administration, Bhubaneswar may decide on reopening of temples under their management for public darshan in consultation with stakeholders concerned and in compliance with Covid-19 safety protocols.The guidelines also say that no prasad will be offered by the devotees.The SJTA had banned the entry of pilgrims to the temple in April, when the secind wave of the coronavirus disease was at its peak. All the daily rituals are being performed by servitors and other temple staff.The devotees were prevented from attending the Rath Yatra in July due to Covid-19 restrictions in place. A large number of priests pulled the three colourful chariots in Puri without presence of any public following the orders of Supreme Court.Rath Yatra is one of the main festivals of Odisha that commemorates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath and his siblings from the 12th century Jagannath temple to their aunt's abode in Gundicha temple, 2.5 km away. The Gundicha temple is the place where Lord Jagannath is said to have taken the form in which he is currently worshipped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-odisha-s-jagannath-temple-reopen-for-devotees-decision-expected-today-101628037694699.html
04-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra to visit flood-hit villages in Datia district||Madhya Pradesh has witnessed overwhelming floods over the past day and a half as heavy rainfall in the Gwalior-Chambal region marooned as many as 200 villages, especially those in the Sheopur and Shivpuri districts. The state's home minister Narottam Mishra has announced that he will personally visit the flood-affected areas in the Datia district on Wednesday to take stock of the ground situation."Due to heavy rains in the Gwalior-Chambal region, a number of districts are reeling under flood," the Madhya Pradesh home minister tweeted from his official handle on the microblogging website. "Several villages in the Datia district have also been affected by floods. I am going to personally visit this region today to take stock of the ground situation myself. On Wednesday, I will review the situation in the flood-hit villages of the district."As many as 1,171 villages in the Gwalior-Chambal region of Madhya Pradesh have been affected due to excessive rainfall, according to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. In the case of the Shivpuri and Sheopur districts of the state, an "unprecedented" 800mm rainfall in the past 24 hours resulted in flooding, Chouhan said while speaking to reporters earlier on Tuesday.Notably, the Indian Army has been helping out with relief operations in the districts of Shivpuri, Sheopur, Gwalior, and Datia, according to state additional chief secretary (Home) Rajesh Rajora. He said that despite the bad weather, the Indian Air Force (IAF) conducted as many as four sorties on Tuesday to rescue stranded people from the flood-hit areas.Three people were stranded atop a tree for about 24 hours in the Beechi village, while five others were reported to be stranded at Piproudha in the flood-hit Shivpuri district, it was reported earlier in the day. According to disaster management officials, these stranded people were rescued later by the armed forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-home-minister-narottam-mishra-to-visit-flood-hit-villages-in-datia-district-101628035950902.html
04-08-2021||India||Karnataka cabinet expansion: CM Bommai says oath-taking at 2:15pm today||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that an expansion of the state cabinet will take place on Wednesday evening, once the clearance for the same is received from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) central leadership in the morning. The swearing-in of the new ministers, as part of the cabinet expansion, will take place at 2:15pm on Wednesday, according to reports citing government officials familiar with the development."We will get the official council of ministers list who will take oath at Raj Bhavan," Bommai was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, while the chief minister was speaking to reporters in Delhi. "The ceremony will take place at 2.15pm at Raj Bhavan."Earlier, the chief minister said that the oath-taking ceremony will be held "in the evening", once the central leadership provides its clearance for the same on Wednesday morning.Basavaraj Bommai, who took his own oath as the 23rd chief minister of Karnataka on July 28, arrived in Delhi on August 2 to discuss the plans for the state cabinet expansion with the BJP national president JP Nadda.Bommai indicated that there is a growing contention among party leaders of the state against the continuing deputy chief ministers appointed by former Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa, Bommai's predecessor, during his tenure.Bommai simply said that there is a "difference of opinion" on whether to continue the deputy chief minister post. He added that the central BJP leadership has decided to take decisions regarding the Karnataka cabinet expansion only after discussing the matter with Yediyurappa.There is also the matter of BY Vijayendra, Yediyurappa's son, who has been reported to be anointed a position in the new cabinet. "Regarding BY Vijayendra, the party will take a final call," Bommai told reporters.Bommai said that he had briefed Nadda, in a detailed manner, on the ground situation in Karnataka. Based on such discussions, a decision over the Karnataka cabinet expansion will be taken, he added.The Monday tour to Delhi was Basavaraj Bommai's second visit to the national capital. On July 30, he met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. During his two-day visit to the national capital earlier, he also met several Union ministers, including home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-cabinet-expansion-cm-bommai-says-oath-taking-likely-today-101628034376785.html
04-08-2021||India||Only six ceasefire violations since pact with Pakistan, Centre tells Lok Sabha||Only six incidents of ceasefire violation have been reported since India and Pakistan agreed in February to strictly observe all agreements related to cross-border firing along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir among other sectors, the Centre said in Parliament on Tuesday.In a written response in the Lok Sabha, Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai said while there were 380 incidents of ceasefire violations in January and 278 in February, no such cases were reported in March. One case of ceasefire violation was reported in April, three in May and two in June. He added that during instances of unprovoked firings by Pakistan, immediate retaliation by the Indian Army and BSF is carried out||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/only-six-ceasefire-violations-since-pact-with-pakistan-centre-tells-lok-sabha-101628022830861.html
04-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir next week||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is likely to visit Jammu and Kashmir on August 9, a party functionary said on Tuesday.During an informal discussion with the Opposition leaders at a breakfast meeting in Constitution Club, Gandhi told some of them that he will visit the Union territory soon, a senior non-Congress leader who was sitting at the same table with the former Congress chief said, asking not to be named.During his visit, Gandhi is likely to meet a few Congress leaders and may stay in the UT only for a couple of days.Gandhi also told the Opposition leaders that he planned to visit Kerala, his electoral state, but had to cancel it due to the monsoon session of Parliament.“He told us that he will go to Kashmir soon. During our chat, which was just a general discussion during breakfast, Rahul said he also planned to go to Kerala but couldn’t go,” the leader cited above said.“The Congress leader also said that he is trying to resolve the Rajasthan crisis soon,” the leader added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-likely-to-visit-jammu-and-kashmir-next-week-101628021940923.html
04-08-2021||India||Election Commission to start preparations for five poll-bound states||The Election Commission of India has kick-started the process to conduct elections in poll-bound Uttar Pradesh, Goa, Manipur, Uttarakhand and Punjab, and a special summary revision and updation of the electoral rolls is set to begin next week, people familiar with the matter said. Elections in the five states are due early next year.The summary revision will involve the addition of new voters, who will be eligible to vote from January 1, 2022. Revision normally begins three months before January, but keeping in mind Covid-19 constraints and to ensure efficient planning, EC has decided to start it earlier, said the official quoted above.The commission, which comprises chief election commissioner Sushil Chandra and election commissioners Rajiv Kumar and Anup Chandra Pandey, will oversee the operations.People familiar with the matter said that EC is focusing on polling station rationalisation to ensure that Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed. “The chief electoral officers of states will soon start the process to clean up the electoral roll and make sure that demographically similar entries are removed to avoid duplication,” said a person familiar with the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-to-start-preparations-for-five-poll-bound-states-101628021202001.html
04-08-2021||India||HC strikes down TN amendment banning poker, rummy games||In a shot in the arm for online games, the Madras high court on Tuesday struck down an amendment made to the Tamil Nadu Gaming Act, which banned online games including online rummy and online poker with stakes. The previous AIADMK government had brought in an ordinance in November 2020 later adopted as the Amendment Act, which the court said ultra vires the Constitution. The first bench, comprising Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, said that by imposing a wide-ranging blanket ban, the state has completely failed to meet the “least intrusive” measure test and, therefore, the impugned amendment falls foul of Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution.The bench passed the orders on a batch of pleas moved by online gaming companies challenging the amendment. The court said that the legislation “has to be regarded as something done by the legislature capriciously, irrationally and without adequate determining principle such that it is excessive and disproportionate…”The court also drew in international sportspersons to make the distinction in skills of playing sports and games physically on the field, board games such as cards and scrabble and playing in cyberspace. “It is true that Arnold Palmer or Severiano Ballesteros may never have mastered how golf is played on the computer or Messi or Ronaldo may be outplayed by a team of infants in a virtual game of football, but Viswanathan Anand or Omar Sharif would not be so disadvantaged when playing their chosen games of skill on the virtual mode,” the court said. “Such distinction is completely lost in the Amending Act as the original scheme in the Act of 1930 of confining gaming to games of chance has been turned upside down and all games outlawed if played for a stake or for any prize.”“There appears to be a little doubt that both rummy and poker are games of skill as they involve considerable memory, working out of percentages, the ability to follow the cards on the table and constantly adjust to the changing possibilities of the unseen cards,” the court said. The bench added that though Poker may not have been recognised in any previous judgment in India to be a game of skill, an American case even convinced the Law Commission to accept poker as a game of skill in its 276th Report. The petitioners contended that these were games of skill and not of chance while the previous government brought in the amendment on account that teenagers and young adults were losing their money while playing online betting games which had also led to suicides. “All that can be said is that the Amending Act is so unequivocally audacious that it rules out any element of choice that an individual may exercise,” the court said adding that some regulation can still be exercised. The All India Gaming Federation, an apex industry body whose self-regulation charter includes Fantasy Sports, Online Poker, Rummy, welcomed the judgment. “It iterates that the Court is not against online gaming, and calls for the government to devise a regulatory framework to provide clarity to the sunrise online gaming industry with a view to encourage investments leading to technological advancements as well as generation of revenue and employment,” said Roland Landers, CEO, All India Gaming Federation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-strikes-down-tn-amendment-banning-poker-rummy-games-101628019454652.html
04-08-2021||India||Hyderabad encounter: SC grants 6 more months for panel to submit report||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave another six months to a three-member inquiry commission, headed by former apex court judge V S Sirpurkar, to finalise its report on the circumstances leading to the encounter killing of four accused in the gang-rape and murder of a veterinarian in Hyderabad in 2019. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India N V Ramana, however, expressed displeasure at the pendency of the judicial inquiry which was initiated in December 2019. “Why is this matter going on and on? This can be done in three to four months. Is it necessary to inquire 130-140 witnesses?” the bench, which also included justice Surya Kant, asked.On a request by commission’s lawyer K Parameshwar, the bench pointed out that another commission, headed by former top court judge B S Chauhan, to look into the encounter killing of Uttar Pradesh gangster Vikas Dubey in July 2020 had already concluded its inquiry and submitted a report. “Why is this then taking so much time?” the court asked. Parameshwar, on his part, replied that the inquiry could not be completed due to the Covid-19 pandemic that stopped the commission from conducting physical hearings and examining witnesses in person. Reluctantly, the bench gave another extension to the commission for the third time. The previous two extensions of six months each were granted in July 2020 and January 2021. The panel, which also comprised retired Bombay high court judge Rekha Baldota and former Central Bureau of Investigation director DR Karthikeyan, was initially directed in December 2019 to wrap up its inquiry in six months. Mohammed Arif, Chintakunta Chennakeshavulu, Jolu Shiva and Jollu Naveen, who were arrested in connection with the rape and murder of the 27-year-old veterinarian in Hyderabad on November 27, 2019, were shot dead in an alleged encounter at the site of the offence in Hyderabad a month later.According to the police, the accused were taken to the spot to recreate the scene of crime when they tried to flee after snatching weapons from the police personnel. All four were killed when the police fired on them.Advocates GS Mani and Pradeep Sharma had filed petitions in the court, demanding an independent investigation into the incident, following which the judicial commission was set up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hyderabad-encounter-sc-grants-6-more-months-for-panel-to-submit-report-101628019394680.html
04-08-2021||India||‘Procreate more, win big rewards’: Kerala Catholic commission sends out message to believers||The dwindling numbers of the Christian population in Kerala have prompted the Catholic churches to dust off an old slogan -- “procreate more and win rewards”. The clergy is tightening its grip on believers and all churches have been asked to redraw their pro-life and family commission activities by the family commission wing of the Kerala Catholic Bishops Conference (KCBC) to send the message across -- big is better. Catholics form about 60 per cent of the Christian population in the state. According to the 2011 census, the Christian population in Kerala is 18.38% – a two per cent drop from the earlier census, and its numbers are declining after every census.Pala diocese in Kottayam was first to make an offer last week – it announced a ₹1500 monthly bonanza for those who have got married after 2000 and have four children and above. The icing on the cake is free education and medical care for siblings and parents, with the church controlling a lion’s share of educational institutions and hospitals in the state. Later, many dioceses followed suit.“It is nothing new. We took it up again in the backdrop of the (Covid-19) pandemic and the ongoing year of family celebrations,” said Father Joseph Kuttianikal, director of the family apostolate of Pala diocese, scoffing at speculations that church is eyeing a population boom. The Kerala Catholic Bishops Conference said the new initiative of Pala diocese was part of the family welfare activities for “protection of life” as propounded by the Vatican direction to observe the ‘year of family’.”There is no room for any controversy. We have been consistently telling believer since 2011 when we started felicitating large families,” said KCBC family commission chairman Father M Paul Antony.“There are many policies to support families that receive more children. We have to formulate more such measures to boost our family life,” said Father Paul Simenthy, secretary of the KCBC family commission in a letter to all church heads. This is happening at a time when many states are planning stringent measures to control population explosion, but the church put up a brave face saying it has every right to check its depleting numbers, and that it was part of the ‘year of the family’ celebration announced by Pope Francis. Pastoral letters were read in many churches in the state last Sunday reminding believers about their “family duty and obligation”.The church also reminded believers that sex is not merely an instrument of pleasure, but integral to procreation and flourish. There is a growing tendency among couples in their pursuit of happiness and career options to opt-out children, and the church sniffs influence of globalisation and a perverse view on life for this malaise. It wants Indian Catholic tradition not to embrace the western way where religious life shrunk badly. “The pro-life movement is not to raise numbers only. It is a comprehensive move to uphold family values and cherish the Catholic way of life. It is all the more important now as the anti-life campaign is getting stronger globally,” said Father Paul Thelekkat, former spokesman of the Syro-Malabar church.However, reformists said the church’s latest call was triggered by “commercial interests”. “Our society needs responsible parenthood and not incentivised one. Let parents make a judgment on their progeny, not outside forces,” said Shyju Antony, a leader of Save Our Sisters, a movement floated in the wake of the stir against rape accused former Bishop of Jalandhar Franco Mulakkal. He said the church was only concerned about numbers, not the financial background of the family or the health of mothers.In 2017, the Thamarassery diocese in north Kerala told believers that boys should marry before the age of 26, and girls before 23, while the Irinajalakuda diocese in Thrissur had given an advertisement in local media in 2014 saying that it will give ₹1000 per month to the fourth child till he/she attains the age of 20. One of the reasons for Kerala’s low birth rate is late marriages. KCBC has also called believers to observe a black day on August 10, the 50th anniversary of the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act in the country. The church has been opposing all types of abortions, saying human life must be respected and protected from the moment of conception. Kerala is believed to be one of the oldest Christian settlements. St Thomas, one of the 12 apostles of Lord Jesus, is learnt to have visited the state in the first century AD. In its 2000-year history, the Indian church has only six saints and the last five came in ten years, ending the long drought of holy men in a country where religion took roots in apostolic times. Out of the six, four are from Kerala – St Alphonsa, St Kuriakose Elias Chavara, St Euphrasia and St Mariam Thresia. Believers feel that since the laity’s religious enthusiasm is on the wane in developed countries, the church is seeking solutions in a big way. And Kerala still produces some of the best priests and nuns in the world, believers say, adding that a growing number of saints are a bonanza for them to tread the holy path.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procreate-more-win-big-rewards-kerala-catholic-commission-sends-out-message-to-believers-101628019334687.html
04-08-2021||India||Kerala reports highest spike in Covid-19 cases since May||Kerala reported 23,676 new cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the highest since May 29, but the spike could also be due to the more than 200,000 tests it carried out — one of the highest numbers till date.The numbers translated to a test positivity rate of 11.87%, roughly within the 12% range it has recorded over the last week. The test positivity rate is far higher than the 5% threshold.The state also recorded 148 new deaths.Officials said they have now stepped up random testing and are planning to intensify the vaccination drive for which they have approached the Union government for more doses. “We can inoculate 500,000 people a day. If we get more vaccines, we can inoculate maximum people. We are in constant touch with the Union government for this,” said state health minister Veena George.The latest serology survey across the country has shown that Kerala had the least exposure to the virus till July among all Indian states, which also means it has the largest chunk of susceptible population.Experts said the state will need to keep a close watch on the situation. “Consistent rise in cases and no sign of plateauing are indications of a possible third wave. As of now, things are under control, and we have to ensure it should not get out of hands during the upcoming Onam festivities,” said internal medicine expert from Palakkad, Dr NM Arun.Union government officials said in Delhi that there are 18 worst-affected districts in the country, of which 10 are in Kerala, with Malappuram averaging a TPR of over 17 per cent last week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-reports-highest-spike-in-covid-19-cases-since-may-101628019274707.html
04-08-2021||India||‘Riding an unruly horse’: HC rejects plea to redact name of man acquitted of rape||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Tuesday turned down a request from a man acquitted in a rape case to redact his name from court judgments, underlining that it would be appropriate to wait for the proposed data protection law that could provide an objective criterion for redaction of names of acquitted persons.“If such uniform standards are not followed across the country, the constitutional courts will be riding an unruly horse which will prove to be counterproductive to the existing system,” the bench of justice Anand Venkatesh said in its order on the man’s right to be forgotten.The petitioner, previously an accused in a case of cheating and rape on the false pretext of marriage, was acquitted by the court. After the verdict, the man approached the high court to seek orders to remove his name.During previous hearings, justice Venkatesh had observed that the accused, prima facie, are entitled to have their name redacted from judicial orders and verdicts, particularly the ones that are easily accessible by a simple Google search.The court consulted the advocates association and members of the bar to gauge the ramifications at a marathon five-hour-long hearing on July 28.Subsequently, the court concluded that implementation was going to be an issue if a generalised order is passed and directions were issued. On Tuesday, the court finally dismissed the petition, observing that the petitioner await the enactment of a data protection law that may spell out the criteria to be followed.“If such uniform standards are not followed across the country, the constitutional courts will be riding an unruly horse which will prove to be counterproductive to the existing system,” the court reasoned.Also Read: The fine line that separates judicial transparency and the right to be forgottenJustice Venkatesh also observed the failings of the criminal justice system in India such as “slipshod investigation, dishonest witnesses and lack of an effective witness protection system” due to which the court sometimes “helplessly” pass orders of acquittals.“This court honestly feels that our criminal justice system is yet to reach such standards where courts can venture to pass orders for redaction of name of an accused person on certain objective criteria prescribed by rules or regulations.”There are issues that would need to be figured. For instance, when can a court order redacting a person’s name. When the first verdict by the trial court is out or when the case goes to an appellate court or the revisional stage. “And how should it be done in cases which have already concluded and become a part of the record,” the court questioned. Unlike the United States, where through a court order there can be complete destruction of the entire records of an accused person after their acquittal and they can start their life afresh, such a system doesn’t exist in India, the court said.Only rules under The Juvenile Justice [Care and Protection of Children] Act, 2015 provides for the complete destruction of the entire criminal record which ultimately removes the person from their identity as an accused person. During the course of deliberation, various foreign judgments, Shakespear’s Othello related to the issue of privacy, reputation were cited. The court also noted a recent interim order of the Delhi high court that directed websites concerned to redact the name of the petitioner.“This court felt that there are certain finer aspects which have to be considered failing which may open up flood gates,” justice Venkatesh said.“There must be a proper policy formulated in this regard by means of specific rules... failing which, such an exercise will lead to utter confusion.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/riding-an-unruly-horse-hc-rejects-plea-to-redact-name-of-man-acquitted-of-rape-101628018196722.html
04-08-2021||India||Supreme Court to examine if ABCL owes tax for promotion||The Supreme Court has agreed to examine if M/s AB Corp Ltd (ABCL) is liable to pay service tax for promoting brands through advertisements that featured Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan.The actor’s wife and Rajya Sabha MP Jaya Bachchan is one of the directors in the ABCL.On Monday, a bench of justices Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud and MR Shah admitted an appeal by the service tax department against the 2019 order of the service tax appellate tribunal, observing that the matter will need examination.“Okay, we will examine the matter. We are granting leave and will hear it later,” the bench told additional solicitor general (ASG) Vikramjit Banerjee, who appeared for the department. According to the department’s show cause notice issued in February 2005, ABCL is liable to pay ₹4.6 crore in tax after receiving ₹28.74 crore for the brand promotion service by engaging Bachchan for advertisements and activities between 2003-2005.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-to-examine-if-abcl-owes-tax-for-brand-promotion-101628017417890.html
04-08-2021||India||Delhi HC dismisses plea to replace EVMs with ballot, ₹10k penalty imposed||The Delhi high court on Tuesday dismissed, with a cost of ₹10,000, a plea seeking directions to the Election Commission of India to stop the use of electronic voting machines (EVM) in all forthcoming elections, and to use ballot papers instead.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jyoti Singh said the petition by lawyer CR Jaya Sukin was a “publicity interest litigation” based on hearsay and “baseless allegations and averments”. It sought to know what research the petitioner had conducted to show that EVMs were faulty.“Petitioner has read these news items and filed a petition without looking at the EVM machine and style of working of EVM machine which is approved by ECI as well as by Parliament under Section 61A of Representation of Peoples Act, 1951. It is also submitted by party in person that petitioner has done research that neither in UK, France and other countries, EVMs are not used. This is not research by the petitioner but only a reading of news items by him,” the court said.The bench noted that the petition was based on four documents, out of which one was a news item and others pertained to his representation and plea before the Supreme Court, and added that Sukin had no direct knowledge about EVMs at all.“Nothing is argued by the petitioner (Sukin) concretely on the working of the EVM. We see no reason to entertain the writ petition... The writ petition is dismissed with costs of ₹10,000 to be deposited in four weeks towards Delhi State Legal Services Authority,” the court said.The court said that Sukin can file a fresh petition on the issue after conducting research and making proper averments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-junks-plea-to-replace-evms-with-ballot-rs-10k-penalty-imposed-101628017417201.html
04-08-2021||India||Chinese govt confirms Indian student was murdered, 1 held||Beijing The Chinese police have taken into custody a foreign student at Tianjin Foreign Studies University (TFSU) in connection with the murder of a 20-year-old Indian, a student at the same varsity, last week, people familiar with the development said.Aman Nagsen, a resident of Gaya in Bihar, was a student of international business studies at the university located in the city of Tianjin, around 100 km south of Beijing. He was found dead on the campus on July 29.Preliminary examination of the body and the crime scene by Tianjin police confirmed that Nagsen was murdered, the Chinese foreign ministry told HT in a statement.“Around 8 pm on the night of July 29, Tianjin Municipal Public Security Bureau (PSB) received a call saying that an Indian student was lying on the floor of the dormitory with no sign of life,” the statement said.“The initial investigation of the Public Security organ found the case to be homicide, and the suspect is another foreign student at the university. Compulsory measures have been taken on the suspect and the case is still under further investigation,” the statement added. HT has separately learnt that Nagsen was stabbed to death with a sharp-edged weapon.Neither the nationality of the suspect nor the motive behind the murder — what seems like a rare serious crime on a Chinese campus involving two foreigners — could be immediately confirmed. It also could not be known if the murder weapon was recovered by the investigators.The Chinese foreign ministry said it was in communication with the Indian embassy in Beijing on the case. The Indian embassy was informed about the case first on July 30 and then again on the following day, it added.“Relevant Chinese competent authorities had notified the Indian embassy in Beijing of the situation of the case on July 30 and 31, respectively, and maintained communication with the embassy,” the statement.“The Chinese side will handle the case in accordance with law and offer active assistance in follow-up matters,” it added. Besides the motive behind the crime, several questions remain answered, including the time when the murder was committed and if there was a likely gap of days between the crime and the discovery of the body.The case also raises questions on the role of the university authorities in looking after the welfare and security of foreign students staying on campus.Last week, worried family members got in touch with Nagsen’s local guardian in Beijing after being unable to contact him for several days.The local guardian in turn got in touch with TFSU authorities, persuading them to look him up. That was when Nagsen’s body was found.The Indian embassy has so far been tightlipped about the case because of the sensitivity of the matter.Meanwhile, Nagsen’s grieving family in Gaya continued its appeal to authorities in India and China for help in getting the body back.“Let them continue with the investigation after sending the remains home. We beg the Chinese and Indian authorities,” the deceased’s uncle Pankaj Paswan said from Gaya.An official from the Indian embassy is said to have gone to Tianjin to coordinate the release of the body with local Chinese authorities.Sending back Nagsen’s body to India is likely to be a complicated and a costly process as no passenger flights are currently operating between China and India in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The remains would have to be sent through a third country.Official sources told HT that the autopsy was conducted on Tuesday and the death certificate is expected to arrive in a week. The process for repatriation of the body to India will be carried out thereafter, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chinese-govt-confirms-indian-student-was-murdered-1-held-101628017294536.html
04-08-2021||India||We’re making mockery of judicial system: Supreme Court on pending cases||“Collectively, we are making a mockery of the judicial system,” said the Supreme Court on Tuesday, referring to the sheer number of trivial and miscellaneous cases that have prevented the top court from deciding the ones that really matter to those waiting for final decisions of their long-pending matters.“A common man is not interested in our niceties or the big legal principles that we keep talking about. A litigant wants to know what is there for him in a case that he has filed; whether he has a case or not. He does not want to wait indefinitely to know whether he was right or not. What does he do with a judgment that takes 10 years or 20 years?” remarked a bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hrishikesh Roy.Justice Kaul added: “In the Supreme Court, I have dealt with an execution case in which the civil suit was pending for 45 years. We are deciding cases that old. Personally, I have been trying to take out old cases so that there can be quietus in at least some of them but we keep getting bombed by miscellaneous matters, anticipatory bail, bail, interim relief etc and there is no time left to decide the old cases.”As on August 2, there were 69,476 cases pending in the Supreme Court. Out of this, 50,901 cases (73%) are miscellaneous matters relating to relief at interim stages.The bench said that there are civil and criminal appeals pending in the Supreme Court that are more than a decade old. “We are sorry to say but the legal fraternity is also interested only in these interim relief matters. Nobody wants to argue the final matters. Collectively, we are making a mockery of the judicial system.” The court was hearing a bunch of cases relating to compensation in motor accident cases when it took umbrage at scores of applications and petitions for interim relief being filed indiscriminately before the Supreme Court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/were-making-mockery-of-judicial-system-sc-on-pending-cases-101628017235280.html
04-08-2021||India||Climate crisis triggered extreme events: Data||There has been an increase in cloudburst occurrences and landslide incidents due to extreme rainfall events in the western Himalayas this year, especially in July, when compared to previous years, according to data maintained by disaster management authorities of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand.As per data, this year’s monsoon was also more erratic with the rainfall intensity increasing in short durations, causing damage to property and human life. “Most climate models agree that extreme rainfall events during the monsoon will increase and this was shown in July with heavy rainfall in many places in the last 20 days of the month,” said Prof Ravi Shankar Nanjundiah, director of Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology.While heavy rainfall caused flooding in Bihar, West Bengal and parts of north-east India, it triggered landslides in the western Himalayan region. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the rainfall in the last 20 days of July in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir were around 110% above normal.One of the reasons for higher-than-normal rainfall was the high frequency of cloudbursts in the Himalayas. At least 30 people were killed in rain-related incidents, as per the data available with the home ministry.According to IMD, a precipitation event that exceeds 100mm of rainfall in an hour is considered to be a cloudburst. However, there may be heavy rainfall events that may not be described as a cloudburst and may cause flash floods. In July, the western Himalayan region saw several heavy rainfall days.While experts agree that climate crisis is one of the main reasons for increase in the frequency of extreme rainfall, some blame localised factors.“Unplanned road cutting and unabated stone mining are adding to the problem of frequent landslides, even during normal rainfall... authorities turn a blind eye to the damage done to the environment,” said Professor GM Bhat, former head of geology department at the University of Jammu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/increase-in-cloudburst-and-landslides-this-year-shows-data-101628016633309.html
04-08-2021||India||Farmers enact a mock Parliament to protest three laws||At Jantar Mantar, an 18th-century observatory in India’s national capital, a farmers’ mock parliament is in session, barely a kilometre from India’s actual Parliament. ‘Lawmakers’ in the mock one unanimously sign off on a series of ‘legislation’, from repealing real-world “anti-farmer laws” to enacting “legal guarantees” for assured farm prices.Protests in New Delhi by farm unions against three agricultural laws enacted by the Modi government last year are full of colourful acts of high symbolism, backed by nearly 200 cultivators from various food-bowl states.Elsewhere in the hinterland, however, farm unions are preparing to doggedly resist agricultural policies of the Narendra Modi-led government. The protests have long radiated, after they began in November 2020, from Punjab on to Haryana and Rajasthan, and most importantly Uttar Pradesh, a political bellwether which faces assembly elections next year.On the face of it, the farmers have had little success in convincing the government to scrap three laws that provide for freer agricultural markets, allowing big supermarkets and food businesses to directly source produce from farmers.“Aside from the question of repealing the laws, we are ready to talk on any provision of the laws at any time,” agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said twice last month.The Modi government has argued that the laws are important to boost rural investments and farm incomes. The farmers say the new laws will expose them to exploitation by big buyers. They prefer to rely on highly regulated government-backed markets, which are not corruption free, but allow farmers to get assured prices for cereals.Farmers have demanded a flagship law that will legally guarantee benchmark rates, known as minimum support prices, for all produce, regardless of market conditions.“You will see the impact (of the farmers’ agitation) in elections. Please wait,” Rakesh Tikait, who represents the Bharatiya Kisan Union outfit, said.Behind the curtains, strategies are being drawn to campaign against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which rules both at the Centre and states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Farmers from both these states are heavily participating in the protests.A core group of farm leaders make up the Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella outfit coordinating the protests that are now well-organised in at least four large states: Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan and Punjab. The first two are ruled by the BJP.“We are saying repeal these laws. The government is not listening. We are opposing the BJP because it has brought these laws and is refusing to drop them.” Tikait makes it clear that he will work to defeat the BJP.His organisation has planned at least 100 mahapanchayats, or traditional clan-based rural rallies, in Uttar Pradesh. “Lucknow ko Dilli banayenge (will turn Lucknow into another Delhi,” he said. The BJP, which managed a landslide victory in the 2017 assembly polls and grabbed 76% of seats in the recent local body polls, hopes its policies for farmers will pay off.“The political fallout (of these protests) is not very concerning. Steps taken by the government to improve farm incomes will counter any negative fallout,” said Gopal Aggarwal, the BJP’s national spokesperson overseeing economic affairs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-enact-a-mock-parliament-to-protest-agricultural-laws-101628016632241.html
04-08-2021||India||Covid-19 cases rise for first time since second wave peak||After nearly three months of steady decline, daily Covid-19 infections in India have again started inching upwards, pushed largely by the high volume of daily cases in states such as Kerala where the outbreak continues to expand rapidly. Two more states, Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, have seen their seven-day average of daily infections rise by over 75% from the lows seen after the end of the brutal second wave of infections, an analysis by HT shows.The seven-day average of new infections, which denotes the country’s Covid-19 case curve, dropped to a low of 37,975 every day for the week ending July 22, but has since risen gradually with 40,710 new cases being reported every day for the week ending August 3.While in absolute numbers, this may be a marginal increase in cases, each time such a reversal has occurred in India’s outbreak, it has marked a crucial turning point in the cycle.The week-on-week change in the case curve has now been above zero for the past six days, the first time this has happened since May 10 — when the second wave peaked (see chart). A positive change in this number means an outbreak is expanding, while when this value drops below 0%, it denotes a contraction. The last time this number rose above 0% was on February 17, the statistical point from where India’s second wave started.Meanwhile, the national average positivity rate – a crucial metric that shows the spread of infection – has also started slowly inching upwards, and has risen from a low of 2% to 2.4% in the past two weeks.To be sure, this increase in cases as well as positivity rate (at least at the national level) has been very gradual so far, but it is a cause for alarm as it comes at a time when restrictions on several economic and social activities have been eased, and people and governments are becoming complacent.The biggest centre of the outbreak in the country continues to be Kerala, which reported 20,337 new cases every day in the past week, accounting for nearly half of all new infections in the country. But there are plenty of other regions that are either seeing high levels of infections, or where cases are rising again. The states in the country’s North-East continue to see large number of cases. To be sure, cases in the region have peaked , with three of the region’s biggest outbreak centres , Mizoram, Manipur and Meghalaya , seeing a decline in cases.Two more states, however, appear to be taking their space. In both Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh, the seven-day average of new cases has risen 76% from the lowest levels since the peak of the second wave.In Himachal, the case trajectory d dropped to a low of 95 new infections a day on average for the week ending June 23, but has again started rising and currently stands at 167.In the same period, the numbers have gone from 34 to 60 in Uttarakhand. Both states, interestingly, have seen a massive influx of tourists in recent weeks as cases have abated across the country.Even Delhi has seen a slight uptick in cases in recent weeks. The seven-day average of new cases in the national capital has gone up 26% in the past 11 days, data shows.These findings were echoed in the epidemiological estimates by the University of Michigan’s Centre for Precision Health Data Science, which showed that India’s overall effective reproduction number (Rt) has climbed to 1.04. An Rt of more than 1 means an outbreak is expanding in a region, while that below 1 denotes a contraction. Kerala had an Rt of 1.23, while Uttarakhand had an Rt of 1.33. The Rt of Delhi, meanwhile, was 1.05.During Tuesday’s Covid-19 media briefing, joint secretary of Union health ministry Lav Agarwal stressed it was too early to say the second wave has ended. He said that whenever R-number is above one, it means that the case trajectory is increasing and it needs to be controlled.“As far as India is concerned, the second wave is still not over,” he said, adding that there are 44 districts, located primarily in Kerala, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland where the government is keeping a close watch on as they continue to have high positivity rates.Experts warn that these regions cannot be treated as isolated islands of infection as an outbreak in one state can easily spread to another.“This trend of a few isolated pockets of rising cases in some areas is something that we’ve seen before. Every wave has started like this with one or two states reporting cases, then it spreads to more, until the outbreak finally goes out of control... even more so in case of tourist states like Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand. So it would be wise to prepare our strategies accordingly. Governments should try to isolate these pockets by forming microcontainment zones in districts with rising cases and stop the chain of transmission immediately,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cases-rise-for-first-time-since-second-wave-peak-101628016511620.html
04-08-2021||India||Best ever strike rate in CBSE’s Class 10 results||A record 99.04% of tenth graders cleared their exams, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced on Tuesday, in a trend similar to what was seen for twelfth graders after both board assessments were held on the basis of previous assessments in a pandemic year.The pass percentage was 7.58 percentage points higher than the previous academic year, when the Class 10 exams were largely held as usual except for in a few subjects before the country entered the first lockdown due to Covid-19.The pass percentage for Class 12 was 99.37% this year.Class 10 students were evaluated on the basis of their performances in unit tests, mid-term/half-yearly exams, and the pre-board examinations. Like last year, the board has not announced a merit list this year either, in view of the change in assessment method.The board declared the results of 2,097,128 out of the 2,113,767 regular students who appeared for the examination this year. Of them, 2,076,997 or 99.04% cleared it.As many as 200,962 and 57,824 students scored above 90% and 95% marks, respectively, higher than last year’s tally of 184,358 and 41,804 students scoring in that range.To check “inflation of marks”, CBSE had asked schools to keep their overall passing percentage in line with their best performance in Class 10 final exams in the last three years. The year they selected would be considered a reference year, and the schools were also required to ensure the overall average marks this year did not exceed the overall average marks in the reference year.The result of around 16,639 students was yet to be processed, officials said.CBSE controller of examinations, Sanyam Bhardwaj said, the schools of these students “either did not fulfil the required criteria or did not provide the required information in these cases”.“The board has already opened the online portal for these schools. The regional officers have already started working on it. We will declare the results of these students at the earliest,” he said.Bhardwaj also spoke on why the pass percentage shot despite the reference year requirement. “The increase in the overall pass percentage is because schools moderate the marks by +2 or -2 in accordance with their best percentage in the last three years. So the best of all the schools have together increased the overall pass percentage this year.”The overall pass percentage of Delhi has increased to 98.27% from last year’s 85.86%. The overall pass percentage of government schools in Delhi rose to 97.52% from last year’s 82.61%. Among private schools, this number increased from 90.2% last year to 99.58% this year.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a tweet: “The result for Delhi government schools is 97.52%. Our 186 children have scored above 95%. Many congratulations to the children, their parents and team education.”Several principals of private schools also said they were satisfied with the results. Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School in Rohini, where the average score stands at 82% and overall pass percentage is 100%, said: “The result is in accordance with our students’ performance in pre boards. We had strictly followed the CBSE criteria and the board also did not make any changes in the marks submitted by the school. We are quite satisfied with the results announced through the alternate method of assessment.”Educationist Meeta Sengupta said the alternate assessment method improved chances for more students, not just “toppers”. “It is heartening to hear the good news of a raised pass percentage in the CBSE examination, which not only reflects kinder assessments but also reflects that less stressful modes of testing students can improve the chances of more students, not just the toppers. This in-school portfolio mode of assessment supports the anxious student, the neurodiverse, the less abled and the many others who do well if the element of time and stress is removed, even if the stakes remain high, as they did this time,” she said.Parents also expressed relief. “Even as the school already started Class 11 lessons for my son, we were really anxious about his Class 10 result. There was a fear that the alternative assessment method could put him in a disadvantaged position since he is a high performer. But we are satisfied with the results. We hope things get better soon and he returns to the school,” said Sagar Pathak, father of a Class 11 student at Delhi Public School in RK Puram.Thiruvananthapuram remained at the top of the score tally with 99.99%, followed by Bengaluru (99.96%), Chennai (99.94%), Pune (99.92%) and Ajmer (99.88%).Maintaining the trend, more girls passed than boys by 0.35 percentage points, although the gap in performance shrunk drastically. Previously, this gap was 3.17% percentage point.Students appearing under the children with special needs category also recorded a pass percentage of 99.44%.The Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) and Central Tibetan Schools Administration (CTSA) recorded a 100% pass percentage across the country, followed by Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JKV), which had 99.99% pass percentage.Only 17,673 students were placed under compartment – they need to retake exam in a subject -- as against 150,198 students last year. The compartment exams will be conducted along with those enrolled in private and patrachar (correspondence) mode with the CBSE between August 16 and September 15, since the alternative assessment method could not be implemented in their case due to the unavailability of internal exam performances.The board has also clarified that in case any candidate is not satisfied with the marks allocated, they will be given an opportunity to appear in an exam as and when the conditions allow for it to be held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/best-ever-strike-rate-in-cbse-s-class-10-results-101628016512194.html
04-08-2021||India||Monthly output of vaccines to increase, Centre tells Parliament||The monthly production of Covishield will increase to 120 million doses a month and that of Covaxin to 58 million a month, the Union health minister said in the Rajya Sabha, citing information shared by the vaccines’ manufacturers, before a top government official explained that the increase in the latter dose will be result of new manufacturing units that have been activated.Union heath minister Mansukh Mandaviya made these submissions in response to a question, which asked for projected increase in production of these vaccines between August and December.Later, Niti Aayog member (Health) VK Paul said: “With Bharat Biotech’s Bangalore facility being activated, there will be a quantum jump in the number of doses of Covaxin. The doses from the unit have already started coming in; there was some delay to ensure quality control and optimisation.”“In addition to that, production of 6 million doses has also started at their Ankaleshwar plant that was used to make rabies vaccines,” Paul added.Several government units are also expected to chip in with production of Covaxin. “We may start getting about 2 million doses from Indian Immunologicals Limited by late August or September. It will take some time for production to begin at the Haffkine, BIBCOL (Bharat Immunologicals Biologicals Limited), and Gujarat consortium... Broadly, the activation of the PSUs will happen in November or December,” Paul added.“Final recommendation on whether the vaccine (by Zydus Cadila) is ready for use in adults and children or only in adults is likely in a week, or maximum two. Novovax has also received permission for conducting trials in children,” said Paul.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monthly-output-of-vaccines-to-increase-centre-tells-parliament-101628016452730.html
04-08-2021||India||‘Insult to House’: PM; Opposition hardens stand||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday slammed the Opposition for insulting “democracy, constitution, Parliament and the people” by disrupting of proceedings, but the Congress and other parties maintained that protests in both Houses will continue until the government agrees to a debate on the potential use of spyware against politicians, journalists, and activists.At a meeting of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) parliamentary party, Modi attacked the Opposition for the disruption of Parliament and asked party lawmakers to display restraint so that the dignity of Parliament is maintained, even as they tried everything in their powers to get it to function normally.But at a breakfast meeting hosted by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, representatives from 15 parties agreed to to stick to their stand on the Pegasus snooping issue. Later, at a key meeting called by vice president Venkaiah Naidu, Opposition leaders said the disruptions will not end unless Pegasus is debated in Parliament.Since the beginning of the session on July 19, opposition parties have protested in both Houses, disrupting listed business. Some of the parties, including the Congress, the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), have demanded a discussion and a reply from the PM or home minister Amit Shah on the Pegasus controversy. They have also sought a roll-back of three controversial central farm laws, and protested against spiralling fuel prices.As the stalemate continued in Rajya Sabha for the 11th day, the government and the Opposition met at the business advisory committee meeting headed by Naidu. The panel decided to take up eight items of business including seven bills and allotted 17 hours of time, but Opposition leaders maintained that the disruptions will not end unless Pegasus is debated.In the meeting, TMC and Congress leaders said that there were three urgent issues — price rise and economy, farm laws and Pegasus — and they wanted a debate on the third issue before anything else. Naidu again appealed to all sides to enable normal functioning of the House. The government managers reiterated they were ready to discuss the farm issue, price rise, and the economic situation.In the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla appealed to Opposition members to restore peace. He announced the several issues related to the farmers were raised in the Question Hour. “I want you (the Opposition) to ask questions to farmers’ issues to the agriculture minister. Parliamentarians who are disrupting the House don’t want to talk about farmers’ issues. You must respect and maintain decorum of this House,” he said.Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said Modi expressed anger at the conduct of some Opposition members at the BJP lawmakers’ meeting. The conduct of the Opposition is an “insult” to Parliament and the Constitution, they have an “undemocratic” attitude and are not keen on meaningful debates Joshi said, quoting the PM.The Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha have been able to utilise only 14% and 21% of their allotted times, respectively, according to PRS Legislative research.The PM is also learnt to have criticised a tweet by TMC’s Derek O’Brien on how the bills have been passed in Parliament without referring to the MP’s name. O’Brien tweeted on Monday: “In the first 10 days, Modi-Shah rushed through and passed 12 Bills at an average time of UNDER SEVEN MINUTES per Bill…Passing legislation or making papri chaat!” , referring to a popular street food.Union minister V Muraleedharan said the PM referred to the tweet as “derogatory” and an “insult of parliamentary procedure and esteem of elected representatives.”O’Brien said his intention was to use a cultural idiom to connect with the people and asked if the PM would be happier if he used the word “dhokla” instead, referring to a snack popular in Gujarat. “I am happy to see that we are setting the agenda and the PM is reacting to it,” he said.The PM has been flagging the issue of disruptions in Parliament for the past two weeks and underlining the need to expose the Opposition’s “attempts to derail the session”. On Tuesday, he said BJP MPs should not give in to provocation, and remain present in the house for parliamentary business.CPI(M) leader Elamaram Kareem said, “It has never happened in the past that everyday the government is clearing bills amid protests. We are demanding division (vote on bills) but it is not accepted. BJP is destroying parliamentary democracy.”Analysts pointed to BJP’s similar disruption of Parliament in 2011 and 2012, and its defence of this, with then leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Arun Jaitley saying , in early 2011 that “parliamentary obstruction is not undemocratic” and then leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha Sushma Swaraj saying, in September 2012 that “it is the government’s job to run Parliament, not that of the Opposition.”According to an MP present at Tuesday’s meeting, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman made a presentation on how the economy, after being severely impacted by the pandemic, has picked up in June and July.A party functionary said the finance minister pointed out that despite the second wave of the pandemic, India’s economy is bouncing back rapidly.Responding to the Opposition’s criticism over the rushed passage of bills, Joshi tweeted, “Glaring Irony. Derek O’Brien accuses Govt of rushing Bills & fails to note: TMC & Congress are continuously disrupting Parliament, 13 bills passed without discussion in 1 day in Rajasthan, 16 bills passed without discussion in RS during UPA’s regime, Selective Amnesia?”On Tuesday, the Rajya Sabha passed the Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and the Lok Sabha passed the Tribunals Reforms Bill, 2021 and the Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/insult-to-house-pm-oppn-hardens-stand-101628016452139.html
04-08-2021||India||Two pilots missing after army chopper crashes in Jammu||The fate of two Indian Army pilots — a lieutenant colonel and a captain — was not known after their Rudra helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot on Tuesday, even as search and rescue crews recovered the wreckage of the chopper along with some pilot gear, officials familiar with the development said.The items recovered by search parties included chopper skids, fuel tanks, stabiliser, helmets and the identity card of one of the two pilots, said one of the officials cited above.The Rudra helicopter, built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake, said a second official.“If the helicopter is operating within gliding distance of shore/land, life preservers, EFG and life raft are not mandated. Occasionally, such helicopters may be required to operate over water. That’s ‘risk exposure,’ said Commander KP Sanjeev Kumar (retd), a military aviation expert and former experimental test pilot.The helicopter belonged to the army’s Pathankot-based 254 ALH-WSI squadron, which earlier lost a Rudra chopper in January 2021.Locals claimed the chopper used to hover over the dam and drop a pipe into the water every day. The moment it dropped the pipe on Tuesday morning, it crashed, they added.Kathua SSP Ramesh Kotwal said the chopper crashed around 10.45 am. “While deep water divers are on the job, the operation will take time... It will take time to retrieve the entire wreckage. We retrieved two helmets,” he said, adding that the lake was up to 250 ft deep. “The area where the chopper crashed has been zeroed in. Special forces of the army, divers are on the job, but the water is not clear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-pilots-missing-after-army-chopper-crashes-in-jammu-101628016451551.html
04-08-2021||India||Cop, civilian injured in J&K terror attack: Police||Terrorists opened fire on a police vehicle in the Khanyar area of the old city of Srinagar on Tuesday evening, injuring a police constable and a civilian, police said.“A constable and a civilian were injured in the firing,” said superintendent of police, north Srinagar, Mubasher Hussain.Police said the Jammu and Kashmir Police’s Rakshak vehicle, an armoured military light utility vehicle, was parked at Khanyar’s Shiraz Chowk on Tuesday evening when an unspecified number of terrorists emerged from one of the bylanes and fired in the congested locality. The spot is not far from a camp of the Central Reserve Police Force that operates out of an old cinema building in the neighbourhood, police added.Hussain said the attackers probably attacked from a lane on the vehicle. “We are trying to ascertain what type of weapon it was. We are looking for the cartridges,” he said.The injured constable was identified as Abdul Waheed and was posted at the Khanyar police station.Dr Kanwarjit Singh, medical superintendent of Shri Maharaja Hari Singh tertiary care hospital, said that the policeman “has an injury below the chest and is stable”. Singh said the civilian was not brought to the hospital.It is not clear if the terrorists were targeting someone in particular. In June, there were two incidents of terrorist attacks on security personnel. On June 17, an off-duty policeman was shot dead near his house in the old city’s Saidapora area. Four days later, Inspector Pervaiz Ahmad, who worked with the Criminal Investigation Department wing, was killed near his Nowgam home.The shoot-and-scoot firing on Tuesday evening in Srinagar came hours after security forces in Bandipore district 40 km away shot dead a Pakistani terrorist.According to the police, the terrorist, identified as Babar Ali of Ugda Punjab in Pakistan, had succeeded in escaping from the Shokbaba encounter site where three terrorists were killed on July 24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cop-civilian-injured-in-j-k-terror-attack-police-101628016393767.html
04-08-2021||India||Editors Guild moves Supreme Court on Pegasus issue||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court to seek an independent investigation into the alleged purchase and use of Israeli spyware Pegasus in India to target phones of journalists, activists, opposition leaders and even ministers.EGI also asked the top court to order the Union government to produce contracts or deals with foreign companies for the supply of spyware, hacking or electronic surveillance which have been used, whether authorised or not, on Indian citizens.“The Pegasus cyber attacks have raised severe questions as to the integrity of several democratic institutions and the political process. Amongst names on the list of potential targets is included a former Election Commissioner (Ashok Lavasa), several members of the Opposition, and political strategists. If unaddressed, this can shake the public faith in democratic processes, and create a chilling effect, which is poisonous to the health of any democracy,” EGI’s petition, reviewed by HT, said.The Supreme Court may take up the petition on August 5 when a bench headed by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana holds a hearing on a bunch of petitions filed earlier on the alleged use of the military-grade spyware.Among those who have already filed petitions for an independent probe are five journalists, Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, SNM Abdi, Prem Shankar Jha, Rupesh Kumar Singh and Ipsa Shataksi, who were reported to be in the potential list of alleged surveillance using the software.Tuesday’s petition by EGI said: “Freedom of the press relies on non-interference by the government and its agencies in reporting of journalists, including their ability to securely and confidentially speaking with sources, investigate abuse of power and corruption, expose governmental incompetence, and speak with those in opposition to the government”.The Pegasus row erupted on July 18 after an international investigative consortium reported that many Indian ministers, politicians, activists, businessmen and journalists were among the 50,000 numbers that were potentially targeted by the Israeli company NSO Group’s phone hacking software. NSO says its software is sold only to government customers. The Indian government has neither confirmed nor denied that it used Pegasus and has ruled out any illegal surveillance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/editors-guild-moves-sc-on-pegasus-issue-101628016332110.html
04-08-2021||India||As vaccine inequity persists, nations eye third shots||Germany announced on Monday that it will offer coronavirus vaccine boosters to vulnerable people from September, becoming the ninth country to announce a third shot for its people amid concerns that the Delta variant could be weakening protection among some groups of fully vaccinated people.Some countries, such as Israel, have already begun administering boosters to people aged 60 and older out of these concerns but the approach has drawn criticism as wide disparities in vaccine availability remain.Only a trickle of the 4.5 billion doses estimated to have been delivered globally has gone to low-income countries till now. For instance, the US, with the third largest population in the world, received vaccines enough for 60% of its population, while Indonesia, the country with the fourth largest population, received doses that can cover only 26% of its population, according to Unicef’s August 3 update of the Covid-19 Vaccine Market Dashboard.In cumulative terms, roughly 3% of all doses have been delivered to Middle East and North Africa while Sub-Saharan Africa has received 1.2% of the 4.5 billion doses, the Unicef dashboard update showed.On July 30, Israel rolled out the first mass campaign for booster shots. Beginning September, Germany and the UK will begin similar campaigns.Germany’s booster drive will rely on the Pfizer-BioNTech or Moderna doses.In addition to these countries, Russia has made additional shots available to people who completed their inoculation more than six months ago and Hungary has allowed it for those who were vaccinated more than four months ago. France currently offers boosters only to those with weak immune systems, such as people who received an organ transplant, but plans to extend it to those vaccinated early this year by October. Cambodia, United Arab Emirates and Indonesia are other nations that have announced plans for boosters.Activists and scientists have said that offering third doses at a time when there is a large vulnerable population that is unvaccinated globally does little to stem the pandemic. Scientific evidence at present supports booster doses for people with suppressed immunity, but most indicators suggest that healthy, middle-aged people are adequately protected from severe disease or death by almost all of the vaccines available at present.Between late April and late July, the UK, European Union and the US ordered more doses or exercised options to procure additional shots to potentially administer them to children and as boosters. The announcements prompted criticism.“We cannot let pharmaceutical corporations prematurely dictate the need for boosters in the absence of conclusive data and evidence...,” said Dr Carrie Teicher, director of programs at Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders), US.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-inequity-persists-nations-eye-3rd-shots-101628016331586.html
04-08-2021||India||Govt to release ₹19k crore under PM-Kisan: Narendra Modi||The Union government will disburse the next instalment of PM-Kisan, its cash transfer scheme for farmers, on August 9, totalling ₹19,000 crore to about 90 million farmers, an official with knowledge of the matter said.Under PM-Kisan, the government provides annual income support of ₹6,000 to every land-owning farmer with a valid enrolment. The money is paid in three equal cash transfers of ₹2,000, once every four months. The scheme was launched on 24 February 2019.In the last instalment paid in May this year, the government disbursed slightly over ₹19,000 crore to 90 million farm households. So far, the Union government has paid nearly ₹1.15 lakh crore under the scheme.In reply to a parliamentary question last week, farm minister Narendra Tomar said that nearly 4.2 million people who were not eligible for payouts under the scheme were given ₹2,900 crore since the scheme’s roll-out. Tomar added that states, where ineligible people received money, have been asked to recover the amount according to guidelines in force.Any farmer can enrol for PM-Kisan by applying at local revenue offices or a state’s nodal officer for the scheme, who is nominated by the state government. Farmers can also self-register through the PM-Kisan portal and common service centres, a network of public-services offices. “The identification of beneficiaries is the responsibility of state governments,” the official quoted above said.States have to upload data to a centralised public finance management system, a platform that auto verifies bank accounts and checks biometric Aadhaar details of beneficiaries sent by states. These are then sent back to states for physical signatures.Meanwhile, in a virtual interaction with the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) beneficiaries in Gujarat, Modi said that the scheme helped lakhs of poor people during the pandemic. “Since Independence, almost every government had talked about providing cheap food to the poor. The scope and budget of cheap ration schemes increased year after year, but the effect it should have had remained limited...,” he said.Free ration was made available to more than 80 crore people under the scheme during the pandemic with an expenditure of more than ₹2 lakh crore, he said.With inputs from Darshan Desai in Gujarat||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-release-19k-cr-under-pm-kisan-modi-101628016039206.html
04-08-2021||India||Centre says coronavirus case trajectory in eight states concerning||The reproduction number of the Covid-19 outbreak in eight states is above 1 and rising, the government’s top health officials said on Tuesday, pointing to the data as a cause of concern at a time when most parts of the country are recording a drop in cases.The outbreak in these regions has also meant that the country’s overall outbreak reproduction number — also known as the effective R number — has risen to 1.2. The R number denotes, on average, how many people each infected person is passing the virus to. If the number is above 1, it thus means the outbreak is expanding. The value can be seen as an early warning of a growing outbreak.“The second wave is not over in the country yet; we are still reporting over 30,000 cases. These cases are being reported from limited areas but when activities were opened up, there were some areas where Covid-19 safe behaviour wasn’t followed and there could be an increase in cases. The reproduction number increased from 0.6, to 0.8, and now it has increased to 1.2,” said Lav Agarwal, joint secretary, Union ministry of health, during the government’s routine briefing on Covid-19.He added: “There is an increasing trajectory globally. The US, Canada, and Australia also have an R nought of 1.2.”In India, there were eight regions where the effective R number was 1 or above, and had risen in recent days: Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry, and Kerala.Himachal and J&K have the highest R number of 1.4 among all, the government’s data showed.At the briefing, the officials also cited early findings of a six-member central committee sent to Kerala to assess the outbreak there. Headed by director of National Centre for Disease Control Dr Sujeet Singh, the team visited one of the affected districts of Mallapuram where it advised the state to increase active detection of Covid-19 cases, improve contact tracing, and increase the number of RT PCR tests.Mallapuram recorded a test positivity rate of 17.26%, and 80% of the tests there were conducted using the less accurate rapid antigen tests.“People who get symptoms were getting tested. But our containment strategy suggests that wherever there is clustering of cases, containment zones be created and special teams go door-to-door for contact tracing and actively detecting cases,” said Agarwal.Strict containment must be followed even as the state opens up activities as per the test positivity rate in the districts, said Agarwal. He added that the committee also noted that 91% of the cases were in home isolation, making all household people high risk contacts. However, only 1.5 contacts were traced per case, according to him.“We have advised earlier that it should be close to 1:20. Contact tracing needs to be done properly,” said Agarwal. Along with the containment measures, he added that the committee also suggested that the health infrastructure, especially ICU and ventilator beds, also be increased in places where they are stressed. Increased vaccination is also needed, said Agarwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-says-case-trajectory-in-eight-states-concerning-101628015733666.html
04-08-2021||India||Afghan foreign minister dials Jaishankar, calls for emergency UNSC session||Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar on Tuesday spoke to his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar about convening an emergency session of the UN Security Council on stopping the Taliban’s violence and atrocities across Afghanistan.Atmar’s phone call to Jaishankar on Tuesday evening coincided with a car bomb attack on the residence of defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi in Kabul that triggered an intense clash between the attackers and security forces. Atmar also briefed the envoys of several countries, including India, on the security situation and the collusion between the Taliban and groups such as Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT).India, currently a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, holds the rotating presidency of the body for August.Atmar said in a tweet he had called Jaishankar to “discuss convening an emergency UN Security Council session on AFG”. The UN and the international community “must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy” in Afghanistan “due to Taliban violence & atrocities”, he said. He also appreciated the “lead role” of India as the current Security Council president.There was no official word from the Indian side on the call. Jaishankar, earlier on Tuesday, said the violent transition underway in Afghanistan has exacerbated the challenge posed by terrorism and its impact will be felt in the neighbourhood and beyond if it is left unattended.A statement in Dari issued by the Afghan foreign ministry said Atmar briefed Jaishankar on the escalation in violence, widespread human rights violations by the Taliban and foreign terror groups in Afghanistan, and the need for a special meeting of the UN Security Council.According to the statement, Jaishankar expressed India’s deep concern at the escalation of violence, insecurity and human rights violations by the Taliban and terrorists in Afghanistan.A powerful car bomb went off outside the residence of the Afghan defence minister in Shirpoor area of Kabul shortly before 8 pm local time. The minister was safe as he was not at the residence at the time of the blast, local media reports said. The homes of several lawmakers are also located in the high-security area.A readout from the Afghan foreign ministry said Atmar noted that the Taliban attacks were being carried out in “direct collusion with more than 10,000 regional terrorists” from Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT), Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), al-Qaeda, Ansarullah, Jundallah, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-foreign-minister-dials-jaishankar-calls-for-emergency-unsc-session-101628015372115.html
04-08-2021||India||Lok Sabha passes bill to bar strikes in units providing essential defence services||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday passed a bill that allows the central government to prohibit strikes and lockouts in units that provide essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, was introduced in the Lower House on July 22 to replace an ordinance promulgated in June.The ordinance was issued after the Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the corporatisation of India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector — but also one not well received by workers in the 41 factories that come under OFB. Essential defence services include units or undertakings involved in the production of goods or equipment required for defence.Under the bill, the government may prohibit strikes, lockouts and lay-offs to protect the country’s sovereignty and integrity. Those violating the prohibition order can be punished or fined, or both.Past records of performance have shown that the OFB has neither been able to produce quality equipment nor adhered to the timelines, former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General BS Jaswal (retd) said. “Globally, corporates are involved in the production of defence equipment. And with the corporatisation of the OFB, we are taking the same route to enhance quality and ensure timely deliver,” Jaswal added.C Srikumar, general secretary of the All-India Defence Employees Federation, said: “This is a draconian law that takes away the democratic and constitutional rights of defence civilian employees. A signature campaign against the law has been launched in all 430 defence units across the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lok-sabha-passes-bill-to-bar-strikes-in-units-providing-essential-defence-services-101627987050868.html
04-08-2021||India||Two BSF personnel killed in militant ambush in Tripura; NLFT hand suspected||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel were killed in a militant ambush in Dhalai district of Tripura on Tuesday morning. The deceased, sub-inspector Bhuru Singh and constable Raj Kumar, were on a patrol near RC Nath Border outpost when the incident took place about 90 kilometres from Agartala.“Both of them were on their patrolling duty. We suspect the militants hiding in the area attacked and killed them. After the incident, the militants are likely to have crossed the Indo-Bangla international border,” said police deputy inspector general (law and order) Arindam Nath.Police suspect banned militant group National Liberation Front of Tripura (NLFT) to be responsible for the ambush.A press communique by the BSF stated that there was an exchange of fire between the patrolling party and some militants in the border outpost area. In the incident, both Bhuru Singh and Raj Kumar sustained injuries and later, died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-bsf-killed-in-militant-ambush-in-tripura-nlft-hand-suspected-101627977330544.html
04-08-2021||India||Stay united on Pegasus and farm laws in House, Rahul Gandhi urges Opposition||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi urged Opposition leaders to maintain the “foundation of unity” as 14 parties decided to stick to their stand on the Pegasus snooping issue in the remaining days of the monsoon session of Parliament, two leaders present at the meeting said on Tuesday — a rare sign of coming together of the country’s usually fractured Opposition, but also one that doesn’t bode well for the productivity of the ongoing session.The Congress and 13 other opposition parties were present for a breakfast meeting organised by Gandhi on Tuesday at the Constitution Club to forge a joint strategy on Pegasus and other issues, such as the contentious farm laws and spiralling fuel prices. “We decided that we will stick to our position on these issues. If the government wants to run this session, they have to agree to a debate on Pegasus,” said an Opposition leader after the meeting.The meeting went on for over an hour, and Gandhi, in his short speech, pointed out that opposition parties represent 60% of India and accused the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of undermining this large part of the country.Emphasising on unity, days after West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee said she wants to bring like-minded parties together, Gandhi underlined that “if all of us remain together, the BJP-RSS (Bharatiya Janata Party-Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh) would not be able to harm us.”Gandhi also acknowledged that the parties might have their own viewpoints and priorities. “We can always have space for arguments and debates in this framework of unity. But let us work together,” he told the leaders at the meeting.The meeting was attended by leaders from the Congress, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Nationalist Congress Party, Shiv Sena, Rashtriya Janata Dal, Samajwadi Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Indian Union Muslim League, Revolutionary Socialist Party, Kerala Congress (M), Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, National Conference, Trinamool Congress and Loktantrik Janata Dal. Congress functionaries added that Aam Aadmi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party didn’t attend the meeting while Shiromani Akali Dal was not invited. Dosa, idli as well as chhole bhature was served in an all-vegetarian menu.Different parties maintained that they should continue to press for a debate on the Pegasus issue but the CPI(M)’s Rajya Sabha leader Elamaram Kareem pointed out that the disruption in the House was helping the government clear its legislation. “Their bills are being cleared, but voice is not being registered. We have to register our protest,” Kareem said at the meeting.Another Opposition leader later told HT: “Many leaders want the House to run so that they can speak on key issues. But Congress, Trinamool, DMK and some other party leaderships are adamant on their demand for a debate on Pegasus.” The parties decided they would try newer ways to mark their daily protests every day. After the meeting, Gandhi and many other Congress leaders rode bicycles to Parliament to protest against the fuel price hike.RSP leader NK Premachandran said: “After a long time, nearly all key opposition parties have come together.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/leaders-from-cong-14-other-parties-meet-as-oppn-launches-offensive-101627972530333.html
04-08-2021||India||Mizoram says Assam blockade squeezing its supplies||An alleged blockade of National Highway 306 by residents of Assam after a violent showdown last week has left medical stocks and essential supplies dwindling in Mizoram, the small north-eastern state complained on Tuesday.Since the July 26 clashes that killed seven people, nearly a hundred of trucks are stranded at the interstate border between Assam’s Cachar district and Mizoram’s Kolasib district due to protests by groups on the Assam side. The 90km road between Silchar in Assam and Kolasib in Mizoram serves as a lifeline for the state that has just one rail link. The crisis forced the government to ask residents to not hoard supplies and curtail unnecessary consumption.“The blockade has affected supply of all commodities, especially medicines. As of now, we are managing with existing stocks, but if the situation continues longer, it will become difficult for all, especially patients,” said R Lalramnghaka, special secretary, health and family welfare, Mizoram.Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6km-long disputed border. Police forces of the two states fought a pitched gun battle at a disputed border in southern Assam on July 26, in which six Assam policemen died. Assam claimed Mizoram police opened fire on its forces who objected to a road being constructed by Mizoram on a patch of forested land it claims. Mizoram claimed the land belongs to it.Tensions flared up immediately but eased over the weekend after central intervention. On Monday, Assam and Mizoram withdrew cases against each other as both chief ministers spoke of conciliation. But the renewed bonhomie didn’t end the blockade.The Bharatiya Janata Party rules Assam, and the Mizo National Front, a part of the BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance, is in power in Mizoram.On Monday, Mizoram heath minister R Lalthangliana said that the blockade crimped the supply of life-saving medicines and Covid-19 essentials such as oxygen cylinders, oxygen plant materials and test kits.He requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah to intervene and prevent a health crisis. The state is battling a recent surge in infections, reporting nearly 500 to 700 cases a day on an average, and is under lockdown for over three months.Mizoram’s home secretary Vanlalngaihsaka wrote to his counterpart in Assam on Monday urging to allow entry of vehicles stranded on NH306 to Mizoram. “The government of Mizoram gives its assurance for the safety and security of all drivers, passengers and their vehicles,” he wrote. Talking to HT over phone from Aizawl, Vanlalngaihsaka, who also holds charge of the food and civil supplies department, said the state had adequate supply of rice and other cereals at present and some supplies were trickling in from neighbouring Tripura.Assam officials said efforts were on to persuade residents to remove the blockade. “We have had several rounds of talks with local groups and requested them to remove the blockades so that vehicles can move to Mizoram,” said Ramandeep Kaur, SP of Cachar district, through which NH306 passes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supply-of-medicines-for-covid-19-patients-hit-by-blockade-says-mizoram-asks-pm-to-step-in-101627929328806.html
