05-08-2021||India||Bronze, worth the wait in gold||Tokyo: Under the hot Tokyo sun, they lay on the glaring blue turf, their shirts soaked to the skin with sweat.A 41-year long wait had ended. India, once an invincible force that won six Olympic gold medals on the trot, last won an Olympic medal at Moscow 1980, and then appeared to simply fade away from the international game.On Thursday, they were back, having beaten Germany, medallists at the last four Olympics (champions in 2008 and 2012), in the bronze medal play-off. “Main toh wahin pe let gaya (I just lay down there). I had no words.” With those not so famous lines, the Indian men’s hockey captain, Manpreet Singh, described the feeling of having made history. The clash was one befitting the occasion — an attacking, furiously fast-paced game with end-to-end action. Germany took the lead early, in the second minute, and the pressure mounted. India scrambled up and down the pitch, looking frazzled but frenetic in defence. Then, in the 17th minute, Nilakanta Sharma received a ball in the midfield, swerved past two German players, and swept a defence-splitting pass to Simranjeet Singh, who scored with a breathtaking shot. It told the story of how far this team had come in the last two weeks that Simranjeet, who came to Tokyo as a standby player, was playing a starring role. Germany replied with two more quick goals, a minute apart. It was 3-1, and it seemed like the dream would be shattered. But here’s where the Indians showed they deserved to be back among the world’s elite. In the next eight minutes, they unleashed the kind of magic that changes matches and wins medals. Hardik Singh pounced on a rebound after a powerful drag-flick from Harmanpreet Singh struck the goalkeeper in the 27th minute, and slammed it home before any of the German defenders could react. Harmanpreet then slotted home a penalty corner in the 29th; Rupinderpal Singh drove the ball home off a penalty stroke in the 31st; and Simranjeet, in the right place at the right time, tapped in after a tearing run down the flank from Gurjant Singh in the 34th.From 1-3, it was 5-3, and there was nothing the Germans had been able to do about it.The game was from there on was open, flowing, full of verve, as Germany tried to hit back. They reduced the deficit to one in the 48th minute, and stepped up the pressure the last 12 minutes, forcing one penalty corner after another. Each time, Amit Rohidas came charging out at the shot; and if it went past him, PR Sreejesh was there, leaping to make saves. Here is another story that defines this team — Sreejesh, 33, a veteran of three Olympics, on the verge of retiring a few years back, rescuing India with preternatural reflexes throughout the Olympics. In this match, too, it eventually boiled down to Germany vs Sreejesh. With 6.8 seconds left on the clock, Germany got the last of their 13 penalty corners . When the shot came screaming at the goal, Sreejesh held a padded hand out and deflected the ball out. The Germans sank to the turf, realising it was over. The Indians ran wildly, shouting at the top of their lungs. Manpreet fell on his knees and broke down in tears. Rupinder ran to him, and the two long-time teammates hugged. “After we lost to Australia 7-1 (in the group stage), I was very sad that we lost by such a big margin,” Manpreet said later. “But Bobby (Rupinder) came to me and said, ‘wait till the 5th, we will return with a medal.’ So when he came to me today I told him, ‘Bobby what you told me has happened’. We didn’t get a medal in the Olympics for so long. I can’t express what I am feeling now.” Sreejesh joined them, before perching himself on top of the goalpost. “A goalkeeper’s is a lonely job. Most of the time, I am alone in my goal and he (the goalpost) is my best buddy,” Sreejesh said. “So it was my way of celebrating with my buddy.” On Wednesday, the eve of their match, India’s coach Graham Reid did something unusual. He organised a medal ceremony for the team. He asked each player to stand on a chair and imagine they were on the podium with a medal around their neck. It fired the team up. “I came here (to the stadium) thinking about that,” said Sreejesh. When it was all over, the team got together in the customary huddle with Reid. Together, they offered a prayer of thanks. “Before the game I asked the guys to make sure they bring the next level if something happens,” Reid said. “For example, if you are down, you need to bring the next level of play and they did that very well.” Former players showered the team with praise for bringing Indian hockey back into the spotlight.“We are back where we belong. This is where we always were when we all played. We are back on the podium. This has given a lease of life once again to hockey in India.” said Ajit Pal Singh, 1975 world cup winning captain. “It’s done. The team showed today that we can win in modern hockey. The next generation or the youngsters, the team has sparked a new self-belief and confidence that we can win at the Olympics.” said former India captain Dilip Tirkey.That’s what it was -- a bogey off the back, and the start of something new.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bronze-worth-the-wait-in-gold-101628188195524.html
05-08-2021||India||Former Bengal CPI(M) leader’s daughter responds to show cause for article on CM Mamata||Ajanta Biswas, daughter of Anil Biswas, the former state secretary of the West Bengal unit of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), or CPI(M), has replied to the show-cause letter the party sent her for writing an article on chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Jago Bangla, the daily mouthpiece of the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), last week. The article, which projected the chief minister as a pathbreaker, appeared on Saturday. Though not active in politics, Ajanta Biswas is a member of the CPI(M). “A CPI(M) local unit in Kolkata has received her reply. It will be examined before we decide our next step,” said Kallol Majumdar, secretary of the CPI(M)’s Kolkata district committee. Majumdar said last week that usually a member is given a week to reply to a show-cause notice but Biswas would be given three days. Anil Biswas, who died in 2006, was one of the most successful strategists against the TMC. He was a bitter critic of Banerjee who was the main face of the opposition during the Left Front regime. CPI(M) leaders were embarrassed when Jago Bangla printed a four-part series on women empowerment in Bengal politics that Ajanta Biswas wrote. She is a professor of history at Kolkata’s Rabindra Bharati University. The articles were prominently carried on the editorial page. The last part focused on the chief minister while the first three research-based pieces highlighted women from the pre and post-Independence era. “After the articles appeared, Ajanta Biswas voluntarily wrote us a letter saying these were based on research. She did not mention why they appeared in the TMC mouthpiece. We have to study her reply to the show-cause letter,” said Majumdar. The episode, however, has not ended for the CPI(M). Two days ago, the daughter of a late state chief of the Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), one of the main partners in the Left Front, wrote an article in Jago Bangla criticizing the CPI(M) and supporting Ajanta Biswas. Basundhara Goswami, the daughter of former RSP state secretary minister Kshiti Goswami, called the CPI(M) a “Stalinist party” and said arrogance of its leaders has ruined the Left in Bengal. She condemned the CPI(M) for taking action against Biswas. Kshiti Goswami, who was Bengal’s PWD minister for many years during the Left regime, died in 2019. “We take no responsibility for the article because Basundhara is not a party member. She was never even a member of our students’ front, unlike Ajanta Biswas,” RSP state secretary Manoj Bhattacharya told HT. A state CPI(M) leader, who did not want to be named, said, “Our party has not taken any decision on the article Goswami wrote because she is not involved in Left politics.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-bengal-cpi-m-leader-s-daughter-responds-to-show-cause-for-article-on-cm-mamata-101628186814473.html
05-08-2021||India||These 6 Indian airports will soon use facial recognition for boarding passengers||As many as six airports in India will soon use facial recognition technology for facilitating biometric boarding system, Union minister of state for civil aviation, VK Singh, told the Lok Sabha on Thursday. A trial project based on the technology is currently underway at these airports.The civil aviation ministry had in August 2018 released a policy on ‘Digi Yatra’ that aims to offer a “contactless, seamless and paperless handling of passengers at airports from the entry gate of the terminal to the boarding point,” according to an official statement.“Work has been awarded for implementation of Biometric Boarding System (BBS)…at six airports namely – Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune, Varanasi and Vijayawada,” Singh further told the House.He added that following the completion of the trial project at the aforementioned airports, the system will be implemented across India at all airports in a “phased manner.”The minister also informed Parliament that in the next four to five years, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) plans to invest nearly ₹25,000 crore towards the expansion or development of existing as well as new terminals of various airports using modern technology.“Route rationalisation in the Indian airspace is being carried out in coordination with Indian Air Force, using modern air traffic flow management techniques to develop shorter flight routes and lower fuel consumption by airlines,” Singh said.In a separate written reply, he pointed out that the Centre has received the Regional Connectivity Fund (RCF) levy of ₹1,904 crore so far. A ₹5,000 crore levy is collected for each scheduled flight on certain routes to fund the Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS), Singh added.“Till now…Viability Gap Funding (VGF) of an amount of ₹1,253 crore has been disbursed,” the minister noted.While answering another question on whether the government is aware that several citizens whose travel plans got affected due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic are yet to receive a refund of credit shell amount from airlines, Singh agreed to problems faced by passengers."Due to COVID-19 pandemic situation and consequent lockdown, air passengers had faced problems of cancellation of flights and refunds for the tickets cancelled, '' he said.When specifically asked about Air India, Singh said that the airline’s cumulative revenue dipped to ₹12,138.77 crore in 2020-21, while expenses shot up to ₹18,694.43 crore during the same period.In another reply, the minister said that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) hasn’t prescribed guidelines specifying life for an aircraft to fly in India. Highlighting that there isn’t any term as “old aircraft” specified by DGCA, he added that aircraft are deemed as “airworthy” based on their maintenance according to the “approved schedule laid down by the manufacturer.”Singh further stated that online ‘examination on demand’ is also being planned by DGCA for flying cadets in order to augment the number of licensed pilots in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-6-indian-airports-will-soon-use-facial-recognition-for-boarding-passengers-101628185524107.html
05-08-2021||India||Centre moves bill in House to stop retrospective tax||The government on Thursday introduced a Bill in Lok Sabha to prevent the income tax department from raising tax demands retrospectively, a move that also attempts to end long-pending disputes with foreign firms such as Vodafone Plc and Cairn Energy Plc that together involve a sum of over ₹20,000 crore. The move is widely seen as investor-friendly, and also brings to an end messy litigation and arbitration, especially with Cairn, which has seen the company staking claim to India’s overseas assets. The Taxation Laws (Amendment) Act, 2021, introduced in the Lok Sabha by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, proposes to amend the Income Tax Act, 1961, and the Finance Act, 2012, which were amended during the tenure of then finance minister Pranab Mukherjee to introduce the retrospective tax law, which has, in the years since, come to stand for all that’s bad in India’s tax regime. “The Bill proposes to amend the Income Tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before 28th May, 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012, received the assent of the President),” the Bill said.The retrospective tax law was introduced through the Finance Act, 2012 after Vodafone won a case in the Supreme Court against the I-T department’s demand of ₹11,000 crore in tax dues. The retrospective tax provisions were also applied to Cairn, when it was exiting from Cairn India Ltd in January 2014. The initial demand was for ₹10,570 crore.In 2012, the Supreme Court ruled that gains arising from indirect transfer of Indian assets were not taxable under existing laws. This prompted the then government to amend the income tax law through the Finance Act, 2012, with retrospective effect. It allowed the income tax department to retrospectively raise tax demands for gains arising from the sale of shares of a foreign company if its assets were located in India.Stating reasons behind the amendment in the Bill, Sitharaman said: “It is further proposed to provide that the demand raised for indirect transfer of Indian assets made before 28th May, 2012 shall be nullified on fulfilment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc, shall be filed.” “It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon,” she added.The Bill is an attempt to end around 18 vexed legal disputes, particularly with Cairn and Vodafone, people aware of the matter said, asking not to be named. Once passed, it will also require the government to refund part of the tax already paid by companies such as Vodafone and Cairn. HT could not immediately assess the size of these refunds.Spokespersons for Cairn did not respond to a query on this matter. A Vodafone spokesman declined comment . A person close to one of the companies said: “This is a good signal to international investors. Companies [Cairn and Vodafone] would also like to amicably settle the dispute outside the court.” For Vodafone Idea (Vodafone India’s current avatar after its merger with Idea Cellular), the announcement could provide some relief. The company is staring at a huge payout to the government for adjusted gross revenue liability, and spectrum, and Kumar Mangalam Birla, who stepped down as its chairman on Wednesday, wrote to the cabinet secretary in June offering to surrender his entire stake in Vodafone India to the government to keep it going, and pointing out that the company would collapse without relief on its payouts. On September 25, 2020, an international arbitration tribunal in The Hague, the Netherlands, ruled that the Indian government’s decision to retrospectively amend the Income Tax Act, 1961, in the 2012-13 budget to impose a tax liability on Vodafone Plc, along with interest and penalties, was not consistent with an investment treaty signed between India and the Netherlands. Another international arbitration tribunal, constituted under the agreement between UK and India for the promotion and protection of investments and the arbitration rules of the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), in December 2020, ruled in favour of Cairn. Last month, Cairn Energy Plc also secured an order from the French court, Tribunal judiciaire de Paris, to freeze through judicial mortgages residential real estate owned by the government of India in the central Paris.Experts avoided commenting on individual cases of retrospective tax disputes. Himanshu Parekh, partner-tax at consultancy firm KPMG India said the proposed amendment will help curtail long drawn litigation on the aspect of “indirect share transfers” undertaken prior to May 28, 2012, and provide tax certainty to multinational companies (MNCs). “The relief from tax liability will be subject to certain conditions such as withdrawal of cases and claims for costs, interest and damages by the relevant taxpayers.” “Retrospective amendments in tax legislation negate the fundamental principle of certainty and consistency required for attracting foreign investment into the country. The decision to withdraw the retrospective amendment on indirect transfers by the government must be applauded as this is not just a timely retreat from the confrontation position but instead assuages the concerns of the foreign investors,” said Ajinkya Gunjan Mishra, partner at law firm L&L Partners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-moves-bill-in-house-to-stop-retrospective-tax-101628185613780.html
05-08-2021||India||India rejects OIC statement on Kashmir, asks it to bar ‘vested interests’ from using platform||India on Thursday rejected the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation’s (OIC) call to revoke the changes made to the status of Jammu and Kashmir in 2019, saying the grouping shouldn’t allow “vested interests” to use its platform to comment on the country’s internal affairs. In a statement issued on the second anniversary of the Indian government’s move to scrap the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and to split the region into two union territories, the general secretariat of OIC reiterated “its call to revoke all these steps”. The OIC described the Indian government’s steps as “unilateral” and said they were aimed at altering the “internationally recognised disputed status of the territory as stipulated in the relevant UN Security Council resolutions”. Responding to the reference to the Kashmir by the OIC, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said: “We categorically reject yet another unacceptable reference to the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir issued by the general secretariat of OIC.” In an apparent reference to Pakistan’s frequent attempts to rake up the Kashmir issue through the OIC, Bagchi added, “OIC has no locus standi in matters relating to the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral part of India. It is reiterated that the OIC general secretariat should refrain from allowing vested interests to exploit its platform for comments on internal affairs of India.” The OIC, in its statement, also reiterated its solidarity with the people of Jammu and Kashmir in their “quest for the right of self-determination”. It opposed any changes to the demographic composition of Jammu and Kashmir and called for respect of basic human rights. The OIC’s general secretariat also called on the world community to increase its efforts to resolve the Kashmir issue in line with UN Security Council resolutions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-oic-statement-on-kashmir-asks-it-to-bar-vested-interests-from-using-platform-101628185374421.html
05-08-2021||India||Not planning to introduce vaccine passports, says govt||India is not planning to introduce vaccine passports, the external affairs ministry informed Parliament on Thursday. Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan said that the government is in talks with several countries for mutual recognition of the Covid-19 vaccination certification.He said that there is no multilateral protocol related to travel currently for people who have been vaccinated against Covid-19. “Most countries require a negative COVID-19 report, along with compliance with country-specific Covid protocols. Since some countries have specified their position in regard to vaccines that would exempt travellers from quarantine, India is engaging various nations for the mutual recognition of vaccination certifications,” Muraleedharan told the Rajya Sabha.Muraleedharan said that there were multilateral agreements including under the supervision of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) regarding Covid-19 vaccine certificates but no decision has been taken till date. He said India is a part of the ongoing discussions.Several nations in Europe have accepted Covishield as a valid vaccine paving the way for students to take admissions or resume their studies in those countries.Covaxin has not yet received approval from several countries as Bharat Biotech tries to get an emergency use approval from WHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-planning-to-introduce-vaccine-passports-says-govt-101628184349161.html
05-08-2021||India||In Odisha, kin of hockey Olympians overjoyed after bronze medal win||Seconds after the final whistle in the match for the bronze medal was sounded some Indian players jumped on goalkeeper Sreejesh while a few others covered their faces. A few more players ran around the field elated.Far away in Saunamara village of Sundargarh, the family members and neighbours of defender Amit Rohidas too erupted with joy while converged around the television. The elder brother of the Indian team’s vice captain Birendra Lakra missed the match as his TV set had stopped functioning. Rohidas, who has been fearlessly charging at the penalty corner shooters at a ball travelling over 200 km per hour, was the most dependable man of the team in pool matches as well as the knockout stage, rushing out to defuse the opponent’s penalty corner attempt. Lakra did not play in today’s match.“Your fearless energy on the field was commendable, Amit Rohidas. You were truly a rock-wall intercepting those penalty corners,” tweeted PM Modi while congratulating him on his stopping 15 penalty corners during Thursday’s match. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik too praised Rohidas and the hockey team’s vice-captain Birendra Lakra for the bronze medal and invited them to Bhubaneswar on August 16 for a felicitation ceremony.The Odisha Olympic Association announced that it will honour Rohidas and Lakra with cash awards of ₹1 lakh each for the team’s performance. Earlier, CM Naveen Patnaik had announced a cash prize of ₹2.5 crore for the bronze medal winners.At Saunamara, Rohidas’s family sat glued to their TV since morning hoping that the Indian team would win a medal in hockey and fulfil his later father’s dream. “Our father died of kidney failure in October last year when Amit was in the SAI camp at Bangalore. He came back for father’s last rites for a few days and rejoined the camp. It was our father’s wish that someday Amit would help the Indian team win a medal for India. Had he been alive, he would have been very happy,” said Niranjan Rohidas, Amit’s elder brother. His neighbours too sat around a LCD TV watching the match since morning.Born in Saunamara village, the same place where former Indian defender and skipper Dilip Tirkey was born, Amit is the only non-tribal from Odisha to represent the country at the international level. Like most children in Saunamara, considered the nursery of hockey in Odisha, he started with a bamboo stick, as there was hardly any access to proper hockey sticks in the village. He joined Panposh Sports Hostel in Rourkela in 2004 and started out as a forward, but on the advice of his coach Bijay Lakra he switched to defence as Lakra thought he had a good physique and capacity.He got his first major breakthrough in 2009 when he bagged the Indian cap for the Under-18 Asia Cup held in Myanmar. In the 2016-17 edition of the Indian Hockey League (IHL), playing for Kalinga Lancers, Amit showed his skill as a defender against penalty shootouts. Over time, he would soon be seen as the successor of former Indian captain Dilip Tirkey, known for his defending skills.“Amit is undoubtedly the best defender right now against penalty corners. It’s dangerous to rush out against an incoming ball and the delay of a fraction of a second can be dangerous. But he knows no fear. I have seen him growing from his younger days and the way he is playing, he has a long way to go,” said Tirkey.In Birkira village of Sundargarh, Birendra Lakra’s elder brother could not watch the match as his TV set had stopped working. “After the match was over, my brother called up from Tokyo and added my mother, sister and brother-in-law in a conference call to tell us that India has won the bronze medal. We were very happy. I could not watch any of the matches my brother played due to a malfunctioning TV. I could only get information from my friends about the results of matches,” said his brother Sujit Lakra. “But I am so happy that India could win after 41 years.”The 31-year-old Lakra, a veteran of over 200 international matches, made his Olympics debut in 2012 London Olympic Games, but unfortunately missed Rio Olympics due to a major knee surgery in 2016. A superb defender, Lakra excelled in the 2018 Champions Trophy, when the opponents could breach his rock-solid defence only 6 times. During the Argentina tour earlier this year, it was Lakra who stood out with his defensive work at crucial junctures as the team won 3-0 against the defending Olympic champions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-odisha-kin-of-hockey-olympians-overjoyed-after-bronze-medal-win-101628183694330.html
05-08-2021||India||India to host events on terror, maritime security during UNSC presidency||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a virtual open debate focused on global cooperation for maritime security on August 9 as part of signature events being organised by India during its presidency of the UN Security Council this month. The high-level debate on the topic “Enhancing Maritime Security – A case for International Cooperation” will be part of the Security Council’s agenda item of maintenance of international peace and security. “This would be the first time that an Indian prime minister would be presiding over a meeting of the UN Security Council,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. The President of Congo Felix Tshisekedi, who is also president of the African Union, will participate in the debate. As part of its presidency of the Security Council for August, India is organising three signature events focussed on maritime security, peacekeeping operations and counter-terrorism. While the Security Council has discussed maritime security in the past and adopted a few resolutions on certain aspects, officials said the India believes the time has come to address different dimensions of the issue in a holistic manner and through international cooperation. The open debate is expected to look at issues such as piracy, use of the seas to conduct crimes, illicit trafficking in narcotics, psychotropic substances, people and firearms, and illegal and unregulated fishing. These issues have implications for the livelihood and security of coastal communities, international trade and energy security, officials said. On August 18, external affairs minister S Jaishankar will chair an open debate of the Security Council on using technology to protect UN peacekeeping troops. The theme for the event will be “Protecting the protectors”, and it will focus on ways to ensure the safety of peacekeepers by using technology and bringing to justice the perpetrators of crimes against peacekeepers. India has, over the years, contributed more than 250,000 troops to nearly 50 peacekeeping missions around the world. A total of 175 Indian troops have been killed during these missions. Amid the Covid-19 pandemic, India upgraded two peacekeeping hospitals in South Sudan and Congo at the request of the UN secretary-general and donated Covid-19 vaccines for peacekeepers. Jaishankar will also chair a Security Council briefing on counter-terrorism on August 19 to discuss the UN secretary-general’s report on the Islamic State.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-host-events-on-terror-maritime-security-during-unsc-presidency-101628181655299.html
05-08-2021||India||When will Karnataka schools reopen? Basavaraj Bommai to consult experts amid Covid 3rd wave threat||Karnataka chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday said the state government will hear out the experts amid the rise of the Covid-19 cases in the state. The director of public instruction recommended reopening of schools in the state in August first week, but reports said as the new cabinet is yet to settle, reopening of schools in Karnataka may get delayed."We are seriously considering the recommendations of experts. I will have a final meeting with them tomorrow on two counts - what should be Covid protocol in event of 3rd wave and what should be our stand on the opening of schools. Then I will call all representatives it and take action," the chief minister told news agency ANI. The resurgence of cases in bordering Kerala has become a cause for concern in Karnataka and the state government has already taken restrictive measures to keep the spread of the infection under check.On Thursday, Karnataka reported 1,785 fresh cases of infections and 25 deaths, indicating a sustained increase in the number of daily infections. On Wednesday, the state registered 1,769 fresh Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths.Karnataka has already made negative RT-PCR mandatory for people coming from Maharashtra and Kerala, despite the vaccination status. Section 144 has been imposed in Bengaluru prohibiting the assembly of more than four people. Night curfew has been imposed in Bengaluru till August 16.The report which had recommended the reopening of schools in the state in the first week was submitted in the last week of July when the increase in the number of daily infections just started. At a time when the government is mulling more restrictions, whether schools would be allowed to reopen will again be discussed with experts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-will-karnataka-schools-reopen-basavaraj-bommai-to-consult-experts-amid-covid-3rd-wave-threat-101628181210581.html
05-08-2021||India||Australian trade envoy Tony Abbott meets PM Modi, bilateral trade ties on agenda||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Australia’s special trade envoy Tony Abbott on Thursday discussed ways to strengthen bilateral trade, investment and economic cooperation in order to help both sides address challenges arising from the Covid-19 pandemic. The former Australian premier is visiting the country during August 2-6 as Prime Minister Scott Morrison’s special trade envoy for India. Abbott is expected to focus on reviving negotiations for a Comprehensive Economic Cooperation Agreement (CECA), which have been stalled for more than five years. The external affairs ministry said Modi and Abbott discussed ways to strengthen bilateral trade, investment and economic cooperation to realise the full potential of the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership, which was forged during a virtual summit in June last year. “They emphasized that enhanced economic cooperation between India and Australia would help both countries better address the economic challenges emerging out of the Covid-19 pandemic, and would also help them in realising their shared vision of a stable, secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region,” the ministry said in a statement. Modi also referred to the “stellar growth” of bilateral ties in recent times and reiterated his desire to host Morrison in India as soon as conditions permit. Abbott is meeting Indian ministers, business leaders and think tanks during his visit to take forward economic ties. During last year’s virtual summit, the bilateral relationship was elevated to a comprehensive strategic partnership, under which the two countries committed to encourage expanded trade and investment flows and to re-engage on negotiations for CECA. India and Australia held nine rounds of negotiations on CECA between May 2011 and September 2015. India and Australia also upgraded their 2+2 foreign affairs and defence dialogue to the ministerial level at the virtual summit and signed seven agreements focused on crucial areas such as defence and rare earth minerals, including the Mutual Logistics Support Agreement that will facilitate reciprocal access to military logistics facilities, allow more complex military exercises and improve interoperability between the armed forces of the two sides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/australian-trade-envoy-tony-abbott-meets-pm-modi-bilateral-trade-ties-on-agenda-101628178773954.html
05-08-2021||India||India defeats China for ReCAAP elections with Quad on its side||India gave a major defeat to China when the director general of Coast Guard, K Natarajan, was elected as the next executive director of the Regional Cooperation Agreement on Combating Piracy and Armed Robbery against Ships in Asia (ReCAAP). The regional body has its headquarters in Singapore.Minister for external affairs Dr S Jaishankar congratulated Natarajan, saying it is a fitting recognition of India's contribution to maritime security."Congratulate DG Coast Guard for his election as the next Executive Director of ReCAAP, Singapore. A fitting recognition of our contribution to maritime security," Jaishankar said in his tweet.Congratulate DG Coast Guard for his election as the next Executive Director of ReCAAP, Singapore. A fitting recognition of our contribution to maritime security.The Indian candidate obtained a two-thirds majority receiving 14 votes out of a total of 21 member countries of ReCAAP. China received four votes and the Philippines got three. The next executive director is expected to take charge in 2022.The preliminary assessment of the voting showed that Myanmar, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka stood with the Modi government, while other Southeast Asian countries like Thailand voted for China. Client states like Cambodia and Laos obviously voted for Beijing.Almost all the western countries, including members of the Quad - like the United States, Australia and Japan - voted for India, the diplomats said. The other western countries like Denmark, the UK, Germany, the Netherlands, Germany and Norway also voted for India.ReCAAP is the first regional government-to-government agreement to promote and enhance cooperation against piracy and armed robbery against ships in Asia.The agreement was launched in November 2006 with 14 Asian contracting parties. The number has increased to 21 today, including European countries like Norway, the Netherlands, Denmark, and the United Kingdom, Australia, and the United States.The 12th governing council meeting in 2018 announced that ReCAAP ISC has met the criteria to be a centre of excellence for information sharing in combating piracy and armed robbery against ships at sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-defeats-china-for-recaap-elections-with-quad-on-its-side-101628177963037.html
05-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: India to discuss means to stop Taliban violence during UNSC meet on Aug 6 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.At UNSC meet under Indian presidency on Aug 6, focus is halting Taliban campaignWhile Afghanistan’s partners will try to pressure the Taliban and its supporters in Pakistan at the UNSC meet, the feeling is China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will step in to counter any move that is critical of Pakistan. Read more here.India vs England: James Anderson dismisses Virat Kohli for first-ball duck – WATCHVirat Kohli's stay at the wicket lasted just one ball as he nicked James Anderson to get out for a golden duck in the first India vs England Test in Nottingham. Read more here. Size matters! How would you like your iPad mini? Apple wants to knowAhead of the upcoming iPad mini refresh, Apple is reportedly asking customers about screen size preferences - small, large or just the right. Here’s everything you need to know. Read more here. 'Ask Anusha Dandekar why I deleted her pics,' says her boyfriend Jason ShahBigg Boss 10 contestant Jason Shah was asked why he deleted pictures of his girlfriend Anusha Dandekar from Instagram. He said he loves the speculation it has created. Read more here. Step inside Meghan Markle-Prince Harry's Montecito home, blend of royalty and contemporary designMeghan Markle has given fans a glimpse of her and Prince Harry's home in Montecito. The couple moved into their new home last year. Read more here. China sends high-speed train filled with soldiers to Arunachal border﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-to-discuss-means-to-stop-taliban-violence-101628176815423.html
05-08-2021||India||No plans to block any social media platform, Parliament told||Union minister of state for electronics and information technology Rajeev Chandrasekhar on Thursday said that the government is not planning to block any social media platform in India. “At present, the government has no plan to block any social media platform in the country,” Chandrasekhar said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha.Chandrasekhar, however, said that under the provision of Section 69A of the Information Technology Act, 2000, the government blocks online content that it deems malicious keeping in mind "the interest of sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign states or public order".He said the government is in regular interaction with social media platforms on matters related to the accountability of social media companies, the safety of social media users. Chandrasekhar said that the government is aware that certain social media users create hate and ill-will among people. He expressed the belief that no social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy India's democracy.“Indian democracy has its bedrock in its Constitution and constitutionally guaranteed fundamental rights for every citizen. No social media platform or any other intermediary can destroy our democracy,” the Union minister said.“The government receives various grievances from users about hate content on social media platforms and responds to them in an appropriate way,” Chandrasekhar said adding that the government issues advisories to social media intermediaries regularly to ensure safety and accountability.Chandrasekhar also stressed that social media companies have to follow the Information Technology (IT) Act, 2000, and Rules but maintained that the government aims to ensure ‘free, fair, open and trusted Internet’. He said the government wants to build an enabling and investor-friendly policies and environment in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-plans-to-block-any-social-media-platform-parliament-told-101628176237978.html
05-08-2021||India||Mixing of vaccines could tackle shortage but more studies needed, says Dr Kang||Dr Gagandeep Kang on Thursday said that the vaccine shortage could be tackled if Covid-19 vaccines doses are mixed in India. The microbiologist and virologist while speaking to news agency ANI said that several studies are being conducted on this across the world.Kang is a professor at the Christian Medical College (CMC) which has recently received the Subject Expert Committee’s permission to start trials for mixing of Covishield and Covaxin. She also pointed out that studies on mixing viral vector vaccines and mRNA vaccines have shown that the immune system becomes better if vaccines are mixed. Recently, Sputnik V and AstraZeneca vaccines were administered to patients with no cases showing any serious illness.“The most important thing is that we have been seeing vaccine shortages and people having to wait at vaccination centres, disappointed when they don’t get the second dose. The advantage is knowing that you can give any vaccine. It is good for the programme and good for people. It doesn’t matter which vaccine you get, you know that your chances of being protected are very high,” Kang said while speaking to news agency ANI.Kang said that along with the CMC other institutions should also begin research on this issue since more studies are needed to understand if mixing of vaccines can be effective in battling Covid-19.Kang also suggested that schools should be opened in a phased manner with vaccinated teachers and staff but also said that Covid-19 preventative measures should be followed. She said that children with comorbidities should be vaccinated as well.Speaking of a probable third wave, Kang said that the severity of it will depend on the variants and strains. “I think a lot depends on whether the wave is driven by variants, or driven by strains. If it's driven by variants then it becomes very difficult to predict what the numbers are likely to be,” Kang said.(with inputs from ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mixing-of-vaccines-could-tackle-shortage-but-more-studies-needed-says-dr-kang-101628174982205.html
05-08-2021||India||Madras high court raps Dhanush over Rolls Royce tax, says, 'Even a milk vendor...'||The Madras high court on Thursday rapped actor Dhanush over his earlier petition in which he sought exemption from entry tax on his imported Rolls Royce. Directing Dhanush to pay ₹30.30 lakh within 48 hours, Justice SM Subramaniam said those who are earning less than celebrities like Dhanush are paying taxes and do not knock at the door of the judiciary for relief. "You drive the luxury car on the roads laid using the taxpayers' money. Even a milk vendor and a daily wage labourer are paying taxes for every litre of petrol they buy," the judge said. The same judge had earlier rapped actor Vijay who had moved the court against levy of entry tax for his imported Rolls Royce Ghost.In 2015, Dhanush had imported his Rolls Royce Ghost for ₹2.15 crore from England. A regional transport officer directed him to obtain a no-objection certificate from the tax department before getting the car registered. As Dhanush moved the department for the NOC, the department asked him to pay ₹60.66 lakh as entry tax. Then the actor moved the court against the department's demand of entry tax. At that time, the court had passed an interim order asking the RTO to issue an NOC only if the actor pays 50 per cent on the said tax amount within 14 days.The case again came to the fore as Dhanush's counsel wanted to withdraw the petition of 2015 and said the actor was ready to pay the remainder of the tax. The court on Thursday did not allow the petition to be withdrawn and said, "If your intentions are genuine, you should have paid the tax at least after the Supreme Court settled the issue in 2018. Now after the high court listed the matter for orders, you are seeking to withdraw.""No doubt that it is your right to move the court. But you should have paid the tax and withdrawn the petition at least after the apex court had settled the issue in 2018," the court added.Cars imported several years back are plying on the roads without paying entry tax to the state, the court observed. Terming this as an issue of public interest, the court said it is of the opinion that the constitutional perspectives and the manner in which the writ petitions are filed are to be dealt with for the interest of protecting the rights of the citizens, who are all approaching this Court for redressal of their genuine grievance"...reminding the fundamental duty of the citizen is the Constitutional duty of the High Court... this Court thought it fit to pass orders, making the citizen aware, for the benefit of the public at large and to remind that the citizens are bound to respect the fundamental duties enunciated under the Constitution of India," the court said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-court-raps-dhanush-over-rolls-royce-tax-says-even-a-milk-vendor-101628175608166.html
05-08-2021||India||India’s economic growth may drop to 6% due to Covid-19, says Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee||Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee, who heads the Global Advisory Board set up by the Mamata Banerjee-administration to advise the West Bengal government on pandemic issues, on Thursday said that the country’s economic growth may drop to as low as 6% due to the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. “The International Monetary Fund (IMF) has cut its economic growth forecast for India from 12.5% to 9.5% for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022. But I suspect it may drop to 6% to 7% at the end. I can’t give it in writing. But if another wave hits it may drop further. I hope it doesn’t happen,” he said. The Indian-American economist, who won the 2019 Nobel Prize in Economics, along with Esther Duflo and Michael Kremer was speaking to the media at the state secretariat after attending a meeting of the GAB to discuss the impending third wave of Covid-19. He also criticized the Narendra Modi-government at the Centre over rising fuel prices saying that the government should have been more open-handed with their spending during the pandemic. “The Union government has a fiscal problem. The government is trying to use this one instrument it has, given the fact that other forms of tax collection are not keeping pace because economy has slowed down. It is using this to balance the budget. This a moment in which the government should have been more open handed with their spending. The Centre is too unwilling to do what the US and European countries are doing which is printing money and spending it. That would have been a better policy in the current context particularly when we are not avoiding inflation. Being less mindful of the strategy would have been the right strategy now.” Swarup Sarkar, former regional director of WHO (World Health Organisation); Tom Frieden, ex-CDC (Center for Disease Control and Prevention of the US); Jishnu Das, economist, World Bank; and JVR Prasad Rao, a former union health secretary, were among the other experts along with senior health experts and doctors from the state. “It will not be possible to check another wave of Covid-19 till the time 80%-90% of the citizens are vaccinated. Till then chances are high that mutant variants of the virus would continue to surface. Government figures suggest that it won’t be possible to vaccinate 80%-90% of the people before June 2022. Till then we need to continue other preventive measures,” said Sarkar, who joined the meeting virtually. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday shot off a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi over inadequate supply of vaccines to West Bengal. She wrote that the Centre was discriminating while supplying vaccines and BJP-ruled states like Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh were getting more vaccines. “I don’t follow the numbers (of vaccines being provided by the Centre to the states). My sense is the biggest problem is that the Centre is not capable of generating the supply of vaccines needed for the whole country. If there were enough vaccines, may be all these claims and counter claims wouldn’t arise. I think the core problem is that we have not reached the promised level of supply for the entire nation,” Abhijit Banerjee said when asked to comment on the Centre’s alleged discrimination. He, however, lauded the state government for effectively using vaccines provided to it with negative wastage. “This is worth emphasizing. The work they are doing is excellent,” he said. Even though the daily cases of Covid-19 dropped to 575 on Monday, the number of fresh cases shot up to 729 on Tuesday. On Wednesday, West Bengal reported 826 new cases. At least 10 people died on Wednesday. The daily count had crossed the 20,000 mark in mid-May soon after the assembly polls in the state. On Wednesday, the Centre wrote to all states to actively consider imposing local restrictions in public observation of occasions like Muharram, Onam, Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi and Durga Puja. These occasions are lined up from August to October starting with Muharram on August 19, Janmashtami on August 30, Ganesh Chaturthi on September 10 and Durga Puja between October 5 and October 15. The West Bengal government is planning to reopen schools and colleges, on alternate days, after the puja vacation in November, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday after a meeting with the GAB. Reacting to the Nobel laureate’s remark, former chief economic adviser to the Union government and currently a BJP legislator Ashok Kumar Lahiri said, “Only time will decide the GDP growth. The NSSO follows a particular model while coming up with estimates. One has to go through the details to know what is happening. I haven’t gone through it. On GDP growth I hope Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee is wrong. Even if we don’t achieve 12%, it should be around 10%,” said Lahiri. “People ask for three things - the government should spend more, tax less and borrow less. All three cannot be done. If the government had taxed the fuel less, then one of the two things would have happened. Either expenditure had to be curtailed or the government would have had to borrow more. But there are people who say that inflation is slightly worrying. To compare India with US and European countries may not be the right thing to do. Inflation expectations are different in India, US and UK. International oil prices will not remain the same. So, there could be some relief,” said Lahiri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-economic-growth-may-drop-to-6-due-to-covid-19-says-nobel-laureate-abhijit-banerjee-101628175714019.html
05-08-2021||India||Kerala records 22,040 new Covid-19 cases; test positivity rate at 13.49%||Kerala’s caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to nearly 3.5 million on Thursday after 22,040 fresh cases were registered in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department’s bulletin. More than 20,000 patients recovered and 117 succumbed to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 3,297,834 and 17,328 respectively. The active cases in the state have increased to 177,924, the health department’s bulletin also showed.Of Thursday’s case count, 76 are health workers, 67 came from outside Kerala and the remaining 20,901 got infected with Covid-19 through contact, with the source of contact unclear in 996 cases, a government press release said.Daily infections in Kerala went below the 20,000-mark on Monday when 13,984 were detected Covid-19 positive. However, from Tuesday, the daily tally again breached the above limit when 23,676 cases were recorded. And on Wednesday, the state recorded 22,414 cases, 108 deaths and 19,478 recoveries.Authorities have so far tested 28 million samples for Covid-19 of which 163,376 were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate stood at 13.49%. A total of 481,157 patients are under surveillance in several districts of which 29,358 are in hospitals and 451,799 are in home or institutional quarantine.Kerala, which is currently the worst-hit state from the pandemic across India, accounts for nearly half of total cases recorded in the country. The central government’s team, which recently visited the state to assess the Covid-19 situation, submitted its report and suggested that testing, contract tracing and containment measures need to be enhanced to deal with the spike in infections.On Wednesday, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya spoke to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan regarding the ongoing health crisis. Madaviya also wrote a letter to Vijayan where he said the state government should opt for more proactive measures and precautions to curb the spread of the viral disease.Despite the pandemic situation remaining serious, the state government eased its ongoing Covid-19 restrictions from Thursday morning. Shops, markets, offices and other establishments are now allowed to open six days a week. Shops can now function from 7 am to 9 pm but it is compulsory for staff and visitors to be inoculated with at least the first dose of the vaccine or prove that they tested negative after undergoing an RT-PCR test.However, restaurants and hotels are only allowed to deliver food and schools, colleges and other educational institutions and movie theatres will remain closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-records-22-040-new-covid-19-cases-test-positivity-rate-at-1349-101628174842647.html
05-08-2021||India||Bill passed in Rajya Sabha to amend Scheduled Tribes list related to Arunachal||The Upper House on Thursday passed the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill, 2021 allowing inclusion of Mishmi-Kaman (Miju Mishmi), Idu (Mishmi), Taraon (Digaru Mishmi) and Monpa, Memba, Sartang and Sajolang (Miji) in the list in lieu of ‘Mishmi, Idu, Taroan’ and ‘Momba’ respectively. The bill sought to amend the constitutional list of Scheduled Tribes as recommended by Arunachal Pradesh.Union minister Arjun Munda said that the bill will do justice to tribal communities. Munda said that there are 18 communities with their synonyms appearing in the illustrative list of Scheduled Tribes in respect of the state of Arunachal Pradesh. The bill provides for the deletion of Abor tribe from Serial No. 1 as it is the same as Adi in serial no. 16. It also proposed to replace Tai Khamti instead of Khampti at serial no 6 in the list. Nocte, Tangsa, Tutsa and Wancho tribes were also included in the list under serial No. 10 of the the list in lieu of any Naga tribes.The bill provides for modifying Part-XVIII of the Schedule to the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order, 1950, relating to the state of Arunachal Pradesh. The government said that the amendment in the list of Scheduled Tribes will not lead to any additional recurring expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of India on account of benefits which are likely to be provided to persons belonging to the communities proposed in the bill. Parliamentarians Banda Prakash (TRS), M Thambidurai (AIADMK), K Somaprasad (CPI-M), Fauzia Khan (NCP), Manoj Jha (RJD) and SK Gupta (AAP) spoke briefly on the bill and extended their support to it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-passed-in-rajya-sabha-to-amend-scheduled-tribes-list-related-to-arunachal-101628173764538.html
05-08-2021||India||At UNSC meet under Indian presidency on Aug 6, focus is halting Taliban campaign||NEW DELHI: The UN Security Council meeting on Afghanistan to be held under the Indian presidency on August 6 is expected to focus on stopping the Taliban’s campaign of violence and attacks and ways to take forward the stalled Afghan peace process. TS Tirumurti, India’s ambassador to the UN announced the meeting, which will consist of a briefing and consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan, in a tweet on Thursday. India holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August.The move came two days after Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday and sought an emergency session of the Security Council to discuss ways to halt the Taliban’s violence and atrocities across Afghanistan. “UN #SecurityCouncil will meet on Friday, 6th August, under Indian Presidency to discuss and take stock of the situation in #Afghanistan,” Tirumurti tweeted. The meeting was convened following consultations with the five permanent and nine other non-permanent members of the Security Council, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. The Afghan side expects the meeting to focus on the Taliban’s violation of commitments under the 2020 agreement with the US with the group’s ongoing campaign of violence and attacks, and ways to give a nudge to the Afghan peace process that has been stalled for months, the people said.“There is a need for pressure on the Taliban and their sponsors to reduce the violence. It is clear who is backing the violence and supporting the Taliban,” one of the people cited above said.“Also, there is no tangible progress in the peace process because of the Taliban’s intransigence. It is costing Afghanistan in terms of lives, infrastructure, revenues and the gains made in the past 20 years,” the person added. Though there was some talk of a possible resolution on the situation and the Taliban violence, the people said this might not be among the outcomes of the meeting. While Afghanistan’s partners will try to pressure the Taliban and its supporters in Pakistan, the feeling is that China, a permanent member of the Security Council, will step in to counter any move that is critical of Pakistan.Avinash Paliwal, associate professor in the department of politics and international studies at SOAS University, said: “The UN Security Council has its own dynamics, but to have India as president at this point in time is the last thing Islamabad and the Taliban would have wanted. There will be a lot of ‘stock-taking’ in the coming weeks and the Taliban won’t like most of it.” Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay welcomed the meeting and thanked India for playing a “lead role as UNSC President”.“Convening an emergency UN Security Council Session on Afghanistan is a positive development. UN & international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in [Afghanistan] due to violence & atrocities by terrorists,” Mamundzay tweeted. External affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said India will share its vision and perspectives on Afghanistan during the meeting. “We look forward to productive deliberations on this issue,” he told a regular news briefing.“We are closely monitoring the evolving security situation in Afghanistan and we continue to call for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire,” he added. Atmar’s phone call to Jaishankar on Tuesday coincided with an attack by a team of Taliban suicide attackers on the residence of defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi in Kabul. The attack triggered an intense hours-long clash between the attackers and security forces that left eight people dead and 20 more injured. There was no Indian readout on the phone conversation, though a statement from the Afghan foreign ministry quoted Jaishankar as saying it was important to hold a meeting of the Security Council to seek the “immediate cessation of human rights abuses and the establishment of lasting peace” in the region.On Tuesday, Atmar briefed envoys of several countries including India on the security situation and the collusion between the Taliban and groups such as Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The Pakistani envoy was not present at this briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-unsc-meet-under-indian-presidency-on-aug-6-focus-is-halting-taliban-campaign-101628174513669.html
05-08-2021||India||'Over 200 tests for every batch': Bharat Biotech on Covaxin quality concern||Every batch of Covaxin, the indigenous vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, undergoes over 200 quality-control tests and then the samples are submitted to the Central Drugs Laboratory. Only after the approval of the CDL, these batches are released commercially, the company said on Thursday issuing a statement in the wake of quality concerns of the vaccine. In a recent interview, the chief of National Immunisation Technical Advisory Group, Dr NK Arora, said the initial batches of Covaxin, produced at the new plant of the company in Bengaluru were not satisfactory level. While he was explaining why there was a delay in getting the expected number of doses from Bharat Biotech, his statement was misinterpreted and concerns were raised over the quality of the initial batches of Covaxin. Later, it was clarified that those batches were never released and now Bharat Biotech too has issued a statement."As of date, all batches of Covaxin are manufactured and released only from our manufacturing facilities at Genome Valley Hyderabad, which are fully audited and approved by regulatory authorities, hence we wish to put to rest any concerns on the quality of Covaxin," the company said adding that misleading narratives will create panic and result in vaccine hesitancy.Citing its credentials, the company said that it is "emblematic" that Bharat Biotech has not sought indemnity from the government for any adverse events from Covaxin. "The whole-virion Inactivated Vero Cell vaccines are highly complex to manufacture as the critical ingredient is based on live viruses which require highly sophisticated, multiple level containment and purification methods. Such extensive, high standards of purification naturally lead to significant process losses and low yields resulting in a highly purified and safe vaccine," the company said.On Thursday, Bharat Biotech received the Good Manufacturing Practices compliance certificate from Hungary marking the first certificate from a European regulator. The company has also submitted documents for emergency use approval in Canada.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-200-tests-for-every-batch-bharat-biotech-on-covaxin-quality-concern-101628173667069.html
05-08-2021||India||Parliament passes bill to bar strikes in units providing essential defence services||The Parliament on Thursday passed a Bill that allows the government to prohibit strikes and lockouts in units providing essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, was cleared by Rajya Sabha after Lok Sabha passed it on August 3. It was introduced in the lower house on July 22 to replace an ordinance promulgated in June. The ordinance was issued after the Union Cabinet, headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, cleared the corporatisation of India’s main producer of weapons and military equipment, the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB), to boost its efficiency and competitiveness in a long-awaited reform in the country’s defence manufacturing sector. The ordinance made it illegal for the employees of the OFB to go on strike. The factories controlled by the board employ at least 70,000 people who were against the move to corporatise it. Speaking in Rajya Sabha, defence minister Rajnath Singh said, “It is being said that the Bill denies the right to peaceful protest. I want to clarify that this bill does not, in any way, deny the right to peaceful protest… We want to improve the autonomy of the ordnance factories and increase their efficiency.” Essential defence services include units or undertakings involved in the production of goods or equipment required for defence. Also, the government can declare any service as an essential defence service if its termination affects the production of defence gear or maintenance of defence equipment. Under the bill, the government may prohibit strikes, lockouts and lay-offs to protect the country’s sovereignty and integrity. Those violating the prohibition order can be punished or fined, or both. The OFB, which controls 41 ordnance factories, will be split into seven government-owned entities that will produce ammunition and explosives, vehicles, weapons and equipment, troop comfort items, opto-electronics gear, parachutes and ancillary products. Ordnance factories are currently engaged in the production of tanks, armoured personnel carriers, mine-protected vehicles, bombs, rockets, artillery guns, anti-aircraft guns, parachutes, small arms, clothing and leather equipment for soldiers. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge said, “There are many precedents in this House and breaking all these precedents, new precedents are being set. The Bill brought by the defence minister is on the additional agenda and this was not supposed to come up today for discussion. But the way there is a ruckus in parliament… They are taking advantage of this situation... and they are getting this Bill passed in some way. This bill is very important. I request you (chair) to send it to a select committee where it will be reviewed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-passes-bill-to-bar-strikes-in-units-providing-essential-defence-services-101628173793800.html
05-08-2021||India||SC orders CBSE schools to release results committee’s evaluation for Class 10,12||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday told all schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to publish detailed results of Class 12 and 10 students tabulated by the Results Committee to enable students to decide if they should opt for the improvement exams to be held between August 15 and September 15.The top court’s direction came on a petition filed by the Association of Private Schools of Uttar Pradesh who sought early dates for holding the improvement examination and declaration of results, apart from directions to the CBSE to refund the ₹1,500 exam fee charged from each student since no examinations were held “On instructions, CBSE has submitted that it will issue instructions to all the schools registered under that Board to notify the internal assessment marks, highest average in the preceding three years and the marks assigned by the Result Committee on case to case basis. That shall be the responsibility of the concerned school(s) where the students are pursuing studies,” the bench said.The association earlier argued that students need to be told how their marks were reduced as a result of the moderation exercise conducted by the CBSE since the marks awarded to many students were much lower than the marks secured by them in internal examinations. This was due to the rationalization policy prescribed by CBSE which required the results committee to moderate marks in terms of the school’s best performance in the past three years.“Going by the newspaper reports, everybody has scored very high marks,” the bench of justices AM Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna remarked.The bench noted that the CBSE has agreed to this request and will issue instructions to all schools to notify the marks assigned by the results committee on a case-to-case basis. “This shall be the responsibility of the concerned school where the students were pursuing their studies,” the order said.The two examination boards, CBSE and CISCE, submitted a tentative schedule for the improvement exams. The CBSE told the court that the results of the improvement examination will be declared by September 30, while the Council for Indian School Certificate Examination (CISCE) plans to release the same around September 20.The association asked the two boards to consider announcing the results by September 20 due to college admissions and entrance examinations such as JEE, NEET. The court accepted the schedules provided by the two boards and refused to advance the dates.CBSE counsel Rupesh Kumar said the examination will be conducted for three categories of students; those who apply for correction of results through dispute resolution mechanism, compartment candidates, and private, correspondence or second chance compartment candidates. The option to register for the physical examination may be made available by August 10, he added.The two boards unequivocally objected to the demand of refunding the fee, underlining that they were “self-financing” bodies that did not receive any grant from the government. In separate affidavits, the boards said that examination fees of ₹1500 per student is the only means to pay their staff and finance the expenses for the examinations.The association argued that since the examinations stood canceled, there was no question of collecting the examination fee.“As per our estimates, CBSE has saved ₹200 crore by not holding a physical examination. This money can be either refunded or be used to finance mobile phones for poor students,” advocate Ravi Prakash Gupta, representing the association, said.The bench said, “We don’t need your suggestions. Tell us if you have a legal right to get a refund.” The judges agreed with the boards that the decision to cancel examinations was taken at the last minute and they are already made all the preparations for the exams by then.The results committee – comprising five members (for Class 12) and seven members (for Class 10) – set up this year for tabulating marks through internal assessment alone had cost CBSE around ₹40 crore on account of honorarium to the committee members, CBSE informed the court.CBSE controller of examinations Sanyam Bhardwaj also rebutted the association on refund of fee.“The respondent CBSE has not unjustly enriched itself by collecting examination fees which has and is being utilized by it for the purpose of conducting examination and also for the purpose of rendering various services (mark sheet, pass certificate) to students.” The CBSE will not be charging any additional fees for the students taking improvement examination,” Bhardwaj said in an affidavit.CBSE enrolled nearly 14.5 lakh students for Class 12 this year as compared to CISCE which had over one lakh students. After the government decided to cancel the examinations this year, the board came out with an evaluation scheme by which Class 12 students were to be assessed based on a 30:30:40 ratio. This formula took the best of three subject marks of Class X Boards (30 per cent), annual results of Class 11 (30 per cent) and Pre-Boards or internal assessment conducted during Class 12 (40 per cent).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-orders-cbse-schools-to-release-results-committee-s-evaluation-for-class-1012-101628170973600.html
05-08-2021||India||Modi govt moves Lok Sabha for Sindhu Central University in Ladakh||On the second anniversary of the creation of the union territory of Ladakh, the Narendra Modi government on Thursday introduced an amendment in the Central Universities Act, 2009, in Lok Sabha paving the way for Sindhu Central University to cater for higher education and intellectual growth. Costing ₹750 crore, the Sindhu university was approved by the Union Cabinet on July 22.The name of the university was given as Sindhu or Indus river after considerable deliberation under Home Minister Amit Shah as the government wanted a name that covered not only Ladakh but Ladakh and beyond as the map of the Ladakh UT incorporates Pakistan occupied Areas of Gilgit and Baltistan.Also Read: PM Modi gives Ladakh its first central university; will have a Centre on Buddhist StudiesIn his Independence Day address in 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced to establish a new Central University in the Union Territory of Ladakh, which inched a step closer to materialisation as the government introduced the amendment on Thursday.Sources in the know of the development confirmed that the Union Territory of Ladakh has identified approx 110 acres of land at village Khaltsi, located in between Leh and Kargil.According to top government sources, after the Home Ministry considered a number of names for the Central University including those of Ladakhi military leaders, Sindhu was found to be an apt name as the river rises in Tibet, passes through Ladakh, connects to Kargil through Suru tributary, flows through Gilgit-Baltistan in Occupied Northern Areas and then empties into the Arabian Sea near the port city of Karachi. The name Indus was not given as already a private university in that name is registered in Gujarat.The jurisdiction of the upcoming Sindhu University will cover the entire UT of Ladakh including Leh, Kargil, and beyond. These regions were left out of the jurisdiction of central universities in Jammu and Kashmir after the state was bifurcated into two union territories.A Budget provision of ₹750 crore will be required over the next seven years to meet the expenditure of setting up the university. Local administration and experts will be consulted before taking the final decision.But why a separate university instead of merging it with the existing university for Ladakh? Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Councils of Leh & Kargil are of the view that UT Ladakh should opt for a separate Central University rather than merging it with the existing University for Ladakh as around 4,000 students are estimated to be pursuing higher education outside Ladakh and having a Central University in Ladakh would provide them quality education within their UT."Students, Faculty members and their families from the rest of the country would be visiting Central University which will act as a catalyst for emotional integration of this region. The University will help in emotional integration of the country, and taking forward the concept of 'Ek Bharat Shrestha Bharat' to the remotest corner of the country. It will also help in convincing the people of the UT of Ladakh that entire country is standing with them, especially at a time when China is trying to create mischief at our borders," said officials. Also, Jammu and Kashmir already has two Central universities, one each in Jammu and Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-govt-moves-lok-sabha-for-sindhu-central-university-in-ladakh-101628168112507.html
05-08-2021||India||Govt to amend Income Tax Act, no provision for retrospective tax||The Centre on Thursday introduced the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill to bring closure to the retrospective income tax law which was introduced in 2012. Once the amendments are passed, there will be no incident like that of Cairn energy or Vodafone may take place."The Bill proposes to amend the Income-tax Act, 1961 so as to provide that no tax demand shall be raised in future on the basis of the said retrospective amendment for any indirect transfer of Indian assets if the transaction was undertaken before 28th May 2012 (i.e., the date on which the Finance Bill, 2012 received the assent of the President)," the finance ministry said in a statement.Also read: Govt weighs options as Cairn wins Paris assets"It is further proposed to provide that the demand raised for indirect transfer of Indian assets made before 28th May 2012 shall be nullified on fulfillment of specified conditions such as withdrawal or furnishing of undertaking for withdrawal of pending litigation and furnishing of an undertaking to the effect that no claim for cost, damages, interest, etc., shall be filed. It is also proposed to refund the amount paid in these cases without any interest thereon," the ministry stated.What is retrospective tax?This is a tax charged for transactions that took place in the past. The UPA government in 2012 imposed capital gains tax retrospectively on some companies like Cairn and Vodafone.The move comes India lost both the cases in the international tribunal in the Netherlands filed by both Cairn and Vodafone. In both cases, the court ruled that India must not make any more attempts to recover the "alleged tax liability or any interest and or penalties".Vodafone and Cairn casesCairn Energy, the British oil and gas company, is seeking to recover $1.2 billion from India while in the Vodafone case, the government has no liability.The country today stands at a juncture when quick recovery of the economy after the Covid-19 pandemic is the need of the hour and foreign investment has an important role to play in promoting faster economic growth and employment, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-amend-income-tax-act-no-provision-for-retrospective-tax-101628167762474.html
05-08-2021||India||Another plate of papri chaat: Derek O'Brien's Parliament update on bills passed||Trinamool Congress MP Derek O’Brien on Thursday again used his papri chaat jibe while writing about the way bills have been passed by the Narendra Modi government in the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The Rajya Sabha MP wrote on Twitter that while no bill was passed in the first week of the session, as many as 22 bills were passed in eight days at an average time of less than 10 minutes for each such legislation.Sharing two lists of the bills taken up by both or either of the Houses, O’Brien urged the PM to challenge his numbers as he would enjoy another plate of ‘papri chat’ (a popular Indian snack). According to the TMC MP, among the 22 bills passed in the Upper House of Parliament, the Coconut Development Board Bill took the shortest amount of time -- one minute on July 30, while two others got the nod in three minutes in the Lok Sabha. So far, the highest amount of time spent on a legislation in Parliament was that of the Inland Vessels Bill for which 28 minutes were spent on August 2 in the Rajya Sabha, O’Brien said.#MASTERSTROKE#Parliament Update Aug 5No Bills passed in first week of #MonsoonSessionThen Modi-Shah bulldozed 22 Bills in 8 days at an average time of UNDER 10 MINUTES per Bill (New chart👇)Modi Ji, challenge these new numbers👇as I enjoy another plate of PAPRI CHAAT! pic.twitter.com/qctDnD3DyCThis is the second time that the TMC leader has used the papri chaat barb to take on the ruling regime regarding the passage of bills. On Monday, O’Brien said 12 bills were passed in the first 10 days at the average of less than seven minutes per bill. "Passing legislation or making papri chaat!" he further wrote on Twitter.Soon after, senior ministers and even the Prime Minister had expressed their disappointment at the remark. Modi said such comments were "derogatory" to the parliamentary procedure and esteem of elected representatives. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Prime Minister was anguished by the comment and found it "insulting to the people who elect MPs".Also read | ‘Insult to House’: PM; Opposition hardens standThe ongoing Parliament session has so far managed to conduct little business due to continued disruptions over issues such the Pegasus media report, farm laws and Covid-19 management. Both the government and Opposition, led by the Congress, have refused to budge from their positions with the latter making it clear that Parliament cannot function normally without an open discussion on the Pegasus snooping controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-plate-of-papri-chaat-derek-o-brien-s-parliament-update-on-bills-passed-101628167534847.html
05-08-2021||India||Nagaland sets up pediatric task force to prepare for Covid-19 third wave||KOHIMA: Nagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom on Thursday said the government is preparing for the third wave of Covid-19 by taking several measures including setting up a pediatric task force to oversee the department’s preparedness. “While we will continue to work to cover our entire population with vaccination which is the most effective weapon against the virus, we have also proceeded to prepare for the third wave. A pediatric task force has been set up under a senior director of the health and family welfare department with experts drawn from the private and public sector to look into our preparedness. We have identified infrastructural requirements and other areas where we need to strengthen. We are taking steps to further strengthen our ICU beds, testing facilities as well as create additional capacities at the sub-district level to cope with the possible third wave in a more effective manner,” Phom told the state assembly.The minister, who was making a statement on the Covid-19 pandemic, warned that the virus has not gone away and underscored the need for people to be cautious as the state prepares for the third wave.He also spoke about the challenges faced by the authorities in terms of vaccine hesitancy, testing hesitancy and capacity of the healthcare delivery system.The state has administered a total of 7,81,656 doses of Covid-19 vaccines as of 30 July 2021.He said out of the 565 deaths due to Covid in the state, only two cases had been reported where people died two weeks after the second vaccine dose. “This highlights the importance of vaccination in preventing infection and development of serious illness,” he added.As per official data, Nagaland has 1321 active positive cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nagaland-sets-up-pediatric-task-force-to-prepare-for-covid-19-third-wave-101628167793306.html
05-08-2021||India||Bronze in men’s hockey at Olympics: Manipur converges at Nilakanta Sharma’s home||Celebrations in and around the residence of Shanglakpam Nilakanta Sharma, a midfielder on Indian men’s hockey team, were spontaneous in Kontha Ahallup area of Manipur’s Imphal East district on Thursday as soon as the country got its bronze at the Tokyo Olympics by defeating Germany.People marched on the streets while some women performed Thabal Chongba, a popular traditional dance usually performed during the five-day Yaoshang festival in the state.Chief minister N Biren Singh also shared a video of the celebration on his social media accounts. On Twitter, he wrote, “Friends, family & neighbours of Nilakanta Sharma, midfielder Indian Men’s Hockey team, came out & celebrated the historic win of bronze medal by Indian Hockey team at Tokyo Olympic today. Manipur is filled with so much joy today.”Also Watch | PM Modi speaks to Manpreet, coach Reid after Olympic hockey bronze Congratulating India team and sharing a video chat with the 26-year-old Sharma on his Facebook page, Singh promised Nilakanta a job in the state along with a cash reward of ₹75 lakh for making the country and state proud.Sharma is currently employed with in Indian Railways.Meanwhile, congratulating the team for the victory, Hockey India president Gyanendro Ningombam said,“I congratulate the India men’s team for ending 41 years medal drought. You made us proud. Now we’re also praying for our women’s team’s victory in their bronze medal match (tomorrow).”Manipur Hockey also congratulated the India men’s team. Since 1984, the state has produced seven Olympians from hockey alone.State’s weightlifter Saikhom Mirabai Chanu has made the country proud by clinching the nation’s first silver medal in the 49 kg women’s weightlifting category on the first day of the Tokyo Olympic 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bronze-in-men-s-hockey-at-olympics-manipur-converges-at-nilakanta-sharma-s-home-101628166953211.html
05-08-2021||India||AIADMK presidium chairman, former minister E Madhusudanan dies at 80||AIADMK presidium chairman and former minister of Jayalalithaa cabinet E Madhusudhanan died on Thursday at the age of 80 at a private hospital in Chennai. He was admitted to the hospital two weeks ago for multi-organ dysfunction and his health was improving in between. On Thursday, there was a sudden deterioration following which, the tall leader of the state politics passed away. His wife Jeeva died in April this year.When MG Ramachandran founded the AIADMK in 1972, Madhusudanan, a staunch follower of MGR, became the convener of the party in north Chennai. In 1987, he was made the district secretary of the party in Chennai. After Jayalalithaa's death, Madhusudanan had supported VK Sasikala but switched to the camp of O Panneerselvam in 2017. Following this, he was expelled by Sasikala. But later, the expulsion was declared invalid and Madhusudanan became the presidium chairman again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-presidium-chairman-former-minister-e-madhusudanan-dies-at-80-101628165385746.html
05-08-2021||India||Uttarakhand BJP to begin poll campaign with Aashirwad Yatra from Aug 17||The Bharatiya Janata Party will begin its election campaign with Aashirwad Yatra from August 17 in the Himalayan state. Union Minister of State from Nainital Ajay Bhatt will launch the political campaign from Narsain border in Haridwar district. The yatra will then pass through Manglaur, Roorkee, Bhagwanpur, Mohand, Dath Kali Mandir and reach the BJP state office in Dehradun. On August 18, the yatra will head towards Rishikesh and Haridwar from where it will go towards Udham Singh Nagar, Nainital and conclude at Almora the next day. Coordinator of Aashirwad Yatra and state BJP secretary Pushkar Kala said that newly appointed Minister of State for Tourism and Defence Ajay Bhatt will lead the Aashirwad Yatra which will travel to five districts of the state. “Party workers are gearing up for the yatra. Throughout the route, a grand welcome will be given to the yatra at major points. It will surely boost the morale of party workers and we will disseminate policies and achievements of the BJP government among people seeking their support again,” said BJP district general secretary Vikas Tiwari. BJP leaders will also pay a visit to the ancient shrine of Shri Dakshin Kali and the Shiv temple at Shayampur in Haridwar Calling the Aashirwad Yatra a desperate move of the BJP, the Congress party has questioned the timing of such a public rally when the third-wave of Covid-19 is looming large. “BJP should first answer why it failed to properly manage the second wave of Covid-19. Now it seems again to be focusing on party electoral events rather than on improving infrastructure to counter the third wave and ensure mass vaccination. Just seven months before the election, they are now seeking blessings but in fact it is Congress towards whom the voters are inclined now,” Congress state vice president Dhirendra Pratap said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-bjp-to-begin-poll-campaign-with-aashirwad-yatra-from-aug-17-101628165753353.html
05-08-2021||India||Isro to launch EOS 3 aboard GSLV Mk III in its first flight since Chandrayaan-2||The Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) has confirmed that it will launch the earth observation satellite EOS-3 aboard its GSLV Mk III vehicle on August 12 at 5.43am from the country’s only spaceport at Sriharikota. With the mission, the agency will resume the country’s space activities after a gap of over four months due to the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. “The launch is tentatively scheduled at 0543 hours IST on August 12, 2021, subject to weather conditions,” the space agency said in a release. This will be the second operational flight of GSLV Mk III after the Chandrayaan-2 mission when the launch vehicle “over-performed” placing the spacecraft in a higher orbit and saving fuel for upcoming manoeuvres. Also Read | Four ISRO launches over next 5 months; Gaganyaan delayed, Centre tells LSThis will be the first time that the vehicle’s payload fairing, the nose of the rocket where the satellites are carried, will be a 4m ogive (bullet-like shape). The changes will make the vehicle more aerodynamic and the same payload fairing is likely to be used for the country’s human spaceflight. The EOS-3 satellite, also known as GISAT-1 as per previous nomenclature, is one of the two paired satellites, the other being GISAT—2 or EOS-5, that will be able to provide image of the Indian landmass every 30 minutes as a spatial resolution of 50 metres. The space agency is targeting four launches over the next five months – all earth observation satellites. One of the four will be carried by the small satellite launch vehicle in its maiden flight. All big-ticket missions, such as the first uncrewed flight under Gaganyaan mission, Chandrayaan-3 mission, and India’s first solar mission Aditya L1 have all been delayed due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/isro-to-launch-eos-3-aboard-gslv-mk-iii-in-its-first-flight-since-chandrayaan2-101628164073071.html
05-08-2021||India||UP a powerhouse fuelling India’s growth, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said Uttar Pradesh was on its way to becoming a powerhouse, fuelling the country’s growth that had continued despite the Covid-19 pandemic. “People always knew and said that the road to power at Delhi passes through Uttar Pradesh but earlier, none thought it fit to think that the state could also fuel the country’s growth. UP’s identity that was previously limited to politics, is changing now as big ticket infra projects, industries and investments have started coming to the state,” he said. After speaking with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY) in Uttar Pradesh via video conferencing on Thursday, Modi showered praise on chief minister Yogi Adityanath, describing him both as “Yogi and Karmyogi (saint and doer)” while seeking the blessings of the common man to let him continue the work for “Dalits, backwards, the poor and the marginalised”. Under PM-GKAY, the state has provided free ration to an estimated 15 crore poor so far. “I am going to continue this scheme till Diwali,” the PM told one of the five beneficiaries shortlisted for interaction with him. Launching a statewide awareness campaign on the food security scheme, PM Modi said it was a matter of immense satisfaction that every grain sent to the state was reaching the beneficiaries.Also Read | ‘India is proud’: PM Modi congratulates India hockey team for bronze medal winAdityanath welcomed the Prime Minister from Ayodhya, reminding the PM that last year on the same date (August 5), he was in the temple town for the bhoomi pujan (foundation stone laying) function of the Ram temple and how his government was developing a “nayi Ayodhya (new Ayodhya).” Mentioning the significance of August 5, the PM referred to the scrapping of Article 370 two years ago on this day and the bhoomi pujan (foundation stone laying) function of the Ram temple in Ayodhya last year.He said, “The day has become even more significant with the men’s hockey team winning a medal in the Olympics after decades.” Referring to Covid-19 as a once-in-century pandemic, he said, “Can you even think what would have happened in UP had Covid-19 happened five years ago? But today, nearly 5.15 crore [51.5 million] vaccination doses have been given in the state.” Hitting out at the Opposition, he said, “Politics is changing...Ab pad nahi padak (Not post, medals), parivar nahi parisharm (not dynastic politics but hard work) is becoming the main criteria.”Apart from the Olympics, Modi also talked of an upcoming landmark of 500 milliion vaccination doses, record GST collection of ₹116,000 crore in July, signalling a new momentum in the economy. The Prime Minister also talked of the trial of the first Made in India aircraft carrier Vikrant, completion of construction of the highest motorable road in the world in Ladakh and launch of e-Rupi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/upa-powerhouse-fuelling-india-s-growth-says-pmmodi-101628163773165.html
05-08-2021||India||'If new variants are more infectious...': Virologist Gagandeep Kang on Covid 3rd wave threat||Amid apprehension of a fresh wave of the Covid-19 pandemic -- triggered by scientific projections and the sudden increase in the number of daily infections -- India's top virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang said there are multiple possibilities as a fresh wave will depend on several things, including a new variant, or a new strain of the variant. In every case, the scenario will be different, the virologist said to news agency ANI.Variant and third waveIf the new wave is driven by new variants, it will be difficult to predict the number of cases, Dr Kang said. Many experts have earlier said that Covid's third wave is unlikely to be as severe as that of the first and the second as the vaccine coverage will play a significant role."If it's driven by strains then we know numbers are likely to be low," Dr Kang said adding that if the new variants are more infectious, then cases can increase at the same pace as the first wave.Also Read | Number of waves doesn't matter: What experts say on Covid 3rd wave in IndiaSeasonal element and third waveThe SARS-CoV-2 virus is somewhat dependent on the environment, the virologist said. "We know that this is a virus that is dependent on the environment and I think what we are seeing from certain other parts of the world is that there may be some seasonal elements to this virus. We have to get through another winter and see that how that plays out, in determining how much we see and when," Dr Kang said.Transmission of disease and third waveExplaining how replication of the virus is linked with the emergence of a new variant and thereby responsible for a new wave, Dr Kang said as long as the virus is replicating, the chances of a new variant emerging remain high. To stop the virus from replication, the transmission of the infection has to be stopped as replication takes place in the human host."..if we want to prevent the emergence of a new variant, we also have to prevent transmission of the disease because any amount of replication will continue to be a threat. That is what we are seeing with delta. Newer variants are able to infect people who have been vaccinated," Dr Kang said.Calling for layered intervention, which involves many aspects, the virologist said that apart from Covid-appropriate behaviour, one should ensure staying at fully ventilated places, avoiding crowded areas etc.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-variant-of-covid-will-emerge-as-long-as-virologist-gagandeep-kang-on-3rd-wave-threat-101628163017781.html
05-08-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covishield dose gap may reduce for those aged 45 and above and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covishield dose gap may again be reduced, but only for people above 45The government may again reduce the gap between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine, but this time it will only be for those 45 years and older, Mint reported. The decision may be taken in two to four weeks, Covid-19 working group chairman Dr NK Arora has said in an interview. The decision will be based on final scientific evidence. Read moreSexual assault between thighs also rape, rules Kerala high courtA division bench of the Kerala high court has expanded the definition of rape and said non-penetrative sexual act between the thighs of a victim to produce a sensation akin to penetration will also de defined as rape, news agency PTI reported. Read moreExtortion case: Police start process of lookout notice against Param Bir SinghIn a case of extortion registered against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, Thane police have started the procedure for a lookout notice for all 28 accused, including underworld gangsters and journalists, confirmed a senior police officer. Read moreBangladesh police recover Lord Vishnu's centuries-old black stone statueA black stone statue of Lord Vishnu, believed to be more than 1,000 years old, has been recovered by police in Bangladesh from a teacher, according to a media report on Thursday. Read moreVodafone Idea shares fall to 52-week low on Kumar Mangalam Birla exitShares of Vodafone Idea Ltd fell over 24 per cent to a 52-week low on Thursday as billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla stepped down as its executive chairman and non-executive director. Read moreSara Ali Khan on Saif Ali Khan and Amrita Singh's divorce: 'I don’t think they were happy together'Sara Ali Khan has made a rare comment on her parents Saif Ali Khan and Amrita Singh's divorce. The actor said that Amrita and Saif weren't happy together and the best decision at the point was to part ways. Read moreRenault India celebrates 10th anniversary with launch of Kiger RXT (O) variantRenault has completed 10 years of its operations in India and the carmaker marked the occasion with the launch new RXT (O) variant of its Kiger SUV as well as several schemes for its existing and potential customers in the country. Read moreRavi Kumar Dahiya wins silver medal for India in men's 57kg freestyle wrestlingIndian wrestler Ravi Kumar Dahiya bagged the silver medal after losing in the final of men's 57kg freestyle category to Russian Olympic Committee’s (ROC) Zavur Uguev on Thursday. This is India's fifth medal at the Tokyo Olympics and the second silver of the campaign. Read moreWatch| 'Big achievement': Hockey team star Rupinder Pal on bronze win as nation cheers﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covishield-dose-gap-may-reduce-for-those-aged-45-and-above-101628162546226.html
05-08-2021||India||Govt targeting Oppn leaders to suppress their voices in Parliament: Kharge||On Thursday, leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge alleged that the government is targeting Opposition leaders to suppress their voices in the House.“The Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders, who were suspended yesterday [Wednesday], were just reminding the Chair about the issues. If they are trying to target us, threaten us, or put pressure on us to crush our voice and issues, Congress and other parties in the Opposition won’t bow down. We will continue our fight,” said Kharge at a press conference.On Wednesday, six TMC MPs --Dola Sen, Md. Nadimul Haque, Abir Ranjan Biswas, Shanta Chhetri, Arpita Ghosh, Mausam Noor-- were suspended from the Rajya Sabha after they entered the Well of the House with placards, shouting slogans. The MPs were protesting the Pegasus snooping row, the contentious farm laws and spiraling fuel prices. Also Read | Records on lawful interception destroyed regularly: Govt in Rajya SabhaKharge asked the government why it has not ordered an inquiry into the Pegasus row when countries like France and Israel have already started an investigation. “ What are you (government) afraid of that you don’t want an investigation or a discussion in the House?” asked Kharge.He also refuted the government’s claim that the Opposition is not allowing the Parliament to function and is refusing to discuss issues. Kharge said that the Opposition has not received any notice indicating the government’s intention to discuss the Pegasus row, inflation and farm laws. He also pointed out that during the United Progressive Alliance regime, the BJP had caused the most disruptions.The BJP, however, reiterated that it is the Opposition which is not allowing the Parliament to function, and accused them of not following the parliamentary procedures. “The main function of the Parliament is to discuss, debate and deliberate on Bills. The Opposition’s behaviour is creating a situation where legislation is becoming more and more difficult, as a result debate is not taking place,” said BJP spokesperson Gopal Krishna Agarwal.Responding to criticism about passing 10 Bills under 97 minutes, the BJP spokesperson said that it is the government’s responsibility to legislate and come up with laws for the benefit of the public.Kharge’s press conference comes a day after 14 Opposition partiess signed a joint letter toughening their stand on the Pegasus issue, alleging that the Centre is attempting to divide the Opposition’s unity.The Opposition has also said that discussions on farmers’ agitations due to the three anti-farmer laws should follow the discussion on Pegasus. Aam Aadmi Party, which skipped a meeting of most Opposition parties on Tuesday, also signed the statement.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday called for Opposition unity, underlining that the more it is united the more difficult it will be for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to suppress their voices.The Opposition has been demanding a clarification from the government on the allegations of surveillance. The government earlier responded by saying that the Opposition was making “an issue out of a non-issue” and not allowing the Parliament to function.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.The list database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-targeting-oppn-leaders-to-suppress-their-voices-in-parliament-kharge-101628162393073.html
05-08-2021||India||Four killed, 3 injured as speeding truck rams another in south Bengal||Four people were killed and three more were seriously injured when a speeding lorry rammed into another truck parked on the roadside at Murshidabad in south Bengal early on Thursday. The victims were rushed to the Murshidabad Medical College and Hospital where their condition was stated to be critical. Locals said that a group of labourers from Nabagram in Murshidabad were boarding a truck parked on the roadside on NH34. They were scheduled to go to Berhampore to work at a construction site, when the accident occured. “A truck, which was travelling at high-speed suddenly swerved and hit the lorry, which was parked on the NH-34, from behind. The driver then tried to flee. Some of the victims were dragged along with the vehicle for a few feet before it came to a halt. The driver then escaped,” said Bulu Sheikh, an eye-witness. According to the police, the deceased have been identified as Subhankar Mondal, 45, Joy Mondal, 45, Raju Mondal, 42 and Rubel Sheikh, 39. Rubel was the driver of the truck, which was parked. Soon after the accident a few hundred locals blocked NH-34 demanding that a police picket should be set up at the accident-prone spot and that the stretch be repaired. Nabagram MLA Kanai Chandra Mondal and senior officers from Nabagram PS rushed to the area. The villagers later dispersed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-killed-3-injured-as-speeding-truck-rams-another-in-south-bengal-101628162153118.html
05-08-2021||India||Indian expat files plea to get re-vaccinated with Covishield as Saudi Arabia doesn’t recognise Covaxin||The Kerala high court has sought the central government’s response after an Indian expat, who has to return to Saudi Arabia for work, filed a petition, seeking permission to get re-vaccinated with Covishield against coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The plea comes as India’s indigenous vaccine Covaxin is yet to be recognised in Saudi Arabia.The petitioner has already been inoculated with both shots of Covaxin.In the early half of last month, the World Health Organization’s (WHO) chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan said that Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is likely to receive a nod for emergency use from the public health agency in the next four to six weeks – potentially by August 21.“There is a process to be followed for approval. Companies have to submit their safety data, complete trial data, and even manufacturing quality data for approval,” she further said, adding that Bharat Biotech has already begun submitting the data and the dossier is being assessed.“It is the next vaccine to be reviewed by our committee. There will be a decision on inclusion in the next four to six weeks,” Dr Swaminathan said during a webinar on worldwide vaccine access.Also Read | WHO approval to Covaxin likely in 4-6 weeks, says chief scientistIn a separate interview last month as well, Dr Swaminathan said that the Phase 3 clinical trial data of Covaxin “looks good” and meets the safety profile of the international public health agency so far.Covaxin has till now received approval for emergency use authorization in as many as 16 nations, including Iran, the Philippines, Estonia and Brazil.A recent study conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research revealed that Covaxin is effective against the Delta variant, one of the “variants of concerns” that has now spread to more than 120 countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-expat-files-plea-to-kerala-hc-to-get-re-vaccinated-with-covishield-101628160463833.html
05-08-2021||India||Two years of Article 370 abrogation: Move complicated J&K issue, says Hurriyat||All Parties Hurriyat Conference(APHC) led by Mirwaiz Umar Farooq on Thursday, on the second anniversary of the nullification of Article 370, said the move has further complicated the issue of Jammu and Kashmir.In a statement, APHC reiterated its opposition to what it said were “unilateral and arbitrary actions” . “APHC on this occasion would also like to draw the attention of the citizens of India and the world at large, that the present Indian government’s actions of August 5,2019 has only complicated the dispute further over the state of J&K,” the Hurriyat said.“This is illustrated by the fact that it ignited the flames along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) even as some measure of calm has been introduced along the Line of Control. It is worth pointing out that whereas before August 2019 New Delhi would argue that Kashmir was the main trouble spot in the state, today it is faced with four trouble spots of Leh, Kargil and Jammu as there is disaffection in these regions too,” the statement claimed.Also Read | Two years since Article 370 abrogation: Mehbooba Mufti leads protest in SrinagarAPHC chairperson Mirwaiz Umar Farooq has been in house detention since the 2019 move. APHC said it is convinced that the Centre must accept the need to address the Kashmir issue.“Engage with those who truly represent the political will and aspirations of its peoples, and diffuse the building geopolitical pressures in the region along its northern and western borders. APHC urges the government of India to resume engagement with the Government of Pakistan,” the statement said.It said APHC has had a long-standing policy of engagement in meaningful dialogue among all the stakeholders that sees the situation on the ground for what it is, and encourages dialogue rather than armed confrontation.“The latter benefits no one and harms everyone. Nor is intransigence and denial a helpful stance. All political prisoners, including APHC chairman Mirwaiz Umar Farooq , hundreds of youth and all others arrested arbitrarily or under draconian laws should be released by the government,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-years-of-article-370-abrogation-move-complicated-j-k-issue-says-hurriyat-101628161972815.html
05-08-2021||India||Records on lawful interception destroyed regularly: Govt in Rajya Sabha||Amid the Opposition’s demand for a discussion on the alleged surveillance with Israeli spyware Pegasus, the government said in Rajya Sabha on Thursday that they had no such details to reveal as “the records pertaining to lawful interception are destroyed regularly”.Rajya Sabha MP John Brittas, who has also moved the Supreme Court on the snooping issue, asked the ministry for “number of persons whose telephones were intercepted from 2016 till today”.Brittas asked the government whether the Indian Telegraph Act “facilitated the telephone interception of individuals by the government” and in case it was so, he sought the “year-wise details” about these interception attempts by the government.Responding to Brittas, minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan said “such records are not maintained” by the government as they are “destroyed regularly” as required by the law.Also Read | Rajya Sabha: Deputy chairman calls conduct of suspended TMC MP ‘unbecoming’“As informed by Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), the records pertaining to lawful interception are destroyed regularly as per provisions contained in Sub-rule 18 of Rule 419A of the Indian Telegraph (1st Amendment of 2014) Rules, 2014 and Sub-rule 23 of Information Technology (Procedure and Safeguards for Interception, Monitoring, and Decryption of Information) Rules, 2009. Such records are not being maintained by MHA,” the minister said.Gazette of India notification dated February 4, 2014 also suggests an amendment to the Indian Telegraph Act. Subrule 14 under the above mentioned notification says, “records pertaining to such directions for interception and of intercepted messages shall be destroyed by the relevant competent authority and the authorised security and law enforcement Agencies, every six months unless these are, or likely to be, required for the functional requirement.”Meanwhile, minister Chauhan added there were provisions for the government as per Indian Telegraph Act’s Section 5(2) and Information Technology Act’s Section 69 to intercept phones “lawfully.”“As per both these Rules, for approving interception, Union Home Secretary is the Competent Authority in case of Central Government and Secretary in charge of Home Department in case of States/UTs,” the minister added.The Opposition has been demanding a clarification from the government on the allegations of surveillance. The government earlier responded by saying that the Opposition was making “an issue out of a non-issue” and not allowing the Parliament to function.The government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.The list database was first obtained by France-based non-profit Forbidden Stories, which shared the information with the reporting partners. The devices of at least 67 of the numbers were analysed by Amnesty International and of these, 37 had signs of being hacked by Pegasus. Of these 37, 10 were in India.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/records-on-lawful-interception-destroyed-regularly-govt-in-rajya-sabha-101628160712814.html
05-08-2021||India||Covishield dose gap may again be reduced, but only for people above 45||The government may again reduce the gap between the two doses of the Covishield vaccine, but this time it will only be for those 45 years and older, Mint reported. The decision may be taken in two to four weeks, Covid-19 working group chairman Dr NK Arora has said in an interview. The decision will be based on final scientific evidence.The present gap between the doses of Covishield is 12 to 16 weeks for all adults. At the very beginning of the vaccination drive in India, the recommended gap between the two doses of Covishield was 4-6 weeks, which was increased to 4 to 8 weeks and then finally to 12 to 16 weeks.The decision to increase the gap to 12 to 16 weeks met criticism as the move was interpreted as an attempt to manage the vaccine scarcity in the country at that time. Experts, however, asserted that the decision was based on the emerging international scientific studies, according to which a longer gap between the doses generated more antibodies. In these studies, it was found that the percentage of antibodies produced by the first shot of the vaccine is quite high. Hence, the next shot should be delayed allowing the first shot more time to work. Also Read | Indian students abroad: Adar Poonawalla donates ₹10 cr for quarantine facilityBut soon after, India increased the gap between the two doses in June, new studies claimed that the effectiveness of the first shot of Covishield was overestimated earlier. This again followed a reduction in the gap of the two doses of Covishield in many countries. Indian experts have reiterated that the vaccination situation is dynamic and will change as new studies will emerge, but public health will get paramount importance in whatever decision is taken.As Covishield is the same as the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, international studies are available regarding the efficacy of each dose. Now, in India too, there are many studies on the effectiveness of the doses on the local population. “We have gathered data on the impact of vaccines and their dosage interval on different age groups and from different regions," Dr NK Arora has said.While senior citizens are considered the most vulnerable to Covid, the age group between 45 and 60 is also at a greater risk than the rest of the population and the presence of co-morbidity factors may increase the risk.When the government extended the gap between the doses of Covishield, it allowed some exemption to sportspersons going to represent India at the Olympics, individuals going abroad for studies, job etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covishield-dose-gap-may-again-be-reduced-but-only-for-people-above-45-101628159052941.html
05-08-2021||India||Man held for bursting crackers, being abusive outside Olympian Vandana Kataria’s house||The Uttarakhand police registered a case on Thursday against two men and some unknown persons for allegedly abusing and provoking Team India hockey player Vandana Kataria’s family in Haridwar a day earlier. Based on the complaint of Vandana’s brother Chandrashekhar Kataria, they have filed a case against Vijaypal, a resident of Roshanabad and Sumit Chauhan, a resident of Navodaya Nagar and some unknown people under relevant sections of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, and Section 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) of the Indian Penal Code, station house officer Lakhpat Butola said. “Vijaypal has been arrested while a manhunt is on to nab the other accused,” he said. “They hurled abusive remarks, blamed Vandana and Dalit players for being responsible for the defeat. When we protested they used more abusive language and made fun of us for being Dalits. Our family is in deep shock at a time when the whole country is feeling proud of Vandana’s ability and achievement,” said Chandrashekhar Kataria, Vandana’s brother. .Kataria said targeting a player and her family on grounds of belonging to a Scheduled Caste is totally uncalled for. “We are content that the SSP and respective police officials took prompt action and arrested one accused---Vijaypal from Roshanabad stadium today,” he said. Vandana’s family had earlier complained to Senior Superintendent of Haridwar, D Senthil Aboodai Krishan S, regarding foul, abusive and caste-based remarks made by their neighbours against them and Vandana on Wednesday. Just as the semi-final match at Tokyo Olympics between India and Argentina got over on Wednesday, which India lost, some anti-social elements burst firecrackers and made abusive remarks outside Vandana Kataria’s house in Haridwar. The incident took place at Aurangabad village near Roshnabad, about 14 km from Haridwar city.According to the police, Vandana’s neighbours have been at loggerheads with the Kataria family for the past few years due to a dispute. Savita Kataria, the Olympian’s sister-in-law had even threatened to die by suicide on Wednesday if immediate legal action was not taken against the culprits. Dalit leader and legislator from Jwalapur Suresh Rathore condemned the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-held-for-bursting-crackers-being-abusive-outside-olympian-vandana-kataria-s-house-101628159453201.html
05-08-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi says Pegasus meant to silence India’s youth at 'Sansad gherao' stir||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday targeted Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the ongoing Pegasus hacking controversy stating the Israeli spying software was used as a tool to silence the country’s youth. Gandhi said the Modi government has put Pegasus inside the phones of the youth.Addressing a ‘Sansad Gehrao’ protest organised by the Youth Congress in Delhi, Gandhi said, “Brothers and sisters please remember, your mobile phone is your voice. You can express whatever you want through this mobile phone. You have to understand that Narendra Modi has put Pegasus inside your phones. Not only inside my phone. The idea of Pegasus has been inserted into the phones of the youth by Modi.”Speaking further on software, the Congress leader said if the country’s youth speak the truth, then the Prime Minister will be present inside their phones.Meanwhile, police said no permission was given for Thursday’s protest and about 600 people, including lawmakers, were detained. “A total of 589 people, including 28 women, two MPs and two MLAs, were detained during the protest carried out by Indian Youth Congress. No permission to carry out the protest march was given to the organiser, IYC president Srinivas BV,” New Delhi DCP Deepak Yadav was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Police used water cannons to disperse the Youth Congress workers staging the protest at Raisina road. A traffic snarl also ensued at Ashok Road and other parts of central Delhi due to the stir.The Congress has been leading the Opposition’s charge against the Centre over the snooping scandal. Earlier, Gandhi had accused Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah of using Pegasus against India, its institutions and its democracy. He had also demanded a Supreme Court-monitored investigation into the matter and Shah’s resignation as the home minister.The hacking controversy came into light two weeks ago after an international investigative consortium stated that several Indian, including ministers, Opposition leaders, journalists and businessmen, were potential targets of Israeli firm NSO Group’s phone hacking software called Pegasus.The monsoon session of Parliament has been rocked by protests from opposition parties against the alleged surveillance of the country’s citizens. On Wednesday, 14 parliamentarians from the Opposition demanded an open discussion on the issue in the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and said the issue has ramifications on India’s security.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-says-pegasus-meant-to-silence-india-s-youth-at-sansad-gherao-stir-101628155448464.html
05-08-2021||India||Sexual assault between thighs also rape, rules Kerala high court||A division bench of the Kerala high court has expanded the definition of rape and said non-penetrative sexual act between the thighs of a victim to produce a sensation akin to penetration will also de defined as rape, news agency PTI reported."...when the body of the victim is manipulated to hold the legs together for the purpose of simulating a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice; the offence of rape is attracted. When penetration is thus made in between the thighs so held together, it would certainly amount to "rape" as defined under Section 375," a bench of Justices K Vinod Chandran and Ziyad Rahman has recently ruled in a landmark verdict.The bench was hearing an appeal of a man against a trial court verdict involving a case where he repeatedly assaulted a minor girl in his neighbourhood sexually. He was sentenced to life by the trial court against which the man moved the high court. The sexual act which was alleged in this case was that of penetration between the thighs of the victim."In short, considering the intention of the legislature as revealed from the above proposals, followed by the enactment of Criminal Law Amendment Act, 2013 and gradual evolution of the concept of the offence of "rape" from time to time, the irresistible conclusion is that, the definition of rape as contained in section 375 would take in, all forms of penetrative sexual assault onto vagina, urethra, anus or any other parts of the body so manipulated to get the feeling or sensation of an orifice," the court said.Also read: Supreme Court rejects pleas by rape survivor, convict to marry each other"We have already found that Section 375 as amended by Act 13 of 2013, widened the definition of "rape" by expanding its ambit beyond the penile penetrative assault into vagina. One of the consequences of such amendment is that, several penetrative sexual assaults, which would otherwise be triable under Section 377, now come within the operative field of Section 375", the court said.As stated in the court order, the case dates back to 2015 when a medical camp was conducted in Thirumarady Government School. The victim appeared along with her mother with the complaint of stomach pain. During the medical examination, the victim was sexually assaulted by a neighbour. The doctor had informed the mother and asked her to make a police complaint. The case then went over which section of the IPC will be imposed and whether the assault will be considered rape."As the provision stands at present in 375(c) what constitutes rape reads as: (c) manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of such woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or”. It includes penetration to other parts of the body of woman and it is not confined to vagina, urethra and anus," the order said."The word penetration means: “a movement into or through something or some one” The word, 'penetrate', as per The Concise Oxford Dictionary, means 'the act or process of making way into or through something'; 'to enter or pass through or force a way into or through'. When the above provision is read with the said definitions in common parlance, we have no doubt in our mind that, when the body of the victim is manipulated to hold the legs together for the purpose of simulating a sensation akin to penetration of an orifice; the offence of rape is attracted," it said."We are of the view that such an interpretation is in tune with the intention of the legislature which rose to the need of the hour; the society having been confronted with increasing number of such incidents of sexual assault on a routine basis. The time has come for more stringent provisions with increasing instances of acts of such depravity both as a measure of prevention and retribution," it added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sexual-assault-between-thighs-also-rape-rules-kerala-high-court-101628155058726.html
05-08-2021||India||Oppn uproar in RS: Dy chairman condemns suspended TMC MP’s ‘behaviour’||The Opposition on Thursday disrupted the functioning of Rajya Sabha after deputy chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh condemned the behaviour of a suspended Trinamool Congress MP who was allegedly involved in a scuffle with security staff on Wednesday.A woman security official was injured in the incident and had lodged a complaint, the deputy chairperson said. The incident took place on Wednesday after the Upper House was adjourned for the day.“One of the MPs who was earlier suspended for the day tried to enter the Rajya Sabha chamber. On being stopped by the security staff, the MP broke the glass of one of the doors in the inner lobby. A lady security officer was hit by a glass piece and injured. The matter is under the consideration of the chair,” Singh said, describing the sequence of events.The deputy chairman said such conduct was “highly deplorable”, calling the incident “very unfortunate.”Also Read | Parliament: BJP hits out at Congress, says party doesn’t want serious discussionThe Trinamool Congress MP, Arpita Ghosh, was one of six members of party suspended for the day by Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday for entering the Well of the House with placards and shouting slogans. The MPs were protesting the Pegasus snooping row, the contentious farm laws and spiraling fuel prices.Trinamool MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray defended the MP. He said the lawmakers had returned to the House after it was adjourned for the day to collect their bags but the security staff did not allow them to enter.He said, “The glass broke in the commotion. What is going on? Will she be suspended again today?”The leader of the House, union minister Piyush Goyal, defended the security staff. He said the chamber was closed for sanitisation when the lawmakers tried to enter the House. He said breaking glass and hurting a member of the security staff was not acceptable.Goyal said, “Don’t demoralise the security staff with such behaviour.”Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge also intervened to support the TMC leaders who were suspended. “Protests are not new. It is part of the democratic way. Even late BJP leader Arun Jaitley said disruption is part of democracy…Yesterday [Wednesday], they had returned to collect their bags and papers after the House was adjourned for the day,” Kharge said.The Opposition uproar over the matter and protests against the snooping row and the contentious farm laws led to three adjournments in the pre-lunch session. Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, who is also the deputy leader of the House, said, “No one has any problem with protesting, but there is a problem with violence and the way the security staff was manhandled.”Last week, Naidu warned the MPs that action could be taken against those not following decorum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oppn-uproar-in-rs-after-dy-chairman-condemns-suspended-tmc-mp-s-behaviour-101628154413551.html
05-08-2021||India||Two years since Article 370 abrogation: Mehbooba Mufti leads protest in Srinagar||On the second anniversary of nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of J&K into two UTs, former J&K chief minister and the PDP president Mehbooba Mufti led a protest in Srinagar on Thursday.Accompanied by several party leaders and workers, Mufti raised slogans and marched on the city’s Residency road to condemn the August 5, 2019, decision. The protesters raised slogans against the move and demanded that killing and atrocities in Kashmir be stopped and prisoners be released.The PDP leaders and workers said they will never accept the decision taken by the BJP-led government on August 5, 2019, and termed the decision and laws passed on that day as black laws.Also Read | J&K saw 77% dip in Covid cases in July, but it’s time to be more cautious“No words or pictures are enough to depict the pain, torment & upheaval inflicted upon J&K on this black day two years ago. When unbridled oppression is unleashed & gross injustice heaped there is no other choice but to resist, to exist,” Mehbooba Mufti said in a tweet.Meanwhile, a meeting of Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) is underway at the residence of Farooq Abdullah in which all the leaders of constituent parties of alliance are participating.On the eve of the second anniversary of the nullification of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories, the PAGD on Wednesday had termed the BJP’s Naya Kashmir slogan as a mere joke and questioned the aim behind the August 2019 move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-second-anniversary-of-art-370-nullification-mufti-leads-protest-in-srinagar-101628153212836.html
05-08-2021||India||PM Modi says each foodgrain reaching beneficiaries defines new UP||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday held a virtual interaction with beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Uttar Pradesh. Launching a statewide awareness campaign on the food security scheme, Modi said it is a matter of immense satisfaction that every grain sent to the state is reaching the beneficiaries.The awareness programme is meant to ensure that no beneficiary is left out from availing the benefits of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana. “The way Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana is being implemented in the state defines the new Uttar Pradesh,” he said, adding that during previous regimes, foodgrains meant for the poor were looted.Modi said for many years, UP has been viewed from a political lens, its prospects of playing a vital role in country's development were not even discussed. "But state's 'growth engine' potential has been promoted only in the last few years," he added.He said that after providing houses, toilets, electricity and gas, the government is working to provide water through pipelines to every household."Our government is trying to provide benefits of schemes to people cutting across all sections of society," said PM Modi.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath also attended the event. The PM interacted with beneficiaries present at select fair price shops in Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Moradabad, Hamirpur, Ayodhya, Barabanki, Bahraich, Shahjahanpur, Kaushambi and Agra.Almost 15 crore beneficiaries in the state have been getting rations free of cost through the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, an official statement said. Nearly 80,000 fair price shops in UP have been distributing foodgrains to beneficiaries of the scheme, it added. Under PMGKAY, 5 kg/person additional food grain is given to all beneficiaries covered under National Food Security Act.Modi, who began the conversation with the beneficiaries by urging them to encourage more people to get vaccinated against the coronavirus (Covid-19) disease, said nobody should believe in rumours.During the interaction, he also hit out at the Opposition for disrupting the ongoing Monsoon session of Parliament. “No matter how much some people (Opposition) try to disrupt Parliament proceedings and stall the development of the country, our country cannot become hostage to such selfishness and politics,” Modi said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-says-each-foodgrain-reaching-beneficiaries-defines-new-up-101628150732927.html
05-08-2021||India||Rajya Sabha: Deputy chairman calls conduct of suspended TMC MP ‘unbecoming’||A day after Trinamool MPs were suspended from Rajya Sabha for a day, the deputy chairman today called a suspended member’s conduct “unbecoming” as he alleged that the member, during the adjournment of a House, had broken the glass of a door of the Rajya Sabha chamber, injuring a woman member of security staff. The Opposition, however, accused the deputy chairman for “supporting the wrong narrative” of the incident.“A member of Rajya Sabha who was earlier suspended… tried to enter the Rajya Sabha chamber, and on being stopped by the security personnel, the member broke the glass of one of the doors of the lobby of the Rajya Sabha chamber… injuring a lady security officer... She has lodged a complaint... This is highly unbecoming and deplorable…” deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh said.Also Read | Parliament: BJP hits out at Congress, says party doesn’t want serious discussionAn officer from Parliament Security Services (PSS) suffered minor injuries on Wednesday when Arpita Ghosh, one of the suspended Trinamool Congress MPs allegedly broke the glass pane of a wooden door in Rajya Sabha by smashing her mobile phone throught it in a bid to enter the Upper House, news agency ANI reported.Earlier on Wednesday, Rajya Sabha chairman Venkaiah Naidu suspended six Trinamool Congress MPs, including Ghosh, for entering the Well of the House with placards and shouting slogans.Meanwhile, responding to the deputy chairman, Trinamool MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said that MPs were sitting in Central Hall after being suspended. He added that they had returned to the Rajya Sabha chamber only after the adjournment of the House for the day to get their belongings.“In the commotion, the glass pane was broken. How does the responsibility of that lie on us today (in the session)? How can she (Arpita Ghosh) be suspended today [Thursday] from the session (for yesterday’s [Wednesday’s] incident which took place during adjournment)?” he questioned.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Piyush Goyal alleged that the chamber was closed for sanitisation and the MPs were trying to enter inside the chamber during that time.Leader of Opposition and Congress member Mallikarjun Kharge invoked Rule 255 of the “Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Council of States”, saying that the member is required to be absent from House only for the remaining part of the day. “They have been withdrawn only for the day’s meeting, not after adjournment... they only came here to take their things… Whatever Mr Piyush Goyal said is wrong and you (deputy chairman) are supporting the wrong narrative.”BJP MP Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi retorted saying that no one has issues with the protests in the House. “The only thing that is not acceptable is the violence… They (Opposition) want to hijack the House,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajya-sabha-deputy-chairman-calls-conduct-of-suspended-tmc-mp-unbecoming-101628150872410.html
05-08-2021||India||Border dispute: Assam ministers reach Mizoram 'with message of peace'||Two ministers of the Assam government -- Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal -- reached Mizoram on Thursday to hold talks with officials from Mizoram days after forces from the two neighbouring states indulged into a violent fight along the border leading to multiple fatalities and several injuries.Mizoram CM Zoramthanga wrote on Twitter, “Assam ministers Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal landed at Lengpui airport. The Assam delegates will have a meeting with representatives from (the) government of Mizoram soon at Aizawl.”Shri @ATULBORA2 ji and Shri @TheAshokSinghal ji landed on Lengpui Airport.The Assam delegates will have a meeting with representatives from Govt. of Mizoram soon at Aizawl.@narendramodi @AmitShah @himantabiswa pic.twitter.com/CdCB0EFYHlAhead of the flight to Mizoram, Bora said, "We're hopeful (of interaction). Assam wants to keep the spirit of unity and brotherhood among northeastern people."Earlier, Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said the ministers will visit Mizoram's capital with a "message of peace from people of Assam".Also read | A week later, Assam-Mizoram dispute hits economic activities on both sides of border"Two of my senior colleagues Atul Bora and Ashok Singhal will visit Aizawl tomorrow with a message of peace from (the) people of Assam," Sarma tweeted.On Tuesday, Singhal said the situation along the border is "normal", adding he and Bora will meet CM Zoramthanga to find a resolution.On July 26, the border dispute between the two states escalated into a fierce gun battle between the forces resulting in the death of six Assam police personnel. At least 50 people were injured in the clashes. Following the incident, six companies of CRPF were deployed in the disputed area as neutral forces.Also read | Assam-Mizoram border dispute has origin in British era notificationsA day after the clash, the Assam government said that in "another breach" of existing agreements and the existing status quo, Mizoram began constructing a road towards Rengti Basti in Assam, "destroying the Inner Line Reserve Forest in Lailapur area.""The Mizoram side also set up a new armed camp on a hillock next to the camp of the neutral force, CRPF, in the same vicinity," it said.Amid heightened tensions, the Assam government had issued a travel advisory and advised people from the state not to travel to Mizoram due to the "critical prevailing situation". However, the Mizoram government clarified that there is no restriction on the movement of non-residents of Mizoram who will be traveling through the disputed area of the Kolasib district.An alleged blockade of National Highway 306 by residents of Assam after the violent showdown has hit movement and affected supply of essentials in Mizoram.Zoramthanga had earlier directed Mizoram Police to withdraw the FIR registered against officials of Assam following the July 26 incident.As a "goodwill" gesture, Sarma also gave directions to the state police to withdraw FIR against K Vanlalvena, Rajya Sabha MP from Mizoram. However, he said cases against other accused police officers will be pursued.Speaking at a meeting of North-East Chief Ministers in Shillong on July 25, Zoramthanga said that "the large tract of areas claimed by Assam to be within its constitutional boundary has been used for collection of forest producers and for shifting and settled cultivation for the past 100 plus years by the people of Mizoram, and that Assam started claiming these areas only fairly recently due to population pressure apparently caused by the large-scale influx of migrants from outside Barak valley."The Mizoram Chief Minister had called upon the Assam government to withdraw their armed police camping at various locations in the agriculture fields of Mizo farmers since June 29.(With agency inputs)﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/border-dispute-assam-ministers-reach-mizoram-with-message-of-peace-101628149278482.html
05-08-2021||India||Veena Reddy takes over as first Indian American head of USAID in India||Veena Reddy, a career member of the US senior foreign service, has taken over as the first Indian American mission director of the US Agency for International Development (USAID) in India. Reddy, who will lead USAID’s operations in India and Bhutan, said on Thursday that she would work to strengthen the organisation’s seven decade-old partnership with the people and government of India. The acting head of the US embassy, ambassador Atul Keshap, expressed “pride and admiration” at another Indian American being chosen to lead a critical mission component in India, and said this reflects the “accomplishments of Indian Americans in all walks of life in America”. Reddy has an extensive background in development and diplomacy. Born in Andhra Pradesh, she is the first Indian American to lead USAID in India and Bhutan.Also Read | UNSC meeting under Indian presidency on Aug 6 to discuss Afghanistan situation During her career as a US foreign service officer, she served as USAID’s mission director in Cambodia and deputy mission director in Haiti. She also had a stint in Washington as an assistant general counsel, covering legal matters for USAID’s programmes in Asia and the Middle East. Also Read | UNSC meeting under Indian presidency on Aug 6 to discuss Afghanistan situationBefore joining government service, Reddy worked as a corporate attorney in New York, London and Los Angeles. She holds a doctor of jurisprudence from Columbia University School of Law and an MA and BA from the University of Chicago. “For the past seven decades, USAID has partnered with the people and government of India to build a peaceful and prosperous society. During that time our partnership has evolved, and I look forward to further strengthening our relationship,” Reddy said. “The challenges faced by all during the Covid-19 pandemic have taken an enormous human and economic toll on India and beyond. I am confident that with the strength and warmth of the US-India partnership, we will continue to move forward on the road to prosperity.” USAID backs India in achieving its development goals, supporting clean energy and environmental reform, helping combat climate challenges, improving healthcare, and bolstering the Covid-19 response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/veena-reddy-takes-over-as-first-indian-american-head-of-usaid-in-india-101628149133929.html
05-08-2021||India||Breast milk banks: Need of the hour?||The pandemic has been hard on almost everyone, but for lactating mothers and their infants, the period has been particularly challenging. Scores of new mothers contracted Covid-19; some even succumbed to it, as a result of which pleas for breast milk for newborns came up. With this in mind, a number of lactating mothers started donating breast milk using pumps, saving lives. For the uninitiated, breast pumps are used to collect breast milk. Once collected, the milk can be immediately fed to a baby or stored in bags or containers to be used at a later stage. “Breast milk is best for the baby, so using pumps is better than giving formula feed,” opines Dr Juhi Dang, lead lactation consultant at Delhi’s Rainbow Hospital.When compared to feeding babies preterm formula, which has a risk of mortality, gut problems, surgery complications, donor’s milk has proven to be of great help. “Pumping is beneficial when there is a low breast milk supply, and it is healthy as well. It helps avoid breast engorgement, keeping it soft, and also helps breasts to be empty, thereby decreasing chances of breast pain, abscess,” says Dr Shivani Sabharwal, gynaecologist and senior consultant, Apollo Spectra, Karol Bagh. Rich in immunoglobulins, breast milk helps enhance a baby’s immunity and is easy to digest. “Women who lactate successfully have a reduced incidence of breast cancer. Lactation, by increasing metabolic rate, helps a woman in optimising weight after delivery and of course, helps a mother bond with her baby,” says Dr Ranjana Dhanu, consultant, Gynaecology and Obstetrics, at P D Hinduja Hospital & Medical Research Centre, Khar, Mumbai.The guidelines for storing breast milk for healthy, full-term babies depend on the type of breast milk, storage location and temperature. “It’s imperative to store milk at the right temperature. For NICU (neonatal intensive care unit) babies, milk can be stored in the freezer for 48 to 72 hours and should be thawed 12-24 hours before giving. The milk should be stored in the freezer between 18 and 20 degree Celcius for three to 12 months,” says Dr Archana Wadkar, lactation counselor and consultant lactation expert at Motherhood Hospital, Pune. Though Dr Aruna Kalra, Senior Gynaecologist and Obstetrician at CK Birla Hospital, Gurugram asks to exercise caution, “Breast pumps should be replaced within 3 to 6 months, depending on use. If there’s any tearing, rips, warping or discoloration, then it is time to replace your breast pump.”Currently , there are very few milk banks and owing to the pandemic , very few healthy donors too , many of whom have a surplus of milk and can easily donate milk. “This milk is pasteurised and stored in extremely hygienic conditions. I feel more women must come forward to donate milk for these babies for whom it is lifesaving nectar,” says Dr Shelly Singh, Gynaecologist, Rosewalk Hospital, Delhi. “Breast milk banks in developing countries have a pivotal role to play specially during these challenging and testing times as they help to facilitate the use of breast milk and ensure provision of mother’s milk as a gap support for new born and vulnerable babies in situations where mother’s own milk is not available,” says Rajesh Vohra CEO, Artsana India (Chicco), In assistance with Chicco Research Centre.He adds, “I would like to urge the policy makers, health care system and industry experts must come together to ensure access to milk for all babies by supporting and scaling up of milk banks in India.”Benefits of a breast pump1. Pumping can help build a freezer stash of milk2. Pumped milk from a donor is a better option than formula3. Ensures an emergency supply4. Pumping allows the caregivers to have a break while they are coping with months, or even years, of sleep deprivationList of milk banks Amara Milk Bank (In collaboration with Fortis la Femme), Greater Kailash, New Delhi - 919999134520KEM Hospital, Parel, Mumbai - 022 2410 7000Lokamanya Tilak Hospital (Sion Hospital), Sion, Mumbai - 022- 2407 6381Cama Hospital, Fort, Mumbai||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breast-milk-banks-need-of-the-hour-101628147872925.html
05-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 1pm: UNSC meeting under Indian presidency on August 6 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.UNSC meeting under Indian presidency on Aug 6 to discuss Afghanistan situationThe United Nations Security Council will meet under the Indian presidency on August 6 to assess the situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a massive campaign of violence and attacks by the Taliban to expand its influence to urban areas. Read moreParliament: BJP hits out at Congress, says party doesn't want serious discussionThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday hit out at the Congress for disrupting Parliament and not allowing discussion on serious issues. Read moreKiara Advani and Sidharth Malhotra 'romancing' off-screen didn't impact Shershaah, says directorKiara Advani, speaking about her bond with rumoured boyfriend Sidharth Malhotra, said that she could really relate with her Shershaah character's 'commitment to love'. Read moreOlympics: India win bronze medal in Tokyo, first Olympic medal in hockey since 1980India men's hockey team defeated Germany to win the bronze medal at the Tokyo Olympics on Thursday. This is India's first Olympic medal in hockey since they won the gold medal in the 1980 Olympics in Moscow. Read moreSay hello to Azani, India's very own electric supercar ready for rumbleSupercars are the most ambitious projects in the automotive world. If the supercar is electrified, the appeal goes up. An Indian startup named Mean Metal Motors claims to have taken on one such project to buil Azani, India's first electric supercar. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1pm-unsc-meeting-under-indian-presidency-on-august-6-and-all-the-latest-news-101628146498745.html
05-08-2021||India||Wary of Covid-19 spread, states make RT-PCR reports mandatory: Check full list||In the wake of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) showing resurgence in some regions of the country, many state governments have made it mandatory for the people coming from outside to carry a proof of testing, and in some cases, vaccination certificates.The main reason for concern is the Delta variant of Covid-19, which was believed to be the cause behind a spike in cases during the second wave of infection.The decision has also been taken by the state governments keeping in mind the upcoming festival season, a time when many people make travelling plans. The Centre too has asked the people of the country to be careful during this time and not let down their guards. Some of the festivals which will be celebrated in days and months to come are Onam (August 21), Raksha Bandhan (August 22), Janmashtami (August 30) and Ganesh Chaturthi (September 10).Here are the states which have made carrying of documents mandatory:Tamil Nadu: The southern state has made RT-PCR and Covid vaccination certificates for people coming from Kerala. The decision has been taken as the numnber of Covid-19 cases have been increasing in Kerala. Two days ago, it recorded the highest single-day spike since May 29.Karnataka: This is yet another state which has made RT-PCR negative report mandatory for those coming from Kerala. Karnataka has included Maharashtra in the list.Himachal Pradesh: The hill state has made RT-PCR report showing a person is free from Covid mandatory for all the incoming tourists. The test report should not be older than 72 hours, an order from the Himachal Pradesh government said.Chhattisgarh: The RT-PCR report is mandatory to enter Chhattisgarh too, according to an order from the Bhupesh Baghel government. The rule will be effective from August 8.Goa: The state, which is very popular among tourists, has also made RT-PCR mandatory.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wary-of-covid-19-spread-states-make-rt-pcr-reports-mandatory-check-full-list-101628146472695.html
05-08-2021||India||UNSC meeting under Indian presidency on Aug 6 to discuss Afghanistan situation||The United Nations Security Council will meet under the Indian presidency on August 6 to assess the situation in Afghanistan against the backdrop of a massive campaign of violence and attacks by the Taliban to expand its influence to urban areas. TS Tirumurti, India’s ambassador to the UN announced the meeting, which will consist of a briefing and consultations on the latest developments in Afghanistan, in a tweet on Thursday. India holds the rotating presidency of the Security Council for August. The move came two days after Afghan foreign minister Mohammad Haneef Atmar called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday and sought an emergency session of the Security Council to discuss ways to stop the Taliban’s violence and atrocities across Afghanistan. Also Read | Jaishankar heads to UNSC, Afghanistan and maritime security on agenda“UN #SecurityCouncil will meet on Friday, 6th August, under Indian Presidency to discuss and take stock of the situation in #Afghanistan,” Tirumurti said in his tweet. The meeting was convened following consultations with the five permanent and nine other non-permanent members of the Security Council, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Afghan ambassador Farid Mamundzay welcomed the development and thanked India for playing a “lead role as UNSC President”. “Convening an emergency UN Security Council Session on Afghanistan is a positive development. UN & international community must play a greater role to stop the unfolding tragedy in [Afghanistan] due to violence & atrocities by terrorists,” Mamundzay tweeted. Atmar’s phone call to Jaishankar on Tuesday coincided with an attack by a team of Taliban suicide attackers on the residence of defence minister Bismillah Mohammadi in Kabul. The attack triggered an intense hours-long clash between the attackers and security forces that left eight people dead and 20 more injured. There was no readout on the phone conversation from the external affairs ministry, though a statement from the Afghan foreign ministry quoted Jaishankar as saying it was important to hold a meeting of the Security Council to seek the “immediate cessation of human rights abuses and the establishment of lasting peace and stability in Afghanistan and the region”. The Afghan foreign minister had on Tuesday also briefed the envoys of several countries, including India, on the security situation and the collusion between the Taliban and groups such as Pakistan-based Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT). The Pakistani envoy was not present at this briefing. Atmar had told Jaishankar about an “unprecedented increase in the Taliban’s brutal attacks” that have resulted in the death and displacement of civilians. He described the “Taliban’s attacks in collusion with foreign fighters and terrorist groups in Afghanistan” as war crimes and a violation of international humanitarian law. At his briefing for the ambassadors, Atmar said the Taliban attacks were being carried out in “direct collusion with more than 10,000 regional terrorists” from LeT, Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP), al-Qaeda, Ansarullah, Jundallah, East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM) and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU). In recent days, the Taliban have expanded their campaign to capture territory from rural areas to key cities such as Herat, Kandahar and Lashkargah. Afghan security forces are being backed by local militias in fighting the Taliban in some areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/unsc-meeting-under-indian-presidency-on-aug-6-to-discuss-afghanistan-situation-101628146612088.html
05-08-2021||India||Opposition slams government for absence of ministers in Parliament||The Opposition on Monday slammed the government in Rajya Sabha for the absence of their ministers from the parliamentary proceedings. They said that these ministers were disrespecting the Parliament by getting their papers laid on the table by the minister of state for parliamentary affairs instead of doing so themselves. Speaking on the behalf of the Opposition, Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member P Chidambaram said, “We can understand that the parliamentary minister can occasionally lay a paper on behalf of his colleague who is unable to attend the House for some reason, but every day we find that the parliamentary affairs minister lays papers for half a dozen ministers. Those half a dozen ministers don’t even respect the Rajya Sabha.”Also Read | Govt creating database of unorganised workers: Minister tells Rajya Sabha“How can he do it every day? Don’t these ministers want to come to Rajya Sabha?” Chidambaram questioned.Following this, the deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh interrupted Chidambaram saying that this issue was mentioned in the Parliament earlier as well, but given the Covid pandemic, chairman Venkaiah Naidu had permitted the ministers to be absent.Before Chidambaram could respond, the deputy chairman went ahead with the proceedings of the House.For several days, the Opposition has been criticising the government for its ministers skipping parliamentary proceedings. Demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue, the Opposition has sought the presence of the Prime Minister and home minister in the Parliament.So far, the government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the Pegasus spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.Minister of state for parliamentary affairs V Muraleedharan, who has been laying papers on behalf of the other ministers in Rajya Sabha, laid papers for six ministers who skipped the session on Thursday as well.The BJP, meanwhile, hit out at the Congress for disrupting Parliament and not allowing discussion on serious issues.Former union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “The motto of Congress is plain and simple, so long as Parliament is allowed to subserve the dynasty, it will be allowed to function, otherwise not.”He accused the Congress of not “being serious” about discussions in Parliament.“The Congress has not been able to reconcile to the fact that the country is reposing its trust in PM Narendra Modi in elections after elections, and that the Congress is losing in elections after elections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/opposition-slams-government-for-absence-of-ministers-in-parliament-101628146192967.html
05-08-2021||India||Adar Poonawalla offers financial assistance to Indian students travelling to UK||Serum Institute of India (SII) chief Adar Poonawalla on Thursday annunced financial assistance of ₹10 crore to Indian students travelling to the United Kingdom."Dear students travelling abroad, as a few countries are yet to approve COVISHIELD as an acceptable vaccine for travel without quarantine, you may have to incur some costs. I have set aside Rs.10 crores for this, apply below for financial support if needed," Poonawalla said in a tweet.The initiative has been launched by a television channel, of which Poonawalla is a part, and students will have to apply for the financial support.“I remain fully committed to helping Indian students quarantine in the United Kingdom on arrival for their higher studies. The new Amber List rules make it clear that Indian students will still need to quarantine, albeit at a place of their choosing. They may, therefore, still incur substantial costs,” Poonawalla said while speaking about the initiative.Meanwhile, UK moved India from its 'red' to 'amber' list which means that fully vaccinated passengers from India will no longer be subjected to compulsory 10-day hotel quarantine. The change, announced by the Department for Transport, comes into effect from 4am local time on Sunday."The UAE, Qatar, India and Bahrain will be moved from the red list to the amber list. All changes come into effect Sun 8th August at 4 am," UK Transport Secretary Grant Shapps tweeted.The decision has come as a relief for the Indians staying in the UK, who had been demanding the easing of travel norms between India and Britain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adar-poonawalla-offers-financial-assistance-to-indian-students-travelling-to-uk-101628143259830.html
05-08-2021||India||Parliament: BJP hits out at Congress, says party doesn't want serious discussion||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday hit out at the Congress for disrupting Parliament and not allowing discussion on serious issues.Addressing the media, former union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said, “The motto of Congress is plain and simple, so long as Parliament is allowed to subserve the dynasty, it will be allowed to function, otherwise not.”Opposition parties, including the Congress, have been demanding a discussion and a reply by Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah on the Pegasus snooping controversy. Since the beginning of the Monsoon Session on July 19, both Houses of Parliament have witnessed disruption, with the Opposition members raising slogans, tearing papers and pressing for discussion on issues such as the snooping controversy, inflation and for seeking the rollback of the controversial farm laws.The government has accused the Opposition of deliberately disrupting Parliament, and thereby causing a loss to the exchequer. PM Modi has on more than one occasion asked his party members to “expose” the Opposition’s disruption of proceedings.Also Read | Govt creating database of unorganised workers: Minister tells Rajya SabhaWhile the Opposition parties have accused the government of muzzling their voices and not taking up issue they want to raise for discussion, Prasad said the government has not run away from any discussion.He accused the Congress of not “being serious” about discussions in Parliament.“The Congress has not been able to reconcile to the fact that the country is reposing its trust in PM Narendra Modi in elections after elections, and that the Congress is losing in elections after elections,” he said.Referring to the Opposition’s complaints about how Bills are being passed in both Houses without debate and discussion, the BJP leader said, “We had discussions in the Rajya Sabha to pass Bills. The Congress leaders keep asking us what have you done… during their time they denied the 2G scam and said there was zero loss…”He said the Congress party’s lack of seriousness about issues such as the Covid pandemic is evident from the fact that they skipped a meeting by the PM on the issue.“The Congress does not take Parliament seriously and we need to tell the people this. When the statement about the Pegasus snooping was made, the statement was torn from the minister‘s hand. Is there any evidence that phones of certain people were tapped? Has any responsible quarter given any prima facie evidence that phone numbers have been tapped ? Before Parliament session began, some numbers were circulated by those people who have an anti-Modi agenda,” he said.He said the government is ready to have a discussion on the issue, which he dubbed as “a campaign orchestrated by those who are hostile to the present government.”The former minister said the disruption in parliament has led to a loss of ₹130 crore to the exchequer. He also criticised the Opposition protesting on the floor of the House by tearing papers and flinging them in the air towards the Chair ,which he said is against propriety.In response to a question on the Opposition’s demand for a reply from the PM or the home minister on the Pegasus controversy, he said, “ Will they dictate everything…India is a democracy that is praised across the world. Democracy is run by probity, by propriety and certain standards of conduct.”So far, the government has neither confirmed nor denied whether it has purchased the Pegasus spyware. NSO Group has on multiple occasions said that it offers services only to vetted government clients. The company has disputed the leaked list of numbers as those targeted by its clients.Union information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, who defended the government in Parliament hours, was also named as a potential hacking target on July 19.To be sure, as the methodology of the investigation explains, the presence of a number does not indicate the individual’s phone was hacked — just that it was of interest. The government denied any involvement. The opposition, however, has called for a probe into the allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/monsoon-session-bjp-hits-out-at-congress-says-the-party-does-not-want-serious-discussion-101628145111897.html
05-08-2021||India||NCPCR notice to Twitter on pic shared by Rahul Gandhi with rape victim's family||The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has issued a notice to Twitter India to take action against an image shared by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi that revealed the identity of family members of rape victim violating provisions of the (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) POCSO Act and Juvenile Justice Care and Protection of Children Act. It further asked the microblogging platform to remove the photo. The child rights body has also reportedly asked the Delhi Police to take action against Gandhi over the matter. A Delhi-based lawyer has also filed a complaint with Delhi Police against Gandhi for sharing the photo. An FIR has been registered against the Congress leader based on the complaint from Vineet Jindal.Gandhi had, on Wednesday, shared an image of himself with the parents of a Dalit minor who was allegedly raped and killed by a priest and three employees of a crematorium near Delhi Cantonment in southwest Delhi’s Old Nangal area. The faces of all three seated inside a vehicle can be seen in the photo as they engaged in a conversation. Gandhi had gone to meet the bereaved family after news of the minor’s gangrape and murder broke. Following his visit, Gandhi told the media he would stand by the family till they get justice.Along with the image, he wrote, "The parents' tears are saying only one thing - their daughter, the daughter of this country, deserves justice. And I am with them on this path of justice." Taking to Twitter, NCPCR chairperson Priyank Kanoongo wrote that revealing the identity of the girl by tweeting a photo of her parents is a violation of the POCSO Act. “Taking cognizance of this, the NCPCR has asked Twitter India to issue a notice to Rahul Gandhi and remove the post," the NCPCR tweeted.The notice, addressed to the resident grievance officer of Twitter India, the NCPCR said it had received a complaint that the photo shared by Gandhi "reveals the identities of the girl" by showing her parents.एक पीड़ित बच्ची के माता पिता की फ़ोटो ट्वीट कर उनकी पहचान उजागर कर #POCSO ऐक्ट का उल्लंघन करने पर @NCPCR_ ने संज्ञान लेते हुए @TwitterIndia को नोटिस जारी कर श्री राहुल गांधी के ट्विटर हैंडल के विरुद्ध कार्यवाही करने एवं पोस्ट हटाने के लिए नोटिस जारी किया है। pic.twitter.com/cVquij6jx3Earlier, BJP’s Sambit Patra said the party will urge the child rights body to take cognisance of the tweet as it violates Section 23 of the POCSO Act and Section 74 of Juvenile Justice Act. Accusing Gandhi of indulging into politics over the incident, Patra said the Congress practices double speak on the issue of rapes and crimes against Dalits as it maintains silence when such crimes take place in Congress-ruled states.Delhi Police has registered a case against four accused on the basis of a statement from the minor's mother who said her daughter was raped, murdered and cremated without the family’s consent on Sunday.The accused have been booked under Sections 302, 376 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code, along with the relevant sections of the POCSO Act and SC/ST Act.Meanwhile, the NCPCR has asked the district magistrate to submit an action taken report within 48 hours in Delhi's Nangal minor rape case. The commission further asked the DM to ensure that the victim's identity is not disclosed during the process of investigation.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ncpcr-notice-to-twitter-on-pic-shared-by-rahul-gandhi-with-rape-victim-s-family-101628143211532.html
05-08-2021||India||We may win 400 seats in UP elections, people are angry with Yogi govt: Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party (SP) chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday launched a statewide 'cycle yatra' in Uttar Pradesh and used the occasion to attack the Yogi Adityanath government. The SP is taking out the demonstration across UP to register its protest against the policies of the Centre and state government.Yadav said that people of Uttar Pradesh are angry with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government, and this will pave the way for their victory in the next assembly elections scheduled for 2022. The 48-year-old was dressed in his signature kurta pyjama and black waistcoat, wore a red cap of socialist party and a mask as he launched the 'cycle yatra' in Lucknow. The SP chief, surrounded by his security ring, rode out of the party's headquarters on a bicycle and was surrounded by a large number of party leaders on bicycles."We had been saying that we will win the UP assembly polls 2022 by bagging 350 seats, but the way people are angry with the government and BJP, we might win 400 seats.The state has 403 Assembly seats.The SP chief also blamed the state government for mishandling the Covid-19 pandemic."Today, we remember scores of people who lost their lives in the coronavirus outbreak under this government's mismanagement. The government and its administration failed entirely in Corona management and betrayed the people," Yadav said.Charging further at the UP government, the SP leader said that the state government has ranked at the top for mishandling all the problems faced by people."This government made UP number one in all the wrong things. It ranked at number one in black marketing of medicines, concealing failure of the government and in sacrificing teachers' lives to the virus in Panchayat polls," Yadav said."UP is number one in putting up big hoardings and advertisements to hide failures of the government," he added.The party on its Twitter handle had announced on Tuesday that Akhilesh Yadav will lead the protest in Lucknow, which is being held over issues of price rise, unemployment, farm laws, crime and jail to SP leader Azam Khan.The party is taking out a 'cycle yatra' at the tehsil-level in all districts on Thursday, the birth anniversary of SP leader Janeshwar Mishra. Yadav is later expected to pay tributes to Janeshwar Mishra at a giant statue at the Janeshwar Mishra park in Lucknow and then address the public.The yatra will cover a distance of five to 10 kilometres in all districts, the party said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/we-may-win-400-seats-in-up-elections-people-are-angry-with-yogi-govt-akhilesh-yadav-101628141825054.html
05-08-2021||India||Govt creating database of unorganised workers: Minister tells Rajya Sabha||The government is creating a National Database for Unorganised Workers (NDUW) which would start its registration this month itself, the ministry of labour and employment told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday.“At present, the process for dry run and security audit is underway. The project is expected to commence the registration work within August, 2021,” said the ministry in response to Telangana Rashtriya Samithi (TRS) MP Dr Banda Prakash’s question on whether the government is planning to launch a portal and database for migrant workers in the unorganised sector in the country to avoid a repeat of the migrant crisis.The database will include construction workers, migrant workers, gig and platform workers, street vendors, domestic workers, agriculture workers, migrant workers and similar other sub-groups of unorganised workers.Click here for LIVE Updates of Parliament proceedingsResponding to Congress leader K T S Tulsi’s question on whether the government is providing compensation to those who lost their jobs in the pandemic, the ministry said, “Government of India has taken a number of initiatives for promoting employment generation and to protect livelihood during the Covid-19 pandemic.” It added that the Aatmanirbhar Bharat package of more than ₹27 lakh crore was launched in a phased manner to make the country self-reliant and to create employment opportunities.According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), 90% of the workers in India are in the informal sector, which is 419 million of the 465 million workers.Answering Tulsi, the ministry listed government’s employment initiatives Aatmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana (ABRY) said that the government is incentivising the employers to increase employment.He added that under Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana, the government has been providing 12% of employees’ share of wages and employers’ share of contribution for two years for new employees whose monthly wage is less than ₹15,000 per month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-creating-database-of-unorganised-wokers-minister-tells-rajya-sabha-101628143431710.html
05-08-2021||India||All you need to know about bhumiputra Bill that Goa govt plans to reconsider||Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday announced that the government would bring an amended version of the controversial Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarini Bill, 2021 in the next session of the assembly around two months from now. Sawant’s decision to reconsider the Bill, that was passed without a discussion, comes amid a severe backlash across the political and social spectrum. The government has been accused of seeking to gain an undue advantage ahead of the upcoming polls, of rewarding encroachers and of prioritising the migrant workforce at the cost of locals. The Bill was tabled in the Goa assembly at around 3.30am on July 30, the previous day’s session having sat for a record 17 hours, until 4.30am. Also Read | 14 daily wagers ‘rescued’ from bonded labour in GoaDrafted with the aim of providing “a mechanism to give ownership right to dweller of a small housing unit to enable him to live with dignity and self-respect and exercise his right to life,” the Bill provided the legal basis for the Goa government to set up a “Bhumiputra Adhikarini”, an authority that would receive applications from ‘Bhumiputras,’ and after hearing objections, would be empowered to declare the applicant as the owner of the premises he was living in. Any person living in Goa for at least 30 years would be defined as a “Bhumiputra” and would be eligible to file an application for ownership under the Act. Further, a decision of the Bhumiputra Adhikarini cannot be challenged in any court of law. According to section 4 of the Bill, “the Bhumiputra Adhikarini (authority) may by an order declare a Bhumiputra to be the owner of the dwelling unit occupied by him upon payment of an amount equivalent to the value of land calculated at the market rate and such other amounts…where the land is not owned by the government the amount received shall be transferred to the owner of such land.”After consideration of objections, if any, the Bhumiputra Adhikarini shall pass an order, as deemed fit by it deciding the value of the land and the charges/fees to be paid by the applicant under various law including conversion charges, infrastructure tax, except penalty and convey his decision to the applicant, along with the challan for making payment as aforesaid.After receipt of the amount, the Bhumiputra Adhikarini shall issue an ownership sanad to the applicant in such form as prescribed and Mamlatdar having the jurisdiction shall make an entry in the (land) Record of rights, based on the Ownership Sanad granted by Bhumiputra Adhikarini under sub-section without any further notice or any proceedings.“It is clearly a licence to a person who is sitting on your land on April 1, 2019, to automatically, by this legislation, acquire ownership rights and title to your property. Irrespective of whether he’s an encroacher or even if he’s your tenant,” Adv Carlos Alvares Ferreira a former Advocate General of Goa. “They have said 30 years’ residence (to be eligible), but it doesn’t say that it should be 30 years in that house. It only requires residence anywhere in Goa for the last 30 years and then you should have been in that house on April 1, 2019,” he added. That the bill was hurriedly and poorly drafted emerged after the government, through a BJP legislator, moved an amendment to ensure that people staying via rent agreements or tenancy agreements do not claim ownership of the house or room they are living in. Chief minister Sawant on Tuesday night, however, confirmed that via the amendment, “people can only apply for the ownership of their own dwelling units -- that is the electricity and water bill needs to be in their name”.“We brought this amendment in the house before passing the Bill. This is only for dwelling units and not for commercial purpose,” he said. In the original copy of the Bill circulated in the House and on the Vidhan Sabha website, the amendment is not yet reflected. “This bill has been brought specifically for those who have built houses on government land and on comunidade (community) land. This category of people couldn’t take advantage of the Mundkar Act and the Regularization of Houses Act. This Act is especially for them,” Sawant said. “There are many who are saying that this bill has been brought for the benefit of migrants (who may be staying in illegal slums). I wish to ask them, ‘when did these migrants come? When did they build their houses? When did they encroach upon government land and common land? And if they are squatting on government land have they paid for it? Or have those lands been allowed to be taken over for free?” the CM asked.The fate of the Bill -- that was already passed by the assembly -- remains unclear with Sawant not specifically saying it will be withdrawn. However, with the government promising to bring a revised Bill, it is unlikely that the governor or President of India (since it is a Bill concerning land rights) will grant assent making it a law.Congress spokesperson Sunil Kawthankar said the proposed law is against law abiding citizens and favours encroachers. “Goa Bhumiputra Adhikarini Act is a tight slap on every hardworking Goan’s face by the BJP government for votes in the coming elections. The law is also not legally tenable as an authority cannot provide legal rights to an encroacher or squatter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-you-need-to-know-about-bhumiputra-bill-that-goa-govt-plans-to-reconsider-101628142891839.html
05-08-2021||India||India prepared for long haul with China over Ladakh||The Narendra Modi government is prepared for the long haul with China on resolving the East Ladakh situation post PLA May 2020 aggression even though the 12th senior commander meeting on July 31 at Chushul recorded an incremental movement at Gogra-Hot Springs friction point.Given that it took nearly eight years to resolve the 1986 Sumdorong Chu military stand-off in Arunachal Pradesh, the Modi government is prepared for further rounds of military negotiations without any unilateral dilution of the Indian position on the present stand-off in East Ladakh while maintaining a hawk eye over the eastern sector. “It is an endless night,” said a senior official.The Indian position put across by forcefully by Ladakh Corps Commander Lt Gen P G K Menon is that all contentious frictions points between the two armies must be resolved. This includes Depsang Bulge and Gogra-Hot Springs, where the PLA continues to be in an aggressive mode. The Modi government is very clear that the way to restoration of bilateral ties with China goes through the resolution of the Ladakh LAC as a first step. Any proposal suggesting 1980s parallel diplomacy—restoring economic ties while the military stand-off is on in East Ladakh-- is out of question for the Modi government. This is because the PLA is fully deployed across the LAC in East Ladakh with the PLAAF strengthening its air bases in the Western Theatre Command with advanced fighters and missile systems.While India is negotiating with China on peaceful resolution of the western sector, the Indian intelligence has alerted the military of increased PLA activity in the Eastern sector. The July 23 visit of Chinese paramount leader Xi Jinping to Nyingchi across Arunachal Pradesh has caused concern as he was briefed about the military situation on the LAC in eastern sector.Since May 2020 PLA aggression on Galwan, Gogra-Hot Springs and Pangong Tso, the PLA has also tremendously improved military infrastructure across the Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh sector with new fortified bunkers and missile systems. The PLA has deployed Russian S-400 missile system at Nyingchi with the second one possibly deployed at Hotan in Xinjiang region. For the past one year, increased communication activity has been noticed all along the 3,488 km LAC with Chumbi Valley activity across Nathu La in Sikkim a matter of serious security concern.Apart from fortifying military infrastructure in Tibet and Xinjiang, the Chinese information warfare has reached a very high level of sophistication with the adversary being targeted from both within and outside the country. The Chinese population, however, has been fire-walled to ensure that the real situation is always kept out of bounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-prepared-for-a-long-haul-with-china-over-ladakh-101628141502624.html
05-08-2021||India||Govt received 732 visa applications from Pak nationals this year, granted 280||The government on Wednesday said it received 732 visa applications from Pakistani nationals until July 25 this year, and granted visas to over 280 Pakistani nationals.“This year, till July 25, 2021, 732 visa applications were received from Pakistani nationals and 286 visas were granted, which includes visas for people travelling to India for social purposes, including weddings,” the government said in response to a question by MP Sukhram Singh and two others in Rajya Sabha.The MPs also asked whether the government asked Pakistani nationals to pursue a visa via Dubai, a claim the government denied and said, “Pakistani families are being granted visas for travel or arranging marriages as per extant visa rules and guidelines.”Questioned whether any families from Pakistan were granted citizenship based on affidavits and not passports or birth certificates, the government said the applications for Indian citizenship are processed only as per the “provisions of the Citizenship Act, 1955 read with citizenship rules 2009”.Also Read | Bill seeking to develop smaller airports passedAs per the Indian Citizenship Act 1955, the government grants citizenship to people based on four causes--birth, descent, registration, naturalisation.Answering another separate question by the same MPs, the government also said that 4046 citizenship applications of Hindu families were pending with state governments and 10 with the Central government as of July 30, 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-received-732-visa-applications-from-pak-nationals-this-year-granted-280-101628140851555.html
05-08-2021||India||UK eases travel restrictions on India, 10-day hotel quarantine no longer mandatory||The UK has eased Covid-19 travel restrictions on India, and travellers from the country will no longer need to undergo 10-day mandatory hotel quarantine under changes coming into effect from August 8.The move is expected to benefit thousands of Indians, mainly students, professionals and those who have family in the UK, who had been effectively barred from travelling to Britain after the second wave of infections in India. As part of a review of its “red-amber-green traffic light ratings” for international travellers, the UK on Wednesday moved India, along with Bahrain, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates (UAE), from the “red” to the “amber” list. A statement from the British High commission said that, under the changes coming into effect at 4 am on August 8, “visit visas for the UK from India are open (in addition to other visa long-term visas that have remained open)”. Travellers arriving in the UK from India can complete a 10-day quarantine at home or in the place they are staying, and it will no longer be mandatory for them to quarantine in a managed hotel. Also Read | RS member seeks govt intervention to address issue of Gulf nations’ travel banBefore travelling to the UK, Indian nationals must take a Covid-19 test three days before the date of travel, book and pay for Covid-19 tests to be taken after arrival, and complete a passenger locator form. Under the UK’s voluntary “Test to Release” scheme, Indian travellers can choose to pay for a private Covid-19 test on the fifth day of quarantine. If the result is negative, they can end their quarantine, the statement said. The UK government announced India, Bahrain, Qatar and the UAE had been moved from the red to the amber list as the “situation in these countries has improved”.“The data for all countries will be kept under review and the government will not hesitate to take action where a country’s epidemiological picture changes,” the British government said. UK transport secretary Grant Shapps said: “We are committed to opening up international travel safely, taking advantage of the gains we’ve made through our successful vaccination programme, helping connect families, friends and businesses around the world.”UK health secretary Sajid Javid added: “As we learn to live with this virus, we are continuing to take steps to safely reopen international travel based on the latest data and expert public health advice.”The UK’s classification changes were decided by ministers based on the latest data and analysis by the Joint Biosecurity Centre (JBC) and public health considerations.India’s foreign secretary Harsh Shringla had urged the UK to ease travel restrictions for Indians during a recent visit to London, arguing that infections had significantly declined in key cities such as New Delhi and Mumbai. Since February, travellers from a red list country have been required to book a stay in a managed quarantine facility for 10 days. In order to ensure British taxpayers are not subsidising the costs of staying in these facilities, the cost will increase from August 12.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-eases-travel-restrictions-on-india-10-day-hotel-quarantine-no-longer-mandatory-101628139171474.html
05-08-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with 5 UP beneficiaries of PMGKAY today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will interact with five beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana from Uttar Pradesh today via video conferencing. PMGKAY is a food security welfare scheme to provide assistance and help mitigate the economic impact of Covid-19, according to the Prime Minister’s Office. Under the scheme, five kilograms per person additional food grain is given to all beneficiaries covered under the National Food Security Act.Food grains will be distributed to the poor from fair price shops across all the 75 districts of the state as part of the Anna Mahotsav by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his ministers and BJP leaders. Also Read | Centre to give ₹5 lakh insurance to kids orphaned due to Covid-19District panchayat chairpersons and block pramukhs or kshetra panchayat chairpersons, majority of whom won with the ruling BJP’s backing in the recently concluded panchayat polls, will also be present at fair price shops in their areas, officials said. The five beneficiaries shortlisted for interaction with PM are four women labourers and a male small-time general merchant. Two of them are from eastern UP, one from Bundelkhand and one from western UP. The women beneficiaries with whom the PM will interact are Badami, a 42-year-old MNREGA worker from Bhikampur village of Varanasi, Amlawati, 50, from Mainpur Sapaha village of Kushinagar, Babita, 38, from Laxmanpur village of Sultanpur and Kamlesh, 41, from Pahansu village in Saharanpur. The PM will also talk to Pankaj Sehgal, 40, of Semrawari village, Jhansi. “At 1pm tomorrow, August 5, I will interact with beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana in Uttar Pradesh. About 15 crore [150 million] people across the state have benefitted thanks to this scheme,” the PM tweeted on the eve of his interaction with the beneficiaries. While the chief minister will attend the function and interact with the beneficiaries from a fair price shop at Ayodhya, excise minister Ram Naresh Agnihiotri will be present, along with local lawmakers Anurag Sharma, MP, and Rajiv Singh and Ravi Sharma, MLAs from Babina and Jhansi, at Semrawari village in Jhansi. The state’s agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi, along with Kushinagar MLA Rajni Kant Mani Tripathi, will be present at Mainpur Sapaha village of Kushinagar during the PM’s interaction. Anil Rajbhar, the minister for backward welfare, will be present at Bhikampur village of Varanasi. Ayush minister Dr Dharm Singh Saini along with Devendra Nim, the local MLA from Rampur Maniharan, will be present at Pahansu village of Saharanpur. At Lakshmanpur village of Sultanpur, Rajesh Gautam, the MLA from Kadipur along with block pramukh Karishma Gautam would be present during the PM’s interaction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-5-up-beneficiaries-of-pmgkay-today-101628139111538.html
05-08-2021||India||Covaxin receives GMP certificate from Hungary, says Bharat Biotech||Indigenous coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine Covaxin has received Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) compliance certificate from Hungary, Bharat Biotech said on Thursday in a tweet."Another milestone in our account as COVAXIN receives GMP certificate from Hungary. This marks the 1st EUDRAGDMP compliance certificate received by Bharat Biotech from European regulatories," the tweet said.The approval was received from the National Institute of Pharmacy and Nutrition, Hungary certifying the GMP for the manufacture of Covaxin.Bharat Biotech said that the certificate of GMP is now listed on the EudraGMDP database which is the collection of records of the European Community of manufacturing authorisations and certificates of good manufacturing practice.The company further said that it intends to submit documentation for emergency use authorisation to several additional countries worldwide."With this approval Bharat Biotech has achieved another significant milestone in innovating and manufacturing vaccines at Global quality standards and moving forward in the ongoing fight against the COVID-19 pandemic," the company said in a note on Twitter.The recognition compliments the firm's commitment of driving world class innovation and being a frontrunner in the research and development of vaccines, it added."With this approval, Bharat Biotech has achieved another significant milestone in innovating and manufacturing vaccines at global quality standards and moving forward in the ongoing fight against the Covid-19 pandemic," Bharat Biotech said.Covaxin is among the four vaccines approved by India's drug regulator and is being used in the nationwide inoculation drive. The other three are Covishield by AstraZeneca, Sputnik V by Russia's Gamaleya Institute and a Moderna's vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-receives-gmp-certificate-from-hungary-says-bharat-biotech-101628137094163.html
05-08-2021||India||'On temporary break': Prashant Kishor asks Punjab CM to relieve him as advisor||Political strategist Prashant Kishor on Thursday said that he needed a 'temporary' break from an active role in public life. To this end, Kishor has informed Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh in a letter that he will not be able to take over as the latter's principal advisor."In view of my decision to take a temporary break from an active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Advisor," the poll strategist wrote in a letter addressed to the Punjab chief minister. "I request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility."Also Read | Why Prashant Kishor met Priyanka, Rahul GandhiKishor, however, said that he is yet to decide on his future course of action. In his letter, the political strategist also thanked Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for considering him for the position of principal advisor.Prashant Kishor was appointed by Amarinder Singh as his principal advisor back in March this year. The chief minister's office (CMO) had even accorded Kishor "the rank and status of a cabinet minister" and was prepared to provide him government job benefits including an official residence, free-of-cost transport, telephone facilities, and the like.It was speculated that Kishor was behind the reconciliation in Punjab between warring factions of the party and also that he was supposedly chalking up the plans for a united opposition front in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.After achieving a resounding victory over the BJP in the recent assembly elections, the TMC, in June, renewed its contract with the Indian Political Action Committee, or I-PAC, the company launched by Kishor, till the next Lok Sabha polls.Kishor, however, declared that he had quit I-PAC and that his team would function on its own. Soon, Kishor was seen meeting leaders in different states.The states which are slated for assembly polls in 2022 are Manipur, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Goa, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Gujarat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-temporary-break-prashant-kishor-asks-punjab-cm-to-relieve-him-as-advisor-101628136535040.html
05-08-2021||India||With new chief in Assam, Congress looks to revive lost glory||Congress in Assam hopes for a change in fortunes with appointment of the party’s new state unit chief Bhupen Borah who assumed charge on Wednesday in Guwahati. Borah and three working presidents, Rana Goswami, Kamalakhya Deb Purkayastha and Zakir Hussain Sikdar, assume office after the party’s second successive loss to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the assembly polls and at a time when its legislators are quitting and joining the ruling dispensation. “I thank all for their blessings on my new role. I assure to take the party forward with advice of all seniors and the hard work of our young workers,” Borah said after taking charge from outgoing chief Ripun Borah. Congress, which ruled Assam for three successive terms from 2001, secured 26 of the total 126 seats in 2016 and lost to the BJP that formed its first ever government in the state. In this year’s polls, the party bagged 29 seats, but failed to stop BJP from coming to power for a second time. Prior to the polls, Congress had formed a 10 party ‘grand alliance’ that included All India United Democratic Front and Bodoland People’s Party. But together they bagged 50 seats, while BJP (60) and its allies Asom Gana Parishad (9) and United Peoples Party Liberal (6) secured 75 seats. Also Read | Will withdraw cases against Gorkhas in foreigners’ tribunals: Assam CM Sarma“There is no need to feel disappointed. Our vote difference with BJP in 2021 was marginal, but we failed to form government. The BJP alliance got around 9.1 million votes while Congress and its allies cornered around 8.9 million votes,” outgoing president Ripun Borah said. Leader of Congress legislature party Debabrata Saikia said that the party needs to have close door meetings where all issues are laid out and discussed threadbare. He said that specifics of votes secured in each constituency should also be looked at closely if Congress has to win at least 64 seats in 2026. Accusing the BJP-led government in Assam of playing divisive politics on the basis of religion, Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi urged the new state president to present a counter narrative that unites all people of Assam. “Congress revival should start from villages. Leaders must visit districts, spend time with local workers and get to know their problems. Besides banking on our traditional vote banks, we need to expand among new voters as well,” said Lok Sabha MP Gaurav Gogoi. Since this year’s assembly election loss, two Congress MLAs have quit the party and joined the BJP. There are speculations that some others could also leave the party in the near future. “We face a lot of challenges now. Let those who want to go, leave the party. It will help cleanse the Congress,” said Ripun Borah. Besides preventing more legislators and leaders leaving the party and heading to the BJP camp, newly appointed chief Bhupen Borah also has the task of winning the by-polls in five seats which are vacant due to deaths of two MLAs, two Congress legislators resigning and elevation of former chief minister and Majuli MLA Sarbananda Sonowal as a Cabinet minister at Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-new-chief-in-assam-congress-looks-to-revive-lost-glory-101628137131488.html
05-08-2021||India||India Covid-19 cases continue to rise after 42,982 infections recorded in 24 hours||India on Thursday recorded 42,982 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), which pushed the country's cumulative infections closer to 32 million, the Union health ministry data showed. This is an increase of nearly 300 cases recorded on Wednesday.For the second day in a row, India recorded more than 40,000 cases of coronavirus disease amid concerns of a rise in the trajectory of fresh infections.The active cases in the country have surged by more than 700 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 4,11,076. This accounts for 1.29% of the total cases seen in the country so far.With 41,726 patients recovering during the last 24 hours, the national recovery rate in the country has been logged at 97.3 per cent. The total recoveries from the viral contagion in the country stand at 30,974,748.India has administered 48.93 crore Covid-19 doses so far, data released by the health ministry showed.According to a study, India is likely to witness another surge in Covid-19 cases in August but not as grave as the second wave. Researchers Mathukumalli Vidyasagar and Manindra Agrawal at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) in Hyderabad and Kanpur respectively have predicted that a surge in Covid-19 cases will push the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. The wave is likely to peak in October.The rise in Covid-19 cases will begin as soon as August, marking the rise of the third wave, according to experts. They have predicted that the virulence of this wave is expected to push the cases to less than 100,000 infections a day in the best-case scenario or nearly 150,000 in the worst scenario.India's current surge in cases is being driven by states like Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Lakshwadweep, Tamil Nadu, Mizoram, Karnataka, Puducherry and Kerala, which have reported a trend of rising cases and are now under scrutiny of the central government.Health ministry officials have maintained that the spread of the highly transmissible Delta variant of Covid-19 is a dominant problem."The pandemic is still raging and we are concerned that some states have the R number which is rising, which shows the virus wishes to expand and we must curb it," Niti Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul said earlier this week, addressing a press briefingThe government has stressed on hotspot states to rely on contact tracing and create containment zones wherever clusters are identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-19-cases-continue-to-rise-after-42-982-infections-recorded-in-24-hours-101628128930337.html
05-08-2021||India||Stern message to China: Indian warships head to South China Sea||India is sending a naval task force to the South China Sea this month to expand security ties with friendly countries, the Indian navy said in a statement on Wednesday. The move signals India's intent to play a bigger role in regional efforts to counter China.Four ships, including a guided missile destroyer and a missile frigate, will be deployed for a two-month period to southeast Asia, the South China Sea and the western Pacific, the navy said in the statement."The deployment of the Indian Navy ships seeks to underscore the operational reach, peaceful presence and solidarity with friendly countries towards ensuring good order in the maritime domain..." the navy said.The Indian ships will take part in annual joint war drills involving the United States, Japan and Australia - the group known as Quad along with India - off the coast of Guam, the navy said. The Quad has emerged as a platform to counter an assertive China.The mood of Indian navy has hardended following the clashes between Indian and Chinese militaries in Galwan in East Ladakh last year.South China Sea has emerged as one of the flashpoints between China and other countries, including smaller ones like the Philippines, Vietnam etc who accuse the dragon of exercising undue pressure in the region by claiming it as its own territory.The United States and Britain too have deployed their respective naval vessels in the region. The Elizabeth carrier strike group is heading to Japan to exercise with its maritime forces. Japan has shown urgency to ramp up its military capabilities and deepen military cooperation with Quad and other allies at a time when China has emerged as country's top security threat.China had recently threatened to nuke Japan if it interferes in Taiwan or East China Sea by saying that Beijing will revisit its no first use option.Meanwhile, Washington too has rejected what it calls unlawful territorial claims by Beijing in the resource-rich waters.In June, a US aircraft carrier group led by the USS Ronald Reagan entered the South China Sea as part of a routine mission.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stern-message-to-china-indian-warships-head-to-south-china-sea-101628135035222.html
05-08-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Jaishankar to attend Iranian President-elect's oath ceremony and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 AM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.S Jaishankar to attend Iranian President-elect Ebrahim Raisi's oath ceremonyIndia will be represented by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at the inauguration of Iran’s president-elect Ebrahim Raisi on August 5, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday. Read moreMK Stalin to launch 'doorstep healthcare' scheme in Tamil NaduTamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin is all set to inaugurate the 'Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam', a 'doorstep healthcare' scheme aimed at eliminating the need for patients to visit hospitals for treating non-communicable diseases. Read moreAditi Govitrikar's sister Arzoo accuses husband of domestic violence: 'He had a Russian girlfriend'Actor Arzoo Govitrikar has filed for divorce from her husband Siddharth Sabharwal, saying the 'gaalis, violence and infidelity had become unbearable'. Arzoo, the sister of Aditi Gotvitrikar, has appeared in the film Baghban and the television show Naagin 2. Read more‘I didn’t knock Mamata’s door’: Jawhar Sircar explains his entry into politicsIn the latest edition of The Interview, former chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati Jawhar Sircar speaks to Hindustan Times and talks about his relations with West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Watch more'England would be smiling; India could beat themselves': Former Eng pacer feels R Ashwin 'should have’ played 1st TestThat India decided to leave out their leading spinner in Test matches, R Ashwin out of the Playing XI for the series opener in Nottingham sparked a debate and raised a few eyebrows. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9am-jaishankar-to-attend-iranian-president-elect-s-oath-ceremony-and-all-the-latest-news-101628128302636.html
05-08-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 6,126 new Covid cases; districts remain alert||Maharashtra may have relaxed some of the lockdown curbs, but the state is keeping a close eye on the daily Covid caseload. The district and municipal corporations have been directed to not lower their guards and ensure that the lockdown and Covid-19 protocols are followed properly.Keeping its trend of daily caseload, Maharashtra reported 6,126 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 6,327,194 and the death toll to 133,410 with 195 fresh deaths. The state has 72,810 active cases, of which Pune tops with 15,216, followed by Thane with 5,984 and Mumbai with 5,034. Around 447,681 people are in home quarantine, while 2,928 are in institutional quarantine.Also Read | B’luru extends night curfew, invokes Sec 144 to curb Covid spreadThe daily test positivity rate on Wednesday was 2.89% as 6,126 of 211,678 tests were declared positive. Test positivity rate is the number of positive reports as a percentage of total tests conducted for an infection.As part of its Mission Begin Again, the state government has started rolling out relaxations from the curbs imposed for the last four months. Barring 11 districts with a high positivity and growth rate, the relaxations have come into effect from Tuesday. According to the health department on Tuesday, the positivity rate in 10 districts is above the state rate of 3.53%. Satara (7.56%), Sindhudurg (6.73), Sangli (6.37%), Pune (6.31%), Kolhapur and Ahmednagar (6.01%) are among the highest weekly positivity rate. Most of these districts have a high growth rate of over 0.30% against the state rate of 0.10%.Amid the relaxations, the state government is apprehensive about the rise in daily caseload due to crowding at public places.Meanwhile, Mumbai reported 359 new cases and nine deaths taking the tally to 736,016 and the toll to 15,920. Pune (1,014), Sangli (783), Kolhapur (412), Ratnagiri (212) were among the districts to report more cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-reports-6-126-new-covid-cases-dists-remain-alert-101628132571068.html
05-08-2021||India||India enforcement agency threatens Flipkart, founders with $1.35 billion fine||India's financial-crime agency has asked Walmart's Flipkart and its founders to explain why they shouldn't face a penalty of $1.35 billion for alleged violation of foreign investment laws, three sources and an agency official told Reuters.The Enforcement Directorate agency has been investigating e-commerce giants Flipkart and Amazon.com Inc for years for allegedly bypassing foreign investment laws that strictly regulate multi-brand retail and restrict such companies to operating a marketplace for sellers.The Enforcement Directorate official, who declined to be named, said the case concerned an investigation into allegations that Flipkart attracted foreign investment and a related party, WS Retail, then sold goods to consumers on its shopping website, which was prohibited under law.A so-called "show cause notice" was issued in early July by the agency's office in southern city of Chennai to Flipkart, its founders Sachin Bansal and Binny Bansal as well as current investor Tiger Global, to explain why they should not face a fine of 100 billion rupees ($1.35 billion) for the lapses, said the agency official and the sources, who are all familiar with the content of the notice.A Flipkart spokesperson said the company is "in compliance with Indian laws and regulations"."We will cooperate with the authorities as they look at this issue pertaining to the period 2009-2015 as per their notice," the spokesperson added.The Indian agency does not make public such notices issued to parties during an investigation.One of the sources said Flipkart and others have around 90 days to respond to the notice. WS Retail ceased operations at the end of 2015, the person added.Tiger Global declined to comment. Binny Bansal and Sachin Bansal did not immediately respond to requests for comment. The Enforcement Directorate also did not respond outside regular business hours.Walmart took a majority stake in Flipkart for $16 billion in 2018, its biggest deal ever. Sachin Bansal sold his stake to Walmart at the time, while Binny Bansal retained a small stake. Walmart did not respond to a request for comment.Flipkart's valuation doubled to $37.6 billion in less than 3 years at a $3.6 billion funding round in July, during which SoftBank Group reinvested in the company ahead of an expected market debut.The notice is the latest regulatory headache for the online retailer, which is already facing tougher restrictions and antitrust investigations in India, and a growing number of complaints from smaller sellers.India's brick-and-mortar retailers say Amazon and Flipkart favour select sellers on their platforms and use complex business structures to bypass the foreign investment laws, hurting smaller players. The companies deny any wrongdoing.In February, a Reuters investigation https://www.reuters.com/investigates/special-report/amazon-india-operation based on Amazon documents showed it had given preferential treatment for years to a small group of sellers, publicly misrepresented ties with them and used them to bypass Indian law. Amazon says it gives no preferential treatment to any seller.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-enforcement-agency-threatens-flipkart-founders-with-1-35-billion-fine-101628132411692.html
05-08-2021||India||Heavy rain warning for west MP, east Rajasthan and Uttarakhand for today||Widespread and very heavy rain is likely over west Madhya Pradesh, east Rajasthan and parts of Uttarakhand on Thursday, according to India Meteorological Department.A low pressure area is lying over northwest Madhya Pradesh and its neighbourhood. It is likely to weaken during the next 24 hours. A cyclonic circulation is lying over north Bay of Bengal and its neighbourhood, which extends upto mid-tropospheric levels.The monsoon trough is running along its normal position. It is passing through Ganganagar, Narnaul, centre of low pressure area over northwest Madhya Pradesh, Varanasi, Patna, Shanti Niketan and thence southeastwards to northeast Bay of Bengal. Its eastern end is likely to shift north of its normal position from August 7.Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall is very likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during the next five days. Isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, with a reduction thereafter.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi speaks to CM Mamata Banerjee over flood situation in BengalThe current spell of widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over the rest of north India with isolated heavy rain very likely over Uttarakhand on Thursday. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rain is very likely over Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal on Thursday.Enhanced rainfall activity is likely over northeastern states from August 7 onward with isolated heavy to very heavy rain very likely over these areas on August 7 and 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heavy-rain-warning-for-west-mp-east-rajasthan-and-uttarakhand-for-today-101628131731091.html
05-08-2021||NA||Monsoon session Day 13 Highlights: Ruckus continues, 3 bills passed in RS||Both Houses of the Parliament witnessed repeated adjournments as Opposition leaders continued to demand discussion over Pegasus spyware and raised demands seeking discussion also regarding the three farm laws. Deputy Chairman Harivansh and Bhubaneswar Kalita, who was also in the Chair requested MPs from the Opposition to calm down several times. In Lok Sabha, Rama Devi who was in the Chair said that the ruckus is affecting the people of the country.However, the Rajya Sabha was able to pass the Essential Defence Services Bill, Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill and the Constitution (Scheduled Tribes) Order (Amendment) Bill. Lok Sabha passed the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Follow all the updates here:'Aap halla karte reh gaye': Rama Devi criticises Opposition for ruckusDeputy speaker Rama Devi criticised the Opposition for creating ruckus in the House and said that the Parliament is failing to work for the people of the nation before adjourning the Lok Sabha for the day. Rajya Sabha adjourned, passes the Essential Defence Services BillRajya Sabha adjourned for the day. It will reconvene on August 6. The Essential Defence Services Bill was passed before the adjournment. Lok Sabha djournedThe Lower House adjourned till 5pm. 'Bill effective only for 1 year': Rajnath SinghDefence minister Rajnath Singh says the bill does not impede the right to protest and it aims at making ordinance sector improve. Singh says bill also aims to develop the working conditions of the ordnance factories. AAP opposes bill, says it allows privatisationSushil K Gupta says the bill calls for privatisation. He says if it is passed in haste like the farm laws, the nation will suffer. Sukhendu Sekhar Ray of TMC says freedom of speech is allowed in ParliamentRay says opposition MPs have the right to voice their concerns. Rajya Sabha resumes; Ellamaram Kareem demands discussion on the Pegasus spyware issueEllamaram Kareem says national security is under threat, demands discussion on the Pegasus issue says Essential Defence Services Bill should be sent to committe.Rajya Sabha adjourned till 3:40Deputy Speaker adjourns Rajya Sabha amid sloganeering from Opposition MPsDefence minister says wanted to discuss the Bill and the curbing of the chaosDefence minister Rajnath Singh says he did not assure of a discussion on Pegasus but discussed regarding decreasing the chaos in both Houses on Parliament. 'Discuss, Pegasus!' chants continue. Meanwhile, YSR Congress Party Ayodhya Rami Reddy extends his support to the bill. 'Rajnath Singh can also discuss more 'pressing issues' also', says Kharge"When Rajnath Singh called me and said that I am going to Kyrgyzstan and we will discuss... If an Opposition leaders has been intimated regarding a meeting or discussion on the Bill why are we then not discussing it now," says Kharge.LoP Kharge speaks on the Essential Defence Services BillKharge, however, switches from topic and says that the Government is profiting from the chaos and din in the Parliament. Kharge says government is trying to get the bill passed in haste, claims that the bill be sent to select committee.AIADMK supports the Essential Defence Services BillAIADMK's M Thambidurai says Essential Defence Services Bill needed to improve and further strengthen the national security.'Two hostile neighbours on northern front': BJD MPSujit Kumar of BJD says Essential Defence Services Bill needs to be passed as India faces threat from China and Pakistan, says nation needs to be ready for war.MoS Defence Ajay Bhatt moves motion for Essential Defence Services BillBhatt moves motion for passage for Essential Defence Services Bill. Sujit Kumar of BJD supports the Bill. Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill passedCommission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill passed in Rajya SabhaIndia achieved its renewable energy targets: YadavUnion minister Bhupender Yadav says Modi government achieved its renwable energy targets and says is committed to fight against climate change. Union minister Bhupender Yadav says too much focus on Section 15, but farmers will not be penalizedYadav says MPs saying that the Section 15 of Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill penalizes farmers have failed to see Section 14 which encourages proper use of farming techniques and disposal of stubble.Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi says govt not ready to discuss Pegasus, farm lawsChaturvedi says government failed to address issues like the use of spyware, farm laws. Vandana Chavan of the NCP says shameful that govt is focusing on air pollution nowNCP MP says that govt was forced to discuss air quality and pollution only after SC asked it to. AAP MP Sushil Gupta opposes clause of the Bill which 'penalizes' farmersSushil Gupta says there are clauses in the BIll which punishes farmers. 'There is poison in the air but what about Pegasus poison': RJDRJD MP Manoj Jha says government should take steps to clear the poison spread by Pegasus and the farm laws. TRS MP says air quality should be considered as part of healthcareTRS MP KR Suresh Reddy says drinking water and air quality should be considered part of healthcare. Meanwhile, Jai Jawan Jai Kisan chants continue. TRS supports bill but says has certain reservationsTRS MP KR Suresh Reddy says farmers are penalized for no fault of theirs. "I request the government to look into the clause. Climate change is also a major concern and it has increased pollution in the Delhi-NCR", Reddy said.Rajya Sabha speaker requests Opposition MPs to stop sloganeeringBhubaneswar Kalita asks sloganeering MPs to stop chaos, says cannot infringe on right of the speakers. Tripura MP Jharna Das Baidya of the CPI(M) opposes the Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas BillOpposition MPs chant Jai Jawan Jai KisanSome opposition MPs now are raising chants demanding repeal of three farm laws. YSR Congress extends support to Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas BillMP Ayodhya Rami Reddy extends support, says several industries in the adjoining areas of NCR region are contributing to pollution.Commission for Air Quality Management in National Capital Region and Adjoining Areas Bill taken up for considerationRS Bharathi of DMK quips, says discussion on quality of democracy also necessary along with quality of air.Lower House adjourned till 4pmLok Sabha proceedings adjourned for third time, now till 4 pm, amid opposition protests over Pegasus, other issuesLok Sabha adjourned till 4pm amid protests over Pegasus and other issues.Opposition slams government for absence of ministers in ParliamentThe Opposition slammed the government in Rajya Sabha for the absence of their ministers from the parliamentary proceedings. They said that these ministers were disrespecting the Parliament by getting their papers laid on the table by the minister of state for parliamentary affairs instead of doing so themselves. Read MoreParliament: BJP hits out at Congress, says party doesn't want serious discussionThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday hit out at the Congress for disrupting Parliament and not allowing discussion on serious issues. Read MoreLok Sabha proceedings adjourned till noon amid Opposition uproarLok Sabha proceedings were adjourned on Thursday till noon as Opposition parties continued to protest over the Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues.As soon as the House met for the day, Speaker Om Birla congratulated the Indian hockey team for an Olympic medal after 41 years as well as women athletes who won medals at the ongoing Tokyo Olympics.When the Question Hour commenced, Opposition parties started protesting over various issues, including the Pegasus spyware controversy and farm laws. Many members trooped into the Well of the House, shouting slogans and displaying placards.Congress MP Manish Tewari gives notice for adjournment motion in Lok SabhaCongress MP Manish Tewari gives the notice to move a motion for the adjournment of the business of Lok Sabha over the Pegasus issueLok Sabha, Rajya Sabha to start at 11am today||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliament-monsoon-session-live-updates-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-to-commence-at-11-am-today-101628129165935.html
05-08-2021||India||2 years of abrogation of Article 370: 5 big changes in Jammu and Kashmir||August 5 is the day when Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh in 2019. Today, it is the second anniversary of the historic decision, which left a deep impact on the region.On August 5, 2019, Articles 370 and 35(A) were nullified that gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules.While political parties in Jammu and Kashmir have vowed to continue their struggle for restoration of statehood, here is a look at big changes which have taken place in these two years:People from outside J&K can buy land there: In October last year, the Centre paved the way for people from outside Jammu and Kashmir to buy land in the union territory. In a gazette notification, the central government omitted the phrase “permanent resident of the state” from Section 17 of the Jammu and Kashmir Development Act that deals with disposal of the land in the union territory. However, the amendment did not allow transfer of agricultural land to non-agriculturists except in few cases.Non-local spouses of J&K women get domicile status: The rules were changed in July this year to allow domicile certificate to be granted to the husbands of local women married to people from outside Jammu and Kashmir. The move will allow them to buy land or property in the Union territory, or apply for government jobs. All people who have resided in the UT for 15 years, or have studied for seven years and appeared in Class 10 or 12 examination in an educational institution in the region, and their children, are eligible for grant of domicile status.Separate flag of Jammu and Kashmir became defunct: After the abrogation of Article 370, the civil secretariat in Srinagar hoisted the Indian Tricolour, while the state's own flag was missing. The rectangular flag - red background with three white vertical stripes alongside a white plough in the middle with handle facing the stripes - fluttered next to the Indian national flag on the secretariat for more than six decades.No security clearance for passport to stone pelters: The CID wing of Jammu and Kashmir Police has ordered the denial of security clearance required for passport and other government services to all those involved in stone-pelting or subversive activities. The order was issued on July 31 and directed all the field to ensure that the person's involvement in law and order, stone-pelting cases, and other crime prejudicial to the security of the state be specifically looked into during verification related to passport service and other government schemes.The formation of Gupkar alliance: In the early hours of August 5, hundreds of political leaders and workers - including three former chief ministers Mufti, Omar Abdullah and his father Farooq Abdullah - were detained. The Abdullahs were released in March 2020, and Mufti was freed in the second week of October last year. Since then, the leaders have come together - along with four other parties in Kashmir - to forge an informal alliance that aims to work for the restoration of the region's special status.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-years-of-abrogation-of-article-370-5-big-changes-in-jammu-and-kashmir-101628130402726.html
05-08-2021||India||MK Stalin to launch 'doorstep healthcare' scheme in Tamil Nadu. Details here||Tamil Nadu chief minister MK Stalin is all set to inaugurate the 'Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam', a 'doorstep healthcare' scheme aimed at eliminating the need for patients to visit hospitals for treating non-communicable diseases. The chief minister will be inaugurating the 'healthcare at doorstep' scheme virtually, via video conferencing, in the Krishnagiri district, according to reports which cited officials familiar with the matter at the state's health department.The doorstep healthcare scheme in Tamil Nadu will be launched simultaneously across seven districts, including Chennai and Coimbatore, shortly after its launch today. According to a government order, the ambitious scheme aims to cover on launch 1,172 health sub-centres, 189 primary health centres, and 50 community health centres across 50 universal health coverage blocks in the state.Tamil Nadu health minister Ma Subramanian, while speaking to reporters of the initiative, said that the 'Makkalai Thedi Maruthuvam' or the doorstep healthcare scheme aims to not only provide required medications at the doorsteps of the citizens but also take medical services right to their homes.After launching the doorstep healthcare scheme, chief minister MK Stalin will be personally taking stock of the medical supplies that will be sent to the residences of those patients diagnosed with hypertension and diabetes, news agencies reported, adding that a special focus will also remain on those patients and senior citizens in the state who require physiotherapy.Stalin took charge as the chief minister of Tamil Nadu earlier this year on May 7, after his party -- the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) -- came to power after ousting the erstwhile All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK)-led government in the latest state assembly elections. Assuming his charges amid the raging second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, Stalin had instructed his team to focus on containing the virus spread and augmenting the health infrastructure in the state on priorit||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mk-stalin-to-launch-doorstep-healthcare-scheme-in-tamil-nadu-details-here-101628127567339.html
05-08-2021||India||Centre to give ₹5 lakh insurance to kids orphaned due to Covid-19||The central government has decided to give free health insurance of ₹5 lakh to children upto the age of 18 years, who were orphaned due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic. This was announced by Union minister Anurag Thakur.The premium will be paid by Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES), he added.Thakur posted the details of the scheme on Twitter along with a link to a government website on steps taken by the Centre in making India self-reliant.कोविड से प्रभावित बच्चों के देखभाल हेतु उठाए कदमों के तहत 18 साल तक के बच्चों को आयुष्मान भारत के तहत 5 लाख रुपये का मुफ्त स्वास्थ्य बीमा दिया जाएगा और इसके प्रीमियम का भुगतान पीएम केयर्स द्वारा किया जाएगा। #MonsoonSession https://t.co/Gxpj7sFlYV pic.twitter.com/kfa7fTWigq"As part of the steps taken to take care of children affected by Covid-19, children up to 18 years will be provided free health insurance of ₹5 lakh under Ayushman Bharat and its premium will be paid by PM CARES," Thakur said in his tweet.Ayushman Bharat, the government’s flagship scheme, was launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in April 2018 with its twin pillars of Health & Wellness Centers (HWCs) and Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY) with bidirectional linkages between the two for providing the full range of services across the continuum of care.The PM-CARES for children scheme was launched by PM Modi on May 29, 2021. It aims to support children who have lost both the parents or legal guardian or adoptive parents or surviving parent to the Covid-19 pandemic during the period starting from March 11, 2020.The objective of the scheme is to ensure comprehensive care and protection of children in a sustained manner, and enable their well-being through health insurance, empower them through education and equip them for self-sufficient existence with financial support on reaching 23 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-give-rs-5-lakh-insurance-to-kids-orphaned-due-to-covid19-101628127222154.html
05-08-2021||India||UP college admissions begin from today, classes may start mid-August||Colleges in Uttar Pradesh are all set to begin their admission processes from today (i.e. Thursday, August 5), on the authority of chief minister Yogi Adityanath who issued the relevant directions earlier last week. The degree colleges in the state are set to reopen nearly two weeks before the schools do for classes 9 to 12 on August 16, as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19)-battered society looks ahead towards gradually getting back on track.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath said that preparations should be made to start new sessions in all educational institutions, even while keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation. Since all the board results at the high school and the intermediate levels have already been declared, the admission processes for the undergraduate degree courses at colleges can start from today. The state administration aims to resume college classes from mid-August, according to reports.Colleges in Uttar Pradesh, even though they are set to reopen soon for students, will still require all those attending to strictly adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour at all times. Proper arrangement of sanitisers, infra-red thermometers, and masks have been made at accessible points across the college premises; meanwhile, officials have been asked to ensure adherence to social distancing among students.The Uttar Pradesh government's education department is looking to ensure that the entrance exams for the third-year students at the graduate level are conducted on time, according to reports citing officials familiar with the development.Meanwhile, classes for students of high school (classes 9 and 10) and at the intermediate level (classes 11 and 12) are set to reopen on August 16, a day after India celebrates its 75th Independence Day. Although the schools have been directed to reopen with 60 per cent capacity, the students were asked to participate in the freedom day celebrations while adhering to necessary Covid-19 protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-college-admissions-begin-from-today-classes-may-start-midaugust-101628125267068.html
05-08-2021||India||Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha to reopen for tourists from today||The Bhitarkanika National Park in the Kendrapara district of Odisha is set to reopen for tourists today (i.e. Thursday, August 5), more than three months after the park was closed to tourists on May 1 keeping in mind the mating and nesting season of the saltwater crocodiles residing there. Although the park was originally scheduled to reopen on July 31, the closure was later extended by the forest department officials due to the prevailing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in the state, and by extension, the country.Tourists visiting the Bhitarkanika National Park will, however, have to adhere to all Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and protocols, including the need to maintain social distancing and wearing of masks at all times.The visitors to the national park will also need to be accompanied mandatorily by a local guide, according to the latest guidelines issued by the forest department. As per reports, around 40 youth from nearby villages have been trained as guides to come to the aid of tourists visiting the park.Moreover, an adequate number of forest department personnel have also been deployed to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in the national park. Sanitisers have been provided in appropriate locations to help the tourists adhere to Covid-19-related norms and safety measures even while travelling, the reports cited officials familiar with the matter as saying.The Bhitarkanika National Park and the adjoining wildlife sanctuary have been accorded the designation of a 'Ramsar site', meaning it is a wetland of international importance. Inundated by rivers such as Brahmani, Dhamra, Pathsala, and Baitarani, the forests host the second-largest mangrove ecosystem in India after the Sunderbans in West Bengal.The national park is home to the saltwater crocodile (Crocodylus porosus), thousands of which are born during the breeding and nesting seasons every year, and, since 2014 onwards, have registered a steady rise in the species' population over the years. The national park houses an estimated 70 per cent of the country's estuarine or saltwater crocodile population, conservation of which started in 1975.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bhitarkanika-national-park-in-odisha-to-reopen-for-tourists-from-today-101628122930307.html
05-08-2021||India||Ram temple bhoomi pujan anniversary: Yogi Adityanath to visit Ayodhya today||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will visit Ayodhya on Thursday to mark the first anniversary of the bhoomi pujan (groundbreaking ceremony) of the Ram temple. It is likely to be a low-key affair due to the Covid-19 restrictions. Special prayers would be offered and yajnas (oblations) organised on the occasion in Ayodhya.“Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be there on the occasion to participate in a special puja. He will also offer a Ram naami (a cloth with Lord Ram’s name inscribed on it) and perform aarti at the temple,” Satyendra Das, the head priest of the temple. "Ram Lalla (baby Ram) would don new clothes and special poori-sabzi and kheer prasad would be distributed among the devotees,” Das added.Adityanath, who is spending the night at Uttar Pradesh's Gorakhnath temple would leave for Ayodhya by a helicopter on Thursday noon, officials said. “After landing at the Ram Katha Park in Ayodhya, the chief minister would attend a government function at Vasudev Ghat to mark Anna Mahotsav before arriving at the Ram Janmbhoomi site for holding special prayers on the occasion,” a senior official privy to the chief minister’s plan said.After the prayers, Adityanath is expected to gather details about the temple construction and leave for Lucknow.On August 5 last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi attended Ram Mandir's bhoomi pujan in Ayodhya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-bhoomi-pujan-anniversary-yogi-adityanath-to-visit-ayodhya-today-101628121195002.html
05-08-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh floods: MP home minister airlifted from disaster-hit village in Datia||Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra was rescued by a helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Wednesday after the minister was stranded while visiting the district of Datia, reeling from floods triggered by heavy downpour a day before. According to news agency PTI, the state disaster response force (SDRF) boat carrying Mishra to the flood-hit Kotra village developed a "glitch" after a tree suddenly fell on it while trying to move out local residents.Madhya Pradesh Home Minister Narottam Mishra was airlifted after he got stuck at a flood-affected village in Datia district where he had gone to help stranded people yesterday pic.twitter.com/yTXjj7HjZvMadhya Pradesh has been witnessing severe floods, which followed the incessant rains on Tuesday, for the past day and a half. More than 1,250 villages were affected by the inundation, said officials privy to the matter. Although more than 6,000 people have been evacuated by disaster management officials so far, nearly 2,000 people are still estimated to be stranded in different parts of the state. The Indian Army, the SDRF, the border security force (BSF), and the national disaster response force (NDRF) have all been deployed to lead the rescue and relief operations.Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra was visiting the marooned village of Kotra in Datia district on Wednesday evening when he experienced the rain fury himself. According to a government official, the minister received information about a few civilians stranded on the roof of a house in the flood-hit region and reached there on an SDRF boat. However, a tree suddenly fell on the boat following which it developed a snag and stopped moving, the official said.Faced with a crisis, Mishra dialed up a few numbers and sent messages to government officials for help. An IAF helicopter was then rushed to the spot to rescue the minister and nine other stranded villagers. However, in videos that went viral on social media, Mishra could be seen first ensuring that all the stranded people had been rescued, only after which did he allow himself to be safely pulled up to the chopper with the help of a rope.Meanwhile, calling the flood situation in Madhya Pradesh "grim", chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan pointed out that the districts worst hit by the floods are Sheopur, Datia, Gwalior, Guna, Bhind, and Morena. "Four columns of the Army, BSF, NDRF teams, and 70 teams of the SDRF have been deployed for the rescue work," the chief minister was quoted as saying. "More teams of the NDRF are coming...five helicopters of the Air Force, including four in Gwalior and one in Shivpuri, have also been pressed into the rescue operations."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madhya-pradesh-floods-home-minister-narottam-mishra-airlifted-datia-iaf-101628120354764.html
05-08-2021||India||RT-PCR report in Tamil Nadu must for entry to state from Kerala||The Tamil Nadu government has made compulsory a negative RT-PCR test report and a Covid-19 vaccination (two doses) certificate for people coming from Kerala in order to prevent the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) from spreading in the state. The rule has become effective from Wednesday.Kerala has been witnessing a resurgence in the number of Covid-19 cases. On Wednesday, the southern state reported 22,414 fresh cases of the disease and 108 related deaths. The test positivity rate stands at 11.37 per cent.Amid the huge number of Covid-19 cases in Kerala, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday issued a rider for inter-state travellers issued earlier by the health and family welfare department, reports news agency PTI.It made compulsory the negative Covid test (RT-PCR) report and vaccination certificate for travellers from Kerala. All passengers entering Tamil Nadu from Kerala via air, sea, rail and road should carry a negative test report. The test should have been conducted within 72 hours before undertaking the journey.Communicating to all the secretaries of the government departments and Greater Chennai corporation, the principal secretary to government, health and family welfare, Dr J Radhakrishnan said that this clause (of making both testing and vaccination certificate mandatory) was added following a request from the director of public health and preventive medicine Dr T S Selvavinayagam.Tamil Nadu has been witnessing a dip in the coronavirus cases since Monday with the state recording less than 2,000 fresh cases. There were 1,949 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtpcr-report-in-tamil-nadu-must-for-entry-to-state-from-kerala-101628120204634.html
05-08-2021||NA||Breaking news: Maharashtra records 6,695 new Covid-19 cases, 120 deaths||Welcome to hindustantimes.com live updates platform where you can find breaking news from India and across the world. Find fast updates about the latest news as it breaks.Missed an important news update? Worried about what is happening in the world of finance and how it will impact you? Want to know about the latest update on Covid-19? Don't worry, we have you covered.Get latest news, breaking news, latest updates, live news, top headlines, breaking business news and top news of the hour.Today's top news: > Assam withdraws travel advisory asking civilians not to travel to Mizoram in view of both states’ joint statement today> Centre to amend Income Tax Act, says no tax demand to be raised retrospectively> K'taka HC issues notice to ex-CM Yediyurappa in corruption case>AIADMK Presidium Chairman E Madhusudhanan dies at 80> Bengal receiving fewer Covid-19 vaccine doses: Mamata tells PM Modi> K'taka HC issues notice to ex-CM Yediyurappa in corruption caseFollow all the updates here:Maharashtra records 6,695 new Covid-19 cases, 120 deathsMaharashtra's caseload of Covid-19 climbed to 6,336,220 after 6,695 cases were registered in the last 24 hours. Over 7,100 patients recovered and 120 died due to the viral disease, taking the cumulative count of recoveries and deaths to 6,124,278 and 133,530 respectively. Assam withdraws travel advisory asking civilians not to travel to Mizoram in view of both states’ joint statement todayChief Minister of Mizoram Zoramthanga tweets, "Thank you Government of Assam", as Assam Govt withdraws the earlier issued travel advisory that advised people of Assam not to travel to Mizoram. pic.twitter.com/zG1AkvbbZ3Assam on Thursday withdrew its July 29 travel advisory which asked civilians not to travel to Mizoram due to the border dispute. "In view of the joint statement issued today by the representatives of the Governments of Assam and Mizoram, the travel advisory (advising people of Assam not to travel to Mizoram) dated 29th July is hereby withdrawn," The Assam government said in a statement. Nagaland sets up pediatric task force to prepare for Covid-19 third waveNagaland health minister S Pangnyu Phom on Thursday said the government is preparing for the third wave of Covid-19 by taking several measures including setting up a pediatric task force to oversee the department’s preparedness. Read moreKarnataka reports 1,785 new Covid-19 cases, 25 more deathsKarnataka's caseload of the coronavirus disease 2,913,512 after 1,785 cases were reported on Thursday. As many as 25 patients died and 1,651 recovered from the viral disease on Thursday, taking the cumulative count of deaths and recoveries to 36,705 and 2,852,368 respectively. Centre to amend Income Tax Act, says no tax demand to be raised retrospectivelyThe Centre on Thursday introduced the Taxation Laws (Amendment) Bill to bring closure to the retrospective income tax law which was introduced in 2012. Read moreAIADMK Presidium Chairman E Madhusudhanan diesE Madhusudhanan, the Presidium Chairman of the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), passed away on Thursday at a private hospital in Chennai where he was admitted 2 weeks ago for multi-organ dysfunction.K'taka HC issues notice to ex-CM Yediyurappa in corruption caseThe Karnataka high court has issued notices to former chief minister B S Yediyurappa, his son B Y Vijayendra and others, as has asked them to appear before it on August 17 in a case alleging corruption in a housing project.Ex-Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze's bail application rejectedA special NIA court on Thursday rejected the bail application of suspended Mumbai Police assistant inspector Sachin Vaze in the Antilia bomb scare case, news agency ANI reported.Assam, Mizoram agree to resolve border dispute amicablyA government official told news agency PTI on Thursday that Assam and Mizoram held talks on border dispute, adding both states have agreed to resolve the issue amicably. Tokyo logs record 5,042 cases as infections surge amid Olympics GamesTokyo reported 5,042 new daily coronavirus cases on Thursday, hitting a record since the pandemic began as the infections surge in the Japanese capital hosting the Olympics.Indian youth is moving forward: PM ModiNew India is gaining global recognition not through ranks, but by winning medals. It has been proved that one's progress is decided by hard work, not family. Indian youth is moving forward, it's progressing: PM ModiPM Modi launches awareness campaign across Uttar Pradesh on food security schemePM Narendra Modi launches awareness campaign across Uttar Pradesh on food security scheme.Malaysia to stop using daily Covid cases to decide states’ reopeningsMalaysia will no longer use daily virus infections as a metric to ease curbs for states once they enter the second phase of the national recovery plan, Finance Minister Tengku Zafrul Abdul Aziz said.PM Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna YojanaPM Narendra Modi interacts with beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana of Uttar Pradesh.2 dead, 7 injured in MP rain mayhemWith heavy rains ravaging the Gwalior-Chambal region in Madhya Pradesh, leaving two people dead and damaging bridges and other infrastructure, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said the state has "not seen such devastation in the last 70 years".Melbourne back in lockdown as Sydney sees record Covid tallyRueful authorities in Melbourne announced a sixth lockdown for the city and Sydney reported a record number of new coronavirus cases Thursday as Australia faltered in efforts to bring a virulent Delta outbreak to heel.Yogi Adityanath visits Ayodhya and offers prayers to the model of Ram templeUttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visits Ayodhya and offers prayers to the model of Ram temple. He also reviewed the progress of construction work of the Ram temple.SC agrees to issue notice to Centre on batch of pleas seeking court monitored SIT probe into Pegasus snooping rowSC agrees to issue notice to Centre on batch of petitions seeking court monitored SIT probe into Pegasus snooping row.It asks petitioners to serve copies of their petitions on the Union government . Matter to be heard next Tuesday.Punjab government announces cash award of ₹1 crore each to India men's hockey team players from the statePunjab government announces a cash award of ₹1 crore each to the India men's hockey team players from the state.The team won Bronze medal after they beat Germany in Tokyo Olympics.US wants Pakistan to keep border open for Afghan refugeesAmid a surge in violence by Taliban in Afghanistan post US drawdown, the influx of Afghan refugees has increased at the Pakistan-Afghanistan border.SC commences hearing pleas on alleged Pegasus snooping matterSC commences hearing pleas on alleged Pegasus snooping matter, says allegations serious if reports are correct.I have set aside Rs.10 crore, apply for financial support if needed: Adar PoonawallaDear students travelling abroad, as a few countries are yet to approve COVISHIELD as an acceptable vaccine for travel without quarantine, you may have to incur some costs. I have set aside Rs.10 crores for this, apply below for financial support if needed: Adar PoonawallaMilitants open fire at police party in J-K's BaramullaMilitants on Thursday attacked a police party in the Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, but no loss of life or injury was reported, officials said.Arunachal Pradesh reports 319 new Covid-19 cases, 2 more deathsArunachal Pradesh's Covid-19 caseload rose to 49,203, as 319 more people tested positive for the infection, a senior health department official said here on Thursday.Flood alert issued in Andhra's Krishna district after gate of Pulichintala dam washes awayAfter one gate of Pulichintala dam washed away due to some technical problem on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday, water is being released downwards hence flash floods are likely in the downwards areas, said Krishna District collector J Nivas while issuing an alert.Rupee inches 4 paise higher to 74.15 against US dollarRupee opens on a flat note; inches 4 paise higher to 74.15 against US dollar.12 persons injured in IED blast in DantewadaAt least 12 persons were injured in an IED blast by Maoists at Ghotiya at around 7.30 am. Dantewada police reached the spot to rescued and shift the injured to the hospital, says Dantewada SP Abhishek Pallav.Prashant Kishore urges Amarinder Singh to relieve him from Principal Advisor postIn view of my decision to take a temporary break from active role in public life, I have not been able to take over the responsibilities as your Principal Advisor. I request you to kindly relieve me from this responsibility: Prashant Kishor to Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh.India reports 42,982 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursIndia reports 42,982 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours.COVAXIN receives GMP certificate from HungaryAnother milestone in our account as COVAXIN receives GMP certificate from Hungary. This marks the 1st EUDRAGDMP compliance certificate received by Bharat Biotech from European regulatories: Bharat Biotech.Covid-19 cases may double in US as variant worse than Delta could be coming, says FauciUS top coronavirus adviser Dr Anthony Fauci on Wednesday (local time) said that Covid-19 cases may double as variant worse than Delta could be coming.PM Modi congratulates Indian Men's hockey teamHistoric! A day that will be etched in the memory of every Indian.Congratulations to our Men’s Hockey Team for bringing home the Bronze. With this feat, they have captured the imagination of the entire nation, especially our youth. India is proud of our Hockey team.Vinesh Phogat beats Sofia MagdalenaWrestling, Women's 53kg Freestyle, 1/8 Final: Vinesh Phogat beats Sofia Magdalena 7-1.SC to hear pleas on Pegasus rowSupreme Court to hear a batch of petitions seeking a court-monitored SIT probe into the reports of government allegedly using Israeli software Pegasus to spy on politicians, activists, and journalists.CCB seizes 9 tons of sandalwood in BengaluruCentral Crime Branch (CCB) says it has seized 9 tons of red sandalwood worth ₹4.5 crores and arrested two persons in Bengaluru.Tourists coming to US for Covid-19 vaccine, says US airport officialThe global shortage of vaccines and its excess in the United States has quietly resulted in a new kind of tourism in the US, said an official.Bhitarkanika National Park in Odisha to reopen for tourists from todayThe Bhitarkanika National Park in the Kendrapara district of Odisha is set to reopen for tourists today (i.e. Thursday, August 5), more than three months after the park was closed to tourists on May 1 keeping in mind the mating and nesting season of the saltwater crocodiles residing there.S Jaishankar to attend Iranian President-elect Ebrahim Raisi's oath ceremonyIndia will be represented by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at the inauguration of Iran’s president-elect Ebrahim Raisi on August 5, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday.Samajwadi Party to go on 'cycle yatra' across Uttar Pradesh todayThe Samajwadi Party will take out a 'Samajwadi Cycle Yatra' at the tehsil-level in all districts of Uttar Pradesh on Thursday to highlight the price rise and the "anti-democratic attitude" of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government.US making plans to reopen to fully vaccinated foreigners as China curbs travelThe United States, which closed its borders to much of the world as the pandemic took hold, said Wednesday it plans eventually to begin allowing fully vaccinated foreigners back in, while China tightened overseas travel curbs amid surging infection numbers.115 killed in military crackdown in Nigeria: AmnestyAmnesty International on Thursday accused Nigerian security forces of using excessive force and killing at least 115 people in a crackdown on separatist agitators in the country's restive southeast.Chandigarh: Institutes of higher education allowed to reopen for ongoing classes from Aug 11Chandigarh administration on Wednesday ordered reopening of institutions of higher education for the ongoing classes on or after August 11.At least 11 dead, others injured after van crashes in TexasAn overloaded van carrying about 25 passengers crashed Wednesday on a remote South Texas highway, killing at least 11 people and injuring more than a dozen others, authorities said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/breaking-news-updates-august-5-2021-101628119902259.html
05-08-2021||India||Number Theory: How vulnerable is India to a third Covid wave?||The seven-day average of daily new Covid-19 cases in India has been rising in the past two weeks – from 37,975 in the week ending July 22 to 40,710 for the week ending August 3.That isn’t a significant increase in absolute terms but it has still given rise to questions on whether India is witnessing the beginning of a third wave of Covid-19 infections, and, if so, whether this wave will be as severe as the second?Three factors will determine the answers: pace of vaccinations, regional and demographic variations in vaccination, and presence of antibodies in the population.1. The country’s vaccination progress so farAccording to data from the Co-WIN dashboard, around 40% of India’s adult population – 375 million out of a projected population of 940 million – has received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine as on August 3. The share of population which has received both doses is much lower, 11%. This number is expected to increase faster as more people become eligible for their second dose of vaccination, as reported in a July 17 story by Jamie Mullick.Is India’s current vaccination progress enough to slow down a Covid-19 wave? Perhaps not. After all, more than half of the population in the US and UK has been fully vaccinated and cases have started rising at a rapid pace in both countries, largely due to the Delta variant of the coronavirus. Where vaccines have helped is in bringing down deaths, as is clear from a comparison of deaths in the adequately vaccinated West and poorly vaccinated Asian and African nations.2. The threat of community transmission remainsResearch shows that even one dose of Covid-19 vaccine offers some protection against even the Delta variant. So, the fact that at least 40% of India’s population has received at least one dose is good news. The headline number should be read with a caveat, though. India opened its vaccination drive for different age-cohorts at different times. It was opened on March 1 for those above 60 years, April 1 for those between 45-60 years and only on May 1 for the 18-44 years age group.These factors, and the extended gap between doses for the vaccine most used in India (Covishield; at least 12 weeks) have resulted in the older cohort having an edge in the share of the vaccinated population. The share of population which has received at least one dose of the vaccine was 27.6% in the 18-44-year-old age group, compared to 55.9% for those over the age of 60.The younger population is more likely to venture out and be potential carriers of the virus. The Time Use Survey conducted by the National Statistical Office (NSO) in 2019 lists eight different activities that are directly related to travelling – from commuting for work or studies to travelling for leisure or self-care activities. Most people between the ages of six and 54 travelled on average for around 40 minutes in a day in 2019. This dropped to 32.6 minutes for 55-64 year olds and just 19.9 minutes for those in the 65 and above cohort.This means that India’s vaccine protection against community transmission could be lower than what the headline vaccination numbers suggest.3. Huge disparity in vaccination coverage across statesThe other factor worth taking note of is the difference across states in the share of population which has received at least one dose of vaccine. There is a wide variation on this count: Himachal Pradesh has vaccinated more than 73% of its population, while Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have managed to vaccinate less than 30%. This also means that the states at the bottom of the vaccination ladder will be more vulnerable to a third wave. It is on this count that there is some relief for Kerala, which is contributing around half of the total daily new cases but has vaccinated more than 55% of its eligible population.There are no population projections for districts. However, even coverage with respect to the total population of a district in the 2011 Census shows the difference in coverage among districts. The top 128 of 640 districts have administered at least one dose of the vaccines to 43% of their total population. States with most number of districts of this kind are the ones that are doing well overall. The highest number of such districts (12) are from Himachal Pradesh, followed by 11 from Arunachal and Jammu and Kashmir, and 10 from Uttarakhand. No district in Bihar, Jharkhand, or Andhra Pradesh has this level of coverage. The least vaccinated 128 districts have at least partly vaccinated 12.2%-21.6% of their population. 43 of these districts are from Uttar Pradesh, 29 from Bihar, and 12 from West Bengal – the states that lag the most in overall vaccinations. The five districts with the least coverage are Senapati in Manipur (12.2%), Mewat in Haryana (12.6%), Rae Bareli (12.7%) and Badaun (12.8%) in Uttar Pradesh, and Mahbubnagar (13%) in Telangana. The entire population in New Delhi, the Central district of Delhi, Daman and 95% of the population in Gurugram and Dadra and Nagar Haveli have received at least one dose of the vaccine.4. What about likely antibody immunity from 2nd wave?Antibodies in infected patients are believed to grant temporary immunity against infections. It is on this count that India may have an advantage even as it scrambles to reach a critical mass of vaccinated population. The latest sero-prevalence survey, which was conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in June-July showed a big spike in the prevalence of antibodies: from 24% in December-January to 67.6% in June-July. The second wave of Covid-19 infections, as per the seven-day average of daily new cases, peaked on May 9. The fact that Kerala has the lowest prevalence of antibodies in the latest sero-survey and is also witnessing the most new infections in the country right now suggests that states with higher antibody levels could enjoy some protection against a new wave of infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-theory-how-vulnerable-is-india-to-a-third-covid-wave-101628114681809.html
05-08-2021||India||Bill seeking to develop smaller airports passed||The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill 2021, which aims to promote the development of smaller airports, and seeks to group airports together to improve their attractiveness to investors, was approved by the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday amid protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus snooping issue.This will now pave the way for the bill to become a law. It was cleared by the Lok Sabha on July 29 and will now need President Ram Nath Kovind’s assent.The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill 2021, which proposed to amend the definition of ”major airport” under the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority Act, 2008 (AERA Act), was tabled by the civil aviation minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on the floor of the House.“We have identified five zones for this clubbing, which include north, south, east, west, and northeast zone. Based on this clubbing... Airport Authority of India will be giving a priority to airports in smaller cities and newer airports will also be inaugurated…,” Scindia informed the House on July 29.Hailing the efforts of the Narendra Modi-led government for making air travel accessible for everyone, the minister added: “Prime Minister Modi is someone who truly democratised travel. In the midst of the spread of coronavirus and when there is sloganeering, our government is committed to the development of the poor and the farmers.”He also listed various areas that have benefited from the central government’s Udaan, or the regional connectivity scheme. Over the last one-and-a-half years, several smaller cities such as Darbhanga in Bihar, Belgaum and Hubli in Karnataka, Jharsuguda in Odisha and Jagdalpur in Chhattisgarh, which were earlier “missing” from the map of civil aviation, have witnessed 110 flight movements from various parts of the country, he said.The bill was subsequently referred to a parliamentary standing committee on transport, tourism and culture, which has since then approved it without any changes.“The Bill intends to aid the government’s plan for privatization of smaller airports as part of its asset monetization programme announced during the budget for 2021-22. The Bill also promises to help faster develop the smaller airports and expedite the regional air connectivity scheme, UDAN, by expanding the air connectivity to relatively remote areas,” said Poonam Verma, partner, J. Sagar Associates.“The amendment will allow AERA to regulate tariff and other charges for aeronautical services for not just major airports with annual passenger traffic of more than 3.5 million, but also a group of airports together,” Verma added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bill-seeking-to-develop-smaller-airports-passed-101628106382306.html
05-08-2021||India||After 2 yrs, BJP removes 3 DY CM posts||Bengaluru: After two years, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to do away with the three deputy chief minister formula in Karnataka that was aimed to showcase representation of different castes in higher echelons of the government. The system was introduced in the BS Yediyurappa government, where three deputy chief ministers from prominent communities in the state were appointed, and designation was perceived to check-mate Yediyurappa’s clout. While administratively these posts didn’t hold any additional power other than the portfolios allocated to them, the system was aimed at creating new leaders in these communities. In the previous government, the three deputy chief ministers belonged to Lingayat, Vokkaliga, and Dalit communities. These communities [Lingayats (16%), Vokkaligas (14%), SC/ST (9%] constitute approximately 39% of the population. The choices indicated the caste combinations that the BJP is trying to project. Govid Karjol hails from a Scheduled Caste community, while Ashwath Narayan is a Vokkaliga and Laxman Savadi a Lingayat. It remains unclear if they will retain their old portfolios in the new cabinet. While BJP has the support of the Lingayat community, it is yet to gain the trust of the Vokkaliga and Dalit voters in the state. Appointing deputy chief ministers was part of the BJP’s plans to create a second layer of leadership, who can become the face of these communities within the BJP. On Wednesday, while talking to reporters before the swearing-in of the new cabinet members, chief minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the party’s central leadership has decided not to continue with the posts of deputy chief ministers. “In our previous government, led by BS Yediyurappa, there were three deputy chief ministers. The high command has now told us that there will not be any deputy chief ministers in this government,” he said. Reacting to this development, former deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayana said, “I’m totally unaware (of how the high command came up with the decision). Whatever decision was taken by the party and the honorable chief minister, it is their decision whether to have it or not. So whatever they decide, it is acceptable to all of us.” The chief minister did not provide a reason for the removal, however, BJP leaders with whom HT spoke with pointed out three possible reasons for the change. First, the three DCM experiment has failed to produce leaders from the community; second, there was intense lobbying for the position ahead of the cabinet expansion; and third, they didn’t want any more alternative powerhouses to emerge in the party. According to a senior BJP office bearer, the three communities which were given the posts of deputy chief ministers did not rally behind their candidates and was one of the reasons for the removal of these posts. “The central command feels that the three deputy chief minister’s, despite being in power for two years, didn’t find support within their respective communities. If you look at it, there was no demand from these communities to elevate any of the DCMs to the post of chief minister. It was a clear sign,” said the officer. Another BJP MLA said that the purpose of appointing three deputy chief ministers was an attempt to dilute Yediyurappa’s power and since he is now out of power, there is no requirement for these posts. “Two years ago, Yediyurappa was a powerhouse. So, creating these second layers of leadership was an attempt to create alternate powerhouses,” the leader said. He added that since Yediyurappa no longer holds power, the party doesn’t want any more new regional political powerhouses to emerge. “They want a government that runs on the instructions of the central high command. Now they have it, they want to ensure it stays that way,” said an MLA, who is associated with the Yediyurappa camp. Despite these reasons listed out by party leaders, one of the main reasons for removing these posts was intense lobbying. “From the day the new chief minister was announced, there was intense lobbying from both camps within the BJP. Since both parties could not reach any consensus, the party decided to drop the post altogether,” said a party official. Political experts said that all these factors could have resulted in the decision to remove the DCM posts. “I won’t look at these factors in isolation. The important point here is that the new chief minister is a candidate handpicked by the central high command and also approved by the former chief minister. So, the leadership wants to discontinue the old ways and empower the current CM,” said political analyst Sandeep Shastry. According to him, it is important for the BJP to ensure no alternate powerhouse is created in the state. “They don’t want to checkmate the new CM as they did with Yediyurappa. Another reason is that they don’t want any influence from the former chief minister by having someone close to Bommai, like in the position of the deputy chief minister,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-2-yrs-bjp-removes-3-dy-cm-posts-101628106231970.html
05-08-2021||India||Karnataka ministers allotted districts to check Covid, floods||Bengaluru: Chief minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday said that all newly inducted ministers will be assigned districts to take care of in the wake of the floods and the threat of the imminent third wave of Covid-19 infections in the state. “All ministers will visit districts assigned to them and review the flood and Covid-19 situation in the district and the relief works taken up and report the requirement of additional assistance for relief,” a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO) stated. Karnataka is witnessing heavy rainfall in several districts which has inundated several villages in at least 13 districts and has so far lost just as many human lives. Interestingly, the 29 ministers who were inducted on Wednesday are yet to be allotted portfolios, but instead they have been assigned districts to manage floods and Covid-19 preparations. The Bommai government, in its first cabinet meeting held after the swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday afternoon, also decided to reconstitute the Covid-19 taskforce that was last led by then deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan. Karnataka has seen a spike in covid-19 cases and authorities are hoping not to make the same mistakes that it did during the first and second waves which cost lives and livelihoods. Gaurav Gupta, the chief commissioner of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Wednesday said that Bengaluru has a less than 1% Covid positivity rate with around 400 cases every day. “However, there is a risk of cases increasing as the virus is spreading in the neighbouring states. In this regard, Covid guidelines must be followed without fail in all apartments,” he said in his conversations with resident welfare associations. Gupta also held meetings with trade associations across Bengaluru. He said that the government had unlocked the city to facilitate all business activities to take place but failure of following Covid appropriate behaviour were not being followed, leading to the possibility of another spread.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-ministers-allotted-districts-to-check-covid-floods-101628106168289.html
05-08-2021||India||Newly inducted minister made to take oath again||Bengaluru Shankar B Patil Munenakopppa, the legislator from Navalgund on Wednesday was made to take his oath as minister for a second time as he mistakenly took oath of office twice, according to a statement by the Raj Bhavan. “It is observed that Shri Shankar B. Patil Munenakoppa while taking the Oath of Office and secrecy as minister has taken the oath of office twice and has not read the oath of secrecy,” according to a statement by the special secretary to the governor.“Hence, Shri Shankar B. Patil Munenakoppa was recalled to Raj Bhavan and the Honble Governor of Karnataka administered the oath of office and secrecy once again in the evening,” the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/newly-inducted-minister-made-to-take-oath-again-101628106107121.html
05-08-2021||India||Bommai is chief minister of Yediyurappa’s cabinet||Bengaluru When BS Yediyurappa’s vehicle first drove into the Raj Bhavan Glass house (where the swearing in ceremony was held), the joke going around was that the chief minister had arrived. And when Basavaraj Bommai’s vehicle came in a few minutes later, the reference was that the deputy chief minister has arrived. Despite Karnataka getting a new chief minister, all indications point towards the possibility that Yediyurappa is still the chief minister and Bommai his deputy as the newly formed cabinet has the former’s name written all over it. Yediyurappa, the 78-year-old who was forced to step down on July 26, had gone to extreme lengths not just to nominate his confidant Bommai as his replacement but also get all those he wanted into the newly inducted cabinet, including the turncoats who helped him to power in 2019. Barring Srimant Patil and R Shankar, Bommai’s cabinet has most of the people who helped Yediyurappa come to power in 2019. Yediyurappa has also bulldozed any possible consideration of his staunch critics--CP Yogeshwara, Basangagouda Patil (Yatnal) and Arvind Bellad--into the cabinet, demonstrating his ability to keep his critics under check. On a specific question on the confusion that prevailed till the last minute of the cabinet formation, Bommai said, “There is no confusion, BJP is a national party. There is a confident government of the Prime Minister, guidance of Amit Shah, political astuteness of Nadda ji and the blessings of Yediyurappa. So there is no confusion.” Bommai has met Yediyurappa on almost a daily basis since taking over, indicating that most of the directions were coming from the former CM, who, despite appearances and statements not to interfere, remains the one in command, people aware of the developments said. “Our seniors have taken into account several issues and after our discussions with them, this decision has been taken. There is no question of anyone’s pressure,” Bommai reiterated. Taking a dig at Bommai’s new cabinet, Priyank Kharge, Congress legislator and former minister tweeted on Wednesday, “Once again @BSYBJP shows PM @narendramodi & HM @AmitShah who is the boss. @BJP4Karnataka was expecting major churn & bring in a “Hosa BJP” for a “Hosa Karnataka”, this cabinet is just BSY ver2.0 with more bugs & glitches.” The Opposition had already termed Bommai as a ‘rubber stamp CM’. Political analysts said that Yediyurappa never ceded control despite the show of stepping down and playing “loyal party worker”. Yediyurappa and his family were criticised for misusing their powers to keep dissidents in check and were accused of widespread corruption, which had played a part in the high command seeking the former’s exit. But with Bommai as just an interim choice, Yediyurappa, people aware of the developments said, is forcing the BJP to continue to depend on the former chief minister to keep the support base of the Lingayats as well as help lead the party in the 2023 assembly elections. One analyst, requesting anonymity, said that Yediyurappa had pitted the Mathas or monasteries against the BJP’s high command, making it harder for the local legislators to oppose these powerful institutions and their seers. “Power has been decentralised in Karnataka,” said the political analyst, referring to the conditions where legislators are not likely to follow every order of the BJP’s central leadership but rather focus on holding on to power in their respective constituencies. Yediyurappa has also forced a cold shoulder towards the core-BJP or persons who identify with the core ideology of the party, leaving them to fend for themselves once again. The one thing that Yediyurappa could not manage yet is placating his son, BY Vijayendra, in the government. But with at least one seat vacant in Hangal, this may well be his next play to continue his legacy, which he was unwilling to surrender to the BJP’s national leadership.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bommai-is-chief-minister-of-yediyurappa-s-cabinet-101628105989281.html
05-08-2021||India||B’luru extends night curfew, invokes Sec 144 to curb Covid spread||Bengaluru: As the city and state witnesses an increase in the Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru police on Wednesday invoked Section 144 (1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in public places till August 16, 6am. Restrictions are already in place since August 2, 6 am. The order bars the assembly of more than four people and restricts activities, except those permitted by the government . Night curfew between 10 pm to 5 am has also been extended until August 16, the order stated. As the cases in the neighbouring districts of Maharashtra and Kerala are on the rise, the restrictions at Karnataka-Kerala border check posts will be in force till the Covid positivity rate comes down, said Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Pratap Reddy on Tuesday. “Passengers at railway stations without RT-PCR negative reports had been shifted to a temporary quarantine centre at Townhall. After the swab tests, those testing positive will be shifted to Covid Care Centres (CCC) and those testing negative can return home. We have requested the authorities to bring down the time taken for giving test reports,” Reddy added.The state reported 1,769 new cases on Wednesday, taking the active caseload to 24,305. Bengaluru accounted for 411 new infections, taking its active cases to 8,705. As many as 30 fatalities were reported across the state on Monday, which took the state’s toll to 36,680. Bengaluru’s toll due to Covid-19 jumped to 15,896, with 4 deaths being reported on Wednesday, according to the state health department. According to experts, it is time for the government to increase vaccination in the state. On the minimum vaccination target needed to avoid a severe third wave, experts said that anywhere between 60% and 75% of the population should get at least the first dose of the vaccine before the third wave hits. To break down the numbers, the population of Karnataka, according to the government projections, is approximately 65 million. According to the Karnataka election commission, around 51 million people in the state are eligible voters, which is roughly the estimated number of those eligible for the vaccination. So far, only 24 million people have received at least one shot so far, which is less than 50% of the target audience. “Vaccinating people at the earliest is critical now. The majority of the population falls in the 18-45 age category. With multiple variants that are being reported, this age group is one of the most vulnerable sections,” said Dr Vishal Rao, a member of the expert committee on Karnataka’s Covid task force. “There is no doubt that if we don’t vaccinate enough population, the third wave will be as bad, or even worse, than the second,” said CN Manjunath, Karnataka Covid-19 Task Force member and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research. “Only if are able to build enough herd immunity can we blunt the impact of the third wave. But it is going to be a challenge,” he said.The second wave has shown an increase in the number of deaths in the 30-45 age group. A comparison of the numbers of the first and second wave shows that in the first wave, around 11 out of 100 deaths were reported in the 30-45 age group, while in the second wave, 16 out of 100 deaths were reported in this category. For those under 30 years, in the first wave, 2.2% of deaths belonged to those who fell in this age category, while in the second wave, it increased to 2.9%, according to state data. Meanwhile, Karnataka’s own vaccine registration app, titled Co-Win Kar, is available for download on Google Play Store. According to the health department, the current version is a pilot project and so far there have been around 100 downloads. “The big change in the new app is that beneficiaries who select vaccination centres of choice must produce address proof within the vicinity of the centre, which ensures that vaccine slots in the outskirts of the city are not taken by those from the city,” said a senior health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bluru-extends-night-curfew-invokes-sec-144-to-curb-covid-spread-101628105987846.html
05-08-2021||India||No manual scavenging deaths, 941 died while cleaning sewers: Govt||New Delhi: No one succumbed to manual scavenging in India but 941 workers died while cleaning sewers and septic tanks in the last three decades, the government told Parliament on Wednesday, triggering condemnation from activists. Union social justice minister Virendra Kumar also told the Rajya Sabha that 58,098 manual scavengers were identified across the country in two separate surveys in 2013 and 2018. “There is no report of death due to manual scavenging. However, we have reports regarding deaths of workers while being engaged in cleaning of sewers or septic tanks,” he said, listing out 941 deaths since 1993, when manual scavenging was first banned. Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of such deaths at 213, followed by 153 in Gujarat, 104 in Uttar Pradesh, 98 in Delhi, 84 in Karnataka and 73 in Haryana, the data showed.In response to another question, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale said 941 deaths have been recorded since 1993. Last week, Athawale told the Upper House that no deaths of manual scavengers were reported across the country in the last five years. Manual scavenging is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. The caste-based practice was first banned in 1993 but activists allege that it continues clandestinely and overtly. Under the Scheme for Rehabilitation of Manual Scavengers (SRMS), Kumar said one-time cash assistance of ₹40,000 was deposited directly into the bank accounts of all the identified and eligible 58,098 manual scavengers. The highest number of manual scavengers was reported from Uttar Pradesh. The government distinguishes between manual scavenging – a caste-based practice of people cleaning human excreta by hand – and the practice of cleaning sewers and septic tanks though experts point out that the latter is a mere extension of the now-banned practice. Activists and experts condemned the government’s response and said the distinction between manual scavenging and people dying in sewers was not practical.“We have always said this is a technicality. This amounts to manipulating data,” said Magsaysay awardee and Safai Karmachari Andolan founder Bezwada Wilson.“The major problem is that the government is not understanding the importance of human dignity and self respect of the most marginalised. This is barbaric. The right to life and dignity is the responsibility of the government,” he said. Dalit activist Ashok Bharati said cleaning sewers and septic tanks was included in the 2013 law and therefore should be considered manual scavenging. “The government should take this up,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-manual-scavenging-deaths-941-died-while-cleaning-sewers-govt-101628105749227.html
05-08-2021||India||Four ISRO launches over next 5 months; Gaganyaan delayed, Centre tells LS||New Delhi: The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) will conduct four launches over the next five months, including the maiden flight of its new small satellite launch vehicle. The much-awaited first uncrewed flight under the Gaganyaan mission, however, is no longer on the cards, the government told the Lok Sabha. The space agency had to reassess the timelines for all its missions due to the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. Prior to that, India was to conduct the first uncrewed flight under the Gaganyaan mission by December 2021. The four upcoming launches include three using India’s workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicles (PSLV), according to a reply in the Lok Sabha. All the four missions will carry on board earth observation satellites, which are used for monitoring agricultural activities and natural disasters among others. So far, there has only been one launch this year in February when PSLV C51 carried the Brazilian Earth Observation Satellite Amazonia-1 to space in a commercial launch. The vehicle also carried 18 co-passengers – 13 satellites from the US, one from the defence research and development organisation (DRDO), a three-satellite combination from a university consortium, and an experimental nano-satellite developed by students. HT had previously reported that the launch of EOS-3 is likely by mid-August. “The dates will be confirmed closer to the launch,” said an official from the space agency. The first development flight of the small satellite launch vehicle (SSLV) is likely to happen in the last quarter of the year. ISRO inducts a launch vehicle in its operation fleet after two successful development flights. The SSLV, which was mainly developed for commercial launch of small satellites, costs only R 30 crore as compared to Rs120 crore for PSLV. It can be assembled by a team of six within seven days in comparison to a team of 600 that takes a couple of months to assemble a PSLV. Ajay Lele, a senior fellow at Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, had earlier said that there was a need to carry out the commercial missions such as small satellite launch vehicle demonstration as soon as possible as customer satellites already purchased slots for launch. “The scientific missions can wait for some time. If India does not provide launch services there is a likelihood that they might go to other launch providers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-isro-launches-over-next-5-months-gaganyaan-delayed-centre-tells-lok-sabha-101628105448717.html
05-08-2021||India||India again kept out of extended troika meeting on Afghanistan convened by Russia||India has again been kept out of a key meeting on Afghanistan convened by Russia that will see the participation of Pakistan, reflecting certain divergences between New Delhi and Moscow on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country. The “extended troika” meeting, to be held in Qatar on August 11, will be joined by special envoys from Russia, the US, China and Pakistan. Qatar will host another meeting between the Afghan side and regional and international partners this month. The extended troika meeting was called by Russia to push intra-Afghan talks to find a political settlement in Afghanistan at a time when the Taliban have launched a massive offensive that has recently been expanded to cities such as Kandahar, Herat and Lashkargah. The extended troika held its last two meetings in Moscow on March 18 and in Doha on April 30. The Indian side has taken up the inclusion of Pakistan – which New Delhi contends is backing the Taliban – at these meetings with the Russian side, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity. Russia has said it keeps India informed about all developments under the troika format on Afghanistan, which includes the US and China, though it has shown little inclination of including India in discussions under the external troika even after acknowledging India’s stakes in Afghanistan, the people cited above said. While India has backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani and is in talks with other stakeholders in Afghanistan, it has repeatedly opposed the imposition of any regime by force. However, the Russian side appears opposed to the continuation of the Ghani government and favours an interim set-up. “Russia perceives Ghani as a US proxy and wants him removed. At the same time, Russia believes the Taliban will counter the Islamic State, which Russia sees as its main threat in Afghanistan, if the group comes to power. This is one of the reasons for Russia’s growing coordination with Pakistan,” one of the persons cited above said. An explanation by Russia’s special presidential envoy for Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, for keeping India out of the extended troika has not gone down well in New Delhi. Kabulov, who also oversees relations with India, told a recent online discussion that Russia only sees a role for India in “Afghanistan’s post-conflict development” as the country has no influence with the Taliban. “Only countries that have an unequivocal influence on both sides (of the conflict in Afghanistan) participate” in the extended troika, Kabulov said. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s decision to club a visit to India in April with a trip to Pakistan – a move that reflected the growing ties between Moscow and Islamabad – also did not go down well with the Indian side. Lavrov’s move is believed to have led the Indian side to club a visit by the foreign minister to Georgia, which has strained ties with Russia, with a trip to Moscow in June. Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India had kept away from engaging the Taliban because of its own terrorism-related experiences while other stakeholders had engaged the group for the sake of political expediency. “India’s exclusion from the extended troika and Kabulov’s remarks are a necessary cost of that lack of engagement. However, India has overcome its reservations in the last few months and made attempts to reach out to Taliban, but it will take more time for India to gain the necessary heft,” Patil said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-kept-out-of-extended-troika-meeting-on-afghanistan-convened-by-russia-101628105269003.html
05-08-2021||India||2 years after abrogation of Art 370, louder calls for statehood||NEW DELHI: Two years after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two separate Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, there is a demand growing there for the restoration of statehood. It is significant for Ladakh to have demanded this given its long quest for UT status that had finally materialised in 2019. The reorganisation of the state on August 5, 2019, included the reading down of articles 370 and 35(A) that gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules that also laid down conditions for employment. The UT of Jammu and Kashmir has a legislature, but the UT of Ladakh doesn’t have one. While there is no unanimous demand for the restoration of the special status J&K enjoyed, with only regional parties such as the National Conference and People’s Democratic Party challenging the abrogation of the articles in court, political parties are united in their demand for the restoration of statehood. Barring the Bharatiya Janata Party at the national level, all the other parties have demanded the restoration of statehood before the delimitation exercise gets over, which is mandatory for the holding of elections according to the reorganisation law. However, the local unit of the BJP is in favour of restoring statehood even though it was at the forefront of demanding the abrogation of the articles 370 and 35 (A). “It is a promise that the Prime Minister has made, and we want him to fulfil it. There is a concern in Jammu that even post reorganisation little has changed on the ground vis-à-vis development in the region. Then there is also the concern that taking advantage of loopholes in the law, outsiders can grab the land in Jammu as they will find the (security) situation more conducive here than in the Kashmir Valley,” said a local BJP leader on condition of anonymity. BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta, however, said that the party is more focused on the delimitation process needed for elections. “Once a legitimate government is in place, the Union government, depending on the situation, will consider the restoration of statehood. As of today, their demand has no meaning because the PM has already assured that it will be done. The opposition parties just keep shifting the goalpost; first they did not support reorganisation and now they have problems with the delimitation,” Gupta said. At an all party meeting on June 24, PM Narendra Modi had stressed on the need for stronger grassroots democracy and the importance of conducting elections in J&K, stating his commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urging mainstream leaders to participate in the ongoing delimitation exercise. “Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” Modi had tweeted shortly after the meeting. But the regional satraps who raised the demand for restoration of statehood are not convinced by the Union government’s assurance. Former MP and NC leader Hasnain Masoodi said the reorganisation and the scrapping of the special status was done “citing reasons that are far from reality”. “Kashmir was way ahead of many states in the country on several human development indices. Second, the assurances that we were given about the changes that will take place after August 5 have not yielded results. There is only uncertainty,” he said. Masoodi said the Union government’s claims of introducing a three-tier administrative set-up by conducting district development council elections do not compensate for the lack of elected representatives. “Most of the DDC functionaries are in protective custody and cannot even meet people,” he said. In Ladakh where the Kargil and the Leh divisions have buried their differences over the reorganisation, the demand for statehood has stemmed from concerns that the Union government is yet to sanction a protective law such as bringing the region under Schedule VI of the Constitution to offer protection of land, jobs, environment, culture and language that existed prior to the formation of the UT. Former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang earlier told HT that the demand for legislature was raised because the Centre had “failed to offer protection” to the people by reserving jobs and ensuring land rights. He went on to add that both the Leh and Kargil divisions were pushing for protection under the Sixth Schedule or a separate schedule of the Constitution for safeguarding the interests of the residents of Ladakh fearing that with domicile rules not defined, land and government jobs would be available to outsiders depriving the residents, a large percentage of whom are from the Scheduled Tribes. Last week, Chhewang who heads the Apex Committee of Peoples’ Movement of Ladakh along with Asgar Ali Karbali, the co-chair of the Kargil Democratic Alliance, pushed for complete restoration of statehood and two additional Lok Sabha seats from Ladakh. For its part, the Union government has underlined that the process of restoration of statehood would follow delimitation and elections. “The political parties have been explicitly told that there will be no change in the process. They are needlessly trying to stoke fears that delimitation will change the demography of the region. The Act says seven seats are to be added to take the total strength of the assembly from 107 to114. It will be done by the delimitation commission in a scientific way, keeping in mind the size of the constituency and the population. But the regional parties first boycotted it, then spread misgivings,” said a senior government official not wishing to be identified.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-years-after-bifurcation-of-j-k-both-uts-demand-statehood-101628105027518.html
05-08-2021||India||14 labourers employed on rail project rescued from ‘bonded’ labour: Goa official||PANAJI: Fourteen labourers employed by a railway contractor for double-tracking work at Quepem in South Goa were rescued from ‘bonded’ labour by the Sub Divisional Magistrate on a complaint by the Telangana-based non-profit, National Adivasi Solidarity Council, people familiar with the matter said.The council alleged that the labourers were trafficked to Goa and forced to work at lower than the minimum wage and denied other benefits due to them under the law. The labourers, who were employed to work on the doubling of the railway track from Vasco to Karnataka, which is being staunchly opposed by environmental and anti-coal activists, were allegedly found to be staying next to the railway track in unhygienic conditions, without proper shelter and toilet.“Some of the labourers were found to be as old as 72 years. The labourers complained about not receiving minimum wages, restrictions regarding returning home, no ESI - Provident Fund,” Arun Pandey of Anyay Rahit Zindagi, an NGO associated with their rescue, said. The labourers were living along with their children in the makeshift shanties near the railway track.Local officials said the labour contractor who arranged the labourers on behalf of the company contracted by the railways has been booked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-labourers-employed-on-rail-project-rescued-from-bonded-labour-goa-official-101628104487477.html
05-08-2021||India||Ram temple likely to open for public by December 2023||The Ram temple in Ayodhya will be opened to the public by the end of 2023, even though the entire complex is expected to be ready only by 2025, a person aware of the matter said on Wednesday.The foundation stone of the temple was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on August 5, 2020, and a year on, construction is on in full swing. The ground floor of the temple, where the sanctum sanctorum will be located and where an idol of Ram Lalla will be placed, will be ready for prayers by December 2023 and arrangements are being made to streamline the process of providing security clearances and installing public amenities, said another person aware of the details.The temple complex, which is expected to incur a cost of ₹900-1,000 crore and will be spread over 110 acres of land, is being built by Larsen & Toubro while Tata Consulting Engineers has been signed on as the project management consultant. The temple complex will also have a museum, a research centre, and an archival centre.“The temple trust has already received donations in the excess of ₹3,000 crore. And this amount is excluding donations from non-resident Indians as foreign donations are not yet permitted,” said the first person quoted above.The work is on to fill the excavation that was carried out on the land parcel. Given the composition of the soil, the construction technique to ensure the stability of the structure involved excavating 12 metres or nearly three storeys below the ground.Earlier in 2019, the Supreme Court had handed over the site for the building of a Ram temple after years of litigation following the razing of the 16th-century Babri Masjid in 1992.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ram-temple-likely-to-open-for-public-by-december-2023-101628103287292.html
05-08-2021||India||Dr Subbiah murder case: Seven get death penalty, life term for 2||A sessions court on Wednesday awarded death penalty to seven, including two lawyers, out of the 10 accused for the murder of neurologist Dr SD Subbiah on September 14, 2013. The city trial court judge I S Alli, also sentenced two others to life imprisonment while one accused turned approver was released without punishment. On the evening of September 14, 2013, henchmen murdered the 58-year-old doctor in full public view while he was walking out of Chennai’s Billroth Hospital towards his parked car after his work. A land dispute with his family over a 2.4-acre plot at the doctor’s native Anjugramam village in Tamil Nadu’s Kanyakumari district led to the crime. Three people wielding machetes had attacked the doctor on his head, neck and he suffered more than 20 cuts across his body. CCTV cameras installed at a nearby apartment captured the brutal attack. Nine days later, the doctor succumbed to his injuries. Special Public Prosecutor N Vijayaraj in his final arguments asked for capital punishment to be awarded to all the accused in the case for plotting and murder. The sessions judge on Wednesday sentenced Ponnusamy, Basil, Boris, B William, James Satish Kumar, Murugan and Selva Prakash to double capital punishment for offences under Sections 302 (murder) and 120B (party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death) of IPC. The other two accused, Mary Pushpam and Yesurajan, have been sentenced to double life terms. One of the convicts, William, is an advocate whose bail petition was rejected by the Supreme Court in May 2018. Prosecutor Vijayaraj had at that time submitted a petition in court to declare William as proclaimed offender as he had been absconding with his family members. William surrendered in August that year and was remanded to judicial custody. One of the accused, P Iyyapan who turned approver in 2018 and became a prosecution witness during the trial was allowed to go free without any punishment. Iyyapan had confessed that he along with Murugan and Selvaprakash had hacked the doctor. After the court found the accused guilty, the wife of the deceased, Shanthi Subbiah flanked by her daughters poignantly told the media that the judiciary did a tremendous job and she hoped that this would be an example to deter such crimes. “This is a very emotional and private moment for us,” Shanthi said. “In those nine days, he was semi-conscious, I’m sure he would have only thought about me and his two unmarried daughters. We are not going to get him back, but today’s verdict is some consolation. My husband believed in the judiciary and so did we. Today’s verdict shows that our trust in the judiciary hasn’t gone in vain. It’s a little late but never too late to get justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-subbiah-murder-case-seven-get-death-penalty-life-term-for-2-101628103166039.html
05-08-2021||India||Number linked to ex-Supreme Court judge, lawyers on latest Pegasus list||A mobile number once used by former Supreme Court judge Arun Mishra and the numbers of several judicial officers as well as some lawyers were in a leaked list of possible targets for mobile surveillance, according to new report on Wednesday, which came a day before the top court is scheduled to hear petitions seeking an investigation.Published by The Wire, the report is part of a series of stories based on a database of numbers that may have been selected for surveillance by clients of Israel-based NSO Group, which makes the Pegasus spyware.Dozens of numbers on the list are confirmed to have been infected and independently verified by authorities in France, which is among multiple countries to have launched an investigation.According to the latest report, a Rajasthan-registered mobile number previously in the name of justice Mishra was added to the database in 2019. Quoting sources in the BSNL, the report states that the number was registered in the name of the retired top court judge, who now heads the National Human Rights Commission, from September 18, 2010 to September 19, 2018. Mishra told The Wire that he had not used the number since 2013-14.The Wire report added that the mobile numbers of Supreme Court registry officials NK Gandhi and TI Rajput, both now retired, also featured on the list of potential targets.The numbers of three lawyers, Aljo Joseph, Vjiay Aggarwal and M Thangathurai, are also reported to be in the list. While Joseph is the lawyer for AgustaWestland accused Christian Michel before Delhi courts, Aggarwal has been representing PNB scam accused Nirav Modi. Thangathurai has been associated with and working in former attorney general Mukul Rohatgi’s office for several years.On Thursday, an SC bench led by Chief Justice of India NV Ramana will consider a bunch of nine petitions seeking a court-monitored independent investigation into the alleged snooping and to identify the entities responsible for this. Those who filed the petitions include lawyer, journalists and activists.The purported surveillance campaign spans several countries and experts and activists say the suspects are nation-states since NSO Group has maintained that it only sells to government clients for what it says is lawful interception meant to combat crime.A consortium of 17 news organisations have reported on what is known as the Pegasus Project. The targets include heads of states, activists, politicians, journalists and even scientists. In India, the issue has become the main reason for parliament’s ongoing monsoon session as the government has resisted the opposition’s demands for a probe.The Union government has denied allegations related to the controversy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/number-linked-to-ex-sc-judge-lawyers-on-latest-pegasus-list-101628102986003.html
05-08-2021||India||Tighten curbs ahead of festivals: Centre to states||The Centre on Wednesday asked the states to consider imposing local-level curbs during forthcoming festivals to prevent superspreader events. This came as 18 districts reported an increase in the number of Covid-19 cases, and India’s reproduction number (the number of people one infected person can infect) increasing to 1.2 from a low of 0.6.“In view of upcoming festivals such as Muharram, Onam, Janmashtami, Ganesh Chaturthi, and Durga Puja where large public gatherings are expected, it is advised that states may actively consider imposition of local restrictions in public observation of these festivals and curb mass gatherings,” read the letter by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan addressed to all state chief secretaries.Meanwhile, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya wrote to Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to implement measures suggested by the central team of experts led by the National Centre for Disease Control that had visited the state recently. The minister suggested that Kerala follow stringent containment measures instead of the ABCD classification of districts based on the test-positivity rate that determines the level of activities allowed.Kerala was also asked to improve contact tracing, increase more accurate RT-PCR tests, prevent intra-house transmission from Covid-19 patients who remain in home isolation, and augment the health infrastructure. The state was also asked to send samples of all breakthrough infections to Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium labs for genome sequencing.The state had the lowest sero-prevalence of just over 44% as per the national study, meaning the state has one of the highest susceptible populations.The state was also asked to send samples of all breakthrough infections for sequencing as the central team found that Pathanamthitta was reporting a high number of breakthrough infections.On Wednesday, Kerala reported 22,414 cases with a test positivity rate of 11.37% and logged 108 new deaths.State health minister Veena George told the legislative assembly on Wednesday that the severity of the disease was on a decline and that economic activities and containment measures will need to go hand-in-hand. “Occupancy of hospital beds and oxygen beds [has] decreased considerably. Hospitals are not facing unusual rush or pressure...the severity of the disease is coming down,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tighten-covid-curbs-ahead-of-festivals-centre-tells-states-101628102866823.html
05-08-2021||India||TN to provide 7.5% quota for govt students in professional courses||Tamil Nadu on Wednesday announced that the government would extend the 7.5% reservation to government school students for admissions into professional courses like engineering, agriculture and law. A cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister MK Stalin on Wednesday decided to table this legislation during the ensuing budget session. This was based on the recommendation of the justice (retired) D Murugesan committee, which was constituted by the DMK soon after it formed the government to address the issue of government school students getting into professional courses. “To implement the recommendation of the commission, it has been decided to introduce a bill in the upcoming session itself to provide 7.5% reservation to students of government schools in admission to professional courses like the 7.5% quota for medical admission,” said a statement from the government.Last year, the AIADMK during its regime introduced a 7.5% horizontal reservation to government school students, who cleared the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for admissions into undergraduate medical colleges. Tamil Nadu follows a caste-based reservation policy of 69%. The composition of the 69% reservation in Tamil Nadu is -- Backward Caste (BC)- 30% (26.5% + 3.5% internal reservation for Muslims. In the 90s, BC Muslims were part of the BCs, which was made separate during the DMK regime in 2007), Most Backward Caste (MBC)- 20% (10.5% for Vanniyars, 7% for Denotified Communities (28 castes) and 2.5% for others (41 castes), Scheduled Castes- 18% (15%+ Arunthathiyars 3%) and Scheduled Tribes- 1 %.The Cabinet also decided to present a full revised budget on August 13. Prior to that, finance minister Palanivel Thiagarajan will release a white paper on the state’s finances on August 9, which will show details of revenue, debt, etc of the last ten years of the AIADMK regime. Former finance minister O Panneerselvam presented an interim budget earlier in February ahead of the assembly elections. The new government will also present a separate budget for the agriculture department at the session. The government is also planning to go digital and make this a paperless budget.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-to-provide-7-5-quota-for-govt-students-in-professional-courses-101628102808002.html
05-08-2021||India||State reports over 22k new cases, spike catches experts off guard||Kerala on Wednesday reported 22,414 new cases of Covid-19 with a test positivity rate of 11.37 and the continuous surge has left medical experts baffled. A state with mere 3 per cent of the country’s population, Kerala has been accounting for more than half of the total cases of the country for several days in a row.The total cases have now reached 3,471,563, with the number of people succumbing to the virus rising to 17,211 after 108 more deaths. Malappuram continued to top the chart with 3.691 cases, followed by Thrissur (2912), Ernakulam (2,663), Kozhikode (2,502), Palakkad (1,928), Kollam (1,527), Kannur (1,299), Kottayam (1,208) and Thiruvananthapuram (1155).In the case of fatality rate, vaccination, tests and trace and track surveillance mechanism the state is way ahead but it bogged down by the double-digit test positivity rate for more than a month. Lauded during the first wave, the unending second wave has spoiled its records, statistics show. And some experts have also issued a third wave warning. “The consistent surge indicates that this may be the beginning of a fresh wave. You name it second or third wave it is fact cases are going up alarmingly,” said public health expert Dr S S Lal who earlier worked with the World Health Organisation. Internal medicine expert Dr N M Arun has been studying the case trajectory of the state. “The state going through a fresh wave and if cases rise like this system will drain,” he said. Out of 18 worst affected districts in the country 10 are in the state. Malappuram is the worst hit district in the state with an average TPR of 15 per cent for the past five days. The district has also an active caseload of 21,603 as of Tuesday and its recovery rate is also slow. Opposition parties in the state have blamed the Pinarayi Vijayan-led CPI (M) government for the surge in cases, even alleging Bakrid relaxations led to the condition worsening in the state. However, statistics show that this was not a sudden hike. Six district have averaged TPR in double digits for more than a week. What worry experts is that cases remain steady in these districts and most infections are taking place during home isolation. The central team that visited the state also expressed serious reservations over lax home quarantine. The state’s low seropositivity rate is another serious concern -- around 50 per cent of the population is still susceptible to the virus, says the latest serosurvey. “Since half of the population is not affected, we have to vaccinate them on a war footing. We are in touch with the Union government,” said health minister Veena George. Despite the high volume of cases, pressure is not visible on the overworked health system. Out of 4,250 ICC beds and ventilators (both private and public), 2300 are occupied --1500 are crucially ill and 800 are on ventilator support, according to the state health ministry. And it has 250 metric tonne oxygen in stock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-reports-over-22k-new-cases-spike-catches-experts-off-guard-101628102749391.html
05-08-2021||India||AIADMK, DMK at loggerheads again||A period of amiability between the DMK and AIADMK parties in Tamil Nadu seems to be winding up as the ruling and opposition parties have begun cold-shouldering one another.The latest incident that aggravated the tension between the Dravidian majors is the AIADMK boycotting an important state event on Monday when President Ram Nath Kovind commemorated the centenary celebrations of the Madras Legislative Council, where he unveiled a portrait of late DMK patriarch M Karunanidhi.On Tuesday, DMK’s water resources minister S Duraimurugan revealed that he rang up former chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami to personally invite him to attend the event on chief minister M K Stalin’s instruction. Stalin had also decided to reserve a chair for Palaniswami so he could be seated along with the President and governor Banwarilal Purohit on the dais. “I conveyed these details to him,” Duraimurugan told reporters in the secretariat. “He said he will consult his party and respond but he didn’t tell me anything while he informed the Assembly Secretary that AIADMK will not participate.”The AIADMK skipped the event saying that the DMK had boycotted a similar event when they had unveiled J Jayalalithaa’s portrait in 2018. “She’s a global leader and we invited them just like they have invited us now. But why did they boycott then? They didn’t respect our party,” said AIADMK spokesperson and former minister D Jayakumar. “In 2012, when Amma (Jayalalithaa) was the chief minister, diamond jubilee celebrations were conducted, in which Pranab Mukherjee had participated. But they (DMK) didn’t participate in that either.”He added that the AIADMK celebrated its 60th anniversary in 2012 as the first assembly was set up in Tamil Nadu in 1952 while the legislative council was established in 1921. Due to all this utter confusion, our party decided to stay away,” Jayakumar said. The AIADMK’s ally the BJP was present at the event.Tamil Nadu isn’t a place of usual bitter politicking. For more than 50-years, from the time MG Ramachandran (MGR) founded ADMK (later AIADMK), by breaking away from the DMK, the state has seen politics of hatred between the leaders of the two parties, which was elevated when Jayalalithaa succeeded him MGR. Jayalalithaa and Karunanidhi never saw eye-to-eye and she had even jailed him in a dramatic midnight arrest a month after she came to power in 2001.This transformed into a healthier political culture after Stalin, Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam took over the respective parties. Despite a heated political campaign, Palaniswami graciously accepted the election results and Panneerselvam attended the DMK’s swearing-in. Post the event, Panneerselvam was seated along with Stalin, something that was unprecedented in Tamil Nadu.This began to go back to square one after the three-month-old DMK government, via the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), raided former AIADMK transport minister M R Vijayabhaskar on July 22, and filed a case of disproportionate wealth. This got the AIADMK jittery as it was seen as the beginning of a crackdown. The DMK had promised in its election manifesto to establish a special court for trying AIADMK ex-ministers on corruption charges. Soon after the raid, Palaniswami and Panneerselvam flew to Delhi to meet with Prime Minister Narendra Modi where this was discussed, according to the AIADMK leaders privy to the meeting. After returning, the AIADMK conducted a state-wide protest against the DMK for not abolishing NEET and not cutting fuel prices as they had promised. The protest didn’t have much traction with the public, but it was more of a booster for the party cadre, amid expelled AIADMK leader V K Sasikala trying to make her way into the party.This also comes ahead of ensuing local body elections, where polls in nine districts will be held in September as per a Supreme Court order and the remaining will be held later this year.Political experts also say while the political exchange was respectful, it has gone back to the old ways. “Ugly politics is raising its head once again,” says political commentator Durai Karunanidhi. “After elections, Tamil Nadu was looking like Delhi’s political culture where they will fight inside the parliament but once outside they will be friendly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/aiadmk-dmk-at-loggerheads-again-101628102748192.html
05-08-2021||India||Covid negative report mandatory to visit public places: Kerala govt||The Kerala government on Wednesday allowed shops and business to open six days a week but has made it mandatory for people – staff as well as visitors – to have taken at least one dose of a coronavirus vaccine or prove that they tested negative on an RT-PCR test before they can enter any such establishment.The state alone accounts for half of all new Covid-19 infections being recorded in the country and is going through what experts believe is a delayed second wave. The weekend curfew will now apply only to Sunday.People seeking to enter public spaces can also show result of a positive test at least a month old.Kerala is the first state to enforce such stringent provisions, inviting sharp reactions from traders and others. “It is very difficult to meet such restrictions. It will not serve any purpose. We will go back to the government,” said T Nasaruddin, state merchants’ association leader. Many like him also asked the state to provide enough vaccination before insisting on vaccine certificates.To avoid crowding, all shops can function from 7 am to 9 pm. According to the order, people will be allowed inside the shop only on the basis of the shopping area (one person per 25 sq ft.). Hotels and restaurants will only be allowed to deliver food and public transport vehicles must enforce strict distancing and mask discipline, said the new guidelines issued on Wednesday.On Wednesday, Kerala reported 22,414 cases with a test positivity rate of 11.37% and logged 108 new deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-ve-report-mandatory-to-visit-public-places-kerala-govt-101628102687298.html
05-08-2021||India||Two years after Article 370 move, louder calls for statehood||Two years after the bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh, there is a growing demand for the restoration of statehood in both places. It is significant for Ladakh to have demanded this given its long quest for UT status had finally materialised in 2019.The reorganisation of the state on August 5, 2019, included the effective nullification of Articles 370 and 35(A) that gave the erstwhile state its special status and the mandate to define its domicile rules that also laid down conditions for employment. The UT of Jammu and Kashmir has a legislature, but Ladakh doesn’t have one.Prominent regional parties such as the National Conference and Peoples Democratic Party have challenged the nullification of the region’s special status in court and have called for its restoration. But there is greater unity among parties in their demand for the restoration of statehood. Barring the Bharatiya Janata Party at the national level, all the other parties have demanded the restoration of statehood before the delimitation exercise gets over, which is mandatory for the holding of elections, according to the reorganisation law.However, the local unit of the BJP is in favour of restoring statehood even though it was at the forefront of demanding the nullification of the articles 370 and 35 (A).“It is a promise that the Prime Minister has made, and we want him to fulfil it. There is a concern in Jammu that even post reorganisation little has changed on the ground vis-à-vis development in the region. Then there is also the concern that taking advantage of loopholes in the law, outsiders can grab the land in Jammu as they will find the (security) situation more conducive here than in the Kashmir Valley,” a local BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.BJP spokesperson Anil Gupta, however, said the party is more focused on the delimitation process needed for the polls. “Once a legitimate government is in place, the Union government, depending on the situation, will consider the restoration of statehood. As of today, their demand has no meaning because the PM has already assured that it will be done. The opposition parties just keep shifting the goalpost; first they did not support reorganisation and now they have problems with the delimitation.”At an all-party meeting on June 24, PM Narendra Modi stressed on the need for stronger grassroots democracy and the importance of conducting elections in J&K, stating his commitment to restoring the region’s statehood, and urging mainstream leaders to participate in the delimitation exercise.“Our priority is to strengthen grassroots democracy in J&K. Delimitation has to happen at a quick pace so that polls can happen and J&K gets an elected government that gives strength to J&K’s development trajectory,” Modi tweeted shortly after the meeting. But the regional satraps who raised the demand for restoration of statehood are not convinced by the Centre’s assurance.Former MP and National Conference leader Hasnain Masoodi said the reorganisation and the scrapping of the special status was done “citing reasons far from reality”.“Kashmir was way ahead of many states in the country on several human development indices. Second, the assurances that we were given about the changes that will take place after August 5 have not yielded results. There is only uncertainty,” he said.Masoodi said the Centre’s claims of introducing a three-tier administrative set-up by conducting district development council elections do not compensate for the lack of elected representatives. “Most of the DDC functionaries are in protective custody and cannot even meet people,” he said.In Ladakh where the Kargil and the Leh divisions have buried their differences over the reorganisation, the demand for statehood has stemmed from concerns that the Union government is yet to sanction a protective law such as bringing the region under Schedule VI of the Constitution to offer protection of land, jobs, environment, culture and language that existed prior to the formation of the UT.Former BJP MP Thupstan Chhewang earlier told HT that the demand for legislature was raised because the Centre had “failed to offer protection” to the people by reserving jobs and ensuring land rights. He went on to add that both the Leh and Kargil divisions were pushing for protection under the Sixth Schedule or a separate schedule of the Constitution for safeguarding the interests of the residents of Ladakh fearing that with domicile rules not defined, land and government jobs would be available to outsiders depriving the residents, a large percentage of whom are from the Scheduled Tribes.Last week, Chhewang who heads the Apex Committee of Peoples’ Movement of Ladakh along with Asgar Ali Karbali, the co-chair of the Kargil Democratic Alliance, pushed for complete restoration of statehood and two additional Lok Sabha seats from Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/two-years-after-article-370-move-louder-calls-for-statehood-101628102169211.html
05-08-2021||India||No data on internet shutdowns: Centre||The Union government said it does not have information about internet shutdowns in the country, as per a response by the ministry of communications, which cited information from the ministry of home affairs to say that the Centre does not collate such records since it pertains to law and order and falls in the domain of states.The ministry was responding to questions by Congress Lok Sabha members Shashi Tharoor and Gaurav Gogoi, who sought details of how many times and for what reason internet services were curtailed in India over the last three years. “States are responsible and empowered to issue orders for temporary suspension of internet service to maintain law and order in the State. Ministry of home affairs has informed that records pertaining to internet shutdowns ordered by states/UTs are not centrally maintained by MHA,” the communications ministry said in its reply.The Congress MPs also sought to know the economic impact of such shutdowns but the ministry said it had no mechanism to assess socio-economic impact of internet shutdowns. However, it added: “The contribution of internet for the well-being of citizens has to be balanced with social platforms being misused by anti-social elements requiring temporary shutdowns as per rules based on the assessment by local authorities”.Tharoor shared a screenshot of the ministry response on Twitter and said that in 2020, internet shutdowns in parts of India went on for 8,927 hours and cost the taxpayers $2.8bn. “As usual, the Govt has no data on issues that matter… Why is the govt so afraid of the internet and the freedom it bestows on citizens? Alarming, undemocratic, unsurprising.”Experts said the stand violates judicial directions. Raman Jit Singh Chima, senior international counsel and the Asia Pacific Policy director at Access Now, said that it was shocking that the MHA or their colleagues in the ministry of telecom did not have data on rules they are governing.“Supreme Court had directed the Centre to review the rules by which internet shutdown had been ordered in Jammu and Kashmir in the Anuradha Bhasin case in 2020. If they haven’t reviewed the impact, they wouldn’t have reviewed the rules either. That is contempt of the Supreme Court,” he said. Internet shutdowns are governed by the Temporary Suspension of Telecom Services Rules 2017 which stipulates that internet shutdowns can only be valid for 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-data-on-internet-shutdowns-centre-101628102385866.html
05-08-2021||India||Centre proposes hiking compensation amount for ‘hit and run’ cases to ₹2 lakh||The Union road transport and highways ministry has proposed a scheme to increase the compensation amount for the families of hit-and-run road accident victims. According to the new plan, ₹2 lakh will be provided to the families of persons whose lives are claimed during such accidents instead of the current ₹25,000, news agency PTI reported.In case of serious injuries, the compensation amount will be increased to ₹50,000 from ₹25,000. The draft scheme was notified by the ministry on August 2.As many as 4,49,002 road accidents had occurred in India in 2019, which led to the deaths of 1,51,113 individuals, official data revealed, PTI reported.The Scheme for Compensation of Hit and Run Accident victims seeks to enhance "compensation (from ₹12,500 to ₹50,000 for grievous hurt and from ₹25,000 to ₹2,00,000 for death)," an official statement said on Wednesday.The statement further stated that the new scheme will “supersede the earlier Solatium Scheme, 1989".The draft scheme has also laid down a complete procedure for a detailed probe into cases of road accidents, Detailed Accident Report (DAR) and its reporting besides timelines for different stakeholders for quick settlements of claims, the PTI report added.The central government will also establish a Motor Vehicles Accident Fund that will be used for providing compensation in case of hit and run accidents and treatment of the victims.During the ongoing monsoon session of the Parliament, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari informed the Rajya Sabha that a total of 536 persons were killed and 1,655 persons were injured in accidents classified under 'hit and run' in Delhi in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-proposes-hiking-compensation-amount-for-hit-and-run-cases-to-rs-2-lakh-101628102009672.html
05-08-2021||India||Stalemate in House due to ‘arrogant’ government, says Opposition||The stalemate in Parliament is because of an “arrogant” and “obdurate” government, 19 Opposition leaders said in a statement, even as disruptions and protests over the Pegasus snooping controversy, the contentious farm reforms, and spiralling fuel prices roiled both Houses.“The responsibility for the deadlock lies squarely at the doorsteps of the government, which remains arrogant and obdurate,” said the statement signed by Mallikarjun Kharge and Anand Sharma (Congress), Sharad Pawar (Nationalist Congress Party), TR Balu and Tiruchi Siva (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam), Ramgopal Yadav (Samajwadi Party), Derek O’Brien and Kalyan Banerjee (Trinamool Congress), Vinayak Raut ( Shiv Sena), Manoj Jha (Rashtriya Janata Dal), Elamaran Kareem (CPIM), Sushil Gupta (Aam Aadmi Party), ET Mohd Basheer ( Indian Union Muslim League), Hasnain Masoodi (National Conference), Binoy Viswam ( CPI), NK Premachandran (RSP) and MV Shreyams Kumar (LJD). “The Opposition parties stand firm and united on their demand for a discussion on Pegasus issue in both the Houses, replied by the home minister, as this has a national security dimension,” it added.Asking the government to “respect parliamentary democracy and accept the discussions”, the parties also emphasised that they remain united and accused the government over “misleading campaign” to “malign the Opposition for the disruptions”.“The Opposition has unequivocally conveyed that the discussions on the farmers laws and the agitation arising out of the three anti-farmer and black agri-laws should follow the discussion on Pegasus.”“It is unfortunate that the government has unleashed misleading campaign to malign the combined Opposition and blaming it for the continued disruption in Parliament,” the statement added, responding to comments made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a meeting of Bharatiya Janata Party lawmakers, where he said the Opposition was insulting Parliament.With no end to the stalemate in sight, the opposition parties held two strategy meetings on Wednesday to chalk out their future course, even as they are running out of options.The first meeting, held at 10am discussed the day’s plan and decided to continue protests. The second meeting, held after the six Trinamool MPs were suspended in Rajya Sabha, was quickly convened to maintain Opposition unity after some leaders felt the government was trying to create a divide.But with bills getting cleared amid the Opposition protests, and the government no longer keen to hold an all-party meeting to resolve the logjam, “the Opposition parties are caught in a bind,” said a senior leader present in both meetings.“We adopted a plan that whenever a member would be called to speak on any bill, we would quickly mention our demands on Pegasus, farm laws and price hike. But as soon as we try to raise these issues, the microphone is turned off,” said CPI(M)’s Elamaram Kareem.The Opposition has also protested against the decision to black out their protests on the Rajya Sabha TV and Lok Sabha TV. “As soon as we go to the Well, or start protesting in demand for a debate on Pegasus, the cameras only show the Chair,” said a second Opposition leader.Disruptions have always been blocked out, said officials in Parliament.The second Opposition meeting also discussed the way notices of only three parties on the farmers’ issues were approved in the Rajya Sabha while the other notices were rejected. “We decided that the three parties, AAP, SP and CPI(M), will withdraw their notices to avoid such partiality,” said a third Opposition leader.Rajya Sabha officials pointed out that since all notices were of similar nature, three of them were accepted. “and, anyway, all members can participate in the debate.”After the House was adjourned, Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu met leaders of various parties and urged them to help the House return to normalcy so that it can discuss farmers’ issues, price rise and the economic situation in the country. There was no talk about a discussion on Pegasus.The government managers have not agreed to any discussion on Pegasus as they pointed out that the IT minister has already given a statement on the issue.“Some leaders have expressed concern to the Chairman over their loss of opportunity. Naidu today called them and explained how he has been trying to resolve the present stalemate in the House,” said a Rajya Sabha official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stalemate-in-parliament-due-to-arrogant-govt-says-oppn-101628102267192.html
05-08-2021||India||OBC list: Centre moves to give states the power||The Centre will introduce in this session of Parliament a bill to restore the power of states to identify backward castes after it was cleared by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday, officials with knowledge of developments said, effectively bypassing a recent Supreme Court verdict that triggered protests in several states.On May 5, while scrapping a separate quota for the Maratha community in Maharashtra, the Supreme Court had ruled that after a 2018 amendment in the Constitution, only the central government could notify socially and educationally backward classes (SEBCs) – not the states.This interpretation of the 102nd constitutional amendment -- which related to giving constitutional status to the National Commission of Backward Classes – effectively struck a blow to the authority of state governments in identifying backward classes and provide them with reservation benefits.Wednesday’s decision to bring the 127th Constitution Amendment Bill 2021 comes months before crucial polls in five states, including Uttar Pradesh, where other backward caste (OBC) groups hold sway. Last week, the Union government accepted a longstanding demand to introduce 27% reservation for OBC in medical and dental courses.The new bill effectively nullifies the top court’s decision, which triggered protests by state governments and OBC groups. In India, separate OBC lists are drawn up by the Centre and each state concerned.“The amendment is necessary to restore the powers of the state governments to maintain their list of OBCs which was taken away by a Supreme Court interpretation of Constitution (102) Amendment Act,’’ said a top government official who asked not to be identified. “If the state list was abolished, nearly 671 OBC communities would have lost access to reservation in educational institutions and in appointments one fifth of the community would have been impacted,’’ the official added.This marks the third time in as many years that the central government has brought legislation to effectively rollback a decision of the Supreme Court relating to lower castes.In 2018, the central government brought a bill to undo an apex court decision diluting some key provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Prevention of Atrocities Act. The Supreme Court later upheld the amendments passed by Parliament.In 2019, months before the national elections, the government brought an ordinance to revert to an old system of allotting reserved positions in government educational institutions after the Supreme Court upheld an Allahabad high court order scrapping the earlier roster system. In both cases, the judicial decisions had touched off widespread protests.The official quoted above said the Cabinet decision meant that Parliament now has powers to make changes to the central OBC list. The National Commission of Backward castes (NCBC) will have the powers to look at complaints about implementation of various schemes that are meant for OBCs. “The move will uplift the status of backward castes,’’ the official said.The bill cleared by Cabinet sought to amend Clause 1 and 2 of Article 342 A of the Constitution that pertains to the President’s and Parliament’s powers to include or exclude or specify any tribe, in consultation with the governor in case of states. The new amendment will insert a new clause called 342 A (3) which will authorise states to maintain their own lists.On May 5, a five-judge bench -- comprising justices Ashok Bhushan, L Nageswara Rao, S Abdul Nazeer, Hemant Gupta and S Ravindra Bhat -- scrapped the validity of the Maratha quota law that breached the 50% limit set by a landmark 1992 judgment.The ruling on depriving states of the power to identify SEBCs came by a majority of 3-2. Justices Bhushan and Nazeer said that states could still have their own list of SEBCs -- a view overruled by the majority that held state governments must rely on the Centre to include or exclude any community for granting reservation to SEBCs.The majority dismissed the Centre’s understanding of the amendments and arguments by attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal that the 102nd amendment did not deprive state legislatures to enact laws determining the SEBCs and conferring benefits on them.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, also asserted their right under Articles 15(4) and 16(4) to make special provisions for SEBCs and give them quota.Both the Centre and states urged the court to lend credence to the parliamentary select committee report of 2017 and a statement of Union minister Thawarchand Gehlot on the floor of Parliament in August 2017 that the amendments did not affect the rights of the state governments to notify backward classes for reservation.But the majority judgment rejected this plea.On May 13, the Centre filed a review petition in the top court and contended that the May 5 judgment required a relook because there were errors apparent on the face of the record. The review petition was dismissed on July 1.Last week, the Union social justice ministry told Parliament that the Centre was consulting legal experts to “protect” the states’ powers to identify backward classes.Minister of social justice and empowerment Virendra Kumar told the Rajya Sabha last month that the government was in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the State list of OBCs.The minister said the “legislative intent” was reflected in the debates in Parliament when the amendment was passed and added that, “…it was declared unequivocally that the amendment wouldn’t impinge upon states’ powers to recognise and declare those classes in the state which were backward”.Jawaharlal Nehru University professor SS Jodhka said that the move was justified. “The reality of castes is states specific. For example, Jats may be dominant in one state but poor in the other, Valmikis are SC but in Andhra they are OBC and are Brahmins in parts of Maharashtra. Caste is also a relational category which means that it is state specific. State-specific categories should apply only for state jobs. So what they are doing is right,’’ he said. He also said that the constitutional status will ensure that their backward status will get legitimacy.JK Bajaj, who is a member of the OBC sub-categorisation commission, said that further clarity was needed on which lists of castes will be considered in order to prepare a sub-categorised list free of anomalies and repetitions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/obc-list-centre-moves-to-give-states-the-power-101628102265894.html
05-08-2021||India||Navy commandos join efforts to trace pilots after helicopter crash in Jammu||The Marine Commandos (MARCOS) of the Indian Navy on Wednesday were called in to intensify the search for two Indian Army pilots — a lieutenant colonel and a captain — who went missing after their Rudra helicopter crashed into the Ranjit Sagar Dam lake near Pathankot on Tuesday.MARCOS is a special forces unit responsible for conducting special operations.“Searches are on but there is no clue so far. The missing pilots have not been traced as of yet. The search operations were resumed on Wednesday morning. MARCOS divers of the Indian Navy were called in from Delhi,” Kathua district police chief SSP Ramesh Kotwal said.On Tuesday, the rescue crew recovered the wreckage of the chopper along with some pilot gear. The Rudra helicopter, built at Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), was carrying out a training sortie that involved low-level flying over the lake, another official said. The depth of the crash site was measured to be over 200 feet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-commandos-join-efforts-to-trace-pilots-after-helicopter-crash-in-jammu-101628101906495.html
05-08-2021||India||These 4 Maharashtra districts have higher positivity rate than state itself||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in four districts of the state are not seeing any declining trend. These districts include Satara, Sahni, Kolhapur and Pune where the case positivity rate is also more than the state average, he told news agency ANI.“In these districts, our protocols of tracking, tracing and testing are continuing. Floods have affected the work,” Tope was quoted as saying.Maharashtra and Kerala continue to be most affected due to coronavirus, with the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) saying in a press briefing on Tuesday that 60 per cent of the country’s active caseload are from these states.Addressing the briefing, joint secretary of MoHFW, Lav Agarwal told media persons that as many as 18 districts in India – three from Maharashtra, are reporting 10 weekly average Covid-19 cases as of August 1. Of the 18 districts, 10 hail from Kerala and the remaining are situated in the northeast states of Manipur, Mizoram, Meghalaya, and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the single-day coronavirus cases in Maharashtra yet again witnessed a spike on Wednesday as 6,126 infections were logged as opposed to Tuesday’s 6,005. The daily number of patients who succumbed to the virus also jumped from 177 on Tuesday to 195 on Wednesday, thereby taking the cumulative tally to 133,410, according to the health department’s bulletin data. The state’s overall Covid-19 tally currently stands at 63,27,194 whereas, with 7,436 fresh recoveries, the total number of recovered persons has reached 61,17,560.As far as Mumbai is concerned, the number of new cases saw a rise in the financial capital as well from Tuesday’s 291 infections to Wednesday’s 359. As many as nine patients lost their lives in the city on Wednesday, which is six more than Tuesday’s when three fatalities were reported.This development comes after Maharashtra on Monday declared relaxation of coronavirus protocols in 14 districts, some of which are effective in Mumbai as well. However, 11 districts, including three of the four that Tope mentioned on Wednesday, continue to be under Level 3 curbs due to high Covid-19 cases.On the other hand, floods in Maharashtra have claimed 219 lives alongside destroying crops, housing structures, electricity infrastructure and roads. The state government has announced a relief package of ₹11,500 crore for the damages that have ravaged 15 districts since July 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-4-maharashtra-districts-have-higher-positivity-rate-than-state-itself-101628099565616.html
05-08-2021||India||Cabinet nod to run fast track courts for 2 years||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the continuation of 1,023 Fast Track Special Courts, which includes 389 POCSO courts set up to provide speedy justice to victims of sexual offences, as a centrally sponsored scheme for another two years.The continuation of the scheme, which was started on October 2, 2019, involves a total outlay of ₹1,572.86 crore. While ₹971.70 crore is provided by the Centre from the Nirbhaya Fund, the remaining ₹601.16 crore is expected to be provided by states.“A major step towards de-clogging the justice system. This will provide quick justice to victims of sexual crimes,” Union minister for law and justice Kiren Rijiju tweeted.Of the total number of fast track courts (FTC), only 660, including 343 POCSO courts, are functional.Barring the states of West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh and the Union territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands, 28 states and UTs have given their consent to the arrangement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cabinet-nod-to-run-fast-track-courts-for-another-2-years-101628101486883.html
05-08-2021||India||Krishna river dispute: Andhra declines mediation, CJI recuses himself||Chief Justice of India NV Ramana on Wednesday recused himself from hearing a dispute between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on sharing Krishna river water for drinking and irrigation after the former pressed for legal adjudication instead of mediation.Heading the bench that also included justice Surya Kant, the CJI said that the petition moved by the Andhra government will now be listed before some other bench.On Monday, CJI Ramana, who was born in the undivided state of Andhra Pradesh, clarified that he would not adjudicate upon the legal issues involved in the matter but if the states were forthcoming on settling the dispute through talks, the bench could assist the mediation process.“I belong to both the states. I don’t want to hear this matter legally. But if the matter can be settled in mediation, please do that. Otherwise, we will have to send this matter to another bench,” Justice Ramana said then. To this, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the AP government, replied that he would have to speak to the competent authorities in the state government since it was a “political matter”.On Wednesday, advocate G Umapathy appeared for the Andhra government and informed the bench that the petition will have to be adjudicated by the court, indicating mediation was not the way forward.“We cannot force you if you don’t want mediation,” responded the CJI.At this, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Union government, said that the Centre has no objection to the CJI hearing the matter. But justice Ramana declined: “They don’t want mediation. How can I hear it? Let it go to another bench.”The Andhra government, in its petition, has complained that Telangana was refusing to follow decisions taken in the apex council constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014, and directions of the Krishna River Management Board and those of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/krishna-river-dispute-andhra-declines-mediation-cji-recuses-himself-101628101067458.html
05-08-2021||India||CBI takes over investigation into Dhanbad judge’s death||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday took over the investigation into the death of Dhanbad additional district judge Uttam Anand and formed a 20-member Special Investigation Team (SIT), days after the Supreme Court said the incident had larger ramifications for the independence of the judiciary.Anand died after he was hit by an auto-rickshaw while on a morning walk on July 28. The Jharkhand police have arrested two persons, Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma, who were driving the vehicle they had allegedly stolen.The SIT, along with experts from the Central Forensics Science Laboratory (CFSL), “immediately” left for Dhanbad to collect all case files from Jharkhand police, interrogate the two suspects and collect other evidence in the case, people familiar with the developments said.The central agency has re-registered the first information report (FIR) filed by the Jharkhand police after receiving a notification from Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT), according to an official who asked not to be named.The Supreme Court as well as the Jharkhand high court had taken suo motu cognisance of the incident last week after CCTV footage of the hit-and-run incident showed the three-wheeler deliberately swerving on an empty road to knock down the judge.The auto-rickshaw used in the incident was allegedly stolen from Dhanbad and later recovered from the neighbouring Giridih district.On July 30, the bench of Chief Justice NV Ramana and justice Surya Kant sought a complete report on the case from the Jharkhand chief secretary and the director general of police in a week.Registering the suo motu case as ‘In Re: Safeguarding Courts and Protecting Judges (Death of Additional Sessions Judge, Dhanbad)’, the court termed the incident “unfortunate”, adding: “This gruesome incident has been widely reported in newspapers, and video clippings of the incident are also being circulated on social media platforms, suggesting that it was not a case of simplicitor road accident.”The court said: “Having regard to the seriousness of the issue and its larger ramifications, we direct the chief secretary and director general of police, state of Jharkhand to jointly submit a status report of inquiry with the registry of this court within a week’s time.” CM Hemant Soren had suggested a CBI probe in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-investigation-into-dhanbad-judge-s-death-101628100346403.html
05-08-2021||India||S Jaishankar to attend Iranian President-elect Ebrahim Raisi's oath ceremony||India will be represented by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at the inauguration of Iran’s president-elect Ebrahim Raisi on August 5, the external affairs ministry said on Wednesday.“At the invitation of the government of Iran, external affairs minister will visit Iran on August 5-6, 2021 to attend the swearing-in ceremony of the President-elect H.E. Ayatollah Sayyid Ebrahim Raisi on August 5,” the ministry said in a statement.Jaishankar will meet Raisi during the visit, and also hold talks with other leaders on the sidelines of the trip, the ministry said without giving details.Iran had invited India to attend the swearing-in ceremony when Jaishankar met Raisi during a stopover in Tehran on July 7 while travelling to Moscow. A total of 115 officials from 73 countries, including 10 heads of state, 11 foreign ministers and 10 other ministers, will attend the inauguration.There were earlier indications that India would be represented at the ceremony by some other minister and the decision to send Jaishankar reflects the convergence between the two countries on key issues such as the situation in Afghanistan, people familiar with developments said.The presence of the external affairs minister at the ceremony will also signal the importance attached by New Delhi to its ties with Tehran, the people cited above said.A visit by Jaishankar will be an opportunity for the two sides to exchange notes on regional developments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jaishankar-to-represent-india-at-swearing-in-of-iranian-president-elect-raisi-101628090160024.html
05-08-2021||India||Afghan troops foil another attack on India-built Salma Dam||Afghan security forces have thwarted a Taliban attack on the India-built Salma Dam in Afghanistan’s Herat province, the third such assault since last month on the nearly $300 million structure that provides water to several districts in the region.Afghan defence ministry spokesperson Fawad Aman tweeted on Wednesday that the latest attack was carried out on Tuesday night. The Taliban also launched a suicide attack on the residence of the Afghan defence minister in Kabul on Tuesday, killing eight people and injuring 20 more.“The Taliban attack on Salma Dam failed! #Terrorist Taliban attacked the #Salma Dam in Herat province to destroy it last night. But, fortunately they have suffered heavy casualties and fled the area as result of counter-attacks of #ANDSF,” Aman said in a tweet.The Salma Dam, also known as the Afghan-India Friendship Dam, is one of the most significant infrastructure projects undertaken by the Indian government in Afghanistan as part of its $3 billion reconstruction efforts. The dam on Hari river was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ashraf Ghani in June 2016.UNSC says it won’t back Taliban-run emirateThe United Nations Security Council on Tuesday condemned the deliberate and targeted attacks on civilians in Afghanistan and declared that it does “not support the restoration of the Islamic emirate” as the pre-2001 Taliban regime used to call itself.In a statement, the UNSC slammed the attack on a United Nations compound in Herat last week. It said that “deliberate attacks targeting civilians, UN personnel and UN compounds may constitute war crimes”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/afghan-troops-foil-another-attack-on-india-built-salma-dam-101628087863319.html
05-08-2021||India||India again kept out of extended troika meet on Afghanistan called by Russia||India has again been kept out of a key meeting on Afghanistan convened by Russia that will see the participation of Pakistan, reflecting divergences between New Delhi and Moscow on the rapidly evolving situation in the war-torn country.The “extended troika” meet, to be held in Qatar on August 11, will be joined by special envoys from Russia, the US, China and Pakistan. Qatar will host another meeting between the Afghan side and regional and international partners this month.The extended troika meeting was called by Russia to push intra-Afghan talks to find a political settlement in Afghanistan at a time when the Taliban have launched a massive offensive that has recently been expanded to cities such as Kandahar, Herat and Lashkargah.The extended troika held its last two meetings in Moscow on March 18 and in Doha on April 30. The Indian side has taken up the inclusion of Pakistan – which New Delhi contends is backing the Taliban – at these meetings with the Russian side, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.Russia has said it keeps India informed about developments on Afghanistan under the troika format, which includes the US and China, though it has shown little inclination of including India in discussions under the external troika even after acknowledging India’s stakes in Afghanistan, the people said.While India has backed the government of President Ashraf Ghani, it has repeatedly opposed the imposition of any regime by force. However, the Russian side appears opposed to the continuation of the Ghani government and favours an interim set-up||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-again-kept-out-of-extended-troika-meet-on-afghanistan-convened-by-russia-101628083722670.html
05-08-2021||India||2nd anniversary of abrogation of Art 370: PAGD slams BJP’s Naya Kashmir slogan||On the eve of the second anniversary of the abrogation of Article 370 and bifurcation of Jammu and Kashmir into two Union territories, the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) on Wednesday termed the Bharatiya Janata Party’s “Naya Kashmir” as a mere joke and questioned the aim behind the August 2019 move. “The hoax of BJP’s Naya Kashmir is a joke now. People have started questioning those in authority as (to) what they have achieved by destroying Kashmir which came into being through protracted historic struggle of the people of J&K,” PAGD spokesperson Mohammad Yusuf Tarigami said in a statement. The five-party alliance also alleged that the government had crossed all limits of constitutionality by demolishing the constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. “By demolishing the constitution of J&K, the government crossed all the limits of constitutionality. By downgrading a historic state and dividing it into two separate Union Territories without the consent of the people and also ignoring the resolution adopted by J&K legislature on March 3, 2004, to preserve the unity and the secular character of state, (the government) has set a precedent that any state can cease to exist as a state and can be carved up into any number of fragments any time, by placing it under the governor’s rule,” the statement read. On August 5, 2019, the Centre had abrogated Article 370 of the Constitution that gave Jammu and Kashmir a special status and bifurcated the state into two Union territories. As a pre-emptive measure, Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was imposed in the state and prominent state political leaders such as former chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti were placed under house arrest. Communication lines, too, were snapped while internet and mobile services were suspended.Tarigami, who met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi along with 13 other leaders from the Union territory on June 24, said the nullification of Article 35 A made the status of permanent residents redundant. “Protection of jobs and the land rights was removed arbitrarily which deepened the alienation and sense of insecurity in all regions. The economy of J&K has virtually collapsed as tourism, trade agriculture, horticulture and handicraft sectors were badly hit. Employment opportunities are shrinking. Is corruption any less and governance any better? The fact remains that not a single claim stands the test of scrutiny,” he said in the statement. The four-time legislator and general secretary of CPI(M) added that continuous restrictions on the movement of people and attempts to gag the media had resulted in a forced silence. “Over the last two years, it has become amply clear why the Centre was so insistent on taking such drastic, unlawful measures... Suppression of civil and democratic rights continues, indiscriminate arrests...and issuing of diktats like not to provide clearance for passport and government services if anyone is involved in ‘law and order, and stone pelting cases’ is one more addition,” he said.Tarigami was referring to a recent order of the state Criminal Investigation Department (CID) denying security clearance for passport and other government services to all those involved in “law and order and stone pelting cases”. “The Centre would realise the futility of the decisions taken on August 5, 2019 and our struggle in defence of our rights...through peaceful and legal means will continue,” he added.Reacting to the PAGD statement, BJP spokesperson Altaf Thakur said there’s no place for anti-national elements or those spreading terrorism in “Naya Kashmir”. “In the last two years, the main focus of the government has been to empower people at the grassroots level which was done by holding elections of block development councils and the district development councils and providing them with funds. Apart from development, there has been action against anti-national elements. This is our vision for Naya Kashmir,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-anniversary-of-abrogation-of-art-370-pagd-slams-bjp-s-naya-kashmir-slogan-101628077842375.html
05-08-2021||India||Centre builds 200k tonne onion buffer to guard against inflation||The Union government has built a record reserve of 200,000 tonne of onions to deal with potential spikes in onion prices during the coming lean season. Such seasonal price spirals could impact the wider economy and households alike, an official familiar with the matter said.Onion prices had doubled in October 2020, a result of unseasonal rainfall during March and April that year, shriveling crops. Retail prices first rose to about ₹70 per kg in cities such as Mumbai and Delhi from usual rates of between ₹35 and ₹40, and then spiralled to ₹100 per kg. In Delhi, the average retail price for a common variety of onion over the past week has been ₹40, indicating normal supplies.Prices of some food items, where seasonality plays a big role, tend to be volatile. Onion is one of them. Its rates often stoke food inflation and knock the monthly budgets of consumers, poor or rich, because the vegetable is a base ingredient of most Indian dishes.Past data shows onion prices usually tend to rise during September because the month marks the beginning of a nearly three-month lean season, when stocks from previous crops deplete. Fresh harvests usually arrive in markets in the winter.Retail prices, as measured by the Consumer Price Index, rose 6.25% in June, slightly lower than a 6.3% rise in May, but driven by higher food and fuel costs, latest official data show. The retail inflation rate is above the Reserve Bank’s target of 4% (+/-2). Inflation in the food and beverages category stood at 5.58%, compared to 5.24% in May.Price rise is a key determinant of monetary policies. Moderate inflation helps the Reserve Bank to keep interest rates low to spur economic activity, which has been hit by the pandemic. The next meeting of the monetary policy committee or MPC of RBI is on Friday, August 6.“The buffer size (of onions) has been enhanced from 5,137MT in 2017-18 to 100,000MT in 2020-21, which has been further enhanced to 200,000 MT in 2021-22 to ensure a more effective intervention to control prices,” a government document reviewed by HT said.The official cited above said that the government is “monitoring prices of all essential commodities as always”. If prices rise, the government hopes to step in by releasing onions “as and when needed” from its own reserves to keep rates stable, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-builds-record-onion-buffer-to-guard-against-inflation-101628073101822.html
